09-01-2022||Comment||Data first, action next||In these days of misinformation about the Covid-19 pandemic, the importance of scientific data cannot be overstated. It reminds me of one of my early professional experiences at the Speech and Language Development Center in Anaheim, California where I worked. ‘Help!’ Jeff would cry out to me when he found it difficult to perform the tasks given to him to improve his perceptual-motor skills, eye-hand coordination etc. The children who came to the Center had unique problems that couldn’t be solved at a regular speech clinic. They were suspected to have minimal brain damage. After the therapy session, I would tell Jeff’s mother what tasks he had been assigned that day and the outcome which she listened to attentively. In due course, the matter of Jeff’s school placement came up. Since he had low scores on the psychological tests, the school authorities had decided to place Jeff in a school for the mentally retarded. His mother, who opposed the move, shared her concerns with me. I too disagreed with the authorities but Jeff’s below-par scores couldn’t be ignored either. When we reassessed four-year-old Jeff, however, we found that he could attempt test items meant for six-year-olds. In his six months spent at the Center, he had traversed from a mental age of 3.5 years to well beyond his chronological age. When I told Jeff’s mother about it, her eyes welled up with tears. She pursued her son’s case with such vigour that the school authorities were compelled to call me, a foreign national, for an explanation. I described the kind of professional help he had received at the Center with his mother doing follow-ups at home. I asked them to repeat their tests, confident that Jeff would make the grade. I had another experience that similarly drove home the importance of getting the right data from the right source and a reassessment. I approached our doctor for a fresh prescription for my mother’s tablets as they were no longer available in the market. He wanted to examine her before writing a new prescription. After doing so he declared that she didn’t need those tablets anymore as her condition had improved significantly. She had obviously benefitted from the yoga exercises. Had we gone to the doctor for regular follow-ups, those tablets might have been found superfluous even earlier. Just as social media ‘forwards’ can be harmful, hearsay can be counter-productive. I chatted with a doctor-friend about the remedies I had heard about for various morbid conditions. He promptly dismissed some of it as “outdated thinking” and updated my knowledge, citing newer, empirically tested, and more effective tablets that were now available. I’ve learnt that seeking and following up on professional help is important for one’s well-being. And that it is better to avoid hearsay and questionable practices of bygone days. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/data-first-action-next-1069579.html
09-01-2022||First Edit||State polls hold national importance||The country has moved into the poll mode with the announcement by the Election Commission (ECI) of the schedule for assembly elections in five states. The states going to the polls are Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. The EC has announced a schedule that starts from February 10 and ends on March 7, with the counting of votes on March 10. While Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa will have a single-phase poll on February 14, Manipur will have a two-phase poll on February 27 and March 3. UP will have polling stretched over seven phases starting with February 10 and ending on March 7. As is the norm, the model code of conduct has come into being with the announcement of the schedule. Political parties have been making preparations for the elections and have even started their campaigns. They will gain momentum and reach their climax now.  This round of elections holds much importance though they are being held in only five states. State assembly elections or by-elections assume importance at the national level on the basis of their context or timing or the number of states or seats where they are held. The elections in UP have a national dimension because it is the country’s largest and politically most important state. The BJP is in power in the state now and it is crucial for the party to return to power there. Its performance in the elections will have an impact on the 2024 general elections and therefore, the present round is even described as a semi-final. The BJP is in power in four of the five states. It faces a stiff challenge from the Congress in Uttarakhand. The electoral situations in Goa and Manipur where the BJP had formed governments after coming from backdoor are very fluid. The Congress should retain Punjab if it has to retain its relevance at the national level but the AAP has emerged as a serious contender there.  The elections are special also because they are being held when the third wave of the Covid pandemic may have started. The Election Commission had invited criticism last year for its failure to take timely actions during assembly elections which may have aggravated the second wave of the pandemic. It has now issued a ban on rallies and other gatherings till January 15 and will review the situation after that. It is not known how a few days’ ban will help when the epidemic is spreading. The Commission has also advised parties to conduct their campaign as much as possible in digital and virtual mode. This is seen to give an advantage to the BJP, but the Commission should ensure that there is a fair contest.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/state-polls-hold-national-importance-1069581.html
09-01-2022||In Perspective||Why SilverLine doesn't look so fine||SilverLine, the semi-high-speed rail, has become a talking point in Kerala — a state with a high population density of 880 persons per square kilometre compared to the Indian average of 382. Its cities like Kozhikode, Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram teem with people, focusing on the extreme pressure on the land surface. Is SilverLine a worthwhile “development” project for a land-hungry state? The state government plans to acquire 1,221 hectares of land for the project. This is no small parcel, given the high man-to-land ratio. The most disturbing question would be the tracking of the railway line. Of the 529.45 km that the rail corridor would cover, a 393-km corridor, that is 74.23%, would be through Kuttanad district, the “rice bowl” or granary of Kerala. Keralites are principally rice-eaters. The state does not produce even 25% of its internal rice requirement, the rest being imported from the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh/Telangana or from Punjab. The fate of Kuttanad — which gets easily flooded during monsoon making paddy cultivation extremely difficult — will get further aggravated because of the embankments that the tracks would be covered with. This is because high-concrete or masonry walls will have to be provided to prevent trespassing of people and animals along the rail corridor. Fencing will not help as it can be violated easily. Providing solid walls on either side of the track will be a certain environmental disaster as it will block natural drainage. This will have an adverse impact on rice production in the state because of flooding and the submergence of Kuttanad paddy fields, consequently affecting the crop. Also, the concrete walls certainly will be an eyesore. Further, about 800 rail overbridges or underbridges will have to be constructed, each costing in excess of Rs 20 crore, totalling Rs 16,000 crore, which will further inflate the total budget for the project at Rs 63,940 crore. This will also entail additional land acquisition which has not been foreseen, nor talked about, apart from the 1,221 ha, as per the current admission of the government. The rehabilitation of the thousands of families uprooted will pose huge problems. Where is the land for the purpose? How many new roads, bridges and other infrastructure are required to meet these needs? Can the government ensure these? In fact, it may lead to a mini Narmada Bachao Andolan. The SilverLine fare is fixed at Rs 2.75/km, which means a trip from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram will cost Rs 1,455. But it is not known whether this fare is for business class or standard class passengers. In north Malabar, the travel time between Kasargod and Kozhikode is about 4.48 hours. SilverLine might make it in about an hour and a half. But the moot question is the fare, and therein lies the rub. For this trip, a SilverLine passenger would end up paying Rs 500 while an AC class travel for the same distance costs only a third of this amount. Will the saving in time match the excess fare paid? Or is it just a very costly trip, which no ordinary Keralite can afford? Higher speed equates to higher cost. SilverLine is expected to run at a speed of 200 km/hour. The faster the speed, the more capital-intensive the project, and the less accessible it is for ordinary people. Inevitable debt trap The Kerala government plans to avail an interest-free loan from Japan from where the technology emanates. Worryingly, Japanese inflation is surging, which rose from -0.4 in July 2021 to +0.6 in October 2021, and the Yen has appreciated by 182%. When the loan is paid after several years, Kerala would end up paying an enormous sum of money to Japan, forfeiting the advantage of an “interest-free” loan. In substance, the present government would be dragging its successor to an inevitable debt trap. In the last three successive years, Kerala has seen abnormal monsoon and floods because of climate change caused by a plethora of factors like global warming, quarrying, unscientific construction of buildings on sloping lands etc. The installation of the SilverLine rail track will compound these problems, and the project flies in the face of climate resilience. SilverLine might end up as a white elephant, having inflicted irremediable ecological, environmental and financial damage to Kerala and its people. There is an unmistakable strain of stubbornness on the part of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in his utterances concerning the project. It would be a sad day for Kerala if, at the end, the project turns out to be the Achilles Heel for the chief minister. (The writer is former professor, The National Science Foundation, The Royal Society, Belgium) Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/why-silverline-doesnt-look-so-fine-1069582.html
09-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Centre adds boiled rice to PDS procurement, but farmers say it is too late||The Centre's orders to procure boiled rice produced in Coastal Karnataka and distribute it to the poor through Public Distribution System (PDS) will benefit none as a majority of farmers had already sold their paddy to rice mills. Union Minister of Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal in a letter to Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Shobha Karandlaje informed that the Ministry had received a letter from Department of Food, Civil Supplies, Consumer Affairs from the Karnataka government seeking permission to procure local paddy varieties like Kaje, Jaya, Jyothi, Panchmukhi, Sahyadri, and Uma grown in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Uttara Kannada districts under decentralised procurement and consumption scheme and distribute to beneficiaries of priority households (PHH) and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY). The permission was given to procure local paddy varieties by the Department of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution on December 31. Welcoming Centre’s decision, Minister for Social Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary said; “Distributing boiled rice through PDS was a long pending demand of people. White rice given to cardholders was allegedly sold to shopkeepers in order to purchase boiled rice from them. One lakh quintal rice is distributed every month through PDS in undivided Dakshina Kannada." Poojary thanked both the Centre and state government for fulfilling the demands of the people of the coastal belt. Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor said that the decision will also benefit the farmers.   But farmers said that harvest in the coastal districts of DK and Udupi was completed in November. Without a proper storage facility, farmers had already sold the paddy to mill owners for Rs 1,400 to Rs 1,600 per quintal, which is much less than the price fixed for paddy under the Minimum Support Price (MSP) Scheme (Rs 1940 for the normal category). “Government should have announced the purchase of local varieties of boiled rice in October in order to help farmers in the karif season. The government's decision will benefit only mill owners,” Raitha Sangha Hasiru Sene state secretary Manohar Shetty told DH. Government should direct APMCs to visit farmers in the villages and procure paddy from them soon after the harvest, he said. “I had harvested 20 quintals of paddy. But sold it to local mill owners. I have to travel 30 km from my village to sell the paddy at the procurement centre under MSP. The extra money which I get for selling through MSP will be utilised as transportation cost,” said another farmer Narayana. This year, paddy is cultivated on 10,073 hectare of land during the kharif season in DK and 35,726 hectares in Udupi district. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/centre-adds-boiled-rice-to-pds-procurement-but-farmers-say-it-is-too-late-1069422.html
09-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Covid cases continue to rise in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi districts||Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts continued to rise with DK reporting 298 fresh cases while Udupi reported 340 cases on Sunday. With this, the active cases in Dakshina Kannada rose to 1,267, while in Udupi it is 979. About 10,287 samples have been tested in Dakshina Kannada. On Saturday, Dakshina Kannada had reported 295 new cases, while Udupi saw 186 cases. Dakshina Kannada district nodal officer Dr Ashok said that a new Covid-19 cluster has been reported in a private medical college hostel in Mangaluru taluk, wherein 12 people tested positive. A total of 37 samples of the primary contacts of the already Covid-19 positive cases were tested from the cluster. Of the 340 cases in Udupi district, 192 are asymptomatic. Among the taluks, Udupi has the highest with 262 cases (positivity rate is 4.88 per cent) while Kundapura has 29 cases (1.90 per cent positivity rate) and Karkala 49 cases (2.56  per cent positivity rate). Across Udupi district, 279 are in home isolation, nine are in hospitals and 52 are in covid care centres. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-cases-continue-to-rise-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-districts-1069567.html
09-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Congress fails to respect law of the land: Nalin Kumar Kateel||Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel accused the Congress of failing to respect the law of the land implemented in the interest of public health when the Covid-19 cases are on rise in the state. "The Congress has no respect for the law of the land. For the sake of leadership, KPCC President D K Shivakumar is carrying out a “padayatra drama.” The citizens of the state are watching the move of the Congress and will teach a befitting answer to the Congress in the coming days," he said. "There is a case in the Supreme Court pertaining to the Mekedatu project. Once the case is solved, the state government will take steps towards the project. The Congress has no concern for the people of the state. Had they had any concern, they could have spoken to their counterparts in Tamil Nadu to solve the row over the Mekedatu project," said Kateel. "Inspite of the fact over the case before the court, the Congress is organising a padayatra to give a wrong message to the people of the state. People are well aware of the political motive behind the padayatra. Why did the Congress-led government under the leadership of Siddaramaiah fail to move forward the Detailed project report (DPR) of Mekedatu between 2014 and 2018?," Kateel sought to know. "The BJP government in the state had implemented a few rules to check the spread of Covid-19. Unfortunately, the leaders who ruled the state in the past are violating the rules. This shows the culture of the Congress. The Congress has no concern for the health of the people," Kateel said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-fails-to-respect-law-of-the-land-nalin-kumar-kateel-1069475.html
09-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||BJP, JD(S) attempting to crush campaign: DKS||KPCC president D K Shivakumar has alleged that the BJP and JD(S) were attempting to crush Congress' Mekedatu campaign. Accusing both the parties of betraying Karnataka, Shivakumar said that both the central and state government were putting pressure for withdrawing the padayatra. He was speaking to reporters at Doddalahalli in Kanakapura taluk on Sunday night. Shivakumar alleged that chief minister himself was attempting to book cases against padayatra participants.  The padayatra reached Hegganur, around 7 km from Sangama by 2.50 in the noon. After a break, it reached Doddalahalli by around 8.30 pm, where the participants were given a warm welcome. More than a thousand activists participated in the padayatra. The second day of the campaign will begin on Sunday from Doddalahalli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-jds-attempting-to-crush-campaign-dks-1069659.html
09-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt to keep close watch on Congress campaign||Karnataka Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai went into a huddle with senior ministers soon after the Mekedatu Padayatra by the Congress kicked off on Sunday. The meeting decided on a ‘wait and watch’ approach as several ministers were of the view that stopping the campaign at this point of time would result in adverse consequences to BJP in the wake of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike elections. However, the meeting resolved to initiate action against Congress leaders under various laws such as the Epidemics Act, for violating the curbs put in place to prevent the spread of the pandemic. The government also decided to keep a close watch on the Congress campaign and decided to step in, in case there was a Covid breakout during the 11-day padayatra. Counter campaign Measures to counter the Congress campaign were also discussed during the meeting at CM’s residence in Race Course Road. BJP leaders decided to go to the people with ‘facts of the Mekedatu project’, contending that Congress leaders deliberately delayed the implementation of the project over the years. Speaking to reporters, Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar lashed out at the Congress leadership for ‘enacting a drama’ just for political purposes. “The padayatra only has the next BBMP elections in mind,” he said. Congress insisting on going ahead with their campaign during the third wave of the pandemic has created a unique situation in the state, he said.“We will show them whether the government is dead or alive,” he said, warning of strict legal action against the organisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-to-keep-close-watch-on-congress-campaign-1069661.html
09-01-2022||Main Article||No public accountability||In his concluding remarks before the Constituent Assembly of India, B R Ambedkar opined that: “The Constitution can provide only the organs of State such as the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary. The factors on which the working of those organs of the State depends are the people and the political parties they will set up as their instruments to carry out their wishes and their politics.” It is clear from this that Ambedkar did not consider it necessary to mention political parties in the Constitution as these are not organs of the State. But so are the numerous associations/ federations which are not the organs of the State but the State regulates their functioning. Why has the State not thought of regulating registered political parties which may not be organs of the State but which actually run the affairs of the State? The only reason is that lawmakers do not want to be answerable to anyone as they consider themselves above law. They have cornered many benefits for themselves and get numerous privileges from the State as brought out by the Central Information Commission in its judgement of June 3, 2013, declaring them as public institutions and therefore coming under the purview of the Right to Information Act. They have challenged it in the Supreme Court and the matter rests there. Once a political party is registered with the Election Commission of India (ECI), it cannot be deregistered even if it commits any number of offences. Look at the contrast - even a petty shopkeeper has to observe numerous conditions under the trade licence rules, failing which he loses his licence. What is more surprising is that some of them even get their parties registered with the CEC with a name that belies their secular claims and they even run the affairs of a secular state.  They collect money from all kinds of people including in cash and they are free to use that money in any manner they wish. Parties donating money to them get considerable tax benefits. And with the introduction of Electoral Bonds in 2018, the identity and the value of the bonds purchased by the donors is also not known. They also get various other benefits from the State.  Political parties are perhaps the only entities in our country who enjoy such privileges and benefits without any public accountability. The state of affairs of our political parties today is pathetic. There are, among MPs, 475 crorepatis and 233 with criminal charges against them, and 159 of them have serious charges like rape, murder, kidnapping and crimes against women etc. The situation at the state legislatures is no better. A large number of political parties are run like private enterprises controlled by an individual and his family members. Most political parties display very low intra-party democracy. Quite often, party tickets are sold or given to Bahubalis. Candidates view contesting elections as an investment leading to greater levels of corruption. The level of corruption seems to have reached an all-time high which is evident from the recent representation by Karnataka Contractors’ Association to Prime Minister Narendra Modi which has been widely covered by the media in recent days.  Political parties publicly show their ugly side during elections when they freely indulge in corrupt practices and criminal intimidation. Use of unparliamentary language, name-calling and violence are common in these campaigns. The present rot among the political parties is largely due to the total lack of any kind of regulation over their functioning. It is time these parties are regulated as most of the democracies in the world have brought their political parties under their constitutions and are being regulated.  I am quite sure that no political party would like to support any kind of regulation over their functioning. Yet, I strongly feel a serious debate is needed on the subject and the lead must come from civil society institutions. Judiciary must also play a crucial role in nudging the government to introduce reforms in this sector. I propose the following reforms to make political parties more accountable and transparent in their functioning and also to comply with democratic and secular norms in their functioning:  Constitutional/Legislative measures Strengthen the ECI by providing constitutional security of tenure to all its members which is currently available to the Chief Election Commissioner only. Declare the registered political parties as public institutions as their sole aim is to capture power to run governments. ECI should not register any political party whose very name betrays its links with any religion or caste or creed. Empower the ECI to lay down stringent conditions for the functioning of registered political powers and make non-compliance of these conditions punishable, including deregistration by the ECI. These conditions must ensure that the parties have limited tenures for their elected offices at all levels; they function on secular and democratic principles and are accountable and transparent in their affairs, besides others. A separate constitutionally mandated regulatory authority should be created to ensure that these parties function in accordance with the conditions of their registration. I can safely bet that there will be no large-scale opposition to these reforms though I concede that such reforms are not likely to see the light of the day in my lifetime. I hope that the demand for such reforms will gradually gain public support and someday, a central government led by a statesman with a clear majority in Parliament will introduce such reforms. It is only then that we can proceed to build a truly secular and democratic India. We need professionally managed and honest political parties to run the affairs of governments and not the corrupt family-owned commercial entities called the political parties. (The writer is a retired IAS officer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/no-public-accountability-1069586.html
09-01-2022||National||DH Toon | Pawns in the game of institutionalised hatred||Another reprehensible threshold has been breached with the online ‘sale’ of over 100 Muslim women on an app hosted on the Github platform. That shows a meeting of misogyny and anti-minorityism in a novel and shocking form.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pawns-in-the-game-of-institutionalised-hatred-1069374.html
09-01-2022||National||DH Radio | Fear of the Covid-19 third wave||Hello and welcome to DH Radio. Driven by the Omicron variant, Covid-19 cases are rising again, dangerously. Do people feel that we are already in the midst of a third wave? What are their fears and apprehensions? DH Radio's J Shiruti speaks to a cross-section of people to find out.   Listen in...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-fear-of-the-covid-19-third-wave-1069390.html
09-01-2022||National||India's daily surge continues: 1.59 lakh new Covid-19 cases; Omicron tally at 3,623||A total of 1,59,632 new coronavirus infections were reported in a day, the highest in 224 days, while the active cases increased to 5,90,611, the highest in around 197 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily positivity rate rose to 10.21 per cent. From 27 states and UTs, 3,623 Omicron cases have been reported so far. The number of persons recovered is 1,409. The more transmissible Omicron variant is leading a fresh surge of coronavirus in the country, with cases skyrocketing from 10,000 to over a lakh in just a week. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 1,009 cases followed by  Delhi at 513, Karnataka 441, Rajasthan 373, Kerala 333 and Gujarat 204. In the past 24 hours, 40,863 recoveries were recorded, taking total recoveries to 3,44,53,603. The death toll due to the virus now stands at 4,83,790. A total of 1,65,553 infections were reported on May 29 last year.   The active cases comprise 1.66 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate decreased to 96.98 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 1,18,442 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  (With PTI inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-surge-continues-159-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-omicron-tally-at-3623-1069393.html
09-01-2022||National||Two held, later released for 'Only Hindus' posters on Varanasi ghats||Two Bajrang Dal leaders were arrested by the Varanasi police for displaying posters with a message that "Only Hindus should visit ghats along the river Ganga". The two, identified as Rajan Gupta and Nikhil Tripathi were later released on submission of personal bonds of Rs 5 lakh each. Commissioner of police A. Satish Ganesh said that two persons, who were seen in the photos while pasting posters at ghats, were issued notices under 107/16 of CrPC for breaching peace. "Both of them were brought to the ACP court in police lines, where they furnished personal bonds of Rs 5 lakh each, after which they were released," he added. During initial investigation, Vishwa Hindu Parishad senior office-bearers were asked to clarify the status of Gupta, who poses himself as city unit secretary of VHP, and Tripathi, who poses himself as Bajrang Dal city convener. On January 6, these VHP and Bajrang Dal activists pasted a number of posters banning the entry of non-Hindus on the Ghats. The posters contained a message that "those who treat the ghats of the Ganga as picnic spots should stay away from ghats of Maa Ganga, as it is a symbol of Sanatan culture." The posters said that they welcome those who show respect to Sanatan dharma. These posters were resented by many groups, including Congress leaders and Sajha Sanskriti Manch, who termed it a bid to disturb communal harmony and peace. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-held-later-released-for-only-hindus-posters-on-varanasi-ghats-1069402.html
09-01-2022||National||Covid surge in India triggers rush for antibody cocktail, but it doesn't work against Omicron||With India witnessing a super-surge in Omicron-triggered Covid cases, people across age groups are now rushing to hospitals and healthcare providers asking for a dose of the monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy -- popularised by former US President Donald Trump in 2020. Promising to reduce the severity of Covid-19 disease in a certain high-risk age-group with co-morbidities, this antibody cocktail, however, is not for everyone -- not at all for those infected with Omicron, warn health experts. A single dose of the cocktail therapy costs nearly Rs 65,000. Delhi-based Lakshmikant (name changed upon request), aged 64, recently got his dose of monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy at Max Hospital in Saket. Infected with the Delta variant in the month of December -- when India was yet to see Omicron surge -- he was administered the dose after much consultation, and is safe at home now. Flooded with calls for antibody cocktail therapy, Vivek Nangia, head of the pulmonology department at Max Super Speciality Hospital in Saket, said that the therapy is not effective against the Omicron variant as there is no data available yet. "The awareness about antibody cocktail therapy has gone up significantly in India. And people do ask for it. However, it is not effective against Omicron," Nangia told IANS. "If a patient is not improving in five days' time and continues to experience significant symptoms, that is when we consider monoclonal antibody therapy for the patient," he informed. We have seen the emergence of several such alternative methods to treat severe Covid-19 in the past, like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, Hydroxychloroquine and plasma therapy, which faded away with new and deadly mutants arriving on the scene. Monoclonal antibody therapy, once hailed as 100 per cent effective in stopping Covid-19 in its tracks, has been defeated by the new super-mutant Omicron variant, according to a latest global study involving researchers from the US, Japan and Switzerland. Monoclonal antibodies are proteins designed to attach to a specific target, in this case the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, which the virus uses to enter human cells. Several studies have shown that monoclonal antibody therapy can stop Covid infection's progression to ICU admissions and death. The global team of researchers analysed the efficacy of monoclonal antibody treatments from major pharma companies. The findings, posted on preprint server biorxiv, and not peer-reviewed yet, revealed that the therapy developed by pharma giants like Regeneron, Lilly, and Celltrion "completely lost neutralising activity" when faced with Omicron. However, monoclonal antibody treatments by AstraZeneca and Vir Biotechnology were "minimally affected", or in other words, "retained partial activity". The recent emergence of the highly-transmissible B.1.1.529 Omicron variant is especially concerning because of the number of mutations -- more than 30 in the spike protein. "Our results suggest that several, but not all, of the antibody products in clinical use will lose efficacy against the B.1.1.529 Omicron variant and related strains," wrote corresponding author Michael S. Diamond, from the Washington University's school of Medicine, in the study. According to Arunesh Kumar, Senior Consultant and Head, Department of Pulmonology, Paras Hospitals, Gurugram, with the Omicron variant coming into the picture, the efficacy of monoclonal antibody has come into question as it was useful with Delta variant in preventing severe disease and hospitalisation. "People with co-morbidities and early symptoms, however, are getting this treatment. It remains to be seen how effective it will be with Omicron. Another oral drug, Molnupiravir, is also being used in Covid-positive patients with mild symptoms and co-morbidities," Kumar told IANS. Another latest study led by researchers from Columbia University in the US, in collaboration with scientists at the University of Hong Kong, said that Omicron has the potential to evade the immune protection conferred by vaccines and natural infection, as well as render most monoclonal antibody therapies ineffective. The study suggested that all of the monoclonal antibody therapies currently in use and most in development are much less effective against Omicron, if they work at all. Nangia said that a monoclonal antibody dose should basically be administered to someone who's been at a very high risk of developing a severe disease. "It is for people above the age of 60, or somebody who has uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension and heart disease and there is a strong suspicion of the Delta variant," he told IANS. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-surge-in-india-triggers-rush-for-antibody-cocktail-but-it-doesnt-work-against-omicron-1069404.html
09-01-2022||National||PM to chair meeting to review Covid-19 situation at 4:30 pm on January 9||PM Narendra Modi will chair a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the country at 4:30 pm on Sunday, January 9, sources told DH. India on Sunday reported 1.59 lakh single-day coronavirus infections with the Omicron tally rising by 327. Several states have imposed weekend lockdowns and restrictions across the week to counter the surge in cases. More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-chair-meeting-to-review-covid-19-situation-at-430-pm-on-january-9-1069406.html
09-01-2022||National||BJP on a name-changing spree in MP to woo voters||It is said what's in a name, but in Madhya Pradesh, the name says it all. The entire politics in the state is revolving around rechristening government buildings, railway stations, bus stands and universities with the intent to woo the electorate. The name-changing spree started on November 15, the birth anniversary of tribal leader Birsa Munda. It was announced that November 15 will be observed as Tribal Pride Day. On the same day, Habibganj railway station was renamed Gond Rani Kamlapati station. The Indore Patalpani railway station has been renamed after tribal icon Tantya Bheel. The Minto hall, the old Vidhan Sabha (legislative assembly), has been renamed after the Bharatiya Janata Party's founder member Kushabhau Thakre and will be known as Kushabhau Thakre hall. Minto Hall was constructed by Nawab Sultan Jahan Begum, the fourth and the last begum of Bhopal. She named the Hall as Minto Hall to felicitate Lord Minto, the then viceroy of India. In 2018, Minto Hall was reconstructed and is currently being used as a convention centre. The previous Kamal Nath government had started Chhindwara university in Chhindwara which has been renamed as Raja Shankar Shah University Chhindwara. As per the latest decision, the Spiritual department will be renamed as 'Dharmik Nyas and Dharmik Vibhaag' (Department of Religious Trust and Religious Affairs). The state has also formed a Happiness Department. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced the renaming of Hoshangabad district as Narmadapuram. Former Congress Minister Sajjan Verma has advocated renaming Indore along with Gwalior. Many leaders have demanded renaming Indore as Ahilya Bai Nagar. The Municipal Corporation has passed a proposal and sent it to the state government to rename Bhopal as Bhojpal. Similarly, there was a demand to change the name of Idgah Hills to Guru Nanak Hills. It is said that Guru Nanak Dev ji, the first guru of the Sikhs, stayed here and the place houses his footprints. Former chief minister Uma Bharti has already demanded the renaming of Halali dam. Bhopal MP Pragya Singh Thakur has demanded changing the names of Islam Nagar, Lalghati, Halali Dam and Halapura bus stand in Bhopal. Some Congress leaders have also demanded renaming a few other places. Some prominent opposition leaders have been questioning the name changes, but the BJP is moving ahead with changing the names of places that are reminiscent of slavery. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-on-a-name-changing-spree-in-mp-to-woo-voters-1069412.html
09-01-2022||National||Trinamool is not able to find Goans to distribute its pamphlets: BJP||The BJP claims that Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress is 'not able to find Goans to distribute party pamphlets' in the state. West Bengal's ruling party is making its electoral debut in the coastal state through the February 14 Assembly polls. Leader of opposition in West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari shared a video on social media in which the Trinamool volunteers said that they are not from Goa and get money to distribute the pamphlets. "How @MamataOfficial is fulfilling her pre poll promise of providing 'Double Double Jobs' to Bengalis. Firstly sent people to Tripura for Municipal Polls. Now she's sending people to Goa for Assembly Polls. Isn't it 'Double Double Jobs'? Just that it's temporary. Stunt ends in Feb," Adhikari said while sharing the two-minute video on social media. Quoting Adhikari's post, BJP West Bengal in-charge, Amit Malviya said, "Mamata Banerjee, the new icon of the fascist Left, is all set for a comprehensive drubbing in Goa. Her party is not able to find Goans to distribute pamphlets promising 'New Dawn' in Goa! Clearly there are no takers for her regressive violent politics. WB too will fall soon." Earlier, BJP national general secretary and Goa in-charge, C.T. Ravi had told IANS that neither Trinamool nor AAP has any presence on the ground. "TMC and AAP have no emotional connection with the people of Goa and their cadre is missing on the ground," Ravi had said. The BJP is also unfazed by the Trinamool debut and Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in a multi angular contest in Goa. Ravi claimed that the BJP's vote share is not going anywhere and it is intact. "In-fact, our vote share will increase as people have seen the development of the state under the BJP government at the Centre and state. The BJP is not concerned about any opposition party or parties. We are working on strengthening our organisation at ground across the state," Ravi had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trinamool-is-not-able-to-find-goans-to-distribute-its-pamphlets-bjp-1069413.html
09-01-2022||National||PM greets Indian diaspora on Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted everyone, especially the Indian diaspora on Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas. In a tweet, the Prime Minister said, "Greetings to everyone, especially the Indian diaspora on Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas. Our diaspora has distinguished itself all over the world and has excelled in different spheres. At the same time, they have remained connected to their roots. We are proud of their accomplishments." Greetings to everyone, especially the Indian diaspora on Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas. Our diaspora has distinguished itself all over the world and has excelled in different spheres. At the same time, they have remained connected to their roots. We are proud of their accomplishments. On January 9, the Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas is observed to strengthen the engagement of the Indian community overseas with the India government and reconnect them with their roots. It is celebrated to mark the contribution of the Indians living abroad in the development of the land of their ancestors. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan will address a virtual youth Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas conference on 'the role of Indian diaspora' with regard to innovation and new technologies. January 9 was chosen as the day to celebrate this occasion since, in 1915, Mahatma Gandhi, the greatest Pravasi, had returned to India from South Africa, on this day, and led the country's Freedom Struggle which changed the lives of Indians forever. Started in 2003, these conventions provide a platform to the Indian community overseas to engage with the government and the people from the land of their ancestors, for mutually beneficial activities. These conventions are also very useful in networking among the overseas Indian community residing in various parts of the world and enable them to share their experiences in various fields. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-greets-indian-diaspora-on-pravasi-bharatiya-diwas-1069416.html
09-01-2022||National||As UP gears up for polls, Mayawati watches from the margins||Uttar Pradesh is in the grip of poll fever. Yatras, inaugurations, announcements, incendiary speeches: it’s all happening in the country’s most populous state as it inches closer to the crucial Assembly polls, one that the BJP wants badly to win. Amid all the noise, a crucial player in the state is missing in action: Mayawati. The BSP supremo has not been seen during campaigning, prompting Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah to take a dig at her saying she was “afraid”. While there is much speculation on the reasons for her vanishing act, political observers are wondering: is this the end of the road for Behenji? Will the BSP ever make a comeback in UP? The BSP's Brahmin face and Mayawati's key poll strategist Satish Chandra Mishra recently claimed that the party will perform better than the 2007 state polls, which it had won with a massive mandate. But facts tell a different story. The party has decided to go it alone for the upcoming Assembly polls, but the solo march appears pregnant with problems rather than possibilities. What adds to the confusion is the near total silence in the BSP camp with regard to campaigning even as rivals the BJP and SP have hit the roads with 'Jan Vishwas Yatras' and 'Vijay Rath Yatras' across the state. The BSP is not all quiet. It is holding ‘Brahmin Bhaichara’ and ‘Budhijeevi’ (intellectual) conferences; it has added youth firepower to its armour through Mayawati's nephew Akash Anand, who has an MBA from London and is the son of her brother Anand Kumar, and Kapil Mishra, son of Satish Chandra Mishra. These moves have given it some traction on social media and among youths, but poll battles are not entirely won on social media. At the moment, it looks like a straight contest between the ruling BJP and the main Opposition Samajwadi Party, with the BSP and the Congress watching from the sidelines. In a reflection of the grim state of affairs, the party has been leaking leaders constantly, and the biggest beneficiary has been the SP. As many as 15 of its 18 MLAs have deserted the BSP and a large number of them were inducted by the SP, which is also aggressively reaching out to Dalits with a new party wing - Baba Sahab Vahini. BSP supporters, however, are still sanguine about the party’s chances and claim that the support base is firm but not vocal. The good times for the BSP seem like ancient history. It was in 2007 that the party won the Assembly polls by bagging 206 seats, as it left the SP and the BJP far behind.   The key to its stupendous victory had been its social engineering. It had got the backing of Muslims, Brahmins along with the entire Dalit vote. It had polled 30.5% vote share, its best-ever. But in the very next election in 2012, the party’s vote share fell to 25.9%. Signs of trouble cropped up in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, as the BSP couldn’t win a single Lok Sabha seat despite getting around 20% votes of her core Jatav vote bank. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the party bagged a mere 19 seats but still managed to net nearly 22% vote share. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Mayawati decided to change course and align with the SP, but the BSP's vote share was less than 20%. So there has been a consistent decline of nearly 10% votes in the last 15 years and bridging this gap seems a tall task for the BSP. The atrophy has made many believe that the SP could be the number one choice of Muslim voters. Brahmin voters may primarily stick with the BJP and the Congress, while BSP's Dalit vote bank splinters, with Mayawati’s rivals getting a bit of the voter pie. Despite the setbacks, the BSP has been trying to resurrect itself in other states. In Punjab, after a gap of 25 years, it has entered into an alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal and will fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats. Both parties have indicated that their alliance will continue even for the 2024 general elections. Dalits comprise a huge 31% voting block and Punjab is the home state of Mayawati's mentor and anchor of new Dalit politics, Kanshi Ram. But political aggression has been found lacking among Dalit voters in Punjab. Moreover, by giving the state its first Dalit chief minister in the form of Charanjit Singh Channi, the Congress seems to have stolen a march on the BSP. Punjab is the fifth state where the BSP has allied with regional parties, but such alliances haven’t borne any fruit for the party, be it in Chhattisgarh or Karnataka. As UP polls draw ever closer, Mayawati’s fate hangs in balance. Another loss could deal a crushing blow to the party in the state. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-up-gears-up-for-polls-mayawati-watches-from-the-margins-1069428.html
09-01-2022||National||Explained: Election Commission's Covid-19 protocols on election rallies, roadshows||Citing the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases and Omicron scare, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on January 8 banned public rallies, roadshows and corner meetings till January 15 in the five states as it announced the schedule for the Assembly elections. Issuing stringent safety guidelines, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said the ban on rallies will be reviewed on January 15.  What do the guidelines issued by ECI say? - The ECI banned physical rallies, roadshows, padayatra, cycle-bike-vehicle rallies and processions by parties or probable candidates till January 15. - Parties and candidates have been advised to conduct their campaigns on virtual and digital modes as much as possible. - Only five people, including candidates but excluding security personnel, would be allowed for door-to-door campaigning.  - Physical rallies during the campaign period, as and when permitted after the decision of the Commission will be conducted subject to adherence to extant Covid-19 guidelines. - There is also a decrease in the number of star campaigners for parties -- for national and state parties, it has been fixed 30 in place of 40 while it is 15 in place of 20 for unrecognised parties. - Rallies and meetings will be allowed only in earmarked places and with prior permissions of district administration. Each party/candidate should give an undertaking in that it shall abide by all the extant instructions/guidelines in this regard. - If a candidate or political party violates any of the above guidelines, no further permission shall be given to the concerned candidate/party for rallies, meetings etc.  - The convoy of vehicles shall be broken after every five vehicles and the interval between two sets of convoys of vehicles should be half an hour instead of a gap of 100 metres. During the permitted campaign period, convoy of vehicles will be allowed only for movement of vehicles from one point to another point for campaigning. - The poll panel banned victory celebrations and only two persons will be allowed to accompany a candidate to collect the winning certificate. Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases with the counting of votes on March 10. The elections have huge political significance with BJP ruling four of these five states, while it is making a big push to capture Congress-ruled Punjab, where the Aam Aadmi Party is also emerging as an important player. (With DHNS/PTI inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-election-commissions-covid-19-protocols-on-election-rallies-roadshows-1069438.html
09-01-2022||National||Exhibition at Pune art gallery stopped over 'nudity' in photographs||A photographer has said an exhibition of his picture collection was stopped at an art gallery in Pune, with its management citing the 'nudity' element in the photographs. Sunil Mate, the in-charge of the Balgandharv Rang Mandir, which houses the art gallery, said the photographer, Akshay Mali, should have told the management about the exhibition theme in advance. "We do not allow any such exhibitions which can hurt someone's sentiments. Such nudity does not look appropriate (at the art gallery)," he said. Mate said when they came to know about the photos and the display theme, the artist was told to remove the pictures. The three-day exhibition of Mali's photographs started on Friday at the art gallery on J M Road in Maharashtra, but it was stopped on Saturday. "The theme of the exhibition was 'IT'S ME' in which the boundaries of art were broken. The exhibition contained nude photos of me and other models clicked in the nature," Mali said. He said on Saturday, some people from the art gallery's management took objection to the photographs and asked him to remove them. "When I booked the slot, I had not told the management about the nude theme. I had booked the slot by just mentioning that it would be a photography exhibition," said Mali, who claimed that some of his photographs featured on a platform through an online exhibition. "This was the first time I was showcasing my photos at a gallery, but my art work face this kind of opposition. The art does not have any rules or boundaries, but there has been an attempt to confine it in a certain framework," he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exhibition-at-pune-art-gallery-stopped-over-nudity-in-photographs-1069443.html
09-01-2022||National||NEET-PG counselling to begin from January 12||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday said the counseling for the NEET-PG will begin on January 12, opening up the process of post graduate medical education for tens of thousands of resident doctors, who completed their graduation last year. "As assured by the Ministry of Health to the resident doctors, following the order of the Supreme Court, the NEET-PG counseling is being started by the Medical Counseling Committee from January 12, 2022. This will give more strength to the country in the fight against Corona. My best wishes to all the candidates," Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a tweet. The Supreme Court in an interim order on January 7 allowed resumption of medical counseling for NEET-PG admissions for 2021-22 with the condition of 27 per cent OBC quota and 10 per cent EWS quota for this academic session. The NEET-PG exam was held on September 11, 2021, after being rescheduled twice in January and April. The results were declared in the last week of September following which students for nearly 45,000 postgraduate seats had been waiting for the counseling – to decide who gets which course in which institution - to begin. The process was stalled after a Union health ministry proposal to reserve seats for economically weaker sections (EWS) was challenged in the Supreme Court. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-pg-counselling-to-begin-from-january-12-1069444.html
09-01-2022||National||Punjab Assembly Elections 2022: Major parties in the fray||The state, which has traditionally known only two parties taking the helm for many years - Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal - will see a larger variety of choices of candidates to select from when it goes to vote on February 14. The votes will be counted on March 10. The border state has recently seen a number of political issues crop up. One of the key issues that cropped up was the year-long protest against the Centre's three farm laws, where farmers from the state flocked to the borders of Delhi, persistently demanding the laws be repealed, causing significant blockage of traffic in the national capital region. More recently, the Congress government in the state saw serious internal strife, with former CM Amarinder Singh and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu repeatedly coming to blows. The two repeatedly exchanged heated words, with Singh accusing Sidhu of being "anti-national". Singh quit as the CM in September and was replaced with Charanjit Singh Channi, with Sidhu continuing on as the PCC chief. The battle for the 117 Assembly seats will see multiple parties - both national and regional - go solo, and in alliances with other parties. Here are the major parties in the fray: Congress: The Grand Old Party is aiming to go into the elections solo amid internal rumblings within its government. Aam Aadmi Party: The Arvind Kejriwal-led party, which currently holds power in Delhi, is aiming to expand into a national party with Punjab and other states on its own, instead of an alliance with any others. Samyukt Kisan Morcha: Though technically it is an umbrella body of farmers, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha took on political ambitions in the fallout of the year-long protests against the three farm laws. It will be contesting the polls alone. BJP-PLC alliance: The saffron party is aiming for power in the border state in an alliance with the recently-formed Punjab Lok Congress, which is headed by former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh. SAD-BSP: The Shiromani Akali Dal - one of the two traditional powerholders of Punjab - is adopting an alliance strategy for this year's election, joining hands with former Uttar Pradesh CM Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party. Recently, actor-philanthropist Sonu Sood announced that his sister, Malvika Sood Sacher, would take the plunge into the electoral politics of the state, though neither sibling has indicated which party she will contest with, or whether she will remain independent. Sood himself said that he has no such plans for himself. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-assembly-elections-2022-major-parties-in-the-fray-1069447.html
09-01-2022||National||Ex-RBI Governor Urjit Patel appointed Vice President of AIIB||Former RBI Governor Urjit Patel has been appointed as a Vice President of the Beijing-based multilateral funding institution AIIB, according to sources in the bank on Sunday. India is a founding member of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) with the second-highest voting share after China. It is headed by former Chinese vice-minister for finance Jin Liqun. Patel, 58, will be one of the five Vice Presidents of the AIIB with a three-year tenure. He is expected to take over his posting next month. He will succeed outgoing Vice President D J Pandian, who is in charge of sovereign and non-sovereign lending of the AIIB in South Asia, the Pacific Islands and South-East Asia, AIIB sources told PTI. Pandian, who has previously served as the chief secretary of Gujarat, is set to return to India later this month. Patel had taken over as the 24th Governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) succeeding Raghuram Rajan on September 5, 2016. Patel resigned in December, 2018 "on account of personal reasons”, saying “I have decided to step down from my current position effective immediately". Prior to taking over on September 6, 2016, he was a Deputy Governor overseeing the monetary policy department at the RBI under Rajan and was known as his “inflation-warrior”. Patel has previously worked with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Boston Consulting Group and Reliance Industries among other organisations. Patel’s posting to AIIB is regarded as significant as India has emerged as its biggest beneficiary by obtaining $6.7 billion funding for 28 projects, Pandian said in his farewell luncheon interaction on Saturday. Also, the AIIB along with the Asian Development (ADB) is processing a $two billion loan for India to purchase Covid-19 vaccines. Of the $two billion loan, the Manila-based ADB is expected to finance $1.5 billion and AIIB is considering providing $500 million. The AIIB had recently granted $356.67 million loan for the expansion of the Chennai metro rail system. It is also considering funding several other infrastructure projects for the development of Chennai city and its suburbs. The bank has also funded the Bengaluru metro rail project. In his farewell interaction, Pandian sought to dispel the impression, especially in India, that the AIIB is a Chinese bank. He said that the bank now has emerged as a multilateral bank becoming the lead financiers of the infrastructure projects in Asia. Except the US and Japan, most of the developed and developing countries have joined the bank, he said. A readout on AIIB official website said the bank is a “multilateral development bank whose mission is financing the Infrastructure for Tomorrow—infrastructure with sustainability at its core”. “We began operations in Beijing in January 2016 and have since grown to 105 approved members worldwide. We are capitalised at $100 billion and Triple-A-rated by the major international credit rating agencies,” it added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-rbi-governor-urjit-patel-appointed-vice-president-of-aiib-1069451.html
09-01-2022||National||With 750 doctors infected, Delhi on tenterhooks amid rising Covid-19 cases||Over 750 doctors and hundreds of nurses, besides paramedical staff, in six major hospitals in Delhi are currently suffering from Covid-19, according to the hospital staff. Even as most of them have mild symptoms, the need to isolate themselves has left the hospitals short-staffed. Resident doctors said that as a result, regular surgeries and non-priority work have been put on hold.  The number pertaining to AIIMS was also confirmed by another senior faculty member. “There are many people who are testing positive. There are many from the director’s office who have the infection. However, people must not panic, the disease is not as severe as last time,” the faculty member was quoted as saying. A third official at the hospital said that available staff — medical, nursing, technical and support — have been redeployed to minimise the effect of the staff crunch. Officials also said that over 100 healthcare workers tested positive over the past two days, taking the total number of staff in quarantine to 400. The situation at Lok Nayak Hospital — the only hospital to treat Omicron patients — fared somewhat better, even as 29 persons were confirmed as having tested positive, with several more in isolation.  “In the anaesthesia department, all but two or three residents have tested positive. They are the most involved in the care of Covid-19 patients. One-third of all doctors and nurses have tested positive. Of course, this affects services,” a resident doctor of the hospital was quoted as saying. The outpatient clinics at the hospital were also shut, officials confirmed, adding that only emergency surgeries are being scheduled. The situation at Safdarjung Hospital was almost as bad as AIIMS, with nearly 200 resident doctors testing positive. “The hospital has decided to hire 302 non-academic junior residents to fill the vacancies due to the delay in NEET-PG counselling. Some senior residents will also be hired on contractual basis,” a resident doctor from the hospital was quoted as saying. The hospital has curtailed the timings for OPD registrations to ensure fewer people visit for consultations. Officials said that meanwhile, at least 90 doctors at the central government-run RML Hospital are in isolation. “Those who are not positive are taking up more shifts and working longer hours to ensure that the services do not get disrupted,” a resident doctor from the hospital was quoted as saying. Lady Hardinge Medical College and its two associated hospitals reported that nearly 100 resident doctors are currently positive, with discussions under way to stop routing surgeries.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-750-doctors-infected-delhi-on-tenterhooks-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-1069453.html
09-01-2022||National||Activist Medha Patkar opposes K-Rail project in Kerala||Medha Patkar, Social Activist and Chief of the National Alliance of People's Movement (NAPM), on Sunday opposed the K-Rail project, a dream project of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, in Kerala while speaking to the media at Kochi. She said that given the critical situation of environment in the state after back-to-back floods and landslides, a proper study needs to be conducted on environment and its impact on society. The Social Activist added that there has to be a proper study on the social impact and without such studies giving clearance to the project was not advisable in the state. Patkar in a scathing attack on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the latter was not easily approachable and that this was not good for the Left unity against communalism that the CPM has been propagating. The project proposed at a whopping Rs 1.25 lakh crore is a semi-high speed rail corridor running from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasargod and the state government and proponents of the project have been claiming that the high-speed train will cover a distance of more than 600 km in four hours. Stiff opposition to the project has already come with opposition Congress and the BJP protesting against the project and even in the CPM district conferences which are being conducted, scathing criticism has come against the project. The CPM has also gone on the offensive with the party's Kannur District Secretary, M.V. Jayarajan, saying that the former would protest against those who are opposing the silver line project. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activist-medha-patkar-opposes-k-rail-project-in-kerala-1069457.html
09-01-2022||National||Migrants once again leave for home fearing lockdown||Migrant labourers, who during the previous coronavirus-induced lockdown, ran out of food, struggled to access healthcare and faced acute livelihood problems, are once again returning to their home states fearing that the weekly curfew may be converted into a lockdown as the Covid surge continues. Fearing lockdown in the national capital, migrant labourer Hemant Maurya has already left for his home state. "Last time, I got stuck in the national capital with my family. Duration of lockdown was extended gradually and I faced a lot of hardship. That's why when this time I heard of curfew, I left the national capital," Maurya said. He further said: "If the curfew is not extended, we will come back. Fearing lockdown, I left for home on January 6. Will face problem due to unemployment, but if life will be saved, will find some work. This time I was accompanied by four fellow labourers." Hemant is not the only one, 33-year-old Raju, resident of Gonda district, also returned home. Raju said: "In the previous lockdown, my kids were staying with me. We did not have money and had to survive without food for one day. After borrowing money from my friend, I returned home. This time, I did not wait for anything. If curfew will not be extended, we will return." "One of my villagemen Vinod has also returned along with me. Covid cases are increasing. We will think about going back when the situation becomes normal," Raju further said. Delhi's daily Covid tally has crossed over 20,000 cases in a day. Due to surge in infection, lockdown is likely to be imposed, which is a cause of concern for the migrant labourers. Although the government has imposed night and weekend curfew to contain Covid, but given the current situation, migrant labourers are taking no chances this time and are either preparing or opting to leave for home. Toufiq Ahmed, a contractor in a society in Delhi's Prem Nagar, is a resident of Ambedkar Nagar. Many people from his village work under him. Even before the imposition of curfew in the national capital, eight of the migrant labourers left for their home. Ahmed told IANS that eight labourers have already returned home and others are likely to follow. "Despite our assurance to the migrant labourers that there will be no shortage of food, they are scared," Ahmed added. "The workers who faced hardships during previous lockdowns are frightened and are rushing for their homes. At the same time, bus fare has also increased. Earlier, a private bus from Prem Nagar to Ambedkar Nagar used to charge Rs 1,000 which has now been increased to Rs 1,200," he pointed out. Ahmed said: "Labourers of Bihar, Gonda and Moradabad have left for their homes. Three labourers left two days ago and earlier, three workers left. We want that they should return early, failing which work would be affected. All the labourers who have left for their homes have not informed when they will come back." However, many private operators, who sit outside Anand Vihar Bus Stand and look after buses operating for Bihar, said the situation is grim, so they are charging the high fare. Most of the people who work in Delhi come from other states. If Covid situation does not improve, the national capital could re-witness the problems faced during the previous lockdowns. On Monday the Kejriwal government will review the Covid situation in Delhi and will take a call whether to impose lockdown or not. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrants-once-again-leave-for-home-fearing-lockdown-1069458.html
09-01-2022||National||96% of Covid-19 patients on oxygen in Mumbai not jabbed: Report||"96 per cent of the patients who are admitted on oxygen beds in 186 hospitals of Mumbai are unvaccinated. Otherwise, we have seen so far that vaccinated people are not reaching ICUs. We have 21 lakh vaccine doses available with us. The current hurdle in ensuring the entire adult population is vaccinated is the 84-day gap between the two doses. Our vaccination percentage is the best in India," Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Chahal was quoted as saying in a TV interview ny TOI. Chahal also cautioned people against assuming that the Omicron variant is just flu, adding that it is important to get vaccinated as soon as possible. BMC officials told the publication that unlike the first two waves of Covid-19, restrictions or lockdowns would not be imposed based on the case positivity rate. Instead, curbs will come into place only if there is a steep hike in the hospitalisations and demand for medical oxygen. So far, the BMC has administered both doses of the vaccine to over one crore, while 90 lakh have received one shot. Officials said that Covid-19 related deaths, however, are under control, with 19 deaths reported over the past 16 days. "Even though Mumbai has one lakh active cases, only 10 tonnes of oxygen is being used," Chahal was quoted as saying Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/96-of-covid-19-patients-on-oxygen-in-mumbai-not-jabbed-report-1069459.html
09-01-2022||National||BJP slams Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for briefing Priyanka Gandhi on PM's security||The BJP on Sunday slammed Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for briefing Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security. Talking to Twitter, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra questioned the need to keep Priyanka Gandhi in the loop regarding the Prime Minister's security. He said: "A sitting Chief Minister briefs Priyanka Vadra on Prime Minister's security! Why? What constitutional post does Priyanka hold and who's she to be kept in loop regarding Prime Minister's security? Channi Saab... be truthful.. you must have said to her 'work is done... what you asked for, has been done'!"   BJP National General Secretary, CT Ravi, said, "Sonia Gandhi's Chief Minister did not respond to Prime Minister Modi but briefs some Priyanka Vadra. Just curious to know who Priyanka Vadra is." Channi had maintained that there was "no threat" to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Punjab on January 5. However, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said that the Prime Minister had to cancel his scheduled visit due to a security breach and has sought a detailed report from the state government for the same. The MHA has also asked the Punjab government to fix responsibility for the lapse and take strict action. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said, "The Ministry of Home Affairs has sought a detailed report on security breach in Punjab. Such dereliction of security procedures in the Prime Minister's visit is totally unacceptable and accountability will be fixed." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-slams-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-for-briefing-priyanka-gandhi-on-pms-security-1069464.html
09-01-2022||National||Navi Mumbai civic body moves in to save NRI wetlands as flamingo abode||In a significant development, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has requested the City and Industrial Development Corporation  (CIDCO) to hand over the NRI and TS Chanakya wetlands and the Lotus Lake to the civic body for maintenance. NMMC City Engineer Sanjay Desai said the municipal corporation is keen to maintain the identity of ‘Flamingo City’ for Navi Mumbai, which attracts a large number of the pink-winged birds. NMMC has requested the Centre to permit the Flamingo City tag for the Swachh Bharat Survey-2022, he said. The civic body will soon display signboards at key points with the greetings - “Welcome to Flamingo City”. Environmentalists have welcomed the NMMC move and said CIDCO must immediately accept the request instead of burying the 35-hectare NRI and TSC wetlands for a golf course. NatConnect Foundation Director B N Kumar, who has taken the initiative to get the Flamingo City tag for Navi Mumbai and written to the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NMMC, has expressed happiness over the development.  “In fact, we have suggested to NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar to take over the wetlands and maintain them in association with the Mangrove Foundation which is also keen to conserve the wetlands,” he said.  Bangar has asked Desai to take the initiative forward. The BNHS, in fact, suggested conserving these wetlands as part of its Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS) Satellite plan as the birds take refuge here during high tides. This is in addition to the flamingos the wetlands attract. In a related development, the Union Environment Department has reminded its Maharashtra counterpart to respond to the environmentalists’ complaints against the attempts to destroy the two wetlands for paving way for the golf course. Meanwhile, NMMC has also started painting pink flamingoes to instil a sense of pride among the people. NatConnect has requested the civic body to go beyond the symbolic paintings and pursue the mission of taking the wetlands under its control. NatConnect has pointed out to the CM that CIDCO, while handing over properties to NMMC that was formed 30 years ago, has handed over 24 lakes but not the NRI  and TSC wetlands. Instead, the city planner has leased out the area for developing a golf course against which activist Sunil Agrawal and team had challenged in the Bombay High Court. The Court had struck down the golf course, following which CIDCO and the developer, Mistry Construction, moved the Supreme Court. Considering that CIDCO is owned by the state government, Kumar requested the CM to ask the planning agency to withdraw the Supreme Court petition. The CM asked the Urban Development department to look into this. “It is sad that CIDCO does not recognise the fact that the two water bodies figure in the National Wetland Inventory Assessment done by the Space Application Centre though the Forest department itself had submitted this point to the Bombay High Court,” Kumar said. Agrawal said it is high time that the wetlands are protected as the developer had fraudulently obtained RERA clearance. CIDCO and the builder seem to be in a hurry to develop the area despite the fact that the issue is pending a Supreme Court hearing. “All hopes of saving the biodiversity will be lost if the government delays any more to save the wetlands,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navi-mumbai-civic-body-moves-in-to-save-nri-wetlands-as-flamingo-abode-1069476.html
09-01-2022||National||Supreme Court to take up PM Modi's security breach in Punjab on Monday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a plea on the recent breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security in Punjab. On January, the prime minister's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending the planned events, including a rally. A three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli is likely to take up the plea filed by an organisation, Lawyers Voice. The apex court on Friday had directed the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to "secure and preserve" the records pertaining to arrangements made for the prime minister's visit to Punjab when there was a "massive security breach". It had also said the inquiry committees set up separately by the state and central governments will hold their horses and not proceed with their respective inquiries till January 10 when the matter will be taken up again by the court. The bench, however, did not dictate it as part of the order, and had asked the counsels to convey its feelings to the authorities. The Registrar General of the High Court will be assisted by the Director General of Police, the Union Territory of Chandigarh, and an officer of the National Investigation Agency not below the rank of Inspector General in securing the requisite records from the state government, its police and central agencies, the bench had said. The plea has sought a thorough investigation into the breach in Prime Minister Modi's security in Punjab to ensure there is no such event in the future. It has also sought preservation of evidence on security arrangements, court-monitored probe and action against erring officials of the Punjab government responsible for the alleged lapse. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-take-up-pm-modis-security-breach-in-punjab-on-monday-1069477.html
09-01-2022||National||What's driving cases as India battles third wave of Covid-19 pandemic?||Karnataka's cases rose from 299 on December 23 to 5,031 on January 6, with the doubling time correspondingly falling from 7,528.4 days to 942.5 days. Bengal's daily cases rose from 429 on December 27 to 15,421 on January 6. The state's doubling time fell from 2,296.6 days to 141.8 days. India on Sunday saw 1,59,632 new infections, the highest in 224 days, while the active cases increased to 5,90,611, the highest in around 197 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily positivity rate rose to 10.21 per cent. From 27 states and UTs, 3,623 Omicron cases have been reported so far. The number of persons recovered is 1,409. The Omicron variant continues rapidly as it took just eight days for India's daily cases to cross 1 lakh from 10,000 in the third wave of the pandemic. It took 47 days to reach 1 lakh cases from 10,000 in the second wave, and 103 days in the first wave. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whats-driving-cases-as-india-battles-third-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-1069482.html
09-01-2022||National||Swatantra Marg to come up in Mumbai's Grant Road to promote heritage toursim||In a bid to promote heritage tourism in the country's financial capital, the government is working on creating a Swatantra Marg in the historic Grant Road area of Mumbai. As part of the project, the August Kranti Maidan precinct and Mani Bhavan is being upgraded. Last week, tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray held a review meeting which was attended by officials of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Maharashtra Tourism.  “Along with Maharashtra Tourism and BMC, we held a review meeting for the upgrade of the August Kranti Maidan Precinct and Mani Bhavan. We’re working on civic infra upgrade and adding elements of the Independence Movement into it, making it our ‘Swatantra Marg’,”  tweeted Aaditya, the son of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The area covers several historical and heritage places like Mani Bhavan, August Kranti Maidan, Pandita Ramabai Girls Hostel, Arya Samaj Mahila Hostel, St Columba High School.  The Gowalia Tank Maidan, now known as the August Kranti Maidan, is the place from where Mahatma Gandhi gave the clarion call of Quit India on August 8, 1942. On August 7, 1942, the All India Congress Committee organised its session under the Presidentship of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, which continued past-midnight into the next day at the Gowalia Tank Maidan, which was located a few metres away from Gokuldas Tejpal House, the place where the Indian National Congress was established in December 1885.  Mani Bhavan, a modest two-storied building on the Laburnum Road in the comparatively quiet locality called Gamdevi, served for about 17 years (1917-1934) as the nerve centre in Bombay (now Mumbai) for Gandhi's activities. It belonged to Shri Revashankar Jagjeevan Jhaveri who was an ardent devotee of Gandhiji and his affectionate host during that period. It now houses a museum and is visited by a number of dignitaries. It was from Mani Bhavan that Gandhi initiated the Non-Cooperation, Satyagraha, Swadeshi, Khadi and Khilafat movements. Gandhiji’s association with charkha began in 1917 while he stayed in Mani Bhavan. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swatantra-marg-to-come-up-in-mumbais-grant-road-to-promote-heritage-toursim-1069488.html
09-01-2022||National||41% people support ban on political rallies during assembly polls: Survey||A day after the Election Commission announced poll schedule for five states, a survey claimed that 41 per cent of people supported a ban on all political rallies. According to the survey, held after the announcement by the EC, 31 per cent of citizens favoured postponing elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur altogether. In an unprecedented step, the commission on Saturday banned public rallies, roadshows and corner meetings till January 15 in the five states, citing the fresh surge in Covid cases, and issued stringent safety guidelines. In the survey, conducted by digital community based platform LocalCircles, 24 per cent respondents said that Covid compliance should be imposed on all political rallies, but they must continue. Four per cent of the respondents said that no action is needed as risk of Covid spread due to elections is low. The survey received over 11,000 responses from citizens in 309 districts of the country, including 4,172 responses from districts in the five poll-going states, the platform said in a statement. While 68 per cent respondents were men, 32 per cent  were women. The announcement of assembly polls was welcomed by major parties, while parties, including the Congress, urged the poll watchdog to ensure a level playing field in view of the Covid curbs on campaigning. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/41-people-support-ban-on-political-rallies-during-assembly-polls-survey-1069490.html
09-01-2022||National||India's first indigenous aircraft carrier begins another phase of sea trials||India's first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant began another set of sea trials on Sunday to carry out complex manoeuvres in high seas ahead of its planned induction in August. The 40,000-tonne aircraft carrier, the largest and most complex warship to be built in India, successfully completed a five-day maiden sea voyage in August and underwent 10-day sea trials in October. "The IAC now sails to undertake complex manoeuvres to establish specific readings of how the ship performs in various conditions," Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said, adding various sensor suites of the ship would also be tested. The warship has been built at a cost of around Rs 23,000 crore and its construction propelled India into a select group of countries having capabilities to build state-of-the-art aircraft carriers. President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu visited the ship recently in Kochi. "After two successive high profile visits – the President and Vice President of India – within a span of less than two weeks, IAC Vikrant is heading out for the next set of sea trials," Commander Madhwal said. "Both dignitaries, having reviewed the progress, had conveyed their satisfaction and expressed their best wishes to all the stakeholders involved in the project," he added. While the maiden sea trials were to establish propulsion, navigational suite and basic operations, the second sea trial witnessed the ship being put through its paces in terms of various machinery trials and flight trials. "The ship in fact was out for 10 days proving its sustenance in the very second sortie. Various seamanship evolutions were also successfully cleared during the second sortie," the Navy official said. Several scientists from the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory, a DRDO facility based at Visakhapatnam, are witnessing the third phase of sea trials of Vikrant. The warship will operate MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multi-role helicopters. It has over 2,300 compartments, designed for a crew of around 1700 people, including specialised cabins to accommodate women officers. Vikrant has a top speed of around 28 knots and a cruising speed of 18 knots with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles, officials said. The IAC is 262 metres long, 62 metres wide and it has a height of 59 metres. Its construction began in 2009. The warship has been built by Cochin Shipyard Limited(CSL). India currently has only one aircraft carrier -- INS Vikramaditya, The Indian Navy has been focusing on significantly bolstering its overall capabilities in view of China's growing efforts to increase its military presence in the Indian Ocean Region. The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical to the country's strategic interests. "That the ship has been able to carry out basic flying operations from its very first sortie itself is a landmark in Indian warship construction history," Commander Madhwal said. "Despite surging Covid cases in the country and the resultant challenges, the combined teams from multiple organisations associated with the project are upbeat and committed to meet the timeliness," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-indigenous-aircraft-carrier-begins-another-phase-of-sea-trials-1069495.html
09-01-2022||National||Pregnant women, divyang government employees exempted from attending office||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said that pregnant women and 'divyang' (differently-abled) employees of central government departments have been exempted from attending office in the wake of a sharp spike in Covid cases. However, they will be required to remain available and work from home, he said. Officials and staff living in Covid containment zone have also been exempted from coming to office, till the time the containment zone is de-notified, said Singh, who is the minister of state for personnel. He said physical attendance of government servants below the level of under secretary has been restricted to 50 per cent of actual strength and the remaining 50 per cent, will work from home, according to a statement issued by the personnel ministry on Sunday. Rosters will be prepared accordingly by all departments concerned, Singh said. However, he said, officials and staffers, who are not attending office and are working from home, will remain available on telephone and through other electronic means of communications at all times. Delhi on Saturday, recorded seven fatalities due to Covid and 20,181 cases as the positivity rate rose to 19.60 per cent, while the country, according to health ministry data updated on Sunday, reported a single day rise of 1,59,632 cases and 327 fatalities. In view of the rapid spread of the coronavirus, Singh said that an order has been issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) with the advice that official meetings will be conducted, as far as possible, through video conferencing. Similarly, personal meetings with visitors are to be avoided, unless absolutely necessary, he said. To avoid overcrowding on office premises, the minister said, officials and staffers will follow staggered timings that is 9 am to 5.30 pm and 10 am to 6.30 pm. The DoPT has advised all officers and staffers to ensure strict compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour such as frequent washing of hands, sanitisation, wearing face mask or face cover and observing social distancing, the statement said. Proper cleaning and sanitisation of workplace, particularly frequently touched surfaces, should also be ensured, it said. Singh said that the guidelines issued, according to the DoPT order, will remain in force till January 31. Regular review will be carried out from time to time and guidelines could be revised accordingly depending on the situation, the statement said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pregnant-women-divyang-government-employees-exempted-from-attending-office-1069499.html
09-01-2022||National||Satheesan seeks Centre's intervention to ensure safety of Indians stuck in Kazakhstan||Leader of Opposition in Kerala Assembly V D Satheesan on Sunday sought the intervention of the central government to ensure the safety of Indians stranded in Kazakhstan, which has been rocked by violent protests over rising fuel prices, and to take necessary steps to bring them back. Satheesan, in a letter to Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, stated that there are numerous Keralites, including students who are stuck in that country. Since the outbreak of protests, internet services in the Central Asian nation have been suspended and the Keralites living there are unable to get in touch with their families back home in India, he said. "... We urge the External Affairs ministry to set up a help desk to assist the Indians there," Satheesan said in a release sharing details of the letter. The unrest began in Kazakhstan's far west as protests over a sharp rise in prices of LPG that is widely used as vehicle fuel began on January 2 and spread throughout the country, apparently reflecting discontent extending beyond the fuel prices. Authorities there say security forces killed 26 demonstrators during this week's unrest and that 18 law enforcement officers died.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/satheesan-seeks-centres-intervention-to-ensure-safety-of-indians-stuck-in-kazakhstan-1069521.html
09-01-2022||National||Will try to soon approach Cabinet on revised FDI policy to facilitate LIC disinvestment: DPIIT Secy||The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) will soon try to approach the Union Cabinet to seek its approval on changes in the FDI policy to facilitate disinvestment of the country's largest insurer LIC, a top government official said on Sunday. DPIIT Secretary Anurag Jain said the issue has been discussed with the Department of Financial Services and Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) and all have reached unanimity. "Now it is a matter of drafting it out. We will try that soon we will make the Cabinet note, after holding inter ministerial consultation, (to) take the approval...It will be very soon," Jain told reporters here. The Finance Minister has directed that the disinvestment has to be completed during the current financial year, "so we also have to work at that pace," he added. According to the current foreign direct investment (FDI) policy, 74 per cent foreign investment is permitted under the automatic route in the insurance sector. However, these rules do not apply to the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), which is administered through a separate LIC Act. As per Sebi rules, both foreign portfolio investment (FPI) and FDI are permitted under public offer. However, sources said since the LIC Act has no provision for foreign investments, there is a need to align the proposed LIC IPO with Sebi norms regarding foreign investor participation. The Cabinet had in July last year approved the initial public offering (IPO) of LIC and the stake-sale is being planned in the current March quarter. When asked about the issue of direct overseas listing of Indian startups, the secretary said the department is still examining the matter to understand exactly what the startups want. "To my mind there is nothing which stops them from doing (that). Why do they want to go outside and list, what are the factors which are not there? We are engaged in the discussion with the industry leaders. "I know there was a proposal which was under consideration. There are views which need to be synchronised and come to a final conclusion. But I want to understand what exactly is really required. Why can't it be listed...So we are still examining that," he said. Further, Jain informed that DPIIT is organizing the first-ever Startup India Innovation Week from January 10. DPIIT has recognised more than 61,000 startups as on date and created over 6 lakh jobs since 2016. "This startup and innovation festival's primary goal is to bring together the country's key startups, entrepreneurs, investors, incubators, funding entities, banks, policymakers, and other national/international stakeholders to celebrate entrepreneurship and promote innovation," he said. The platform will also promote knowledge exchange, develop entrepreneurial ecosystem capacities; mobilise global and domestic capital for startup investments; and provide market access opportunities. The week-long event includes interaction of select startups with Prime Minister Nareandra Modi on January 15; roundtable with global investors and domestic funds; launch of Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC) digital strategy. ONDC is an initiative of DPIIT which aims to democratise digital commerce, moving it from a platform-centric model to an open network. As UPI is to the digital payment domain, ONDC is to e-commerce in India. It will enable buyers and sellers to be digitally visible and transact through an open network, no matter what platform/application they use. It will empower merchants and consumers by breaking silos to form a single network to drive innovation.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-try-to-soon-approach-cabinet-on-revised-fdi-policy-to-facilitate-lic-disinvestment-dpiit-secy-1069525.html
09-01-2022||National||NGT gives 6 months to govt to finalise Western Ghats ESA notification||The National Green Tribunal has given six more months time to the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to finalise the notification of eco-sensitive areas (ESA)s in the Western Ghats. The Principal Bench of the NGT headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that no status report is available on the pending notification of eco-sensitive zones. “The MoEF may finalise the matter at the earliest but not later than six months,” said the Bench. The bench passed this order giving a fresh deadline to the MoEF after hearing a Goa Foundation petition against repeated delays in finalising the matter. “There is demand for more and more exclusion by those who claim the need for ‘development’ while need for ‘environment protection’ does not allow acceptance of such demands. This aspect needs to be finalised and has been pending consideration for the last about eight years, ”the Bench said in its order. The Tribunal observed that continued delay could not be appreciated and expeditious steps are required in the matter in the interest of the protection of the environment.  Earlier, the NGT had set December 31, 2020, for the Union environment ministry to finalise the notification of eco-sensitive zones in the Western Ghats pending for several years. In 2011, a panel set up by the MoEF headed by ecologist Madhav Gadgil recommended that 1,29,037 sq km in the Western Ghats be notified as eco-sensitive and protected. However, another K Kasturirangan-led panel set up in 2012,  reduced the proposed area for notification to 56,825 sq km. The states now seek to reduce it further to 50,805 sq km. The NGT earlier on August 24, 2018, also directed that “no changes be made to reduce the area of Eco-Sensitive Zone without the same being considered by this Tribunal”. In December 2020, the MoEF sought more time to finalise the notification as due to Covid-19, states falling under the Western Ghats are yet to submit their pleas on the removal of certain areas and including some areas. The Centre set up the panel in 2010 saying the Western Ghats is a global biodiversity hotspot and needed to be conserved. It formed another committee under K Kasturirangan in 2012 following opposition from states to the Gadgil panel’s recommendations. Kasturirangan panel submitted its report in 2013 which also faced opposition from several states where Western Ghats falls. The MoEF had submitted that states have demanded to reduce the eco-sensitive area as they are concerned about “prohibition of certain activities having implications on medical care, health care and education”. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-gives-6-months-to-govt-to-finalise-western-ghats-esa-notification-1069546.html
09-01-2022||National||No photo of PM Modi on Covid vaccination certificates in 5 poll-bound states as MCC kicks in||Covid vaccination certificates issued in the five poll-bound states will not have Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photo since the model code of conduct has come into force there, official sources said on Sunday. The Union Health Ministry has applied necessary filters on the Co-WIN platform to exclude Modi's photo from the vaccine certificate, a source said. According to sources, the filters were applied on Saturday night soon after the poll schedule was announced. Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases with the counting of votes on March 10, the Election Commission announced on Saturday. With the announcement of the schedule, the Model Code of Conduct for governments, candidates and political parties has come into force. "The Health Ministry has applied necessary filters on the CoWIN platform to exclude the picture of the prime minister from the Covid-19 certificates being given to people in these five poll-bound states because of the model code of conduct coming into force," an official source told PTI. In March 2021, Health Ministry had taken a similar initiative during the polls held in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry as suggested by the Election Commission following complaints raised by some political parties. Announcing the month-long election schedule, the Election Commission has banned physical rallies and roadshows till January 15 due to Covid concerns. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said the ban on rallies, roadshows, nukkad sabhas, padayatras and vehicle rallies will be reviewed on January 15. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-photo-of-pm-modi-on-covid-vaccination-certificates-in-5-poll-bound-states-as-mcc-kicks-in-1069557.html
09-01-2022||National||PM calls for ensuring adequate health infra, accelerating vaccination drive for adolescents in Covid meeting||Amid a steeply rising Covid curve, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said a meeting with the Chief Ministers would be convened soon to devise state-specific public health responses. Top officials gave the Prime Minister a detailed overview of the Covid-19 situation including various predictive scenarios of peak cases. The government, however, didn’t release those predictions. After a detailed discussion, the Prime Minister said a meeting with the Chief Ministers be convened to discuss state-specific scenarios, best-practices and the public health response. Modi also highlighted the need to ensure effective usage of masks and physical distancing measures as a new normal to control the spread, besides stressing on the need for effective implementation of home isolation for mild and asymptomatic cases. “A meeting with the Chief Ministers will be convened to discuss state-specific scenarios, best-practices and the public health response,” he said. The Prime Minister further highlighted the need to ensure continuity of non-Covid health services while managing the Covid cases – an apprehension expressed by many experts. He also spoke about the need to leverage telemedicine to ensure availability of health-related guidance to people in remote and rural areas. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday would be having a meeting with the Health Ministers of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Goa, Daman and Diu, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli to review the Covid situation in those states. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-calls-for-ensuring-adequate-health-infra-accelerating-vaccination-drive-for-adolescents-in-covid-meeting-1069558.html
09-01-2022||National||CPI(M)'s seeks to maximise pooling of 'anti-BJP' votes in poll-bound states: Yechury||The CPI(M) would work towards maximising the pooling of "anti-BJP" votes in the five poll-bound states and will support the Samajwadi Party (SP) in Uttar Pradesh, party general secretary Sitaram Yechury said here on Sunday. The party’s central committee meeting discussed the forthcoming Assembly elections in five states and the objective will be to pool together the anti-BJP votes, the CPI(M) leader said. "Our primary task would be to defeat the BJP and based on the concrete situation in each state we will adopt appropriate electoral tactics to maximise the pooling of anti-BJP votes,” he told reporters after the conclusion of the party’s three-day central committee meeting. Yechury said the Samajwadi Party is the major force fighting against the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and “so we will support Samajwadi Party”. Whether there will be any seat adjustment and alliance in UP will be left to the Samajwadi Party, which will have to take the initiative, he said adding, “We have declared that we will work for the defeat of the BJP”. Reacting to a query on electoral tie-ups in other states, he said, “First, we will have discussions with state units and with Left parties and decision will be taken shortly”. On a possible electoral alliance with the ruling TRS in Telangana, he said it may be decided when elections come. He alleged the BJP and central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been an "all-round failure". It is total mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian economy has actually moved into a recession, there is growing unemployment, price rise, petroleum prices are increasing regularly, the CPI(M) leader said. Yechury again described the electoral bonds scheme as "legalised political corruption." “At this time for Assembly elections, the government issued through the SBI a new tranche of electoral bonds worth thousands of crores of rupees. Eighty per cent of these electoral bonds actually finance and feed the BJP,” he claimed. “In this backdrop, we are asking the Election Commission to ensure there is a level-playing field for every contestant in these Assembly elections. Without a level-playing field, the Election Commission cannot fulfill its constitutional mandate of conducting free and fair elections,” he said. The CPI(M) general secretary further said the Election Commission should be vigilant and protect the rights of other parties other than the ruling party in such a situation where the BJP is staring at certain defeat in major states going to polls. “Anybody who violates the Model Code of Conduct, including the Prime Minister himself, must be brought to book in accordance with Election Commission’s norms. We expect that the Election Commission will discharge its duties as the Constitution of India mandates the Election Commission to do so,” he said. Reacting to another question on a national-level alliance and association with other political parties, Yechury said in India whenever elections are due these sort of discussions begin over a third front, fourth front or regional parties' front but eventually the government is formed by a front that is formed after the election. No pre-election front in India can succeed because of the entire diversity that is there in our country, he said, adding that all decisions will be taken state-wise as and when elections approach in that state or when general elections approach in the country. "Anybody who takes any position against the BJP, we welcome it. How that will translate into an electoral understanding will depend on the situation at the time of elections that will emerge in all the states," the former Rajya Sabha member said. “The situation will be different from state to state... the objective is to defeat the BJP. And after elections, the national formation and the front will emerge,” he said. On the alleged hate speeches delivered at a Dharma Sansad in Uttarakhand's Haridwar, Yechury said the party’s central committee strongly condemned it and said the Supreme Court should take suo-motu cognisance of the event and action must be taken.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpims-seeks-to-maximise-pooling-of-anti-bjp-votes-in-poll-bound-states-yechury-1069566.html
09-01-2022||National||Less than 75% adults fully jabbed a week before India's Covid vaccination drive anniversary||Less than 75 per cent of adults in India’s 21 states and union territories are fully vaccinated with Nagaland being the worst at 35 per cent followed by Puducherry (40 per cent), Meghalaya (43 per cent), Jharkhand and Punjab (both 45 per cent) and Uttar Pradesh (52 per cent) a week before the first anniversary of one of the world’s biggest adult vaccination campaigns. Among the southern states, Andhra Pradesh (56 per cent) is the worst, while Telangana (91 per cent) and Karnataka (84 per cent) fare better than Kerala (75 per cent) and Tamil Nadu (64 per cent). Just about half of the adult population is fully vaccinated in three out of five states that will go to the polls next month. The worst is Punjab where only 45 per cent are fully vaccinated while Uttar Pradesh (52 per cent) and Manipur (51 per cent) are marginally better. Uttar Pradesh and Punjab have witnessed a massive jump in the number of Covid-cases in the last three weeks. Uttar Pradesh recorded 14 cases on December 15 but registered more than 7,500 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. Similarly, the number of fresh cases in Punjab rose from 34 on December 15 to more than 3,500 on January 8. The Covid-19 numbers are also on a rise in Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand. "Punjab and Uttar Pradesh currently witness doubling of active cases in every two days. I fear that a lot of such cases would lead to hospitalisation or death,” said health economist Rijo John, a visiting faculty at the Indian Institute of Management, Kochi who is tracking the pandemic over the last two years. India began its vaccination campaign on January 16, 2021 with healthcare workers and kept on expanding the scheme by including front line workers, senior citizens, people above 45 years with comorbidities, anyone above 18 years and finally the 15-18 years age group. "The most vulnerable are the marginal population and those living in rural India as well as the elderly. Reaching out to them continues to be the biggest challenge for the government,” T Sundararaman, former Executive Director, National Health Systems Resource Centre in Delhi told DH. Multiple ministers of the Narendra Modi government last year claimed that India would vaccinate its entire adult population (94.47 crore) by December. This didn’t happen as only 67 per cent adults have received two doses so far. "In hindsight, it is a reasonably good achievement for a low or middle-income country. But the vaccination could have started earlier to save some of the lives that were lost during the second wave,” said John. Ten states administered two shots to more than 75 per cent of their population. They are Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Mizoram, Sikkim and Haryana. Experts said the adverse impact on other public health programmes was one of the consequences of the excessive focus on vaccination. “The government needs to create a parallel system for administering the Covid-19 vaccines rather than disrupting the TB or routine immunisation programmes,” said Sundararaman. Since December-end, the country is witnessing an exponential surge in Covid-19 cases driven by an Omicron-powered third wave. The number of daily new infections crossed the 1.75 lakh mark in the last 24 hours while hospitalisation numbers have begun to rise again. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-75-adults-fully-jabbed-a-week-before-indias-covid-vaccination-drive-anniversary-1069591.html
09-01-2022||National||Car with slogans against PM Modi seized in Kerala||A car with slogans written against Prime Minister Narendra Modi was found abandoned in Thiruvananthapuram city on Sunday afternoon. The car bearing Uttar Pradesh registration number was found to be owned by a Punjab national. Slogans and critical remarks against Modi in connection with farmers' stir, Pulwama and Godhra incidents were written on the body of the car. Police sources said that the person who came in the car had a verbal duel with a nearby hotel owner and thereafter he left the car and went away. Efforts were on to trace the person who left the car and wrote the slogans. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/car-with-slogans-against-pm-modi-seized-in-kerala-1069609.html
09-01-2022||National||India not ready allow any third country to mediate between itself and China||India is not in favour of any third country playing the role of a mediator to help resolve its military stand-off with China, although it has not yet rejected Russia’s proposal for a trilateral summit among President Vladimir Putin, President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Though Moscow is believed to have played a quiet role in making New Delhi and Beijing agree on restarting talks between the military leaders, the Modi Government is opposed to allowing any third country to formally mediate between India and China to resolve the 21-month-long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. A source said that New Delhi had politely conveyed its position to the “government of a third country”, which had expressed interest to play a more formal role in mediating between India and China. The military commanders of India and China are likely to meet on January 12 to restart negotiations to resolve the 21-month-long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. New Delhi and Beijing of late agreed to restart negotiations after a three-month-long hiatus. The military commanders of the two nations will meet on January 12 next to hold the 14th round of negotiations. The 13th round of negotiation on October 10 had ended in a stalemate. Moscow of late proposed a trilateral summit among Putin, Modi and Xi. New Delhi, however, remained non-committal on the proposal from Moscow. Modi, Putin and Xi had held the second RIC (Russia-India-China) summit on the sideline of the G-20 conclave in Buenos Aires in December 2018 – almost 12 years after the then leaders of the three nations had held the first trilateral meeting. They had held the third RIC summit on the sideline of the G-20 meet in Osaka in June 2019. The summit however could not be held in 2020 and 2021, as the Covid-19 pandemic swept the world and India’s relations with China hit a new low over the military stand-off along the LAC between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. Putin held a video-conference with Xi less than 10 days after he visited New Delhi on December 6 and had a bilateral summit with Modi. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-not-ready-allow-any-third-country-to-mediate-between-itself-and-china-1069664.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||Campaign curbs should apply to all, PM must lead by example: Sena's Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday said restrictions imposed by the Election Commission on campaigning for upcoming Assembly polls in five states in view of Covid-19 should be applied uniformly, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi must himself set an example in this regard. "During the West Bengal polls, we have seen how some parties and leaders, especially the BJP and the prime minister, campaigned during the peak of the second wave of coronavirus. (This time) the prime minister should lead by example," Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, told reporters. Announcing Assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, earlier in the day, the EC said rallies, roadshows and processions will not be allowed till January 15 in view of the coronavirus situation. He said the Sena planned to contest a few seats in Uttar Pradesh and Goa, both currently ruled by the BJP, a former ally of the Uddhav Thackeray-led party. "In Goa, the Shiv Sena and NCP are together. We want Congress to be with us. But there is the issue of seat-sharing. If the Congress feels it can win in Goa on its own, our best wishes to them," he said. He said the ruling BJP and new entrant Trinamool Congress were contesting Goa polls by "breaking the Congress", a reference to the large scale desertions the grand old party has seen in the last few months and weeks there. On Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant questioning Raut's frequent visits to the coastal state with the taunt that the Sena does not have "even a village sarpanch", Raut said even the BJP did not have a sarpanch there till a few years ago. The BJP made inroads in Goa by splitting the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), he claimed. The Sena leader said the people of Goa want to teach the BJP a lesson but the lack of unity among opposition outfits will give the ruling party an "open field." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/campaign-curbs-should-apply-to-all-pm-must-lead-by-example-senas-raut-1069362.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||Parties turn to virtual rallies amid Covid-19 spike||As Covid-19 infections are rising sharply amid the third wave of the pandemic and the Assembly elections in five states due in March, political parties have cancelled their physical rallies and have turned to digital modes to reach out to the voters. Congress's social media head Rohan Gupta said, "Our preparation is ready, we will arrange virtual rallies and will reach out to people through Zoom, Google Meet, Facebook, WhatsApp and other such platforms." The Congress was the first party to cancel all the rallies and switch to virtual mode. The party will fix LED screens at strategic locations and organise rallies where the interface will be minimal. The Congress is on an overdrive in the poll-bound states and its social media campaign has begun with the party's team setting up control rooms in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Manipur. The team constituted for each state has already moved to the respective state capitals and has started focusing on the work, trying to be ahead in the social media campaigns of various parties. "Our campaign is handled by the party volunteers and we have not outsourced it. We are way ahead of other parties including the BJP and the AAP," Gupta said. Other political parties are also switching to the digital mode. Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said the BJP is prepared to hold virtual rallies. Talking to the media, Shekhawat said the Election Commission will decide the guidelines for rallies and the BJP will follow them. "The BJP is ready for virtual rallies. We held virtual rallies during the West Bengal Assembly polls. During the first and second waves of Covidm when all the political parties went into hibernation, the BJP was active at the booth level through virtual platforms," he said. The BJP has trained 8,000 'social media warriors' for each division, with as many as 2,000 divisions in Uttar Pradesh. The party will focus on the people who have been the beneficiaries of its social schemes and each worker will be given a specific task. All the political parties have asked their social media wings to gear up for campaigning. The Samajwadi Party has started a website to reach out to people, where it will webcast virtual rallies of important leaders. The SP's social media department has trained office-bearers at the booth level and armed them with the latest technology. It will also focus on countering any misinformation campaign on the social media at the source itself to curb its spread, sources said. The BSP, which has less presence in the digital space, has also hired a team of technical workers and social media volunteers and is taking the help of experts to reach out to people. While this time the social media will be the biggest campaign tool, there is speculation about huge spending on the platforms. Sources in the political set-ups, however, said that it is very less compared to the conventional rallies. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parties-turn-to-virtual-rallies-amid-covid-19-spike-1069397.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||Feedback, valuation key pillars of Amit Shah's poll strategy||The former national president of the BJP and the Union Home Minister, Amit Shah, is considered a skilled strategist of electoral politics. The reason for this is not only the party's back-to-back victories in elections, but also his expertise to assess the voters as well as the leaders and the workers. This is the reason why not only opponents but also many of his own party leaders go sleepless, when Shah takes over the command of elections. The 'night meetings' of Amit Shah, who is constantly touring Uttar Pradesh, have, once again, created a similar atmosphere in the state. Shah, after holding election rallies in various districts of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh throughout the day, chooses a particular area and stays there at night to hold meetings with party leaders. BJP leaders term it Shah's 'night meeting'. These meetings are the most important agenda of Shah's election campaign. In these meetings, he interacts directly with the in-charge of the Assembly constituency and takes feedback on several matters. Shah, during the meeting, discusses the electoral issues and equations of that particular region, including the caste equations necessary for electoral victory and other prominent polls related topics. Based on the feedback received from the discussion, Shah then prepares a future course of action and gives necessary instructions to the workers and leaders. The success of Shah's strategy can be gauged from the results of the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the 2017 Assembly elections. This time around too, Shah has been holding meetings and taking ground feedback about the functioning and image of the MLAs, based on which ticket distribution is done. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, tickets of several sitting MPs were cut on the basis of such feedback. The feedback also focuses on how active BJP MLAs have been and their extension of the benefits of government schemes to the public. However, not being granted a ticket does not imply inaction, unpopularity or resentment among the voters about a particular candidate. A senior BJP leader said that sometimes, the equation of a particular region or changing electoral issues also affects ticket allotment. Even in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party had won the election by cutting the tickets of many popular MPs. The party later adjusted many of its former MPs, who were not given tickets, in different roles and is now going to give some of them a chance in the upcoming Assembly elections. During the recent election tours in Uttar Pradesh, Shah has held such night meetings in Lucknow, Varanasi and Bareilly. Similar meetings are likely to be held in many other parts of the state in the coming days. In the 2017 Legislative Assembly elections, of 403 seats in the state, the BJP alliance had won 325 seats, with the BJP accounting for 312 seats. In 2022, the party is targeting to form a government for consecutive terms. As per the party's internal assessment, Yogi Adityanath is still the most popular face as Chief Minister, but there is widespread resentment against the sitting MLAs. In such a situation, the party is considering replacing more than one-third of its current MLAs to end the anti-incumbency atmosphere. However, a final decision in this regard will be taken only at the party's Central Election Committee meeting in New Delhi. But the feedback received by Shah in the night meetings will play an important role in selecting the candidates. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/feedback-valuation-key-pillars-of-amit-shahs-poll-strategy-1069405.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||Poster wars begin on social media as Uttar Pradesh gears up for polls||The announcement of Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh has hurtled major political parties into a race for the victory post, with parties already releasing posters on social media, where most of the campaigning is set to take place. The BJP poster has a photograph of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath waving to the crowds and the caption says: "Raj tilak ki karo taiyyari, 10 March ko phir aa rahe hain Bhagwadhari." The Samajwadi Party poster has, Akhilesh, with his back turned, waving to the crowd, with a caption: "Chal padi hai lal aandhi, aa rahen hain Samajwadi." The 'lal aandhi' is a reference to red caps worn by the party cadres. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) posters, for the first time, has two leaders — Mayawati and Satish Chandra Mishra — with the caption: "10 March, Sab saaf'/ Behenji hain UP ki aas." The Congress poster, with a picture of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, read, "10 March - aa rahi hai Congress". The common thread of March 10 refers to the day votes will be counted for Assembly elections. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/poster-wars-begin-on-social-media-as-uttar-pradesh-gears-up-for-polls-1069418.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||Varun Gandhi tests positive for Covid-19, seeks precautionary dose for politicians too||BJP MP Varun Gandhi has tested positive for Covid-19 with "fairly strong symptoms" and demanded that the Election Commission extend precautionary doses of vaccines to candidates and political workers engaged in poll campaigns, along with officials. Varun, the Pilibhit MP, has been in his constituency for the past three days. "After being in Pilibhit for three days, I have tested positive for Covid with fairly strong symptoms. We are now in the middle of a third wave and an election campaign. The Election Commission should extend precautionary doses to candidates and political workers as well," he tweeted. After being in Pilibhit for 3 days, I have tested positive for COVID with fairly strong symptoms. We are now in the middle of a third wave and an election campaign. The Election Commission should extend precautionary doses to candidates and political workers as well. His demand comes as Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Sunday said that all election officials involved in the polls to five states will be given precautionary doses of Covid-19 vaccines. He also said it has been directed that all central/state government officials deployed for election duty shall be doubly vaccinated. On the recommendation of the Election Commission, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had issued orders on February 8, 2021, that all election officials and employees will be treated as frontline workers.  All polling personnel, security personnel, counting staff shall be doubly vaccinated before deploying/engaging in election-related activities; all eligible officials will be given a precautionary booster dose accordingly, Chandra said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/varun-gandhi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-seeks-precautionary-dose-for-politicians-too-1069441.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||TMC's presence in Goa will only help BJP in polls, says Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday slammed the TMC for taking an "anti-Congress" stand ahead of the Goa Assembly polls, and claimed the presence of the Mamata-Banerjee led party in the coastal state will help the ruling BJP the most. In his weekly column 'Rokhtok' in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut said the TMC has roped in "unreliable leaders" from other parties, including the Congress, and such an attitude does not suit West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is herself fighting the BJP. The TMC is spending extravagantly in Goa for the Assembly polls and many say the source of funds spent by the party is "somewhere else", he claimed without elaborating. Referring to the current state of affairs in Goa, Raut said all parties have made the state a "political laboratory". The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced that elections to all 40 assembly constituencies in Goa would be held on February 14. The BJP, Congress, Goa Forward Party (GFP), Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress Party (TMC), and NCP are the main political parties in the fray. "The TMC's presence in Goa will benefit BJP the most," Raut claimed. "It is understandable if Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP's aim is to wipe out the Congress's existence. But, if Banerjee has the same aim, it doesn't suit her image," Raut said. He noted that in the last Goa Assembly elections, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party with 17 seats and now, it has been reduced to just two seats. The decline was because the Congress did not have strong leadership in Goa, Raut opined. Winning Goa is not easy for the ruling BJP, but parties like the AAP and the TMC have put obstacles in the Congress's path to help the BJP, he claimed.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmcs-presence-in-goa-will-only-help-bjp-in-polls-says-shiv-senas-sanjay-raut-1069450.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||Assembly Polls 2022: How to file e-nominations?||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday announced the voting schedule for Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa between February 10 and March 7, the next set of crucial polls before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The poll panel laid down strict Covid-related rules as the polls come amid a fresh wave of coronavirus cases and assured of free and fair elections in the five states. As polls approach, here's a look at the online nomination process to be followed by the candidates. How do candidates file e-nominations? *Once the application is filed, candidates need to get the hard copy of their nomination form notarized and submit it with relevant documents to the Returning Officer in person. *The application will contain an encrypted QR code which the Returning Officer will use to verify details, using a specially designed QR code reader. *As the software connects with the electoral database directly upon filling EPIC Number, the system auto-fetches the details of candidates and proposers and pre-fills the details. *Candidates also get various alerts and notifications through the Portal and via SMS. The portal also lets them track their application status. *The portal has a 'Permission' module that allows candidates, political parties or their representatives to apply for permissions for meetings, rallies, loudspeakers, temporary offices, and others online. *The list of contesting candidates with their profile, nomination status and affidavits are made public through the portal's Candidate Affidavit Portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-polls-2022-how-to-file-e-nominations-1069469.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||Assembly Elections 2022: How to use cVIGIL app to report MCC violations||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday announced that five states -- Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa -- will go to the polls between February 10 and March 7 with the counting of votes on March 10.  Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra also said with the announcement of poll dates Model Code of Conduct comes into force, and highlighted various efforts by the EC to identify violations.    The MCC is a set of rules put in force by the Election Commission of India to guarantee free and fair elections. It is a set of norms that have evolved with political parties consenting to abide by the principles embodied in the said code. It also binds them to respect and observe it in its letter and spirit. It is generally expected that candidates will not engage in violation of any rules the ECI has put in place. However, to ensure that politicians toe the line, the poll body has an app to help citizens report any violation they see. Here's how you can use the app to report a violation: Launched in 2018, the app, called cVIGIL, is available on the Play Store. Once you download the app, you can log into it, or even go anonymous, to register your complaint. Once you have logged in, the app will show a list of these probable MCC violations: Money Distribution, Gifts/Coupons Distribution, Liquor Distribution, Posters/Banners without permission, Display of Firearms, Intimidation, Vehicles or Convoys without permission, Paid News, Property Defacement, Transportation of voters on polling day, Campaigning within 200 meters of the polling booth., Campaigning during the ban period, Religious or communal speeches/messages, Use of speakers beyond the permitted time, Putting posters without a declaration, Transportation of public for rallies. After determining which category the violation comes under, you can record a video of under two minutes or take photographs and upload it through the app. Once uploaded, you should fill in the relevant details and submit the complaint. The ECI has pointed out that through the cVIGIL mobile app, the "common man has been given a power similar to that of an election observer, as they can lodge complaints of violation of the MCC, which will serve as an important link between the citizens and the Commission and can also help in making the by-elections fair, clean and transparent." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-elections-2022-how-to-use-cvigil-app-to-report-mcc-violations-1069497.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||BJP enjoys definite edge in virtual campaigning||The ongoing pandemic situation has thrown political parties in Uttar Pradesh into chartered territory with virtual campaigning. Even though the Election Commission has assured that it would review the pandemic situation later this week, the increasing Covid cases indicate that the situation is unlikely to ease soon. When it comes to virtual campaigning, most parties - though they may not admit it -- are, undoubtedly, wary of this new form of electioneering. The BJP has a definite edge in the situation. The party has been focussing on social media since the past few years and almost all their leaders are tech-savvy when it comes to ensuring their presence on the social media. The BJP plans to use a 3D technology for 'virtual rallies'. The BJP plans to use 3D Studio Mix technology through which leaders sitting at two different places can be shown on a podium. The party already has more than 1.5 lakh booth level WhatsApp groups in the state, which will be used to hold these virtual rallies. The party has already set up war rooms for campaigns at the local level and its teams are connecting with voters through social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagram, among others. Talking to IANS, a senior party functionary said: "We started preparing when the pandemic began because we knew that physical campaigning would be severely hit and virtual campaigning would be the only option. We have our blueprint in place and also the election material." The Samajwadi Party is also planning virtual rallies to reach out to voters. However, for the moment, the party is relying on social media. Its social media war room has been working since the last assembly elections but the problem that the party faces is that its vote base is largely in the rural interiors and a sizeable number of voters may not be on the social media. The party is inviting people to join its WhatsApp groups and its workers have been asked to go to the rural interiors and connect with voters. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has also decided to connect with people digitally. Priyanka launched her virtual campaign from Saturday, almost at the same time when the Election Commission announced the poll schedule. "We will be conducting more live and interactive sessions so that Priyanka can directly talk to people," said Congress spokesperson Surendra Rajput. He said that the Congress party was first to decide about stopping the public rallies and conduct small meetings and door-to-door campaigns. The party will further expand the virtual campaign through dialogue series on social media platforms and WhatsApp group communication. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is comparatively lagging in the virtual campaign and the party apparently does not have a dedicated team to take care of the social media. BSP leader Satish Chandra Mishra is currently using Facebook to hold live rallies but sources claim that there is no plan yet to connect on other platforms in the virtual world. "We will show videos using vans and trucks with LED screens across the state, especially in rural areas. The work done by the BSP governments will be displayed through these vehicles," said a BSP leader. The problem with the BSP is that a chunk of its core voter is not tech savvy and almost unaware of the virtual world and the party is yet to find ways to connect with this group. Smaller parties like the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) are not depending on virtual campaigning. "My society does not wait for the elections to come and is already prepared," said SBSP president Om Prakash Rajbhar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-enjoys-definite-edge-in-virtual-campaigning-1069503.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||Congress to go without CM face in state polls||In the upcoming five state elections, the Congress has decided to go without declaring the chief ministerial face despite having incumbent face in Punjab as a chief minister. Sources in the Congress say that it will only be decided after the results and Congress legislative party will decide the new leader with the consent of the high command, except at few occasions the party does not project a chief minister's face. The Congress leaders in Punjab and Uttarakhand want that Chief Ministers should be projected. Supporters of Harish Rawat, former CM and Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab Congress chief want to be projected as Chief Minister's face. But party says it will not take risk to alienate other factions ahead of polls. The Congress faces major challenge of retaining power in Punjab, and to come up with a credible show against the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. Except in Uttar Pradesh, the party is in direct contest with the BJP in three states, while in Punjab, it faces the Akali Dal-BSP and Aam Aadmi Party. Though it is not the main challenger in Uttar Pradesh, the Congress wants to be ahead of the BSP in the contest. The Congress is faced with a crisis in Goa, where almost all the MLAs have deserted the party, the party has three former Chief Ministers -- Digambar Kamat, Pratap Singh Rane but has not decided to project anybody as the face though former Chief Minister Francisco Sardinha is one of the contender for the top post. In Manipur too, the Congress has faced an exodus ahead of the polls. But there Okram Ibobi Singh, the former Chief Minister could be given one more chance if the party comes to power but won't project anybody. The party is paying special attention to the northeastern state and has appointed Jairam Ramesh as the senior observer. In the last elections in Manipur, the Congress could not form the government despite emerging as the single largest party. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is top choice of the party in UP, but it's unlikely that anyone could be projected as CM though party has very less chance in the state compared to other election going states. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-go-without-cm-face-in-state-polls-1069505.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||Door-to-door campaign, virtual rallies, social media among AAP's priorities in Assembly poll campaign||The AAP will hardsell the achievements of Delhi government and project party chief Arvind Kejriwal’s “honest politics” to woo voters in poll-bound states as it chalked out a campaign plan involving door-to-door campaign, virtual rallies and extensive use of social media. AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal spelt out the strategy through an address to party volunteers on Sunday during which he also appeared to draw a line on not entering into a derogatory campaign against opponents. Though Kejriwal did not delve into political themes during his seven minute address, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday asked voters not to vote for Congress, saying it would eventually lead to helping the BJP and that people should give Kejriwal and his “honest politics” a chance. AAP is contesting in at least four of the five states – Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. The party has not mentioned Manipur in its poll preparations. Kejriwal said the party volunteers should get themselves involved in door-to-door campaigns in the next one month, reaching out to voters of all political hues, explaining to them about the work the Delhi government has done on power, water, education and health. “Don’t talk ill of the opponents. We need to go to all the houses. Don’t leave out some as they may be supporters of some other party. We need to explain to them our policies and how we stand for changing the system,” he said. With some sections criticising the party for freebies, the AAP volunteers have been asked to field counter questions asking whether it is not the right of people to get quality education and health services free. “Today, the meaning of government is that everything is free for ministers and lawmakers. The citizens have to struggle for services. We will change this,” Kejriwal told the party workers, as he asked them to take leave for one month from work and indulge in election campaign work. He also asked them to focus on social media campaigns as they are masters on it. Sisodia said he would appeal to the people of Punjab and also to the people of other states that voting even a single vote for Congress means voting for BJP. His comments came after AAP lost the Mayoral poll in Chandigarh to BJP, as Congress councillors did not turn up for voting. "I want to appeal to the people of all the states not to vote for Congress, voting for Congress means forming a BJP government. I appeal — give chance to Kejriwal. Give chance to Kejriwal's honest politics. Today people of Punjab, people of Uttarakhand, people of Goa and people of Uttar Pradesh are very inspired by Kejriwal ji's politics," he said. The AAP is preparing with full dedication to contest the elections and the workers are fully prepared in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, Sisodia added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/door-to-door-campaign-virtual-rallies-social-media-among-aaps-priorities-in-assembly-poll-campaign-1069507.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||AAP has given hope to people, fighting elections to bring change, Kejriwal tells party workers||The Aam Aadmi Party has proved that the government can be run honestly and has given hope to the country, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday as he asked his party workers to immediately start canvassing in poll-bound states. In a virtual address, he instructed his party workers to start door-to-door campaigns showcasing his government's work in the national capital and asked them to follow all Covid-19 safety protocols. The motive behind the entire exercise is not just to gain power by winning the elections but to bring “a fundamental change” in the "dishonest and corrupt” system, Kejriwal said. He also asked his party workers to start campaigning for the elections on social media, saying the AAP government with its work in Delhi in education, healthcare and other sectors has shown that “change is possible”. “These parties have always told us that it is not possible to contest and win elections honestly, run a government with honesty. The Aam Aadmi Party has proved that elections can be fought honestly and won also. "'The Aam Aadmi Party has proved that the government can be run honestly. The Aam Aadmi Party's Delhi government has given hope to the country,” he said. The AAP will contest all seats in the state assembly polls in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Goa. The assembly elections in these four states and Manipur will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases with the counting of votes on March 10, according to the schedule announced by the Election Commission on Saturday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-has-given-hope-to-people-fighting-elections-to-bring-change-kejriwal-tells-party-workers-1069552.html
09-01-2022||National Politics||AAP likely to face fund crunch in upcoming Assembly polls||After limiting fund collection from abroad, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) may face a financial crunch for campaigning in four of the five poll-bound states it is contesting in the February-March elections. Two days ago, the Election Commission increased the expenditure limit from Rs 28 lakh to Rs 40 lakh in candidates in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 28 lakh in Goa. Earlier, the NRI wing of the party, which was considered very strong in Punjab, used to donate crores of rupees to the party's coffers. During the 2017 Punjab elections, NRI Joban Randhawa was the Youth Deputy Convener of the NRI cell of the AAP. As many as 30,000 NRI supporters had registered themselves with the party for campaigning and around 2,000 NRI supporters reached Punjab that year. However, the support for the party in Canada, California, New York, New Jersey is not very aggressive this year, giving rise to a financial crunch. Former co-ordinator of AAP's Fund Raising and NRI Wing Hoshiarpur, Varinder Singh Parihar had accused party leaders of transferring Rs 200 crore to Rs 500 crore, collected from NRIs living in the US, from Punjab to Delhi. He alleged that party MP Bhagwant Mann had gone to Vancouver, while Sukhpal Singh Khaira went to the US and held meetings with NRIs in Seattle, California, New York, New Jersey and other places. "Therefore, the party has millions of dollars donated by the NRIs stored and does not need to focus on overseas fund this year," Parihar said. Even after investigations into its foreign fund-collection were conducted by the Home Ministry under both the UPA and the BJP government, the AAP has received a clean chit on both occasions. According to the party, despite having complete control over the Central Bureau of Investigation, Income Tax Department, Enforcement Directorate, Intelligence Bureau, and Delhi Police, the BJP government did not find anything wrong in the AAP funding process. Delhi Environment Minister, Gopal Rai, said: "The AAP had launched a nationwide campaign called 'Aap ka Daan, Rashtra ka Nirmaan' a few years ago to solve its ongoing financial crisis. That's how it will be contesting the Assembly elections. The party is accepting donations from our home-grown traders." Talking to IANS, AAP MP Sanjay Singh, said: "This year, we are focusing on issues, not funds. So, there is nothing to worry about." Highlighting the party's plans to raise money through crowdfunding, AAP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Gupta told IANS: This time the party is working to collect funds by meeting traders in all states including Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Goa. Along with this, separate meetings will be organised to collect donations from the general public and party workers as well." "This time, the party is collecting less foreign donations. As far as election announcements are concerned, after the party comes to power, the government's tax collection money will be used to fulfil the promises made to public. When AAP came to power in Delhi, there was a tax turnover of Rs 35,000 crore, which we increased to more than Rs 65,000 crore," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-likely-to-face-fund-crunch-in-upcoming-assembly-polls-1069554.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi govt to increase beds in hospitals, Covid-care centres: Health minister||The Delhi government has decided to increase 5,650 normal beds and 2,075 ICU beds for coronavirus patients in 14 hospitals, along with 2,800 beds in eight Covid-care centres, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday. In a statement, he said the Delhi government is making all necessary arrangements in view of the rising coronavirus cases and the situation is normal. "Around 13,300 beds are still available for patients in Delhi hospitals. It has been decided to increase the number of beds. The Delhi government is ready to deal with the most serious situation. Delhi's health system is fully prepared to prevent this wave of coronavirus and provide timely treatment to all the people of the state," Jain said.  Among the 14 hospitals, 1,500 normal and 330 ICU beds are being increased in Indira Gandhi Hospital, 750 normal and 500 ICU beds in Lok Nayak Hospital, 750 normal and 400 ICU beds in the GTB Hospital, 400 normal and 195 ICU beds in Burari Hospital, 300 normal and 150 ICU beds in Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, 100 normal and 50 ICU beds in Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, 150 normal and 75 ICU beds in Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital. One hundred normal and 25 ICU beds are being augmented in Shree Dadadev Matri and Shishu Chikitsalaya, 100 normal and 25 ICU beds in Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya, 100 normal and 25 ICU beds in Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital, 100 normal and 25 ICU beds in Bhagwan Mahaveer Hospital, 150 normal and 100 ICU beds in Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, 600 normal and 100 ICU beds in Ambedkar Hospital and 150 normal and 75 ICU beds in Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Among the eight Covid-care centres, 1,000 beds will be increased in Sardar Vallabhai Patel Covid Care Centre Radha Swami Beas, Chattarpur, 500 beds in Sant Nirankari Covid Care Centre, 400 beds at CWG Complex, Akshardham, 400 beds at Yamuna Sports Complex, Surajmal Vihar, 200 beds at GTB DEM Block, 100 beds in Chaudhary Brahm Prakash Ayurved Charak Sansthan, 100 beds in A&U Tibbia College Hospital, and 100 beds in Shehnai Banquet Hall. Jain urged people to follow Covid-19 guidelines by wearing masks and following social distancing for safety while going to public places. He also requested people not to come out of their house for unnecessary work.  Delhi recorded 20,181 new Covid-19 cases and logged seven deaths on Saturday. The positivity rate rose to 19.60 per cent, according to data by the Health Department. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-increase-beds-in-hospitals-covid-care-centres-health-minister-1069359.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||'Sulli Deals' app mastermind arrested from Indore||Delhi Police on Sunday claimed to have arrested the 26-year-old creator of the 'Sulli Deals' app from Madhya Pradesh's Indore, based on the information provided by a second-year engineering student nabbed in connection with a similar 'Bulli Bai' app. This is the first arrest in the 'Sulli Deals' app case, which surfaced in June-July last year. The arrested youth, a Bachelor of Computer Applications degree holder from IPS Academy, is claimed to have got the idea from a 'trad' group on Twitter 'Trad Mahasabha', which follows traditional and rightwing ideas. Both the apps created in a span of six-seven months posted derogatory pictures of over 100 Muslim women and conducted online auctions. Aumkareshwar Thakur, a resident of Newyork city Township in Indore, was apprehended by the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit of Delhi Police's Special Cell. Special Cell DCP (IFSO) KPS Malhotra claimed that Thakur confessed that he had created Sulli Deal app. The necessary digital footprints in his laptop and in cyberspace are being probed, he said. Thakur's arrest came after the inputs provided by Neeraj Bishnoi, residing in Assam's Jorhat who is studying in an engineering college in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal who was arrested on January 6 in connection with the 'Bulli Bai' app. Bishnoi allegedly told interrogators that he used to interact with various virtual identities on social media and used to engage in group discussions. In July last year, Malhotra said a group member shared details about 'Sulli Deals' in a group. "That was the first time Bishnoi or other group members had heard about the 'Sulli Deals' app on GitHub. The Twitter handle was deleted and it was learnt that after the 'Sulli Deals' uproar, the said Twitter handle and other footprints were erased from various social media platforms... Bishnoi further said the Twitter handle belongs to a person who stays in Indore," Malhotra said. After technical analysis, a team of investigators went to Indore where Thakur was arrested. During interrogation, Malhotra claimed that he confessed that he had created the 'Sulli Deals' app. The necessary digital footprints in his laptop and in cyberspace are being probed.  He also told the interrogators he was a member of a 'trad group' on Twitter and the idea was shared to defame and troll Muslim women. "He had developed the code on GitHub. The access of GitHub was with all the members of the group. He had shared the App on his Twitter account. The photos of Muslim women were uploaded by the group members," Malhotra said. Further analysis of the technical gadgets is underway to recover the codes and images related to the 'Sulli Deals' app, he added. Akhilesh Thakur, the father of Aumkareshwar, said his son was being framed in the case. He told reporters in Indore that he does not know anything about the App concerned and after his son got the BCA degree in 2018, he started web-designing work from home, PTI reported. "I have come to know that on the basis of just one person's statement, my son, who is an IT specialist, has been arrested and taken to Delhi. My son is being framed and defamed," the father claimed. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sulli-deals-app-mastermind-arrested-from-indore-1069396.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Akhilesh to file FIR against BJP's Amit Malviya for 'misleading tweet'||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has said that his party's legal cell will lodge an FIR against Amit Malviya, in-charge of BJP's IT department for allegedly spreading misinformation through his tweets to malign the image of the party leadership. Amit Malviya had tweeted a photograph of Akhilesh Yadav along with his wife Dimple, former Uttar Pradesh Minister Abhishek Misra and MLC Pushparaj Jain among others. The caption of the photo said, "In 2015, Akhilesh Yadav had led a delegation to Grasse in France on grounds that a perfume park has to come up in Kannauj. In this photograph, his perfume businessman friend can be seen from whose house stacks of currency notes were found buried under the floor and hidden inside the walls. This was the wealth that was robbed from the people of UP." मई 2015 में अखिलेश यादव एक प्रतिनिधिमंडल लेकर फ्रांस के ग्रासे शहर गये थे। कारण बताया - कन्नौज ‌में‌ परफ्यूम पार्क बनाना। The Samajwadi Party chief said that perfumer from whose possession the cash has been seized and who was subsequently arrested is Piyush Jain who is not in the photograph. "BJP se jhoota koi nahi hai Jhoot baantne wala koi nahi (There is no bigger liar than BJP, they spread lies)," Akhilesh said. He said BJP leaders sitting in Delhi are spreading rumours in Uttar Pradesh to vitiate the atmosphere ahead of the elections. Replying to a question, Akhilesh said the complaint will be filed soon. "Action, however, will follow after the SP government is formed because in the BJP government no action is initiated against anyone who targets me. However, if anyone dares to write anything about their (BJP) leaders, the police come calling," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-to-file-fir-against-bjps-amit-malviya-for-misleading-tweet-1069398.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Ahead of Budget Session, 400 Parliament staffers test positive for Covid-19||Weeks ahead of the Budget Session to commence, close to 400 people working in Parliament House have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past four days prompting authorities to impose restrictions on attendance on officials and staff. Sources said 200 from Lok Sabha Secretariat, 65 from Rajya Sabha Secretariat and 133 of allied services have tested positive for the virus infection between January 4 and 8. Following this, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha Secretariats have reimposed restrictions on attendance of officials and staff. Sources said tests were conducted in Parliament House complex on January 6 and 7. According to the latest directions, only 50% of officials and staff in both the Secretariats below the rank of Under Secretary/Executive officers are required to attend office till the end of this month.  In Rajya Sabha Secretariat, sources said, this constitutes about 65% of the total employees. Those with disabilities and pregnant women are exempted from attending office. Starting and closing timings of the Secretariats are staggered to avoid crowding while all official meetings will be held virtually. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu reviewed the situation with Secretary General PC Modi and Advisor Dr PPL Ramacharyulu following the surge in cases in Parliament House complex. Sources said Naidu asked them to take necessary measures to contain the spread of virus among the Secretariat officials and staff ahead of the Budget session which is to begin towards the end of this month. Naidu also directed that all the around 1,300 officials and staff in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat be tested for Covid-19. The recovery of those infected will be closely monitored and assisted in hospitalisation and treatment if needed.  According to circulars in the first week of January issued by Lok Sabha Secretariat, 50% of officers below the level of Under Secretary and equivalent should attend office by rotation. The working hours may be staggered between 10:00 am to 10:30 am with corresponding office exit timings to avoid rush in commuting as also in elevators and corridors, it said. "In view of the alarming spike number of cases, all the Officers/Staff attending office are again advised to exercise extreme caution and to scrupulously follow the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour/protocols as brought out inter-a/ia vide Circular No. 32951 dated 4th January,2022, but not restricted to the same, in their own interest and for common greater good," the circular issued on January 7 said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-budget-session-400-parliament-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-19-1069420.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Wear masks, we won't have to impose lockdown in Delhi: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said there are no plans to impose lockdown in the national capital amid rising Covid-19 cases but warned that the government will be forced to take the harsh step if people do not wear masks and adhere to other Covid-19 protocols. Making a digital address after recovering from Covid-19, he said rising cases are a matter of concern but there was no need to panic as very few people are getting hospitalised. Comparing the statistics of May 7 last year when there were around 20,000 cases, he said over 300 people had died then and almost 20,000 beds were filled but now, the deaths, though not a single one should have happened, are just seven and hospitalisation around 1,500 as on Saturday. "Wearing a mask is very important. There will be no lockdown if you continue to wear a mask. There is no plan to impose a lockdown as of now...We hope this wave ends soon. Our attempt is to impose minimum restrictions so livelihoods are not affected,” Kejriwal said. Delhi has imposed a weekend curfew, as the cases rose last week. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority led by Lieutenant Governor Anil Biajal is meeting on Monday to take stock of the situation in the capital. "We are reviewing the situation regularly," he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wear-masks-we-wont-have-to-impose-lockdown-in-delhi-kejriwal-1069423.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi likely to receive more rain||Overnight rain in the national capital led the minimum temperature on Sunday to settle at 13.8 degrees Celsius, seven notches above normal, the India Meteorological Department said. The weather department said the city received 8 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours as recorded at 8.30 am while the relative humidity was 100 per cent. The weatherman has forecast generally cloudy sky with light rain while the maximum temperature is likely hover around 18 degrees Celsius. On Saturday, Delhi recorded its highest rainfall in a day for January in 22 years, yielding the city's best air quality in over two months even as the minimum temperature settled at 15 degrees Celsius, eight notches above normal. According to Central Pollution Control Board, at 9:05 am, Delhi's Air Quality Index was 75 ''satisfactory'' while AQI in nearby Noida was recorded at 62, Greater Noida 47, Ghaziabad 56, Faridabad 58 and Gurugram 77. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ''good'', 51 and 100 ''satisfactory'', 101 and 200 ''moderate'', 201 and 300 ''poor, 301 and 400 ''very poor'', and 401 and 500 ''severe''. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-likely-to-receive-more-rain-1069427.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Probe ordered after large number of passengers test Covid positive at Amritsar international airport||A probe has been ordered against a private laboratory after a number of flyers who reached here from Italy recently tested positive for Covid-19 amid allegations by several of them that their test reports were incorrect, health officials said on Sunday. The Airports Authority of India has also replaced the services of the Delhi-based laboratory with a local lab, officials said. The probe had been ordered after several of the passengers who returned from Italy had alleged that their Covid positive report was not correct as they had tested negative hours before boarding the flight. They had raised questions on the testing practice adopted by the lab. Many among them had even created ruckus at the international airport here. Some of the passengers who had arrived here at Shri Guru Ramdas International Airport had subsequently tested negative in a re-test later, officials said. Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh said on Sunday, “A probe has been initiated by the Airports Authority of India against the alleged errant working of the lab. The services of the existing Delhi-based lab has been suspended and new local lab has resumed its working at the airport." He said the services of this Delhi-based lab were engaged on December 15, 2021 by the Airports Authority of India. At least 173 passengers on a Rome-Amritsar chartered flight were found to be Covid-positive after being tested on arrival on Friday, officials said. This is the second consecutive incident wherein a large number of passengers coming from Italy to Amritsar airport have tested positive for the coronavirus on arrival. On Thursday, 125 passengers who were travelling from Milan in Italy on another charter flight were found positive after being tested on arrival at the Amritsar airport. According to the rules of the Union Health Ministry, passengers coming from "at risk" countries to India have to compulsorily get tested for Covid-19 on arrival at the airport. All European countries, including Italy, have been deemed as "at risk" countries by the Union Health Ministry. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probe-ordered-after-large-number-of-passengers-test-covid-positive-at-amritsar-international-airport-1069460.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Political party hoardings, posters in UP being removed as code of conduct comes into effect||Authorities have begun removing hoardings and posters put up by political parties across Uttar Pradesh as the model code of conduct has come into effect with the Election Commission announcing polls dates for the state. The commission on Saturday announced seven-phase voting in the state starting February 10. Counting of votes will take place in March, along with four other poll-bound states. Voting will be held on February 10, February 14, February 20, February 23, February 27, March 3 and March 7. It will move from the western part of the state towards the east. "The model code of conduct has been implemented in the state, and it will be followed. All district magistrates (district election officers) have been given the responsibility to implement the model code of conduct. They will be sending their reports on a regular basis," Chief Electoral Officer Ajay Kumar Shukla told PTI on Sunday. District Magistrate of Lucknow Abhishek Prakash said as per the directives of the Election Commission of India, the model code of conduct has been implemented, and it will be strictly adhered to. Instructions of the model code of conduct have been sent to the municipal commissioner of Lucknow, he said. Following this, teams of the Lucknow Municipal Corporation were seen pulling down banners and posters from Saturday itself. Reports coming from Basti said the administration has started removing banners, posters and hoardings from various places in the district. District Magistrate Saumya Agarwal said banners and posters of political parties put up on public properties are being removed. Similar reports were received from Etawah and Farrukhabad. The model code is a set of guidelines, issued by the Election Commission, for political parties, candidates, government and the party in power during elections concerning speeches, announcements, election manifestos and general conduct. It includes restrictions of banners and posters on private properties without prior permission and stipulates that hoardings and advertisements put up at the cost of the public exchequer depicting the achievements of the party in power shall be removed forthwith by the authorities. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/political-party-hoardings-posters-in-up-being-removed-as-code-of-conduct-comes-into-effect-1069468.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Govt in Punjab has been outsourced for last 30 years: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday criticised all the previous governments in the state, including the Congress governments and said that in the past 30 years, the government has been outsourced in the state. "A Political narrative without a People driven agenda is hollowness, a diversion tactic. It's important to bring back People of Punjab at the Core of this Election. In the last 30 yrs the Heart & Mind of the Govt. has been outsourced &amp; consolidated in a few rooms & powerful hands," he said in his tweet. A Political narrative without a People driven agenda is hollowness, a diversion tactic. It's important to bring back People of Punjab at the Core of this Election. In the last 30 yrs the Heart & Mind of the Govt. has been outsourced & consolidated in a few rooms & powerful hands. He attacked all the past chief ministers, which includes those from the Congress as well, including Beant Singh, Harcharan Singh Brar and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal apart from Amarinder Singh, who left the Congress recently. Sidhu often takes potshots at his own Chief Ministers and has been on an announcing spree during his election meetings. He last week announced a slew of incentives for women by promising that 33 per cent of all jobs under the Punjab Urban Employment Guarantee Mission would be reserved for them. Also, all women working as farm labourers in small farms would get wages under the MGNREGA, besides special women commando battalions for women safety in every village and city of Punjab. Sidhu promised Rs 2,000 per month for women homemakers if the Congress is voted to power. He also promised eight free cooking gas cylinders in a year to women. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-in-punjab-has-been-outsourced-for-last-30-years-sidhu-1069485.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||My son is being framed, says father of 'Sulli Deals' app creator nabbed by Delhi Police||The father of a 26-year-old man, believed to be the creator of the 'Sulli Deals' app and arrested by Delhi Police from Indore in Madhya Pradesh, claimed on Sunday that his son was being framed in the case. Akhilesh Thakur, the father of accused Aumkareshwar Thakur, told reporters here that he does not know anything about the app concerned and after his son got the BCA degree in 2018, he started web-designing work from home. He said two Delhi Police personnel in plain clothes came to his house on Saturday afternoon and after identifying his son, they took the latter to the national capital by a flight in the evening. The police also seized his son's mobile phone and laptop from their house, he said. Earlier in the day, officials said the Delhi Police had arrested the accused from Indore in Madhya Pradesh. This is the first arrest made in the "Sulli Deals" app case, they said. Hundreds of Muslim women were listed for “auction” on the mobile application with photographs sourced without permission and doctored. Thakur did his BCA (Bachelor of Computer Applications) course from the IPS Academy in Indore and is a resident of Newyork City Township, officials said. Delhi's Deputy Commissioner of Police (IFSO) KPS Malhotra said during preliminary interrogation, the accused admitted that he was a member of a group on Twitter and the idea to defame and troll Muslim women was shared there. However, Akhilesh Thakur said, "I have come to know that on the basis of just one person's statement, my son, who is an IT specialist, has been arrested and taken to Delhi. My son is being framed and defamed." He said after securing the BCA degree in 2018, his son started web-designing work from home on a personal level. "I am an old-fashioned person. I don't even know how to operate a mobile phone properly. I don't know anything about the 'Sulli Deals' app," said Akhilesh Thakur, who works in a private company. The father of the accused said he was away in Nagda town of neighbouring Ujjain district when the Delhi Police took his son into custody. He also said the Delhi Police informed about the arrest on Sunday morning and made him to talk to his son. “During the conversation, my son told me that we should not get worried,” he said, adding that he would be going to Delhi later in the day to arrange legal help for his son. Meanwhile, the Indore police on Sunday said their Delhi counterparts have not shared any information with them about the arrest from here. “We have come to know only from the media about the arrest of Thakur from Indore by Delhi Police. The Delhi Police have not shared any official information with us in this regard so far," Indore Police Commissioner Harinarayanchari Mishra told PTI. Mishra also said that the Indore police will consider starting an investigation into the matter after the Delhi Police share with them the official details of the case. Earlier in the day, Delhi's DCP Malhotra said, "He (Sulli Deals app case accused) had developed the code on GitHub. The access of GitHub was with all the members of the group. He had shared the app on his Twitter account. The photos of the Muslim women were uploaded by the group members." Investigation has revealed that the accused had joined the group on Twitter by the name of 'Tradmahasabha' in January 2020 using the handle @gangescion. During various group discussions, the members had talked about trolling Muslim women, the police said. "He admitted that he had developed the code/app on GitHub. After the uproar regarding the Sulli Deals app, he had deleted all his social media footprints," the DCP said. The Delhi Police said that further analysis of technical gadgets is underway to find out the codes/images related to the app. Earlier in July, a case was registered by the Delhi Police's cyber cell after it received a complaint about an unidentified group uploading photos of Muslim women on an app. According to police, Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged mastermind and creator of the 'Bulli Bai' application, had disclosed during interrogation that he was in touch with the person behind the Twitter handle @sullideals, the alleged creator of the 'Sulli Deals' app that was hosted on GitHub in July last year. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-son-is-being-framed-says-father-of-sulli-deals-app-creator-nabbed-by-delhi-police-1069486.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Rajya Sabha Secretariat restricts attendance after 400 staffers test Covid positive||After over 400 parliament staffers tested positive for Covid-19 infection, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat has decided to restrict staff attendance. As per new guidelines, 50 per cent of staff or officials below the rank of under-secretary or executive officer are required to 'work from home'. It is learnt that Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu reviewed the situation and directed to take necessary measures to contain the spread of the virus among the secretariat officials and staff. It is learnt that to avoid crowding, it has been decided to have staggered timing of secretariat and all official meetings will be held virtually. Officials with disabilities and pregnant women are exempted from attending office. Over 400 Parliament staffers have tested positive for Covid-19 during random testing. It is found that among all those tested positive for Covid, 65 are from the Rajya Sabha, 200 from the Lok Sabha and 133 belong to the allied services. According to the sources, random testing was conducted on January 6-7 in the wake of the sudden spike of new cases in the national capital. Most of the staffers who have contracted the virus did not show any symptoms, they said, adding: "More random testing will be conducted for those coming to Parliament to control the infection spread." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajya-sabha-secretariat-restricts-attendance-after-400-staffers-test-covid-positive-1069493.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh announces complete ban on social, religious gatherings, five-day week in govt offices||The Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday announced five-day week in its offices besides banning social and religious gatherings from January 10 to 24 to check the coronavirus spread. It capped the attendance of staff at government offices to 50 per cent of the total strength from Monday to Friday during the period. The government also prohibited the gathering of more than 100 people for indoor and 300 people for outdoor academic, sport, cultural and political events, according to an order. The restrictions, however, will not be applicable on offices dealing with emergency services. The state till January 8 has recorded 2,31,587 coronavirus cases, including 3,864 deaths. "All offices of government departments/ PSUs/ local bodies/ autonomous bodies, including the HP Secretariat, will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays and these offices will operate with 50 per cent attendance on working days," the order issued by state Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh said. "These restrictions will not be on offices dealing with emergency or essential services such as health, police, fire, banks, electricity, water and sanitation, public transport, telecom, excise, budget and related incident services/activities etc,” it added. Academic, sport, entertainment, cultural and political gatherings are permitted up to 50 per cent of the capacity of venue, subject to a maximum of 100 people in indoor areas and 300 people in open spaces, it added. However, the High Court of Himachal Pradesh will issue separate orders with respect to judicial offices, it added. The order said, "All social and religious gatherings shall be completely banned in the state." There shall also be a total ban on langars (community kitchens) across the state, it added. Prior intimation of gatherings shall have to be given to the authorities, who may impose additional conditions. District magistrates may fix timings of shops or markets after taking the Covid situation into account. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-announces-complete-ban-on-social-religious-gatherings-five-day-week-in-govt-offices-1069510.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi Police get 90 days to file chargesheet against ISI-trained terrorist||The Special Cell of Delhi Police, which arrested ISI-trained Mohammed Asraf alias Ali Ahmad Noori, a Pakistani national for allegedly planning terrorist attacks across the country, has got an extension of 90 days to file the charge sheet 'as the investigation was continuing'. The special cell moved the court seeking the extension. Advocate Deepak Tyagi opposed the move and said that not more than 15 to 20 days extension should be given. The court after hearing the whole argument agreed to the Delhi Police's demand and granted more time. The investigation so far has revealed that Mohammed Asraf travelled to Thailand and UAE which showed that he was not only in touch with the ISI but had links with others who wanted to create a riot-like situation in India. The Special Cell has made the sketches of his associates, who are said to be living in India. The cell conducted raids at their premises but failed to get anything. ISI-trained Asraf was held in October last year from Delhi's Laxmi Nagar. The special cell found that he had been illegally residing in India since 2004 and was involved in espionage and supplying arms. Mohammed Asraf was working at the behest of Pakistan's Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) with the sole purpose of spreading terrorism across India. Asraf was in constant touch with his Pakistani handler, Nasir, who had been giving him directions to do spying and anti-India activities. Asraf confessed to the Special Cell that he had been involved in terror activities, including transporting illegal weapons. The special cell had said that the accused was in advance stage of procuring arms and explosives to carry out terrorist attacks in Delhi and several other states. The special cell has so far recorded the statement of seven persons who testified against Asraf. The special cell had recovered a hand grenade, one AK-47 assault rifle with its 2 loaded magazines, two pistols and a bag containing 50 live cartridges. The Special Cell took the help of National Security Guards (NSG) Gurugram to dismantle the hand grenade. It was then sent to CFSL, CBI for expert opinion. The Special Cell also conducted Asraf's Polygraph test at CBI's CFSL, Narco test and Brain Mapping test at FSL Gandhinagar, Gujarat. The cell has said that they have identified a lot of suspects and are in process of busting the ISI-sponsored terror module. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-get-90-days-to-file-chargesheet-against-isi-trained-terrorist-1069511.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||SC orders release of 58-year-old convict held as juvenile in 1979||The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate release of a 58-year-old man from jail undergoing life imprisonment after finding out that he was still a juvenile when a murder case was lodged against him in 1979. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Hrishikesh Roy also noted the man had already undergone 17 years of his sentence. The applicant Vijai Pal, represented by legal aid counsel Dipak Kumar Jena, filed a plea in 2018 seeking a declaration that he was a minor at the time of the offence. He was convicted in the murder case and sentenced to life term. His appeal before the top court was also dismissed. The court on July 13, 2018 directed district judge, Hardoi to conduct an inquiry with regard to his claim as per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000. A report submitted by the Juvenile Justice Board stated since the school records were not available, the applicant's claim that he was less than 18 years of age at the time of offence could not be verified. Subsequently, going by Rule 12(3) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2007, an ossification test was conducted to ascertain the age of the applicant by the medical board, Farukhabad district on October 12, 2018. The report declared that he was 55-year-old on the date of testing. After deducting 39 years, four months and one day from the date of the incident on June 11, 1979, the medical board was of the opinion that the applicant was of 16 years and eight months on the date of commission of the offence. "It is no more res integra that an application for declaration of juvenility can be filed at any stage even after dismissal of the special leave petition by the court," the bench said. "Accepting the report of the Juvenile Justice Board, the applicant is found to be a juvenile on the date of offence. He is directed to be released forthwith," the bench said in its order. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-orders-release-of-58-year-old-convict-held-as-juvenile-in-1979-1069526.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Four judges, 5% of Supreme Court staff test positive for Covid-19||Four Supreme Court judges and almost five per cent of its staff have tested positive for Covid-19, official sources said on Sunday, as the national capital witnesses a sharp spike in coronavirus cases. An apex court official told PTI that out of the 32 judges in the apex court, at least four judges, and 150 out of the nearly 3,000 staff members, are currently infected with the virus. Delhi on Saturday, recorded seven fatalities due to Covid and 20,181 cases as the positivity rate rose to 19.60 per cent, while the country, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday, reported a single day rise of 1,59,632 cases and 327 fatalities. A Covid-19 testing facility has been set up on the top court's premises and it is open from Monday to Saturday. “In view to contain the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus infection and sudden upsurge in the cases of Omicron variant of the coronavirus, it is reiterated that the entrants to the Supreme Court premises, i.e. the registry staff, staff of the coordinate agencies, advocates and their staff etc., particularly those who may be showing any symptom(s) similar to those notified for Covid-19 infection(s), may kindly get themselves tested at such facility...,” a circular read. A circular issued in this regard stated that an earlier circular prescribing standard operating procedure for physical hearing (hybrid hearing) will remain suspended for the time being. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-judges-5-of-supreme-court-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19-1069529.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||'Sulli Deals' maker deleted social media footprints to avoid arrest: Police||Aumkareshwar Thakur the alleged creator of "Sulli Deals", knew that police would be on his trail after the uproar over the app to "auction" Muslim women and had deleted all his social media footprints in a bid to escape detection, police sources said on Sunday. "He is very sharp and technically sound. He had deleted a lot around 10 GB data. We have hope that we will be able to find more evidence once the data is retrieved," said a source. During preliminary interrogation, he had admitted that he was a member of a "Trad" group on Twitter where the idea to defame and troll Muslim women was shared. Joining the group "Tradmahasabha" in January 2020 using the Twitter handle @gangescion, he participated in various group discussions about trolling Muslim women. He had developed the code on GitHub, which could be accessed by all the members of the group. He had shared the app on his Twitter account, and photos of the Muslim women were uploaded by the group members. After the uproar regarding the app, he had deleted all his social media footprints. The Special Cell is further analysing the technical gadgets to find out the codes/images related to the "Sulli Deals" app. The police sources also claimed that they have identified a few people who were assisting him. However, as of now, the police have not found any connection between him and the "Bulli Bai" creator. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sulli-deals-maker-deleted-social-media-footprints-to-avoid-arrest-police-1069532.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Dispensaries in Delhi jails turned Covid care centres; oxygen plant in Tihar to start working soon||A newly installed oxygen plant at a hospital in Tihar prison will be made operational in four days while all dispensaries in the three jail complexes of Delhi have been designated as Covid care centres amid a surge in infections, officials said on Sunday. As part of steps taken against the spread of the viral disease in Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini jail complexes, many medical isolation cells have been set up for inmates showing slight symptoms of Covid-19, they said. Those who test positive but are asymptomatic will be kept in separate isolation cells within the same jail complex. The Tihar Prison comprises central jails number one to nine, the Rohini complex houses central jail number 10 while the Mandoli prison complex houses central jails number 11 to 16. The 120-bed hospital in Tihar and the 48-bed facility in Mandoli have been converted into Covid Health Centres with the round-the-clock presence of doctors, 50 oxygen concentrators and over 100 cylinders and essential medicines to treat patients. "However, if the condition of any Covid-positive inmate turns serious, then he or she would be immediately shifted to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital or Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital," a senior jail official said. The newly installed oxygen plant will be functional mostly within four days, the official said. The jail administration said they have formed four committees for the inmate and staff who test Covid positive. Each of these panels has been divided into four jurisdictions with each comprising four members, including jail staff and officers, tasked with looking after them if they need further help and guidance. Sandeep Goel, Director (Delhi Prisons) said, "We are fully prepared to deal with the Covid situation. In the first and second waves also, we had taken various stringent measures and that was the reason we could keep the infection rate less and casualties to the minimum. We will also tackle the ongoing pandemic confidently." "We make a separate barracks for old inmates where we keep few young prisoners along with them. Temperature and oxygen level of these inmates are checked daily and if someone shows any Covid symptom, they are isolated immediately," Goel said. All the new inmates will have to undergo quarantine for 10 days and mandatorily undergo the rapid-antigen test, the officer said. Social distancing among staff and inmates is followed to the extent possible. Inmates are mostly restricted to within their wards and an educational and awareness programme about following Covid norms are carried out regularly, officials said. The total number of prisoners in all the three jails of Delhi Prisons as of January 7 was 18,528. Tihar has a maximum of 12,669 inmates, Mandoli 4,018 and Rohini 1,841. As of January 8, a total of 34 inmates are Covid positive. Of them, 19 are from Tihar and 15 from Mandoli. Of the 40 staff members infected, 25 are from Tihar, 11 from Rohini and four from Mandoli. In 2020, a total of 120 inmates of Delhi Prisons tested positive for the Covid, out of which two died. All the 293 Covid positive employees recovered. Last year, 383 inmates tested positive and eight of them died. Among the 225 staff infected, all of them recovered. The inoculation status of inmates of Delhi Prisons as of December 31 was, 22,620 have been administered the vaccine of which 15,452 got the first dose and 7,168 got the second shot. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dispensaries-in-delhi-jails-turned-covid-care-centres-oxygen-plant-in-tihar-to-start-working-soon-1069550.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||UP Elections: Will Priyanka's 'women card' fetch votes?||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra may have succeeded in creating ripples in the political circles in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the assembly elections in the state through her women outreach events and promises of sops for women but the question still remains whether it will fetch enough votes for the Congress to make its presence felt in the electoral arena in the state.  While the UP Congress leaders exude confidence that Priyanka's efforts to woo the women voters will enable the party to reap electoral dividends, the rivals feel that it won't bring votes into the kitty of the Congress.  Political analysts, however, prefer to take a more cautious line and say that Congress' vote share may register an increase in the forthcoming polls but they are not sure if it will help the party get more seats.  Congress had secured a little over six percent votes in the 2017 assembly elections and managed to win seven seats. In fact, it was its worst performance and the party saw its vote share down by more than 5 per cent in comparison to 2012 assembly polls. The party got the lowest number of seats in 2017. In 2012, it had won 28 seats. Priyanka had held a series of events to reach out to the women in the run up to the polls and also addressed a few rallies in the BJP bastions of Varanasi, Gorakhpur and other places. She also visited the families of the deceased farmers after four farmers were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence and even spent a night in police custody while on the way there. The 'women's marathons' organised by her party in different parts of the state also drew large crowds of girls and women and even her detractors were surprised by the impressive turnout. In fact, the women's marathon at Bareilly witnessed a stampede-like situation as a large number of women turned up to take part in the event. ''The huge turnouts at the women's marathons clearly prove that Priyankaji's efforts will bear fruit....we will definitely do much better in the forthcoming polls,'' says Supriya Aron, a senior Congress leader and former Mayor of Bareilly.  The rival parties, however, feel that Congress will remain a fringe player in the state. ''Congress does not even have candidates for all the 403 assembly seats....Priyanka is not more than a tourist....No one takes Congress seriously in UP,'' said a senior state BJP leader while speaking to DH. Samajwadi Party leaders also feel the same way. ''Congress' tally will remain the same....in one digit....the party does not have organisation at the grass-root level,'' said an SP leader. The views of the common women, however, may offer some hope to Priyanka. ''Priyanka has made several promises for us.....women will be benefited greatly if she fulfills her promises....I think she may get more support among the women voters this time,'' says Mamta Tewari, a house maker, and a resident of Triveni Nagar locality of Lucknow. Ranjana Devi, a teacher and resident of Janaki Puram area in the state capital, also echoes similar sentiments.    Priyanka has promised a 40 per cent reservation for the women in government jobs if her party comes to power in UP, deployment of a woman constable at every police station in the state besides setting up a 'Mahila Chaupal' in every village. She has also promised that women will be given preference while providing jobs under the MNREGS.  Priyanka had earlier promised to increase the wages of the Anganwadi and Asha workers to Rs 10,000 and 3 free gas cylinders in a year besides setting up 75 skill schools across the state in the names of women icons of the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-elections-will-priyankas-women-card-fetch-votes-1069551.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||SP has to save ground in UP polls, BSP has to save its honour: BJP leader Sudhanshu Trivedi||BJP national spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi on Sunday hit out at rival political parties claiming that the Samajwadi Party (SP) has to save ground in Uttar Pradesh and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has to save its honour in the upcoming state assembly elections. He was speaking to reporters at the party office here. "The SP has to save its ground, while the BSP has save to its honour. The Congress is in the electoral arena to make its presence felt and parties like that of (Asaduddin) Owaisi are in the fray only to set fire," Trivedi said. "I want to thank opposition parties as they have admitted that they are not capable of taking on the BJP digitally. They used to allege that the BJP is a fundamentalist party but, now, it is clear from their words that the BJP is an advanced party, and one which makes progress," he said. Trivedi also referred to a picture, which was posted on social media by the BJP, featuring SP chief Akhilesh Yadav along with a Kanpur perfume trader, who was recently raided by the Income Tax Department, during a tour of France. "When action was initiated against those involved in corruption, it came to light that Akhilesh ji was taking benefits of such people... His perfume could be smelled from 'saat samundar' (abroad). The photo was tweeted on May 24, 2015. Akhilesh Yadav should know that just by deleting a tweet, the antics do not get deleted," he claimed. Yadav, on Saturday, took strong objection to the BJP posting the picture on social media with the claim that the perfume trader was with Yadav during a tour of France. Yadav said the legal cell of his party will lodge an FIR against the BJP IT cell in-charge for spreading "false propaganda". "They have shared my picture of France saying that the ittar (perfume) trader arrested in Kanpur is standing along with me. The legal cell of the SP will definitely lodge an FIR against him," he said showing the picture in a press conference. "The in-charge of the BJP IT cell is spreading lies for money by taking support from Government of India and the Uttar Pradesh government. I will ask my digital team to also use his picture and tell the people that he is the biggest liar," Yadav alleged. In a joint raid by Income Tax and the GST Intelligence wing, Rs 177 crore cash and a large quantity of gold and silver were recovered from the home of perfume trader Piyush Jain in Kanpur and also from his house and factory in Kannauj. The trader was subsequently arrested. The saffron party had alleged that Jain has links with the SP. Yadav, however, vehemently denied it. Trivedi also referred to 'karsevaks' being fired upon by the SP government in Ayodhya, and said, "I want to tell Akhilesh Yadav that no one in the country and the state can forget this dastardly act done by these people." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-has-to-save-ground-in-up-polls-bsp-has-to-save-its-honour-bjp-leader-sudhanshu-trivedi-1069553.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Unemployment, sacrilege cases, drug menace key issues in Punjab polls||Unemployment, delivery of justice in desecration cases, illegal sand mining and drug menace are likely to be key issues in the Punjab Assembly elections. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has emerged as a major contender and several farmers bodies too have thrown their hat in the ring as the strife-torn ruling Congress is struggling to put up a united face. The Shiromani Akali Dal this time forged an alliance with the BSP after it parted ways with the BJP over farm laws. The BJP has stitched an alliance with the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt) and the Punjab Lok Congress, led by Amarinder Singh, who quit the Congress following his unceremonious exit as the chief minister last year. The state will vote on February 14 and the counting will take place on March 10. Opposition parties in Punjab have been slamming the state government over previous poll promises and repeatedly targeted it over unemployment. The Congress faced criticism for not regularising services of contractual and temporary employees in various departments. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had even threatened to stage a sit-in against Governor Banwarilal Purohit for withholding his assent to a bill for regularising services of 36,000 contractual employees. Delivery of justice in cases linked to the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and police firing at those protesting against it is another issue. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has been demanding justice in the cases and had launched a relentless tirade against former CM Amarinder Singh. Drug menace, illegal sand mining and rising state's debt are other key issues finding resonance in the elections. SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia was recently booked in a drug case. However, he is yet to be arrested, for which the state government has been criticised by AAP. With the entry of many players in Punjab's electoral landscape, a very thin margin can change the prospects of candidates this time. With no discernible wave in favour of any party, all political outfits are making claims of forming the next government in Punjab. AAP is expected to declare is CM face in coming days while the Congress is likely not to project anyone. The ruling Congress had made Amarinder Singh resign last year to ward off anti-incumbency and end the internal rift. It appointed Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM, the first chief minister belonging to the SC community. However, the internal strife in the party is still visible with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu often taking swipes at his own party government. It also did not go down well with some party leaders after Sidhu backed some ticket aspirants during rallies. Congress leaders, however, exude confidence that they will retain power. On the other hand, AAP leader Raghav Chadha claims, "There is a wave for change in the whole of Punjab. I am fully confident that on February 14, on Valentine's day, the whole Punjab will say in one voice, ‘I love you Kejriwal’, and people will give a chance to AAP to serve them". Similarly, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said, "People of the state are ready and eagerly looking forward to a strong, stable and development oriented SAD-BSP government, committed to peace and communal harmony." Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said, "We are all set for the Big Day that will decide the future of Punjab." The Shiromani Akali Dal, which ended its 24-year-old ties with the BJP, is looking to revive its political fortunes. The SAD last year tied up with the Bahujan Samaj Party with a hope of influencing votes of the Scheduled Castes (SC) community. Punjab has nearly 32 per cent SC population. The Aam Aadmi Party, which is heavily banking on Arvind Kejriwal's Delhi model of governance, will be looking to form the government this time after facing drubbing in the 2017 Assembly polls. Kejriwal, who has been leading the party's poll campaign, has tried to woo voters by promising several "guarantees", including 300 units of free power and Rs 1,000 per month to every woman while laying emphasis on improving the condition of government schools and hospitals. The BJP, which used to contest on 23 seats, is hopeful of making its presence felt in the elections, especially after facing the wrath of the farming community over the three farm laws. It will be banking on its traditional urban vote bank in the state. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unemployment-sacrilege-cases-drug-menace-key-issues-in-punjab-polls-1069561.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi reports 17 Covid deaths, 22,751 new cases||Delhi logged 17 deaths due to Covid-19 and 22,751 infections in a day as the positivity rate soared to 23.53 per cent, according to the city health department's data released on Sunday. The number of new cases reported on Sunday was the highest since May 1 last year when the city recorded 25,219 cases with a positivity rate of 31.61 per cent. A total of 1,618 Covid patients are in hospitals. Of them, 44 are on ventilator support, government data showed. The city currently has 60,733 active cases of which 35,714 are in home isolation. A total of 96,678 tests, including 79,954 RT-PCR ones, were conducted the previous day.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-17-covid-deaths-22751-new-cases-1069569.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Amarinder’s Punjab Lok Congress appoints 5 VPs, 17 general secretaries||Former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday appointed five vice presidents and 17 general secretaries for his newly launched political outfit Punjab Lok Congress. General secretary in-charge (Organisation) Kamal Sain said the order for new appointments at the party posts were issued on Sunday. The five vice-presidents are Amrik Singh Aliwal, Prem Mittal, Farzana Alam, Harjinder Singh Thekedar and Sanjay Inder Singh Bunny Chahal. The general secretaries include Rajwinder Kaur Bhagike, Rajinder Singh Raja, Pushpinder Singh Bhandari and Sarita Sharma. Rohit Kumar Sharma has been appointed Mohali’s district president and advocate Sandeep Gorsi has been appointed as the chairman of PLC’s Legal Cell, he said. Notably, the BJP has stitched an alliance with the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt) and the Punjab Lok Congress, led by Amarinder Singh, who quit the Congress following his unceremonious exit as the chief minister last year. The state will vote on February 14 and the counting will take place on March 10. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-s-punjab-lok-congress-appoints-5-vps-17-general-secretaries-1069589.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||95 out of 403 UP assembly segments sensitive, says Additional DGP (Law & Order)||As many as 95 out of 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh have been marked as “sensitive”, state’s Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said on Sunday. Speaking to reporters here, Kumar said in the seven-phase assembly elections in the state, as many as 92,821 polling centres comprising 1,74,351 polling booths have been set up. Compared to the 2017 UP assembly polls, the number of polling centres has increased by over 2 per cent and that of polling booths by 18.45 per cent. He said all polling centres have been physically verified by police. Asked what makes an assembly segment “sensitive”, Kumar said there are many parameters on the basis of which an assembly segment is declared sensitive. Kumar, however, did not elaborate on the parameters. Another official said the parameters for declaring an assembly constituency "sensitive" in general include factors like “highly-pronounced rivalry between political parties or pronounced presence of criminals, communal and caste tension or Left-wing extremism, among others". Kumar said a separate register has been opened up in all police stations of the state to register all poll-related information. On curbing the misuse of illicit liquor during the elections, he said the Excise Department and police have set up 31 posts on the international and inter-state borders, where excise officials along with the police force will be deployed. He also said to keep an eye on the criminals lodged in jails, as many as 2,676 CCTV cameras and 71 static jammers have been installed in various prisons of the state. The officer said 275 criminals in various districts and 869 lodged in jails have been identified, who can indirectly impact the poll process, while staying in jails, and added that strict vigil is being maintained on them. The ADG (Law and Order) said seven districts of Uttar Pradesh -- Pilibhit, Maharajganj, Siddharathnagar, Bahraich, Balrampur, Shravasti and Lakhimpur Kheri -- border eight districts of Nepal and 14 of the assembly constituencies in these seven districts border Nepal. Apart from this, there are 74 assembly constituencies in 30 districts of UP, which share their borders with nine states. He added that barriers have been put up at 107 international and 469 inter-state borders. Police have been deployed there, CCTVs have also been installed and checking will be done, he said. Kumar also said that the Covid-19 protocol will be strictly adhered to.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/95-out-of-403-up-assembly-segments-sensitive-says-additional-dgp-law-order-1069592.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||AAP announces five more candidates for Punjab assembly elections||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday announced its ninth list of candidates for the Punjab assembly elections next month. With this, the party has declared its candidates for 109 of the 117 assembly seats, a party statement said. The state will vote on February 14 and the counting will take place on March 10. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is eyeing to wrest power from the ruling Congress in the northern state. According to the statement, Dinesh Dhall will be the AAP candidate from Jalandhar North, Jagtar Singh from Samrala, Hardeep Singh Mundian from Sahnewal, Amandeep Kaur Arora from Moga and Amit Rattan Kotfatta from Bathinda Rural. Meanwhile, in a separate statement, AAP Punjab unit president and Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann claimed his party will form the next government in the state. He urged the people to beware of those who do “politics of hatred" and asked them to use their right to vote "without any fear or influence". "We guarantee you that the Aam Aadmi Party already has a roadmap ready for the development of Punjab. Every section is part of this roadmap and from time to time, we have been informing people about it. "When AAP comes to power, the looting of government coffers will be stopped, Punjab's exchequer will be replenished and its money will be used for the welfare of people and Punjab," Mann said. He added that if AAP comes to power, no school of Punjab will be without teachers and no patient will die due to lack of doctors, quality treatment and medicine. Criticising the Congress-led government in Punjab for their policy of “misleading people through announcements", the AAP leader said, “The people of Punjab are grateful to the Election Commission as the model code of conduct has come into force from Saturday. They won't have to deal with new announcements, lies and propaganda billboards anymore.” Mann hoped that the assembly elections would be conducted with full transparency and campaigning would be based on issues. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-announces-five-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-elections-1069598.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi govt directs private hospitals, nursing homes to ensure staff follow Covid-19 protocol||The Delhi health department has directed all private hospitals and nursing homes to ensure that their health care staff treating non-Covid patients maintain coronavirus appropriate behaviour and are routinely checked for the infection. The health care workers showing symptoms of Covid-19 should not be allowed to work till their RTPCR report is negative, it said. The directions come in view of a surge in Covid cases in ICUs, dialysis units and wards of hospitals. The department said infected health care workers and undiagnosed infected patients are likely the reason behind the spread of the infection in these areas. “Therefore, the authorities of all private hospitals and nursing homes are to ensure that the health care workers treating non-Covid patients, especially in ICUs, maintain Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and are routinely checked for SARS-CoV-2,” read an advisory issued by the health department. It may also be ensured that health care workers have received Covid-19 vaccination as per the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, the department said. It has also asked the private hospitals and nursing homes to create an isolation area within intensive care units (ICUs) and wards to manage new patients till their RTPCR report is available. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-directs-private-hospitals-nursing-homes-to-ensure-staff-follow-covid-19-protocol-1069601.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Man held from J&K after charas was seized in Mumbai in October||A man was arrested by Mumbai Crime Branch from Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir in connection with the seizure of 24 kilograms of high-quality charas worth Rs 14.4 crore in October last year, an official said on Sunday. Gulzar Ahmed Khan (40) was held on Saturday after a probe found that he was the prime supplier in this case, he said, adding that the accused was also once arrested by the Worli unit of the Anti Narcotics Cell. Four members of a family, identified as Bandu Udanshive (52), his wife Clera, daughter Cynthia (23) and son-in-law Jasar Jahangir Shaikh (24), were arrested in October after charas was found in their car in Dahisar. A probe had found the family was sourcing the contraband from J&K, police said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-from-jk-after-charas-was-seized-in-mumbai-in-october-1069605.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||BJP minority cell offers prayer at Muslim shrine in Uttarakhand praying for Modi's long life||The BJP's minority front on Sunday offered a 'chadar' in Piran Kaliyar Sharif praying for the long life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi following the recent "lapses" in his security in Punjab. Piran Kaliyar Sharif is the dargah of 13th-century Sufi saint of Chishti Order, Alauddin Ali Ahmed Sabir Kalyari. Pradesh BJP spokesman Shadab Shams, who went to the shrine to offer the 'chadar', said it was offered by the party's Alpasankhyak Morcha on behalf of Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami praying for the prime minister's long life and safety. "Detention of the prime minister's cavalcade on a flyover close to Pakistan border for around 20 minutes was a terrorist conspiracy. He is the flagbearer of the aspirations of 125 crore Indians and endangering his life like this in his own country is something absolutely unacceptable," Shams said. The incident occasioned the offering at Piran Kaliyar, the BJP leader told PTI. "We also prayed for a second term in office for the BJP and will revisit Piran Kaliyar along with Pushkar Singh Dhami again once the party is re-elected to power in Uttarakhand after the state assembly polls," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-minority-cell-offers-prayer-at-muslim-shrine-in-uttarakhand-praying-for-modis-long-life-1069608.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Over 5k people fined in Delhi for not wearing masks||Amid an uptick in coronavirus cases, the Delhi government has taken action against 5,073 people for not wearing masks in public or work places. to p Covid-appropriate behaviour. According to official data, 61 FIRs were registered on Saturday against those not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and a fine of Rs.1.25 crores was collected from the violators. The data stated that 5,073 people were challaned for violation of masks, 74 for not maintaining social distancing and 51 people were fined for spitting in public places in its 11 districts. Enforcement teams of Revenue Department have formed flying squads to take action against big gatherings, and violations of social-distancing norms at restaurants, hotels, markets and other such places. Lt Governor Anil Baijal directed the police commissioner and divisional commissioner (revenue) to strictly ensure compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour in line with the latest guidelines of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), officials had said. The intervention came in the wake of reports on overcrowding at the city's marketplaces. Police officers and field functionaries have been directed to immediately ensure strict enforcement of the DDMA order, they had said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-5k-people-fined-in-delhi-for-not-wearing-masks-1069617.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Museum of PMs all set for Republic Day opening||After several missed deadlines, the Museum of all PMs at the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library is finally set for a Republic Day release, that is, if Covid-19 restrictions ease in time.  The construction of the controversial Museum, which invited the ire of the Congress party for diluting the legacy of Pt Jawaharlal Nehru, India’s first prime minister, was scheduled to finish by March 2020.  However, since then, there have been several missed deadlines. The Covid-19 pandemic and a spate of torrential rains in 2021 halted construction at the site, said those involved in the process.  A member of the executive council, on condition of anonymity, said that while preparations for the inauguration are ongoing, there is a diktat to be tightlipped on the matter.     Another member, not wishing to be named, said that meetings have been held regularly.  Some of the highlights, an official told DH, was a kinetic roof of lights at the entrance which forms a pattern of a waving Tricolour.  There will be projection mapping and the highlight of the Museum is multiple interactive digital installations which will showcase the history of the 15 prime ministers of India. “This includes the landmarks of their time in office and their personal history,” the official said.  An area of 20,000 sq ft has been developed with advanced technology, the official said, which has not been seen before in India. The Museum is built at a cost of Rs 271 crore.  A souvenir shop will also be part of the Museum and bids for it were floated in November 2021. Technology from all over the world has been brought in to build the Museum, and vendors, artists, designers were part of a committee headed by IIT Bombay that saw through the entire project.  Other design ideas include a replica of a control room from the second Pokhran test, an LED curtain of one of the PMs, and a console from where visitors can take handwritten notes from their favourite prime minister. It is not certain which of these three ideas made it to the final product.  The NMML compound has the Teen Murti Bhavan, home to Nehru, as well as the NMML building. The Museum has come up in a new building in the compound, but officials said that they were wary of not building the new building bigger than the Teen Murti Bhawan, to avoid controversy.  The NMML had initially called for bids in March 2019, shortlisting 13 firms and later zeroing on seven. But as some of the design proposals were not up to the mark, another round of bids was initiated in August 2019. In September 2019, eight firms were selected, out of which six were shortlisted. The National Institute of Design was then roped in to help with the design. And the Indian Institute of Bombay was called in to help, too. After these rounds, a Gurgaon-based design firm Tagbin was given the job.  Tagbin has earlier experience of working on renovating spaces in protected monuments like the RedFort and Victoria Memorial. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/museum-of-pms-all-set-for-republic-day-opening-1069658.html
09-01-2022||North and Central||Sanyukt Samaj Morcha leader Rajewal rules out alliance with AAP||Sanyukt Samaj Morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Sunday ruled out the alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party for next month's Punjab Assembly polls and said they will declare their candidates within a week. Various Punjab farmer bodies who had taken part in the stir against the Centre’s now withdrawn farm law had launched their political front last month and announced to contest the Assembly polls. The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) leaders on Sunday held talks with farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who had launched the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party to contest the polls. Addressing the media here, Rajewal said the Morcha will not have a tie-up with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). He termed as "baseless" the suggestions that his political front wanted 60 seats while AAP offered only 10. Asked if they will tie-up with any other party, Rajewal said, "We will see when the time comes." The leader said the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha has formed three committees, scrutiny committee for shortlisting of candidates, parliamentary board and a manifesto committee. "We will come out with our first list of candidates in two-three days and within a week, all candidates will be announced," said Rajewal. Asked if only farmers will be the contestants, Rajewal said the candidates will be from every section of society, including the Scheduled Castes community and traders. Chaduni, who is the chief of the Haryana BKU (Chaduni), held a meeting with the SSM leaders and said he has decided not to announce candidates of his party. His outfit has halted the announcement of 10 candidate which it wanted to field, Chaduni told reporters here referring to his talks with the SSM. Asked if there were any talks with them on seat sharing, he said, "As things progress, we will let you know." Asked if he could merge his outfit with the SSM, Chaduni said it is premature to comment on this. Asked about the meeting with Chaduni, Rajewal said the SSM has formed a committee, which will go into what is their requirement and accordingly a decision will be taken. "How many tickets they want, how many we can give, this will be decided by the committee," said Rajewal. To a question on the PM’s security lapse in Ferozepur, Rajewal said farmers were not involved in it and demanded that security agencies should probe in this regard. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sanyukt-samaj-morcha-leader-rajewal-rules-out-alliance-with-aap-1069666.html
09-01-2022||Oasis||The world is but a stage of eternity||Lord Krishna in the Gita refers to our life as “dukhalayam ashashwatham”. What does it mean? The present world that we see and experience is transitory, as also a place of misery. The phrase is both a source of concern and relief. The former definitely applies to the persons who are rich, famous, surrounded by a lovely family and so on. Such people never wish for an end to their lives. But they must leave, as the body is prone to disease and old age gradually, and ultimately perishes. For people suffering from grief and those who find no meaning in their lives, the same phrase sounds welcoming as death will one day put a natural end to their sorrow, which they have to resiliently tolerate till then. How appalling in such situations if mortality was not assured! The body thus is a temporary house for the consciousness within, and it should be so treated, neither coveted nor uncared for, but revered as an instrument — a special purpose vehicle. What is this purpose? The Hindu scriptures reiterate that the body and mind should be used for the sole purpose of cleansing the soul that is trapped inside it. The soul is bound and conditioned by karma accumulated over several past births. It accordingly acquires different physical forms, and human life is considered priceless, as it is obtained after multiple births in lower strata or species. It is precious, as it has the capacity to speak, think and know the difference between right and wrong. Through such knowledge gained from the scriptures, and practice thereof, the human form has the power to give the soul a chance for its purification and sublime release. The present world that we see is illusory, just as any show on television. Each of us has a role to play and depart soon after. The only independence given to each one of us is the willpower to do good in the name of God, meditate on the Supreme being and strive to go back to the eternal world of the Supreme Godhead. If one misuses this freedom and opts for the gratification of one’s senses there is no escape from the cycle of repeated births and deaths in this material world of apparent happiness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-world-is-but-a-stage-of-eternity-1069585.html
09-01-2022||Opinion||Holy cow! It’s always been about politics, not religion||As America marks the anniversary of the January 6 attack on the Capitol by the supporters of former President Donald Trump, it is a good time to reflect on a similar attack on the Indian Parliament. No, not the one in 2001, but the one that took place in November 1966. Mobilised by the Jana Sangh, RSS, Hindu Mahasabha and other militant Hindu organisations, a rally to demand a national law banning cow slaughter turned violent at the urging of Swami Rameshwaranand, who egged on the mob to storm Parliament. Eight people were killed, hundreds injured and public property worth crores was damaged as thousands of rioters stormed the Parliament building. It is interesting to look back at this event in 2022 -- at a time when the BJP is in its second term, with a full majority in the Lok Sabha, having made no attempt to pass a national law banning cow slaughter. Part of this may be because such a law would relate to animal husbandry and thus can only be made by state legislatures, but when have constitutional imperatives and niceties stopped the Modi government from doing whatever it wants to do. While BJP-ruled states have imposed harsh bans on cow slaughter and beef consumption, it is also true that as the BJP seeks to expand its footprint across the country, it has been forced to acknowledge that such positions won’t help it outside the Hindi heartland. On the contrary, BJP candidates in places like Goa, Kerala and Meghalaya have promoted beef consumption in their respective states as part of election promises. Hypocrisy over cow slaughter is nothing new in Indian politics. One only has to read the Rani of Jhansi’s Australian lawyer John Lang’s Wanderings in India, in which he casts a keen but sympathetic eye over Indian society just prior to the 1857 revolt, and calls a spade a spade – or rather, the issue of the cow politics rather than religion, as his Bengali Brahmin friend Nobinkissen explained to him. Cow slaughter was an issue that came up repeatedly in the Constituent Assembly and there, too, the confusion and hypocrisy were evident. As far back as 1947 itself, there was a demand that a cow slaughter ban should be made a fundamental right, though eventually, even the right-wing members of the Congress accepted the ‘compromise’ that it would be a ‘directive principle of state policy’ -- not a legal mandate but a goal the government ought to work toward. While there is an occasional attempt to offer an economic justification for laws banning cow slaughter, it is evident that what motivated Hindu members of the Constituent Assembly such as Shibban Lal Saxena, Pandit Thakurdas, Seth Govind Das and others is religious feeling. This was called out by the Muslim members of the Constituent Assembly, notably, Zahir ul Hassan Lari and Syed Mohammed Sa’adulla. While they did not object to the presence of a clause relating to cow slaughter in the Constitution, they highlighted and refuted the tortured justifications, including economic, being offered to advance what was essentially a Hindu agenda. As Lari put it succinctly, “Let there not linger an idea in the mind of the Muslim public that they can do one thing, though in fact they are not expected to do that.” The most scathing response to Article 48 was from Frank Antony, in a speech delivered after the Constitution had been finalised: “What I resent in this Directive Principle is the insidious way in which this provision with regard to the banning of cow slaughter has been brought in. It was not there before. I cannot help saying that those fanatics and extremists who could not bring in this provision through the front door have succeeded in bringing it through the back door. Sir, I am not a beef-eater; I am not holding a brief for beef-eaters. I say, you may ban cow slaughter, but we should have done it honestly, without our tongues in our cheeks, without resorting to methods which may give rise to the accusation of subterfuge.” The hypocrisy that galled Antony and others was that the makers of the Constitution of India would claim it to be secular and protective of minority rights but still give leeway to the majority community to impose its values on them, whenever they felt like it. No religion is free of hypocrisy and no Constitution is without contradictions. Both truths are evident when we see Article 48 of the Constitution of India and its convoluted history. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/holy-cow-it-s-always-been-about-politics-not-religion-1069363.html
09-01-2022||Opinion||The ‘upper castes’ need a mindset conversion||“In our village, even the shadow of ‘keelu jaati’ (lower caste) people like us is not supposed to fall on the upper castes. When we see forward communities feeding street dogs around their houses but keeping us at bay, we wonder if we are worse than stray dogs.” These gut-wrenching words of an autorickshaw driver in Bengaluru reflect the reality of India where even to this day, Dalits are treated as sub-humans. On Christmas day, I happened to hire an autorickshaw that had sayings from the Bible painted all over it. The driver revealed that he was a Dalit who had converted to Christianity a few years ago. How did it happen? Deeply disturbed by the discrimination in his village, he had once followed a nun out of sheer curiosity to a nearby church where he met a priest who introduced him to the teachings of Jesus. After a few visits to the church, he was invited to a wedding, which proved to be the clincher. “Other women were wearing necklaces worth lakhs of rupees and I could not even afford ordinary bangles for my wife. Yet, we were treated with dignity. That was when I began thinking why should I not convert to a religion that treats all humans as one, while our own community looks down upon us as outcasts.” But how had life changed for him after conversion? “Well, I have not bought a house, car, or jewellery for my wife. But I am totally at peace with myself now, and above all, I have got back my dignity. I no longer feel that I am treated worse than a dog,” he said. The Karnataka government got a bill passed in the Assembly ostensibly aimed at stopping what it calls “forced conversions”, but it fails to appreciate why people convert in the first place. There could be a small number of people who have been converted by threats or coercion, though the government has no statistics to back this claim, while some others embrace other faiths after being influenced by their teachings and practices, but a large number of people convert because they are denied basic human dignity by their own communities or to escape the fate of the abjectly poor. The case of the autorickshaw driver is not an isolated one. Some time ago, BJP MP A Narayanaswamy, who belongs to the SC community, was denied entry to a village in Tumkur as he is an “untouchable”. In Koppal, a family was fined Rs 25,000 because their child accidentally entered a temple. In the Mysuru district, a youth was beaten up for “daring” to walk on a road adjacent to the local temple. In Chikkamagaluru district, a Dalit in police custody was made to drink the urine of another accused when he asked for water. Such heartless treatment of Dalits is common not just in Karnataka but across the country. Be it refusal of entry to temples or restaurants, being served water in coconut shells so that utensils are not “polluted”, denial of haircuts or access to common drinking water sources, social ostracisation, the daily life of a Dalit can be most humiliating even in this day and age. It is this that the government should address urgently, not bring a law to stop the Dalits and the poor from taking the only escape route available to them out of a life of indignity. The ‘upper castes’ must do some serious soul-searching and introspection. Religious conversion provoked by denial of basic rights and dignity will continue as long as we fail to treat our fellow human beings as equals. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-upper-castes-need-a-mindset-conversion-1069364.html
09-01-2022||Opinion||Money talks, but what does it really say?||There’s a Chinese proverb that claims “people who have nothing to lose are very rich.” How true is it though? A friend of mine recently posed the question: can a fruit vendor who earns 500-700 rupees a day in India be more successful and happier than any of the wealthiest people on the planet? Success is what you feel, not what society gives you as a tag, he suggested. The responses were diverse and thought-provoking. They extended across the spectrum, from agreement to the labelling of poverty as a sin. “Who’d want to live the life of a fruit vendor?” “At least, a middle-class person has basic amenities, a vendor may not even be able to afford medicines.” “Constant romanticising of poverty is the cruelest hobby that rich people indulge in.” “Poor aren’t content with their lot in life and that’s a good thing, they have the imagination to want better.” What was apparent from the responses is that society does indeed project its perceptions of success onto others. Yet, it’s relative. While a middle-class person may view someone of modest means as poor, and their life undesirable, a rich person may think the same about the middle-class. Does it mean a middle-class person can’t feel happy and successful, though? Likewise, why can’t a person of modest means feel the same? My part-time home help lives in a chawl but appears to be content. She’s cheerful, chatty, gives me advice about life, and tells me to “stop taking tension over things”. What’s more, she scoffs at the city’s sedentary apartment-dwellers and their “weaknesses”. As someone who rarely gets sick, it’s shocking to her that middle-class families are incurring, and struggling to pay, 10 lakh-rupee private hospital bills for Covid treatment. Her challenges are different. As is her concept of success. Researchers have investigated how wealth affects happiness. Not surprisingly, debt is often linked to depression and other health problems. However, the results found that the more money someone has, the more they’re likely to also suffer from these conditions. In particular, once income crosses a certain threshold, life satisfaction and well-being actually decrease. Why is this? More money fuels more wants, social connectedness is valued less, longer work hours are required to remain competitive, and the responsibilities of entrepreneurship add stress. Mumbai’s infamous Dharavi slum highlights many of these points. Tourists tend to shy away from visiting the slum due to their preconceived notions of poverty. They think it would be demeaning to the residents. But what if the people there aren’t ashamed of how they live, nor miserable? What if, instead, they’re dignified, proud of their achievements despite their hardships, and pleased that others are taking an interest in their lives? My guide, a Dharavi local, insisted that everyone should see how the slum functions. As he escorted me around, he introduced me to children joyfully playing cricket, groups of housewives chatting and laughing between tasks, and men diligently at work in thriving small-scale industries. There were schools and places of worship. A young girl aged about six or seven ran up to me. “I want to explore the world with you,” she announced in fluent English and giggled. It was obvious to me that the residents of Dharavi were busy making the most of what they had, instead of dwelling on what they didn’t have. The standard of living may be lower but I envied the strong sense of community and bonding in the slum. No one need be lonely or isolated there. Putting aside money and material wealth, that does make them richer. My guide’s parting words left a meaningful impression. “My dream is to own an Audi,” he said. “I don’t rely on that to make me happy, though. My boss told me I’ll only want something else after a while.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/money-talks-but-what-does-it-really-say-1069365.html
09-01-2022||Opinion||Too little, too slow, just for show||All countries want to ‘develop’, but in countries where many people are poor, the urgency for seeking progress needs to be much greater, and most political leaders understand that. Since Independence, we’ve seen many promises to transform the states and the nation, from several leaders. But the long list of initiatives, missions and schemes they have rolled out across many different areas of focus -- health, education, science and technology, manufacturing, and more -- has not lifted us into the middle rungs of the world’s nations, let alone the top tier. Some change is visible, of course. But that’s no more than what has happened in many other countries over decades. In fact, some nations have developed much faster than others, improving the lives of their citizens and creating a better space for themselves on the world stage. Meanwhile, our Human Development Indices are growing more slowly. This is partly concealed by a large population, which makes some outcomes look large -- e.g., India is the world’s fifth-largest economy -- but when we assess them in per-capita terms, the numbers tell a very different story. Why? The poor quality of politics is, of course, an important reason, but it’s still worth asking how this has contributed to a persistent development deficit. As I see it, this happened in three ways. We did -- and still do -- too little, and even that was done very slowly, and we usually completed the celebrations long before any strong outcomes were achieved! The problem of doing too little is evident at all scales. Bengaluru’s footpath-improvement programme is over a decade old now. It was motivated by two things -- one, that if footpaths were better, some trips that people made in their vehicles could instead be done on foot. And two, if we are spending lots of money on building footpaths, we should at least make sure that the money produces some value by building them right. But years later, there aren’t more than 20 streets on which a pedestrian can walk continuously and comfortably. During the same time, we have built another 500+ kilometres of ‘footpaths’ on which one cannot walk anywhere. The ‘too few’ and the ‘too slow’ are related, in fact. If we had set out to improve walkability on 1,500 streets instead of 15 streets, a very different approach to development would have emerged from it. We declared early that all of this is part of how a ‘smart city’ should look, completely forgetting that completeness is an important part of anything that is smart. Officials and political leaders insisted that after the first few ‘pilots’, we would get on to a much faster path. But that was always going to fail, because of how small the first imagination was. It has been suggested to every government since 2009 that they should take up a programme of pedestrian improvements over 2,000 km in the city, but they’ve been uniformly happy to manage one pedestrian street, another one they wish they hadn’t done, and a score of roads with better footpaths. Or, take the case of buses in the city. It is well-known among transport planners that we need to double the bus fleet, which means that there is a deficit of about 7,000-8,000. And even after buying that many, we’ll need to keep buying two buses a day -- yes, every day -- to replace old ones and keep up with population growth. Yet, we’ve not had a single year in the last two decades in which we came anywhere near this rate of additions. No wonder there are so many private vehicles; BMTC doesn’t adequately serve most areas outside the ring road, where more than half the region’s population now lives. When things go as slowly as they have, there are two options. One is to correct our course, and steer towards larger and quicker results. But that option was available in the beginning itself, and was not taken. The second course, which governments find much easier, is to celebrate the small gains and make them seem bigger than they actually are. Why work hard for progress when ‘announcements’ are so much easier? We can see this in other sectors, too, and at state and national scale. Half the homes in our metros don’t have piped water supply or sewerage, but at the pace of construction of this infrastructure in most cases, it will be at least two decades before they’re all reached. Half the children don’t graduate from school in most large states, but until very recently, we were proposing to build one ‘model’ school in each district. The national highways’ expansion programme dates back to Vajpayee’s government, but there are still stretches of Phase I that are not complete. 5G? A lot of places are still to get 4G. There’s a cycle of deflection hard-wired into such failure. When citizens, development activists and experts seek a significant improvement in something, they’re often told that it is already going on. If it’s pointed out that it is too slow, we’re told that after the pilot, the pace will pick up. If we point out that the pilot itself is now several years old, that is explained away by saying that one needs to give these things time. And when it’s pointed out that many others are doing things faster, you’ll be told that somehow, our nation, state or city is different. If being different means that we do too little, too slow, and just for show, that’s a kind of difference that we can do without. India is not South Korea, of course. But that’s the point. We should be asking why it is not, because if we don’t, then at some point on that journey, we’ll find ourselves along new lows repeatedly. “We are not Bangladesh” is coming up next. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/too-little-too-slow-just-for-show-1069366.html
09-01-2022||Opinion||The life of the poet, ‘the intolerable wrestle with words and meaning’||In the first line of his first published poem, T S Eliot begins with ‘Let us go then, you and I/when the evening is spread out against the sky’ setting out upon the life of the poet, and drawing his readers into his world. The period from 1919, when Eliot began the modernist literary revolution, till 1944 was ‘The Age of Eliot’. Over those 25 years, it was Eliot’s poetry that dominated the literary imagination. This is no longer the ‘The Age of Eliot’, yet he is a poet for our time, and every new generation of readers finds much in his work that addresses current preoccupations. As readers, the best place to start from, and indeed the only sure place, is wherever we happen to find ourselves; in ‘the present moment of the past,’ as Eliot put it. Reading Eliot should be of special interest to us because Eliot was deeply influenced by the Indian spiritual tradition; the Sanskrit ending of ‘The Waste Land’ to the ‘What Krishna meant’ section of the ‘Four Quartets’ show how much the Upanishads formed the philosophical basis for his poetic imagination. Thomas Stearns Eliot was born in St. Louis, Missouri, in 1888, received the Nobel Prize in 1948, and died in 1965. His poetry began with ‘The love song of J. Alfred Prufrock’ in 1915, now considered a modernist masterpiece; though at the time few saw that it heralded a paradigm shift in cultural expression. The poem makes for a fascinating recitation for its powerful imagery; Eliot should be read aloud and the most memorable lines ‘Do I dare/Disturb the universe?/In a minute there is time/for decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse/I have measured out my life with coffee spoons. This was followed by some of the best-known poems in the English language, including ‘The Waste Land’ (1922), ‘The Hollow Men’ (1925), and ‘Ash Wednesday’ (1930); with the ‘Four Quartets’ (1943), and ‘Little Gidding’ (1942), Eliot bringing to a culmination a life in poetry that he had begun some 30 years earlier. For a poet of his stature, Eliot published a relatively small body of work, but each of his poems is a classic; and his creative expression best described by Eliot himself writing to J H Woods, one of his former Harvard professors, “My reputation is built upon one small volume of verse, and is kept up by printing two or three more poems in a year. The only thing that matters is that these should be perfect in their kind.” Perfect, they doubtless are; and more than a man of letters, Eliot is literature himself. Interestingly, Eliot began his career training as a professional philosopher -- at Harvard, Sorbonne and Oxford -- rather than as poet; and his roots in philosophy deeply influenced his development as a poet and literary critic. So, Eliot pursues philosophical questions and insightfully attacks them in his poetry. At the level of society, the dynamism in Eliot’s philosophy is unmistakable with his poetry calling out to his readers that “tradition cannot mean standing still,” since time and history never standstill. At the level of the individual, Eliot’s poetry is a deep inward journey, often discomfiting; a genuine uncanniness and sense of semi-spiritual illumination hover over the ‘third who walks always beside you’ in ‘The Waste Land’. His later poem, ‘Little Gidding’, offers an unforgettable semi-esoteric encounter with a ‘compound ghost,’ part spiritual master, part deep self. His reading of the Upanishads -- he alludes to the Hymn of Creation from the Rg Veda in ‘The Waste Land’ -- his familiarity with the ways of illumination advanced by Patanjali in the Yoga Sutras and, doubtless, many experiences in his own life formed the basis for the vivid renditions of mystical moments in Eliot’s poetry. The moment in ‘The Waste Land’ where ‘I could not/Speak’ and ‘my eyes failed/Looking into the heart of light, the silence’ or the climax of ‘Little Gidding’ where ‘the fire and the rose are one’ are beautiful. Yet, his poetry suggests that the meaning of life eludes Eliot’s grasp, as it often does ours, ‘We had the experience but missed the meaning,’ Eliot would later say. Eliot’s life was lived for the poetry and in the poetry. Far from closing off the exploration of experience with affirmations of faith, his poetry proves to be unceasingly committed to ‘the intolerable wrestle/with words and meaning,’ and requires of the reader, critical participation in interpreting experience. Read T S Eliot’s Collected Poems 1909-1962, the best overview of Eliot’s poetry available; a body of work of great relevance in our time, not least in its sage exhortation that a wise not-knowing is the opposite of know-nothingness. This is the Eliot -- various, subtle, and rewarding -- that you will encounter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-life-of-the-poet-the-intolerable-wrestle-with-words-and-meaning-1069368.html
09-01-2022||Panorama||Age of e-waste: Some solutions to manage a toxic problem||Electronic waste (e-waste) is generated when electronic and electrical equipment and appliances are unfit to use or have crossed the expiry date. Fast replacement of electronic and electrical goods due to rapid technological advancements, increased production of newer products and compelling marketing strategies of brands result in shortening of the usable period of these goods, and end up in the accumulation of e-waste. Computers, laptops, servers, mainframes, monitors, compact discs, printers, scanners, fax machines, battery cells, mobile phones, televisions, medical apparatus, washing machines, refrigerators, air conditioners, gaming equipment, solar panels etc comprise common e-waste. Two-three decades ago, a family most likely bought a single unit of household appliances like television, refrigerator and computer, which were considered a luxury and had a life of at least 20 years or until the appliance was damaged beyond repair. However, in recent times, due to rapid increase in the purchasing power, technology dependence, extremely effective advertising and availability of innumerable options, more and more Electronic and Electrical Equipment (EEE) are termed ‘necessity’ goods (mobiles, laptops, household appliances and other accessory devices) that people buy in excess, often, just to catch up with the trend. Along with the public, a major contributor to e-waste generation is the booming Information Technology and Information Technology Enabled Services (IT & ITES) companies. E-waste typically consists of metals, plastics, cathode ray tubes (CRTs), printed circuit boards, cables and so on. They contain significant quantities of precious and rare earth metal and metal alloys that are also toxic such as zinc, gold, silver, liquid crystals (polymeric organic compounds), lithium, mercury, nickel, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), selenium, arsenic, barium, brominated flame retardants, cadmium, chrome, cobalt, copper and lead. The crude dismantling and processing of e-waste with rudimentary techniques without proper personal protective equipment (PPE) and containment infrastructure pose an immense risk to humans, animals and the environment, even in very minute quantities.  The global average recovery of these precious metals is only 10-15% due to the non-availability of viable recovery technologies, resulting in huge loss of valuable metals and environmental accumulation, causing pollution. This gap needs to be addressed by researching and developing technologies in collaboration with stakeholders and regulatory agencies. India is the third-largest producer of e-waste after the US and China, generating 3.2 million tonnes in 2019 and importing huge quantities from other countries. Of this, less than 2% of e-waste is formally collected and recycled, while the majority of it is dumped in open dumpsites leading to groundwater contamination, poor health, environmental toxicity, ecological accumulation of heavy metals etc. E-waste recycling is dominated by the informal sector that often involves people living in slums. Although this sector is well networked, it is unregulated and all the valuable materials that could potentially be recovered is often disposed of. E-waste recyclers use processes such as open incineration, acid-leaching etc. Also, informal channels of recycling/reuse of electronics such as repair shops, used product dealers, e-commerce portal vendors collect a significant proportion of discarded electronics for reuse and cannibalisation of components. With minimal efforts from stakeholders, authoritative organisations and producers, such informal e-waste collecting and recycling sectors could be channelised systematically, resulting in the overall development of informal e-waste collectors/recyclers besides drastically reducing the burden of e-waste build-up. It is necessary to establish an appropriate digital tracking and monitoring system on a national level to track the complete life cycle of EEE, including beginning, middle and end of life (BOL, MOL and EOL). E-waste collection Currently in Karnataka, 86 dismantler, recycler and refurbishing centres are operating. During 2020-21, nearly 60,000 metric tonnes of information technology and telecommunication equipment and 40,250 metric tonnes of consumer electrical and electronic waste were collected. A total of 26,800 metric tonnes of materials such as iron, plastic, non-ferrous metals, cables, aluminium, copper, brass, rubber, glass, CFL etc was recovered from recycling of e-waste at the authorised e-waste collection centres. However, more efforts are required to monitor the channelising of e-waste to these collection centres and for proper segregation of such waste to enhance the recovery of precious metals and other materials. Although e-waste rules were introduced in 2011 and re-notified in 2016 along with the introduction of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) targets, the share of formal e-waste management sector is only 10-15% of e-waste recycling and management, while the informal sector dominates the scene with an 85-90% share. The EPR Plan during 2017-18 of e-waste rules indicates that the phase-wise collection targets for e-waste in weight shall be 10% of the waste generation (quantity), with a 10% increase every year until 2023. After 2023, the target will be 70% of the quantity of waste generated as indicated in the EPR Plan. Due to the absence of digital mechanisms to monitor the compliance of EPR targets by EEE producers, the e-waste management sector is falling behind greatly compared to the production, causing a serious e-waste management deficit. This deficit needs to be addressed on priority through the introduction of an efficient tracking, monitoring and enforcement system to bring the informal sector on par with the formal sector. Such an effort will smoothen effective management of e-waste along with providing a decent livelihood for the poor involved in the informal e-waste management as well as channel resource recovery and reuse of precious metals, further reducing environmental damage and dependence on mining. (The writer is Member Secretary, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board) Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/age-of-e-waste-some-solutions-to-manage-a-toxic-problem-1069583.html
09-01-2022||Second Edit||Put an end to this, once and for all||The move to regularise building deviations from the sanctioned plan to the extent of 15% from the existing 5% is certain to spell doom for the already crumbling Bengaluru which is on the verge of collapse after years of unplanned growth. The proposal from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is said to have received the approval of the Urban Development Department, is now awaiting formal orders. With this, the cash-strapped civic body hopes to significantly ramp up its revenue considering that almost all buildings have violated the sanctioned plan. But mopping up funds cannot be at the cost of the city’s future and the BBMP should not only learn to manage its finances better but should also improve tax collection, check corruption and plug all leakages. According to a survey by BBMP, 85% of new buildings constructed between January 2020 and June 2021 had violated building bylaws. In the south and west, the deviation from sanctioned plans was found in 100% of new constructions. What is worse is that many buildings have come up without even going through the formality of getting the plan sanctioned. While violations are common in small dwelling units, experts have also pointed out that some of the bylaws themselves are impractical and need to be amended. The original purpose of regularising minor deviations was to help small homeowners, but a blanket increase in the threshold limit to 15% across all buildings irrespective of the size, will lead to complete chaos and will in a way incentivise the real estate lobby to violate bylaws with impunity and get away with it, instead of dissuading them. This could also set a precedent for the future with builders demanding to regularise the violations as a matter of right. Building bylaws and plans have already lost sanctity as builders are well aware that violations to any extent will either be ignored by pliable BBMP officers or condoned by the government through schemes like Akrama Sakrama. The government should put an end to this once and for all by demolishing buildings where the violation exceeds 5%. Only such harsh measures will serve as a deterrent. But the bigger problem is that of corrupt BBMP officers who fail to raise the red flag at the construction stage itself and turn the other way round. No major building violation can take place without the connivance of local officers. The government should hunt down such officers including those who have retired and prosecute them under criminal laws. But this is easier said than done as these officers have the blessings of top politicians. And the question remains, who will bell the cat? Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/put-an-end-to-this-once-and-for-all-1069580.html
09-01-2022||South||Schools to remain closed from Jan 10 in Puducherry over Covid||All schools conducting offline classes for students from grade 1 to 9 will remain shut from Monday in the Union Territory due to unabated rise in number of Covid 19 cases. Home and Education Minister A Namassivayam said in a release that online classes would resume for students of Classes 1 to 9 as holiday has been declared for these classes from tomorrow until further orders. Director of School Education P T Rudra Goud said all schools including the privately managed and government aided institutions would remain closed in view of 'surge in number of daily cases,' until further orders. A spokesperson of the Department of Health had told PTI that the department had recommended to the government to declare holiday for the schools conducting classes for students of grade 1 to 9 in view of virtually alarming trend of occurrence of fresh cases. The government reopened schools for classes 1 to 9 on December 4 with the pandemic situation showing signs of abatement. But since last few days the new cases is on the increase and it touched 444 cases during last 24 hours ending 10 a.m. Sunday. The government has already dispensed with physical conduct of the 25th National Youth Festival and has announced that it would be inaugurated on January 12 by Prime Minister through virtual mode from Delhi on January 12.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-to-remain-closed-from-jan-10-in-puducherry-over-covid-1069514.html
09-01-2022||South||Ensure Pongal gift hampers are distributed properly: CM to ministers||Amid complaints about the quality of products distributed, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin directed ministers, district collectors, MPs, and MLAs to ensure that the state government’s Pongal gift hampers are distributed to ration cardholders with “quality products.”  In a statement, the Chief Minister said his government decided to provide gift hampers worth Rs 1,297 crore to 2.15 crore ration cardholders in the state, despite the “difficult” financial situation on the occasion of Pongal, which will be celebrated from January 13 to January 16 this year.  “I inspected a few ration shops to see for myself how the gift hampers are being distributed. The gift hampers are quite popular among the people, and a few people are spreading false information on the scheme with an ulterior motive. So, we should ensure that people get quality products and that the hampers are distributed properly,” Stalin said in the statement.  He also directed ministers, MLAs, MPs, and district collectors to monitor the distribution of the Pongal gift hampers in their respective constituencies and districts and ensure that people get quality products for the festival.  The Chief Minister’s statement comes after complaints of “low quality” grocery products being part of the gift hamper which consists of rice, ghee, different varieties of dhal, and sugar cane.    Pongal, the harvest festival, will be celebrated on January 14 this year and the government decided to provide a gift hamper with 21 grocery items, including 100 gm of ghee produced by state-owned Aavin, to 2.15 crore ration cardholders.  The AIADMK government had in 2019 and 2021 added a cash gift along with the hampers distributed for Pongal. However, the DMK government decided to drop the cash part from the hamper.  The grocery items are packed inside a cloth bag that says ‘Tamizhar Thirunaal Vaazthukkal’ (Tamil festival greetings) and does not contain the name Pongal. Many scholars describe Pongal as the festival of Tamils.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ensure-pongal-gift-hampers-are-distributed-properly-cm-to-ministers-1069531.html
09-01-2022||South||Kerala police file fresh case against actor Dileep||A fresh case was registered against popular actor Dileep in connection with the abduction and sexual assault of an actress at Kochi in Kerala. The Kerala Police's Crime Branch registered the fresh case on charges of threatening and hatching a conspiracy to attack the investigation officers of the actress assault case. Recent revelations by filmmaker Balachandra Kumar and certain audio clips in this regard formed the basis of the case. Apart from Dileep, his brother, bother-in-law and three others were also arraigned in the case. In the audio conversations that came out it could be heard that a conspiracy was being hatched to attack the investigation officers in the case. The conversations were believed to have taken place in 2017. Dileep is the eighth accused in the actress assault case. A gang allegedly engaged by Dileep abducted and sexually assaulted the actress in February 2017 in Kochi. Dileep was arraigned as the eight accused in the case and was arrested in July 2017. He was in judicial remand for around three months. The trial in the case is progressing. Two special prosecutors in the case had resigned and the actress who suffered the assault had also raised concerns over the trail proceedings. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-file-fresh-case-against-actor-dileep-1069537.html
09-01-2022||South||CBI registers case against CPSC; NGO alleges ‘witch-hunt’||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against Madurai-based Centre for Promotion of Social Concerns (CPSC) and its unit People’s Watch for allegedly violating the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976.  A First Information Report (FIR) was registered by EOB, Chennai on January 6, 2022, based on a complaint filed by A K Sinha, Director (MU&I), Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi in 2014.  The complaint said during inspections conducted by the MHA officials on CPSC led by human rights activist Henri Tiphagne, it was found that after the suspension of FCRA registration, the organisation had withdrawn Rs 28 lakhs in July 2012 and the association withdrew Rs 1.69 crore cash from 2008 to 2012 which did not tally with the available vouchers.  The FIR also quotes the complaint to say People’s Watch, the programme unit of the CPSC was functioning as a separate entity and communicating directly with the Foreign Contribution grantee organisations and that most of the bills or receipts are in the name of People’s Watch and not in the name of CPSC.  The complaint also alleged that the association used foreign contributions for a purpose other than “for which it was received”.  “The allegations mentioned in the complaint prima facie discloses that CPSC represented by its Trustees and its Program Unit represented by its Executive Director and other unknown persons have committed offences punishable under section 120-B r/w,. 420 IPC, section 33,35 39, r/w 7, 8 and 13 of FCRA 2010,” the FIR said.  It also added that the Tamil Nadu government on February 2, 2020, conveyed its consent for investigation of the matter by the CBI.  However, Henri Tiphagne termed the filing of the FIR by CBI as a “witch-hunt”, saying the Delhi High Court had ordered the opening of the FCRA account of People’s Watch in 2014 following three successive suspensions each lasting 180 days.  “CPSC received funds in 2015 & 2016 till October. FCRA suspension orders issued by the MHA in 2017 (was) withdrawn. FCRA Account frozen now for more than 2,500 days. If this is not vindictiveness, what is it? We are willing to still cooperate because of our trust in the rule of law. But can anyone explain why an FIR u/s 120B & 420 IPC? What is the conspiracy? Cheating?” he wrote on Twitter.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-registers-case-against-cpsc-ngo-alleges-witch-hunt-1069542.html
09-01-2022||South||Covid third wave sweeps Chennai: Test Positivity Rate surges to 15%||From 3.3 per cent on January 1 to 15.5 percent on January 8, the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of Covid-19 patients in this metropolis has witnessed an exponential increase as the third wave of Coronavirus infections sweep the country.  The number of daily cases which stood at 1,470 on the first day of 2022 increased to 6,186 on Sunday, even as the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) continues to enhance the number of RT-PCR tests every day. While the TPR on January 1 was 3.3 per cent, it rose to 3.6 per cent on January 2, 4.3 per cent (Jan 3), 7.3 pe rcent (Jan 4), 9.6 per cent (Jan 5), 11.5 per cent (Jan 6), 14.2 per cent (Jan 7), and 15.5 per cent (Jan 8).   With the rapid increase in numbers, the beds in private facilities are fast filling up though the government hospitals in the city, which have been augmenting their infrastructure periodically since March 2020, still have a huge number of beds vacant. Of the total 13,702 beds available in Chennai, as many as 2,509 were occupied as of Sunday, of which 1,035 were supported with oxygen, and 182 were in the ICU. Doctors and sources in the Health Department told DH that majority of those in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) are unvaccinated persons with comorbidities.  Chennai was one of the worst-affected urban centres in the state in the first and second wave of Covid-19 infections, and with the third wave sweeping the city in no time, the GCC is literally burning the midnight oil to bring down the TPR.  The civic body has adopted test, track, and isolate strategy while it has also enhanced the number of testing centres within the city limits and identifying the unvaccinated and administering vaccines to them. The GCC has also launched a dedicated ambulance service to transport Covid-19 patients from their homes to hospitals.  "Cases in Chennai are doubling in less than two days. The spread of this variant is very fast and that is the reason why we have 5,000 cases in the city alone within a week or 10 days of the onset of the third wave. Omicron is the dominant variant in Chennai and elsewhere in Tamil Nadu. We need to be very careful,” a senior government official told DH. Dismissing the suggestions that Omicron wave is “mild”, doctors told DH that the only saving grace is that the infection is “mild” among those who had already been down with Covid-19 or double vaccinated. They warn that a “significant population” is still unvaccinated, and they could be highly vulnerable to the Omicron variant which is highly transmittable.  Public healthcare expert Dr K Kolandaswamy said the right way to interpret the magnitude of the wave is not through percentage but by looking at absolute numbers.  “Omicron transmission is quite high but there is an opinion that is being spread that the infection is mild. It is mild only among those who had earlier been infected with Covid-19 or those who are fully vaccinated. 10 per cent of the city’s population, which runs into lakhs, is still unvaccinated and they are at high risk. This wave is no less virulent,” Kolandaswamy told DH. Dr J Amalorpavanathan, a member of the State Planning Commission and the man behind TN’s robust organ donation system, said while the number of deaths may be less, the collateral damage that the third wave can bring to the healthcare system and several families cannot be underestimated.  “To my knowledge, majority of the Covid-19 patients now don’t require ventilator and the number of those who need oxygen support is also less (compared to the second wave). But if the number increases exponentially every day, it certainly burdens the health care system and those who man it. It might paralyze the medical fraternity and many families,” he told DH. He also pointed to the fact that a large number of people are still unvaccinated, and they may be susceptible to the Coronavirus. “While the virus is highly transmittable, the vaccines also do not provide complete immunity. And partly, we (the society) are also to be blamed because we have been careless,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-third-wave-sweeps-chennai-test-positivity-rate-surges-to-15-1069568.html
09-01-2022||South||In Tamil Nadu, girl dies after being branded by mother||In a horrific incident, a 10-year-old girl died on Sunday after she was allegedly punished by her mother for “taking money” from her relative’s house without their permission and spending it to buy snacks. The mother, according to a complaint, branded the child with a hot spoon on her lips and thighs, besides forcing her to inhale hot water mixed with chilli powder.  The incident took place in Veppanthattai village in the Perambalur district of Tamil Nadu on January 6. The girl developed fever and her condition deteriorated after which she was admitted to a hospital in Krishnapuram from where she was shifted to the Government Hospital in Tiruchirapalli. “The girl passed away on Sunday morning,” a police officer said, adding that they have registered a case under section 174 of CrPC (police to enquire and report on suicide, etc.) based on the complaint received from Veppanthattai Village Administrative Officer (VAO) Sathish Kumar.  In his complaint, the VAO said the girl was the eldest daughter of Raja and Manimegalai, both daily wage labourers. “On January 6, the girl is alleged to have taken Rs 70 from her uncle’s house. After the uncle complained about this to Manimegalai, she punished her daughter by branding her with a hot spoon. She also forced her to inhale hot water mixed with chilli powder,” the complaint said.  Police said their next course of action will come after the postmortem report of the girl is made available to them.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-tamil-nadu-girl-dies-after-being-branded-by-mother-1069607.html
09-01-2022||State||'Love Jihad' debate in Karnataka after girl with ISIS links arrested||The arrest of Deepthi Marla or Mariyum on charges of alleged links with ISIS by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) earlier this week in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada has sparked a debate on "love jihad" in the state. Hindu organisations have planned special campaigns and programmes in coastal Karnataka through retired police officers, religious leaders and advocates among others in educational institutions and other places to create awareness about Love Jihad. They claim that Love Jihad is a reality and every day they are getting calls from the parents of girls who have disappeared. They explain that groups are formed to prevent Hindu girls from falling prey to Love Jihad and students are trained to observe closely in academic institutions for suspicious movements on the campus. The leaders of the ruling BJP which has already got the Anti-Conversion Bill passed in the Assembly are openly stating that they would also bring legislation on 'love jihad'. However, state Congress President DK Shivakumar has rubbished it saying that all legislation brought by the BJP targeting minorities would be thrown into the dustbin after his party comes to power. Deepthi Marla, a Hindu girl from Kodagu who married Anas Abdul Rahman after falling in love with him while studying BDS, has converted to Islam and changed her name to Mariyum. Anas is the grandson of late Congress three-time MLA BM Idinabba. Later, she is alleged to have come in contact with the ISIS terrorist outfit. She is also alleged to have recruited local youths for ISIS. The incident has shocked the people of the state especially in the communally sensitive coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada. Hindutva forces who have been protesting against Love Jihad are claiming that Deepthi Marla's case is an example of Love Jihad and it shows how Hindu girls are trapped in love, married, converted to Islam and then used against the Hindu community and nation. Progressive thinkers dub it as a mere Hindutva agenda and allege that the National Investigation Agency has been getting instructions from Nagpur (RSS Headquarters) to carry out the Hindutva agenda and target the minorities. Senior Counsel S. Balan, explained to IANS: "Love Jihad is a phrase coined by right wing elements after instructions from Nagpur and that venom is spewed all over India including the security forces, police forces, NIA, everywhere. They have also coined it like another phrase 'Urban naxals.' It is a bogus word created by right wing elements." "Love Jihad per se is punishable under section 153 A of the IPC for creating a rift between two communities. It is per se an offence under section 295 of IPC. This is a language to question the integrity, sovereignty and security of the state. It challenges the basic structure of the constitution. How is Love Jihad defined? A woman and man can love, marry it is their right, who has got any right to declare that it is Love Jihad?" he questioned. "The NIA is a 'National Inhuman Agency', gets instructions from Nagpur. It is the most communal minded organization and they are bent upon implicating anyone. I am seeing certain cases also. It is a predictive policing algorithm. The moment something happens, the victim is predicted, the culprit is predicted, the ideology is predicted, the organization is predicted, the moment Love Jihad is mentioned, it is predicted that the offenders are Muslims. The victims are Hindus. Many religions preach violence. Even the Hindu religion, if you take the Mahabharata and the Ramayan, it is a war. Like that every religion is violent. Christianity is violent, Judaism is violent, Parsi religion is violent. How and why do you brand one person?" he asked. Pramod Muthalik, the Founder of Sri Ram Sena, explained to IANS that the term 'Love Jihad' was coined by him in 2009. "I have written my first book on the subject. In the period of 15 to 20 years as many as 3,000 Hindu girls who have gone away with Muslims have been traced and brought back. They were married back to Hindus. This is happening. Now, the issue is being discussed all over the country. Many states have brought legislation in this regard. The matter has also reached the Supreme Court." "Kerala is a big centre of Love Jihad. Before four years, 4,000 girls are targeted for Love Jihad, government documents say that among these 3,000 are Christian girls. Love Jihad is a reality. This is done to increase population and misuse Hindu girls and women. They get married and leave them after having children. They would be pushed into brothels and sold in Arab nations. They will also use them for terrorist activities," he claimed. "Our activists have struggled a lot to bring back victim Hindu girls. They have managed to bring out Hindu girls who were kept in Mosques. The activists have faced assaults and gone to jail. Till date, we get five to six phone calls every day from people about their daughter absconding. This is happening. We have formed squads in all the colleges and they keep a vigil," Muthalik stated. Afsar Kodlipet, State Secretary of the Social Democratic Party of India, said that the concept of Love Jihad is a castle built in the air and a conspiracy by the Sangh Parivar elements to target minorities. "In 2009, NIA came to Karnataka to investigate the alleged rape, murder of 37 women. It was alleged that Hindu women were used sexually and converted forcefully to another religion as part of Love Jihad. After a detailed investigation the NIA uncovered the role of Cyanide Mohan, a psycho serial killer, behind the death of 27 women. He targeted Dalit women and girls and after exploiting them, fearing exposure he killed them. Later, it came to light that there is no Love Jihad in all the cases," he said. "The issue was raised in Parliament in 2009-10. The then government at the Centre gave a written answer that there is not a single case of Love Jihad in the country. In Karnataka BJP MLC Ravikumar raised the issue in the Legislative Council when B.S. Yediyurappa was the Chief Minister. Then Social Welfare Minister Govind Karajol explained in the House that there is not a single case of forceful conversion in connection with Love Jihad allegations," he stated. T S Chandrashekar, international affairs analyst and BJP TV panellist, maintained that Love Jihad is a reality. "In Kerala, the fundamentalist elements will gather inputs on girls who are single daughters and rich. They think if they trap these girls, they would also get resources. Uneducated, poor girls are not targeted. Only, working, educated women are being trapped in love and later brainwashed." Sharan Pumpwell, Zonal Secretary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad in Dakshina Kannada, claimed that since 15 years the cases of Love Jihad are increasing. Every day such cases are reported in the coastal Karnataka region. Hindu girls are brainwashed and even become victims of sex jihad. In Kerala, they are targeting Catholic Christian girls. "We are launching a campaign on January 17. Seminars are being conducted in colleges and religious leaders, caste leaders, retired police officers, advocates are involved in the campaign to create awareness among people about Love Jihad," he stated. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/love-jihad-debate-in-karnataka-after-girl-with-isis-links-arrested-1069411.html
09-01-2022||State||Denied loans, man sets bank furniture on fire||Furniture and machines worth Rs 16 lakh were destroyed at the Canara Bank branch office at Hediggonda village in Byadagi taluk during the wee hours of Sunday after a man set them on fire. Waseem Akram Mulla (33), a resident of Rattihalli, was upset after the manager denied him loans. He carried petrol and rode his bike to the bank around 2 am. He broke open window panes of the branch office on the first floor of the gram panchayat building and gained entry inside. He poured petrol on the materials and lit fire, according to sources. Furniture, cash counter equipment, computer, printer, CCTV camera, scanner, fan, certain documents and currency note counting machine were gutted in the incident. A few alert residents caught him when he jumped down and tried to escape. They thrashed and handed him over to the police. On being alerted, the fire force personnel rushed and doused the fire. The Kaginele police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/denied-loans-man-sets-bank-furniture-on-fire-1069647.html
09-01-2022||State||CS to head Bengaluru Heritage and Environment Trust||Chief Secretary (CS) P Ravi Kumar is likely to replace Startup Karnataka Vision Group chairman Prashanth Prakash as Bengaluru Heritage and Environment Trust (BHET) head.  Seven senior IAS officers of different departments, including the Commerce and Industries Department, will be the ex-officio members of the trust. The entity will also have five private individuals as trustees, according to sources The administration preferred the CS for the top position as Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was reportedly not in favour of private individuals running the trust set up by the government. Registered in July 2021, the trust is mandated to convert 105-acre land owned by the New Government Electrical Factory (NGEF) into a public space on the lines of Cubbon Park and redevelop the Mysore Lamps factory at Malleshwaram. B S Yediyurappa had announced these proposals as part of Bengaluru Mission 2022 programme when he was the chief minister. With officials taking control over the trust, these proposals are likely to gain some momentum. The new body will conceptualise and implement the proposals. It will also monitor routine operations and maintenance once the proposals turn into areality. The trust is likely to receive initial investment from the state government. It also is expected to raise funds from private firms under corporate social responsibility (CRS) initiative, added thesources. The trustees are yet to be chosen as the government is yet to share details of the trust. Earlier, the Mysore Lamps factory was proposed to house a museum, recreational space and cultural hub. The NGEF land was to turn into a public space with a convention centre. The detailed project reports (DPR) of the proposals are almost complete, said the sources. S Raghu, MLA of C V Raman Nagar Assembly constituency, under whose limits the NGEF land falls, hoped that the proposals would soon take off. “Over 100-acre NGEF land should be redeveloped or conserved on the lines of Cubbon Park or Freedom Park. A large part of the lung space should be left by allowing access to the public. I am confident that the project will be taken up at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cs-to-head-bengaluru-heritage-and-environment-trust-1069649.html
09-01-2022||State||Free petrol for participants||Free petrol was arranged for those who participated in the padayatra, due to which a heavy rush was witnessed in petrol pumps along Kanakapura-Sangama road. Coupons for fuel worth Rs 300-500 was distributed at gram panchayat level ahead of the padayatra for participants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/free-petrol-for-participants-1069660.html
09-01-2022||State||Folk theatre artist Basavalingayya Hiremath passes away||Renowned folk artist and theatre personality Basavalingayya Hiremath (63) passed away at a private hospital in Bengaluru, in the early hours of Sunday. He is survived by wife Vishweshwari and a son. Basavalingayya was undergoing treatment at Manipal Hospital for some time. His body was kept at his Saptapur residence in Dharwad for public viewing on Sunday. The last rites of Hiremath will be held at his native Bailur village in Kittur taluk at 10 am onMonday. Basavalingayya had passion for folklore since his childhood. He had preserved over 500 songs by travelling extensively in north Karnataka. After graduating from Neelakanteshwara Natya Sangh (Neenaasam), he took folk theatre as his profession. Basavalingayya had made a name for himself with his performance in three-hour-long play Sri Krishna Parijata. It was enacted in Doddata folk theatre style. The play has seen over 1,000 performances Karnataka and beyond. In a bid to conserve the rich folk culture and tradition of the region, he had established the ‘Dharwad Janapada Samshidhana Samsthe’.  He also holds the credit of conserving Santa Shishunal Sharief songs and popularising them to the present generation. Basavalingayya was honoured with a Karnataka Rajyotsava award for his lifetime achievement in folk theatre||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/folk-theatre-artist-basavalingayya-hiremath-passes-away-1069663.html
09-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Interest bleeds as Karnataka CM preps for Budget||By the end of this fiscal, Karnataka would have spent a whopping Rs 27,160 crore on paying interest on loans alone, a 76% increase in three years. Such ballooning commitments are likely to make Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s maiden budget a tightrope walk. Bommai, the finance minister, is likely to present the 2022-23 Budget in March and preparations are on.  Since 2018-19, Karnataka has spent Rs 83,021 crore on interest, which is rising due to increased borrowings. At the end of March 2021, Karnataka’s outstanding loan was Rs 3.07 lakh crore.  Bommai is expected to make a push for welfare measures and beneficiary-oriented schemes. For instance, he wants to announce something for women, especially SC/STs, in the entrepreneurship space. He will also have to provide for infrastructure, especially Bengaluru for which the government has approved a Rs 6,000-crore package.  “Unless we borrow, we can’t spend. All our capital spending happens on borrowings only,” a senior official said.  “It will be a difficult budget,” the official said because Bommai wants to make an impact in the 2022-23 Budget and not depend on the 2023-24 Budget, by which time Karnataka will face elections. “There are so many demands. It will be a tightrope walk.”  The Covid-19 pandemic dented the state’s finances, forcing the government to borrow more.  In 2020-21, the government borrowed Rs 84,527.95 crore, which was Rs 31,610.44 more than what was shown in the budget. In the 2021-22 Budget, the government can borrow up to Rs 71,331.82 crore. “We will not exceed this. In fact, with the economy recovering, our borrowings may be lower this year,” the official quoted earlier said, adding that it is anybody’s guess how the third wave of Covid-19 will be. The finance department is trying to convince Bommai to consider consolidating the existing schemes before announcing new ones. “There’s already a plethora of schemes. A good budget is one that consolidates. We have not been able to do that,” the official said.  The previous BS Yediyurappa administration took a new approach by making sector-wise budget announcements, instead of the conventional department-wise. “That was just in the budget speech. On paper, it was still department-wise,” the official rued. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/interest-bleeds-as-karnataka-cm-preps-for-budget-1069356.html
09-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Record number of engineering seats remain vacant in Karnataka this year||Amid the growing clamour for technical education at the national level, Karnataka has seen a whopping 23,000 engineering seats remaining vacant during this academic year. The number of students eligible for admission to engineering is not only higher this year since the government decided to promote all students, but is likely to shoot up with the commencement of UG-NEET counselling as many medical aspirants would give up engineering seats and switch to medical education. The Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has conducted three rounds of counselling this year to fill up engineering seats. However, after the completion of two official rounds, the state government sought permission from the Supreme Court to extend the last date for engineering admissions and held a second extended round (third round) of counselling till December 31, 2021, to fill up the vacant seats. Despite best efforts by the state government, 23,001 engineering seats are still vacant. According to the data accessed by DH from the KEA, the number of engineering seats going vacant is the highest in the last five years. Officials in the Higher Education department revealed to DH that the number is expected to cross the 30,000 mark after the completion of UG-NEET counselling. “Around 30,000 students have registered for UG-NEET counselling of whom at least 25,000 have held on to engineering seats. If all these students get a medical, dental or any other course, those seats will again remain unfilled,” said an official. A total of 64,484 seats were made available this year of which 48,027 seats were chosen.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/record-number-of-engineering-seats-remain-vacant-in-karnataka-this-year-1069357.html
09-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress kicks off Mekedatu padayatra despite Covid-19 curbs||Defying Covid-19 guidelines, Karnataka Congress launched a massive padayatra demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project at Sangama, Ramanagara district Sunday.  Ahead of the padayatra, KPCC President DK Shivakumar offered prayers to the river and led a rally demanding the implementation of the drinking water project.  The padayatra with the slogan 'Namma Neeru, Namma Hakku' (our water, our right) will traverse a total distance of 154.5 km from January 9 to January 19, culminating at National College Ground at Basavanagudi. Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge inaugurated the padayatra with Opposition leader Siddaramaiah, religious heads and representatives of organisations such as Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce in attendance.  Shivakumar, speaking at the inaugural, accused the government of imposing prohibitory orders at the venue to prevent the padayatra. "There are 26 dams in the state. One was built by Mysuru Maharaja, five by British and 20 by Congress," he said.  For the implementation of the project, Congress was battling against BJP and JD(S), he said. "Prohibitory orders (for the campaign) was itself against the law," he said, adding that Congress was not afraid of the criticism. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra criticised Congress for organising the event despite Covid-19 curbs in the state. Ramanagara district administration will take action against Congress leaders for organising the event in violation of Covid guidelines, Jnanendra said. "The behaviour of Congress leaders is highly irresponsible," he said.  The first day of the yatra will cover a distance of 8.5 km from Sangama to Dodda Alahalli. It will reach Kanakapura on January 10. It will reach Kengeri on January 14, before travelling to different parts of the city till January 19. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-kicks-off-mekedatu-padayatra-despite-covid-19-curbs-1069435.html
09-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Dakshina Kannada, Udupi gears up to administer booster doses of vaccine from January 10||Dakshina Kannada and Udupi district administrations have geared up to administer booster doses for health, frontline workers and people above 60 years  from January 10. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that a total of 3,37,447 are eligible for the precautionary shots in the district. Out of the eligible group, 52,523 are health workers, 15,924 are frontline workers and 2,69,000 are those who are above 60 years old. Those health and frontline workers who have completed nine months since their second dose are eligible for the booster shots. Udupi DC Kurma Rao said that a total of 30,436 health workers, front line warriors are eligible for precautionary shots in the district. Those who have taken two doses of Covaxin will be administered with the third dose of Covaxin and those who took two doses of Covishield will be given third dose of Covishield. Special vaccination camps will be organised. Addressing the officials virtually, the Udupi DC instructed the health department officials to take all necessary steps for the success of inoculating booster doses. He said in the backdrop of increasing Covid-19 cases in the district, the health and frontline workers who have completed nine months since their second dose are eligible for the booster shots. Separate vaccination centres should be set up to help the police, urban and rural local bodies employees to get the shot. The senior officials in the various government departments should inform their subordinates to take the precaution dose, he said.  The village and ward level task force should hold meetings and formulate the rules and regulations to check the violations of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Random tests should be conducted in tourist spots. Violation of Covid-19 guidelines should not be ignored, said the DC. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dakshina-kannada-udupi-gears-up-to-administer-booster-doses-of-vaccine-from-january-10-1069481.html
09-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to administer precaution dose for frontline workers from January 10||Precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine for healthcare workers, frontline workers and persons aged above 60 with co-morbidities will be rolled out from January 10, with a target of vaccinating about 21 lakh beneficiaries in the state, the Karnataka Health Department said on Sunday. Healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) who have completed 9 months or 39 weeks from the date of second dose vaccination as registered on the Co-WIN portal are eligible for precaution dose vaccination. Similar is the criteria for the persons aged above 60 with co-morbidities, and no medical certificate is required for eligible beneficiaries to avail precaution dose. Precaution dose will be the same vaccine dose that was administered previously. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will launch this precaution dose vaccination on Monday at 10 am at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College and Research Centre here, while all districts have planned for launch by in-charge Ministers and taluk launch by MLAs, the Health department's release said. "Nine months/ 39 weeks completed 6 lakh healthcare workers, 7 lakh frontline workers and 8 lakh persons aged above 60 with Co-morbidities will be receiving precaution dose," it said. Beneficiaries who have received SPUTNIK as first and second dose are not eligible for precaution as of now, it added. Noting that with existing vaccine stock all districts have geared up with micro plan, logistics, staff etc, the department said that the central government will dispatch required doses to the state, and the vaccination will be conducted free of cost at all government Covid-19 vaccination centres. No new registration is required for precaution dose, it said, adding HCW and FLWs less than 60 years of age who have taken second doses from citizen category and not tagged on Co-WIN need to visit government Covid vaccination centres along with employment certificate in order to tag themselves in appropriate category before taking precaution dose after prescribed time interval. With a target of 4.89 crore beneficiaries in the age group above 18 years, the State started Covid-19 vaccination from January 16, 2021, in a phased manner, and has vaccinated 4.8 crore (99 per cent) beneficiaries with the first dose and 3.9 crore (81per cent) beneficiaries with second dose, so far. Vaccination for children in the age group 15-18 years has been rolled out in the state from January 3, 2022, and with the target of 31.75 lakh beneficiaries, and the state has vaccinated 15.5 lakh (49 per cent) beneficiaries with the first dose till now.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-administer-precaution-dose-for-frontline-workers-from-january-10-1069494.html
09-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress’s Mekedatu padayatra can complicate state’s relationship with Tamil Nadu: Shettar||Former chief minister Jagadish Shettar said inter-state water dispute issues are sensitive matters and they cannot be resolved through ‘street fight’. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, Shettar said the main intention of Mekedatu padayatra by Congress is not to resolve the water dispute but to gain political mileage for the next year assembly polls. He charged that Congress’ padayatra can further complicate the relationship of Karnataka with Tamil Nadu. “History is proof that in the last 70-years Congress has been unable to resolve even a single inter-state water dispute, be it Krishna, Mahadayi or Cauvery. It will be BJP government which will resolve the issue legally,” he said and added that Karnataka Congress leaders should win over the hearts of their counterparts and alliance partners in Tamil Nadu to give their approval for the Mekedatu project. “Congress has been taking this double-stand in inter-state water disputes. While Karnataka Congress wanted to implement the Mahadayi issue; however, they failed to convince Goa Congress leaders to agree to the same. Whereas BJP Goa leaders, including former chief minister late Manohar Parrikar had agreed for Mahadayi project,” he said. Shettar said Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah, as then chief minister could not even prepare a detailed project report of the Mekedatu project during his five-year tenure. However, today he is taking out padayatra to gain political mileage. “Mekedatu padayatra is just a political stunt and the Congress leaders are not serious about the issue. If they were really interested in resolving the matter, then party leaders would have raised the issue during the two assembly sessions that were held in Bengaluru and Belagavi. Instead, they have taken to the streets as both D K Shivakumar and Siddaramaih knew that had they raised the Mekedatu issue in assembly the state government would have exposed Congress leaders inaction during their tenure,” he said. Not opposed to padayatra He claimed that BJP is not opposed to any protest or padayatra. However, this was not the time for Congress to take out such a huge rally, given that the Central government has recognised Karnataka as one of the states with the highest positive rate for Covid. “For their political gains, the Congress leaders are putting common men’s lives at risk,” he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-s-mekedatu-padayatra-can-complicate-state-s-relationship-with-tamil-nadu-shettar-1069530.html
09-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah returns from Congress' Mekedatu padayatra due to fever||Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka assembly, Siddaramaiah, who took part in the Congress' padayatra in Ramanagara district on Sunday, demanding implementation of Mekedatu project across river Cauvery, has returned to the city post lunch, due to fever, party sources said. Videos of former Chief Minister speaking to Bengaluru Rural MP D K Suresh, former Minister R V Deshpande and other Congress leaders about him having fever and wanting to take rest for some time, and later leaving in his official car, have surfaced. Responding to a question regarding Siddaramaiah's fever, state Congress President D K Shivakumar said, "we should understand he is nearing 74-75 years of age, he has stents, we had asked him not to climb the upward route today, so naturally there he has strain." Though Congress sources have confirmed that Siddaramaiah has left for Bengaluru due to fever post lunch and is likely to return to padayatra once he is fine, there is no official word yet from his office about the nature of the fever. Pointing to Siddaramaiah keeping away from padayatra due to fever, the ruling BJP in a tweet criticized the Congress and questioned whether its padayatra is to provide water for Bengaluru or to spread Covid in the city. The Congress began its 10-day padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru this morning, despite the government's Covid-19 restrictions and warnings. Led by Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, the padayatra with the theme 'Namma Neeru Namma Hakku' (Our water, Our right) began at the Sangama, the confluence of Cauvery and Arkavathi rivers in Kanakapura in Ramanagara district, is scheduled to pass through Kanakapura, Ramanagara and Bidadi, before culminating at Basavanagudi in Bengaluru on January 19, spanning a distance of 139 kms. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-returns-from-congress-mekedatu-padayatra-due-to-fever-1069560.html
09-01-2022||West||Goa Polls: More hands to Opposition pump to flush out BJP||As the upcoming state Assembly polls draw closer, faint contours of a broader alliance of 'anti-BJP' forces -- barring the Congress party -- appear to be emerging in Goa. Even as the consolidation of opposition votes could spell a challenge for the BJP, which until last week was relishing the prospects of a fractured opposition, the BJP has insisted that the coalition was too disparate and will not cut ice with the Goan voters. Since the early 2000s, an Assembly election in Goa meant a two-cornered contest between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress, with bit players like the once-mighty Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, United Goans Democratic Party playing tag. The Nationalist Congress party too was added to the mix, before Goa Forward, a new regional party also made its presence felt in the 2017 polls. However with the resurgence of the Aam Aadmi Party and the emergence of the Trinamool Congress -- fresh from its dogged victory against the BJP in the 2021 West Bengal polls -- the flavour of Goa's poll-pot has changed considerably. Until last month, the BJP 'claimed' it was in the driver's seat for the upcoming polls, with senior BJP leaders citing the split opposition as a factor for their confidence. The first signs of opposition parties egging each other for an alliance came when the TMC tied up with the MGP last month. "60 per cent of Goans cannot decide whom to vote for. If they cannot decide with elections just around the corner, it is because of the poor governance, poor administration by the BJP government in Goa," Dhavalikar said, underlining the need to consolidate the opposition vote to take advantage of anti-incumbency and the poor administrative track record of the BJP-led coalition government in Goa. The second alliance in the opposition camp was announced in a matter of days between Congress and the Goa Forward. "Goa Forward was discussing with us for a long time and we have now come to an understanding and we have formed an alliance. It will be a good alliance to take on this communal BJP and corrupt BJP. I think this will be a good beginning," All India Congress Committee official in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao said. What has however changed over last week, is parties from both alliances -- the Trinamool Congress and Goa Forward -- voicing the need for both alliances coming together to form a larger alliance to take on the BJP. The outreach was first made by Goa Forward party president Vijai Sardesai on Friday. "BEAT THEIR GAME PLAN! @BJP4Goa will use #COVIDThirdWave restrictions to manipulate the electoral process to grab power. We must, along with @INCGoa, @AITC4Goa and #MGP must see this danger, rise above our egos, and thwart this plan to divide and rule. This is what #Goa wants," Sardesai said, soon after a conversation with TMC's political strategist Prashant Kishore. The tweet predictably solicited response from Trinamool Congress's in-charge of Goa Mahua Moitra. "Rest assured, we the AITC will do everything possible to defeat BJP in Goa- @Goaforwardparty, @INCGoa @AITC4Goa and #MGP. @Mamataofficial has done it in past &amp; will not shy away from walking extra mile in Goa too," the Trinamool Lok Sabha MP said. While All India Congress Committee senior observer in-charge of Goa P. Chidambaram has said that he was not in a position to comment on the broader anti-BJP coalition issue, state Congress president Girish Chodankar has said that the way Trinamool has gone about setting base in Goa, it appeared that the Congress and not the ruling BJP was the party's main enemy. "I do not know who they are referring to when they say opposition. For them perhaps the opposition is the Congress in Goa. The manner in which they purchased all leaders from the Congress, they tried to stop the Congress from taking on the BJP. There is a perception in Goa that the opposition to Trinamool is the Congress and that they are in Goa to defeat the Congress," Chodankar said. The BJP however insists that the opposition alliance was too incongruous to succeed. "We will fight it out because this alliance you are talking about (which is) coming together as we speak are on different platforms. They cannot cut ice with the people of Goa. They are thinking of coming together and trying to cobble up some numbers. They will not achieve it," Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-polls-more-hands-to-opposition-pump-to-flush-out-bjp-1069403.html
09-01-2022||West||BMC razes illegal structures in Goregaon Sports Club||The Shiv Sena-headed BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) bulldozed illegal constructions in Goregaon Sports Club (GSC), believed to be a BJP-controlled club, which also has prominent Congress ministers and businessmen as members. The incident took place over the past week. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government's Minister for Ports & Textiles and Mumbai City Guardian Minister, Aslam Shaikh, is among the members of the GSC, located in suburban Malad. A BMC team from P/North on January 3 demolished a series of temporary and semi-permanent structures across 50,000 square feet, where a food court was set to come up. The BMC action came after several notices over legalities flouted under the MMC Act/MRTP Act. GSC sources said that the management pointed fingers at unidentified "mischief mongers" out to sully the club's reputation for their own vested interests. The GSC management hastily issued a private four-page explanation, in which it committed to bear the losses arising from the demolition, around Rs 12.50 crore, and assured that "there will be no extra burden on the Club". However, many sceptical members have taken the management's promise with a bag of salt, dismissively saying there is "a huge gap between words and deeds", considering past experiences. In mid-2021, the GSC's 11,000-plus members were shocked when a leading international external auditor made a damning expose of a massive financial fraud of around Rs 25 crore. Worried GSC members moved a local court to bar the report from being made public while the harried management bowed, vowing to probe the purported mega-hustle, but nine months on, there has been no development. "Considering the murky mismanagement, financial frauds, illegalities and other things, many members feel the GSC should be taken over by a government-appointed administrator for a few years to restore its past glory," member Vijay Agarwal told IANS. Spread over a lush 10 acres, the GSC was conceptualised in 1980 and came into existence in 2002, with oodles of support from persons including Shiv Sena minister Subhash Desai, and Congress minister Shaikh, said leading realtor and one of the founder-members, Ashok Goyal. "It is the only private club in Mumbai and surroundings with an Olympic-size swimming pool, an Olympic-specification diving pool and several world-class sports activities, indoor-outdoor games and other amenities for the suburbanites who were deprived of such things for long," Goyal told IANS. The GSC's membership fee is around Rs15-20 lakh per head, with a long queue of hopefuls. Another member, requesting anonymity, said it is a "mystery" how the management dared to blatantly function like this with so many bigwigs watching over them, and why the latter took no steps to arrest the GSC downfall. Despite repeated attempts, Shaikh was not available for comment on the issue. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-razes-illegal-structures-in-goregaon-sports-club-1069408.html
09-01-2022||West||Maharashtra tweaks Covid rules, allows gyms, beauty parlours to function at 50% capacity||A day after the Maharashtra government came out with a fresh set of guidelines in wake of the third wave of Covid-19, it has tweaked the norms, allowing gyms and beauty salons to function with 50 per cent capacity even as the hotel industry sought relaxation in timings.  On Saturday, the government had said gyms and beauty salons will remain closed, while hair-cutting salons will function at 50 per cent capacity - triggering resentment.  However, on Sunday, it revised the order and the beauty salons were grouped with the hair-cutting salons and also allowed gyms to operate at 50 per cent capacity.  Sports complexes, swimming pools, spas and wellness centres will continue to remain shut. "Gyms are allowed to remain open with 50 per cent capacity, subject to use of masks while performing any activity. Only fully vaccinated persons shall be allowed to use these services. All the staff engaged in operation shall be fully vaccinated," the new order said. Meanwhile, hoteliers have requested the government to have a relook at the directive of shutting down at 10 pm. “Hotels and restaurants had just started to return to normalcy after about 15 months of restricted operations. After the two successive lockdowns, hotels and restaurants have infused significant capital to reopen and restart operations. Presently there is considerable fear and anxiety in the sector. The effects of the new Covid wave will debilitate the hospitality industry. We request the state government to allow us to operate at least till 11 pm,” said  Pradeep Shetty, senior vice president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI). "There has been a lot of effort put in to bring back workers. Repayment of loans taken to restart operations after the lockdowns is another major area of concern. The State government will have to support us this time around if a disaster is to be averted.  It should immediately come out with a direct salary transfer scheme for hospitality employees in addition to waiving off all statutory fees, taxes and utility bills.  It is also imperative upon the Govt to come up with a credit extension scheme or some kind of moratorium to protect the owners and operators from credit defaults owing to the third wave,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-tweaks-covid-rules-allows-gyms-beauty-parlours-to-function-at-50-capacity-1069461.html
09-01-2022||West||Medical body welcomes penal provisions for Covid protocol violations during polling ||The professional body of medical organisations, Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), has welcomed the stand of the Election Commission of India to take penal action for violation of Covid-appropriate-behaviour (CAB) during the campaigning of 2022 Assembly elections.  The ECI on Saturday announced the schedule for polls to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur.  OMAG had pointed out that when the elections to five states - West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam, Puducherry - were held in 2021, the CAB went for a toss.  “CAB norms for the polling booths and voting were very well implemented even during the last round of legislative Assembly elections in five other states during the year 2021, but the same went for a toss in campaigning,” OMAG secretary-general Dr Ishwar Gilada said.  According to him, that had led to a major surge in Covid-19 cases in those election-bound states by up to 3200% resulting in several casualties. OMAG and the entire medical community in the country forewarned the Election Commission to avoid a repeat of 2021, as finally, they have to bear the brunt of managing the overwhelming flow of patients.  OMAG had been advocating through print and electronic media, as well as social media requesting the Election Commission to defer the elections or conduct the same in strictly virtual mode or in strict accordance with the CAB.  "OMAG had also demanded that there should be strict penal provision for violation of CAB under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and the Epidemic Act, 1897 amended as The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020. We are glad that the Election Commission did echo this aspect as well,” said Dr Gilada.  The Election Commission has set a timeline of strictly virtual campaigning till January 15 but said the same will be reviewed based on the prevailing situation then. “Looking at the current Covid-19 scenario orchestrated by the Omicron variant, it is anybody’s guess that the situation will worsen by the day and will not settle by January 15 or for that matter for the entire January. "Similarly, the Election Commission directed with all firmness that all the elections-related activities should be in strict accordance with the CAB, in light of the current Covid-19 surge. The commission did not stop there, but put the onus on all political parties and especially the candidates, by asking them to sign an undertaking to that effect,” he said. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/medical-body-welcomes-penal-provisions-for-covid-protocol-violations-during-polling-1069480.html
09-01-2022||West||Indian Coast Guard apprehends Pakistan boat with 10 crew members off Gujarat coast||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) apprehended a Pakistani fishing boat with ten crew members in Indian waters in the Arabian sea off the Gujarat coast, it said on Sunday. The boat, named 'Yaseen,' was intercepted by the ICG vessel 'Ankit' during the operational patrol on Saturday night. When the crew members of the boat failed to justify their presence in Indian waters after being questioned, the ICG ship apprehended it, the ICG said in a release. The boat tried to flee towards the Pakistani waters, but due to the quick response by the ICG ship, it was made to stop and apprehended, said the ICG. Around 2,000 kg fish and 600 litres of diesel were seized from the boat, the ICG said, adding that the boat is registered at Keti Bandar in Pakistan. The apprehended boat, with the ten crew members, is presently being towed to Porbandar for detailed investigation and joint interrogation, it said. "Indian Coast Guard ship 'Ankit' during an operational patrol at the Arabian Sea apprehended a Pakistani fishing boat 'Yaseen' along with 10 Pakistani crew, operating in Indian waters during the intervening night of January 8, 2022," the ICG said in a release. During the initial boarding, PFB Yaseen registered at Ketibandar was found in possession of approximately 2000 kgs of the fish catch along with 600 litres of diesel, the ICG added. Sometimes, Pakistani fishing boats cross the notional international maritime boundary and enter Indian waters during fishing expeditions. There has also been a rise in cases of such boats being used to smuggle contraband drugs through the Gujarat coast. The Indian Coast Guard had on September 15 last year apprehended a Pakistani boat with 12 crew members in the Indian waters off the Gujarat coast. On December 20, a Pakistani fishing boat with six crew members on board and carrying 77 kg of heroin worth around Rs 400 crore was apprehended in the Indian waters off the Gujarat coast by the ICG in a joint operation with the state Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS). Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-coast-guard-apprehends-pakistan-boat-with-10-crew-members-off-gujarat-coast-1069515.html
09-01-2022||West||Pune shows massive spike in Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra’s cultural capital of Pune witnessed a massive spike on Sunday with over 6,000 fresh cases even as the state’s total active patients crossed the two-lakh mark. During the last 24 hours, 44,386 cases and 12 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 69,20,044 and 1,41,639 cases. During the day, Mumbai recorded 19,474 cases while the same for the larger Mumbai metropolitan region is 33,299. The active cadets in the state now stands at 2,02,259, according to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department. While the cases in Mumbai seem to stabilise as the city recorded 19,474 cases as against Saturday’s 20,318, Pune saw a massive jump. The Pune district recorded 6,493 cases. While the Pune Municipal Corporation and its sister city Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation recorded 4,065 and 1,532 cases, respectively, Pune rural area registered 866 cases. During the day, 207 Omicron cases were reported, taking the progressive total to 1,216. Meanwhile, state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope indicated that more restrictions would follow in the days ahead if the situation does not normalise. "Curbs in crowded areas like liquor shops and places of worship will be imposed as well. However, even as cases are rising, hospital bed occupancy and oxygen demand are low. When these start rising, we will enforce stricter restrictions,” Tope told reporters in Jalna. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-shows-massive-spike-in-covid-19-cases-1069573.html
