10-01-2022||Comment||What is our ‘Dharma’ now?||At the ‘Dharma Sansad’ conducted in Haridwar, December 17-19, by Hindu sants and seers, there were calls for killing Muslims to cleanse Indian society. These are calls for genocide. Speakers also called upon army and police personnel to take up arms to kill Muslims. One speaker reportedly called for the socio-economic boycott of Indian Muslims, and stated that governments will have to accept and implement this call, failing which a war more gruesome than the 1857 uprising in India against the British, would be waged. Participants took oath to “die for and kill if necessary to create a Hindu Rashtra”. On December 19, in Delhi, during an event allegedly organised by Hindu Yuva Vahini, one Suresh Chavhanke reportedly gave a call to “fight, die and kill if required” to make India a Hindu nation, and administered an oath to participants. Reportedly, similar organised oath-taking public events have been conducted in other places. Although these are culpable criminal offences, the most that governments and police have done is to ignore the events, and take limited action only when inescapable. Some commentators have held that the anti-Muslim hate speeches and incitements to violence in civil society and mutiny of armed forces of the country were conducted only by fringe right-wing elements. They questioned the agenda behind a letter written to President Ramnath Kovind and PM Narendra Modi, which called for immediate and stern action by governments against the purveyors of hate and violence who were demanding a Hindu Rashtra. Naxals, who have been waging war against the State for decades, however, envisage a different kind of State. As fringe left-wing elements, Naxals were considered the most serious threat to internal security by then PM Manmohan Singh. That has not changed. But now, we additionally have the fringe right-wing elements’ threat to internal security. Committed to using armed violence, both fringe elements threaten the State, meaning the Republic of India. The Republic of India is based upon the Constitution of India. It is the apex repository of ideals, ideas and social-economic-political systems of governance, designed to deliver Justice, Liberty and Equality to We, the People, and promote Fraternity among them, so as to assure the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the nation. With extreme right-wing elements now adding to extreme left-wing elements already attempting to overthrow the State by force of arms, the integrity of our Republic faces serious threat. The nation’s internal insecurity is seriously amplified. This eminently benefits our hostile and inimical external forces of China and Pakistan, to further their plans of encroaching into Indian territory, to threaten our territorial and political sovereignty. China’s superior economic and cyber capability, coupled with Pakistan’s ready military cooperation, intensifies the challenges which our Armed Forces already face. Soldiers (and police personnel) who are posted far from their homes, will fear for their families who may be attacked in communal violence incited by right-wing extremists. Further, a soldier may view his comrade of another religious faith, differently from earlier, due to right-wing politicisation of the army with hate against minorities. This will vitiate internal integrity and cohesion of military units and headquarters, and affect the motivation and fighting efficiency of the soldier, who takes oath on the Constitution to protect India’s integrity and sovereignty even to the peril of his life. In the current situation, any threat to the morale of troops is a direct threat to national security, because it weakens the Armed Forces, the last bastion for India’s Republic, which successive governments have called on in aid of the civil power. Thus, the proximate rise of right-wing extremism has pushed India from an already difficult situation to a full-blown threat to security, integrity and sovereignty. If we add to this threat, the ongoing pandemic, our struggling economy, and the very serious economic situation of crores of indigent farmers and workers, it appears that India is heading towards a multi-dimensional crisis across the social, economic and political spectrum. Questions Some questions need to be asked at this stage, in the context of a possible upcoming crisis. 1. Why does the government appear focussed only on elections and treat the threats to our nation’s security with disdain or dismissal? 2. The response of governments to the immediate right-wing threat – the long-standing Naxal threat is being tackled – may indicate that elected and appointed government servants at Centre and in the states have displayed dereliction of duty/culpable acts of omission/culpable inaction. This omission may exacerbate the internal security situation countrywide. Have adequate steps been taken by government servants at various levels of functioning to honour their oath of office to protect national integrity and sovereignty? 3. Calls by persons of the fringe right-wing to kill Muslims is a call for genocide, which is possibly the most serious threat to internal security. When India has ratified the UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, why has the government not taken stern action against the concerned persons? It is important to note at the present critical juncture that the Constitution of India defines the Fundamental Duty of every citizen to uphold and protect the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India, and to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India transcending religious, linguistic and regional or sectional diversities. The only leader who has the power to set our nation on the course directed by the Constitution is PM Narendra Modi, who has taken Oath of Office to protect national integrity and sovereignty. This is an appeal to all Indians to perform their Fundamental Duty in this hour of crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/what-is-our-dharma-now-1069983.html
10-01-2022||First Edit||Poll schedule: Not a level playing field||The Election Commission has announced a schedule extending over a month for the Assembly elections in five states, without giving due consideration to the negative and undesirable consequences of having such a long poll process. While the polling in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa will be held on a single day, it will be held on two days in Manipur and in seven phases in UP. Voters who vote on the first day -- on February 10 -- will have to wait a whole month to know the results. For the voters in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa, the waiting period is almost three weeks because of the extended schedule in other states. It is unfair and unnecessary to stretch the poll process and the campaign for such a long period. Governments stand still because of the campaign and the code of conduct, and the people are denied the right to a normal and functioning government for a long period for no fault of theirs. The voting in UP will be held on seven days over a month, from February 10 to March 7. There is no convincing need or rationale for this. A former Chief Election Commissioner, M S Gill, has said that during his tenure from 1996 to 2001, elections in UP were held in three phases. The logistics and facilities for the conduct of elections have improved so much since then that there may not be the need for even a three-phase schedule now. Elections in the country, just as in other countries, used to be held only on one day. It was because of the problem of booth capturing and other irregularities that they came to be held on more than one day. But there is no need for this now when there is no possibility of such malpractices as polling and all related activities are electronic. A prolonged campaign is especially hazardous during the pandemic period. The many phases of polling in West Bengal last year contributed to the aggravation of the second wave. An extended campaign will aid the spread of the disease even if the emphasis is on virtual campaigning. A long campaign period will also tire out the candidates, party workers and others and increase the cost of electioneering. This will help bigger and more resourceful parties and hurt smaller parties, especially as the BJP has tended to garner most of the anonymous donations under the Electoral Bonds scheme, running into thousands of crores. It is the duty of Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and his two fellow Election Commissioners to provide a level playing field to all parties and to ensure that no party or candidate gets an unfair advantage. A poll schedule that spans over a month is bad in many ways, and is an avoidable health risk in these times. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/poll-schedule-not-a-level-playing-field-1069963.html
10-01-2022||In Perspective||Kazakhstan at the crossroads||The ongoing protests in Kazakhstan are making headlines due to that nation’s location and resources. It is the largest country in Central Asia, with abundant natural endowment, including oil and uranium, but with a small population of 19 million. Kazakhstan shares more than 7,000 km of border with Russia, and has a 19% Russian population concentrated in the north along with over 60% of its hydrocarbons. Russian is an official language, along with Kazakh. The Russian cosmodrome at Baikonur is in Kazakhstan on a long lease, and Kazakhstan is a founder-member of the Moscow-dominated Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) and the Eurasian Economic Union, comprising six and five former Soviet states, respectively. It also shares a long border with China and with every country in Central Asia other than Tajikistan. As a member of the China-sponsored Belt and Road Initiative, cargo trains between China and Europe traverse long distances through it. These factors make Kazakhstan strategically a most important state. The final outcome of the present disturbances will impact the entire region. Russia considers Central Asia to be within its historic area of influence and cannot be a bystander to any development that will adversely impact its economic and security considerations. India enjoys cordial relations with Kazakhstan, though the level of its engagement is not profound. Discontent among the Kazakhs has been building for two decades. The people, particularly in the interior, miss the Soviet period when they were assured of life-long food and shelter. Ruled with an iron hand by Nursultan Nazarbayev, who was President from independence in 1991 until 2019, its elections were fraudulent, with more than 98% voters participating and 99% voting for Nazarbayev and his party. With only five urban centres, central control was relatively easy, there was no free press, and anyone even remotely criticising the ruling elite was imprisoned. When his health started failing, Nazarbayev passed power to a then-trusted Kasym-Zhomart Tokayev, while appointing his daughter Dariga Nazarbayeva Speaker of the Senate, with himself as Chairman of the Security Council. He hoped that Dariga would take over the presidency four or five years later. Tokayev is a diplomat-turned-politician with strong Russian connections and a Russian wife. Considered to be without personal ambition, he did not belong to an influential clan and was considered suitable for Nazarbayev’s agenda. On the other hand, Kazakhs hoped for some loosening of the autocratic system. Both hopes were belied. Tokayev removed Dariga for corruption and money laundering, Nazarbayev from the Security Council, and has purged Nazarbayev followers from office during the current disturbances, apparently with Russian President Vladimir Putin’s concurrence. Therefore, the current disturbances have been the stimulus for a palace coup consolidating Tokayev’s position. Although Kazakhstan is the richest Central Asian country, with a GDP of $170 billion and per capita income of $11,400, oligarchs and crony-capitalists cornered the wealth and there was hardly any improvement in living standards for the common people. Civil servants were paid poorly, and corruption, gross inequality and lack of opportunities for youth provided the basis for frustration. Doubling fuel prices to eliminate subsidies provided the spark for the spontaneous uprising, and violence continued despite the repeal of higher prices with at least 164 persons being killed. Tokayev lost no time in requesting troops from CSTO by raising the bogey of foreign incitement and foreign-trained terrorists. A decade ago, Kyrgyzstan requested CSTO’s help against an internal uprising, which was rejected on the ground that CSTO could intervene only in the event of external aggression. Last year, a similar request from Armenia was also rejected because Azerbaijan had only aggressed into disputed areas held by Armenia and not into Armenia proper. On this occasion, however, the Kazakh request was immediately accepted, though it seems unlikely that any foreign power could have orchestrated a nation-wide uprising, although it is accepted that the US has been courting Kazakhstan with a variety of blandishments. The conclusion has to be that Putin was surprised by the sudden upheaval in an essential ally and has intervened to avert any major political change. It appears likely that Tokayev will save his position, but his move to invite CSTO troops will be unpopular. Provocative comments denigrating Kazakhstan by some Russian politicians have not been well-received and there are apprehensions that Russia could foment secession in the Russian-majority northern areas of the country as it did in Donbas in Ukraine. Nevertheless, depending on how long the 2,500 Russian soldiers remain in Kazakhstan to secure strategic facilities and government property, and if they avoid direct confrontation with the rioters, Russian interests will be preserved and possibly enhanced. Even so, assuming the current uprising is suppressed, simmering discontent will remain and could explode again unless measures to tackle long-standing grievances are introduced. It will be for Tokayev to use this fortuitous opportunity to introduce major economic and social reforms. (Avinash Pandey is a former Indian diplomat who served many years in Kazakhstan; Krishnan Srinivasan is a former foreign secretary)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/kazakhstan-at-the-crossroads-1069965.html
10-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Nalin Kumar Kateel tests positive for Covid-19||BJP Karnataka President Nalin Kumar Kateel tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Kateel in his tweet confirmed on having tested positive for Covid 19. "I am asymptomatic and healthy," he declared in his tweet. ನನಗೆ ಕೋವಿಡ್ ದೃಢವಾಗಿದ್ದು, ಯಾವುದೇ ಲಕ್ಷಣಗಳಿಲ್ಲದೆ ಆರೋಗ್ಯವಾಗಿದ್ದೇನೆ. ನನ್ನ ಸಂಪರ್ಕಕ್ಕೆ ಬಂದವರು ಕೋವಿಡ್ ಪರೀಕ್ಷೆ ಮಾಡಿಸಿಕೊಳ್ಳಿ. He urged those who came in contact with him to get tested for Covid-19. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nalin-kumar-kateel-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1069734.html
10-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Munenakoppa calls Cong's Mekedatu march a poll gimmick||Handloom, Textile and Sugar Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa on Monday alleged that the Congress is holding 'Padayatra' on Mekedatu issue just for publicity, keeping the next elections, including BBMP polls, in view. "People are watching how the Congress is adamant in holding the 'Padayatra' even when Covid guidelines are in place. They could have discussed the Mekedatu issue under some rule during the Winter Session of the State Legislature which concluded recently," he said. The state government is capable to handle the situation. Chief Minister has already given some instructions to officials, and he would make a suitable decision, Munenakoppa added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/munenakoppa-calls-congs-mekedatu-march-a-poll-gimmick-1069754.html
10-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||68 students, 10 staff test positive for Covid in girls' residential hostel in Karnataka||As many as 68 girl students on Monday tested positive for Covid-19 at Kitturu Channamma Sainik Residential hostel in Karnataka's Belagavi. Ten staff members have also tested positive, raising concerns with parents and district authorities. Two days earlier, a few students had developed symptoms of fever. The health authorities conducted RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) on 102 students. Of these 12 girls tested positive then, and on Monday 68 more students also tested positive. As many as 90 positive cases have been reported from the residential school. The residential hostel with more than 600 students and authorities have not yet sealed down the campus, according to sources. The students from Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and other states are staying at the hostel. Meanwhile, four schools have been closed down following detection of 21 new Covid cases, including four teachers in Hubballi city of north Karnataka in the last 24 hours. All of them are home quarantined and treated. None of the patients developed severe symptoms. The primary and secondary contacts of the Covid positive patients are being tracked. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/68-students-10-staff-test-positive-for-covid-in-girls-residential-hostel-in-karnataka-1069798.html
10-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Five minors rape mentally challenged girl in Kalaburagi||A 13-year-old mentally challenged girl was allegedly raped by five minor boys at a colony of the city on January 5. The parents of the rape survivor lodged a complaint on Monday. The girl is being treated at a hospital. The parents in the complaint stated that boys between 15 and 16 years of age who are in their neighbourhood committed this crime. University Police station CPI Shivananda Ganigera said the accused boys are known to the girl and they will be taken into custody on January 11. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-minors-rape-mentally-challenged-girl-in-kalaburagi-1069912.html
10-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Activists oppose 5-star hotel at Jog Falls||Environment experts and activists have opposed the Jog Management Authority's decision to reboot a five-year-old project to spruce up the Jog Falls with the addition of water recirculation and a five-star hotel as a disastrous venture that not only damages the environmentally sensitive area but also violates the rules governing the eco sensitive zone (ESZ). In its application dated June 3, 2021, the Authority sought permission to build a five-star hotel on 10,000 sqm in lieu of the existing PWD guest house at a cost of Rs 75 crore along with a Rs 20 crore ropeway. Interestingly, it does not have the money but seeks a private player to design, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT) the projects. "Since 2015, the Authority has been filing applications for one component of the project to show no damage is caused to the environment. However, when looked at in totality, the project is a disaster. Let them first count the number of landslides in the Western Ghats in the last few years. They are hiding so much from the public because they know the project violates all the rules. They have used fancy terms instead of saying privatisation of the tourist spot," a retired forest officer said. Living Earth Foundation, an NGO, has now written to the Regional Empowered Committee of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change by tracing the project's trajectory. "All the components of the project involve significant amounts of construction in forest lands within the Eco-Sensitive Zone of the newly constituted Sharavathi Valley LTM (Lion Tailed Macaque) Sanctuary," the letter, signed by former chief wildlife warden B J Hosmath and advocate Sreeja Chakraborty, said. In the letter, they noted that despite having all qualities of a town development project, the Authority's application doesn't contain a detailed project report. It said the plan, which also includes a project to make Jog Falls perennial by building a 32.22 MW hydropower plant for pumping water, was also in violation of the ESZ. Noting that the Madhav Gadgil's 2011 report on the Western Ghats has classified the Sharavathi River Basin as one of the "most ecologically vulnerable regions" of the Western Ghats and recommended against any new dam or hydro project, the letter said large scale development to increase tourist footfalls opposes the basic tenets of the ecotourism. Speaking to DH, Hosmath said a cumulative impact assessment of the project as well as a detailed study on the carrying capacity of the site has to be carried out before going ahead with the project. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/activists-oppose-5-star-hotel-at-jog-falls-1069964.html
10-01-2022||National||CAIT urges ECI to introduce 'e-voting'||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Sunday wrote to the Election Commission of India suggesting an introduction of e-voting mechanism for citizens to cast their votes. The traders' body appreciated the commission's higher usage of technology, apps, and the latest move to allow candidates to file their nomination papers online. "In this context we would like to suggest that the Commission should also introduce an e-voting system through which the electors can cast their votes with any device with access to the internet from anywhere in the world," it said in the letter. "The secrecy of the ballot can be maintained under the high security standards by using online voting software. The casting of votes remains anonymous as the technology system's architecture can strictly separate personal data from the electronic ballot." It added implementation of such a mechanism would reduce costs. On Saturday, the commission announced the Assembly poll dates as well as counting dates for Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Goa and Punjab. The polls would be held in seven phases. Uttar Pradesh would have voting on February 10, 14, 20, 23 and March 3 and 7; Punjab, Goa and Uttarakhand would have polling on February 14 while Manipur would have voting in two phases, February 27, and March 3. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cait-urges-eci-to-introduce-e-voting-1069684.html
10-01-2022||National||India reports 1.79 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 146 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 1,79,723 coronavirus infections taking the total tally to 3,57,07,727, including 4,033 cases of the Omicron variant reported across 27 states and union territories so far, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Monday. The number of active cases has increased to 7,23,619, the highest in around 204 days, while the death toll has climbed to 4,83,936 with 146 fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. Of the total 4,033 cases of Omicron variant, 1,552 have recovered or migrated. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 1,216 Omicron cases, followed by Rajasthan 529, Delhi 513, Karnataka 441, Kerala 333 and Gujarat 236. A total 1,79,723 new coronavirus infections were reported in a day, the highest in around 227 days. A total 1,86,364 new infections were reported on May 27 last year.   The active cases have increased to 7,23,619, accounting for 2.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 96.62 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 1,33,008 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 13.29 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was 7.92 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,45,00,172, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent. The cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive have crossed 151.94 crore. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4 last year and three crore on June 23. The 146 new fatalities reported on Monday included 44 from Kerala, 18 from West Bengal and 17 from Delhi. A total of 4,83,936 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,639 from Maharashtra, 49,591 from Kerala, 38,370 from Karnataka, 36,855 from Tamil Nadu, 25,160 from Delhi, 22,928 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,901 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-179-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-146-deaths-1069696.html
10-01-2022||National||Parliamentary standing committee meetings cancelled after 400 staffers test Covid positive||After over 400 Parliament staffers tested positive for Covid-19 during random testing and with the rise in the cases in the national capital, the meetings of several parliamentary committees have been cancelled. Sources said that the meeting of parliamentary standing committees on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice Chairperson, Urban Development, and Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology have decided to cancel their meetings on Monday. Decision to call off the meeting of the standing committee of External Affairs, scheduled later this week is likely to be taken later in the day. Earlier, also during the peak of Covid in the first and second wave, meetings of the standing committees had been called off. Several members have demanded to call a virtual meeting of the standing committee. Over 400 Parliament staffers tested positive for Covid-19 during random testing. Of these, 65 are from the Rajya Sabha, 200 from the Lok Sabha and 133 belong to the allied services. It is learnt that random testing was conducted after a sudden spike in cases in the national capital and most of the staff found positive did not show any symptoms. "More random testing will be conducted for those coming to Parliament to control the infection," sources said. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat has now restricted staff attendance. As per new guidelines, 50 per cent of the staff or officials below the rank of under-secretary or executive officer are required to 'work from home'. Earlier, both the Rajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla had requested and ensured that all staff workers were vaccinated with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-standing-committee-meetings-cancelled-after-400-staffers-test-covid-positive-1069713.html
10-01-2022||National||India begins rollout of vaccine boosters to vulnerable groups as Covid-19 cases multiply||There were 146 deaths reported on Monday, bringing the toll to 483,936 since the pandemic first struck India in early 2020. Only the United States and Brazil have recorded more deaths. In recent days, hundreds of healthcare and frontline workers, including police, have contracted the virus, and there were media reports that hundreds of parliamentary staff have also tested positive ahead of a budget session on Feb. 1. Facing this rising third wave of infections, the government sent booster reminders to more than 10 million people who took their second dose of the Covaxin or Covishield shot nine months ago. Unlike many countries, India is not mixing and matching vaccines. Only healthcare personnel, frontline workers and people above 60 years suffering from other health conditions are eligible for what the government calls a "precaution dose". "The government is committed to provide additional security cover to healthcare and frontline workers on priority," Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya wrote on Twitter. Despite the rise in infections, five states including the most populous Uttar Pradesh will hold elections starting Feb. 10, though authorities have barred political party rallies until at least the middle of this month. Tasked with protecting India's near 140 crore people from the virus, the government has administered 150 crore vaccine doses in total. About 67 per cent of the country's 939 million adults have been double vaccinated. India's overall Covid-19 testing has remained around 1.5 million a day, well below the capacity of more than 2 million. Since the pandemic began, India has recorded 35.7 million cases of Covid-19, the highest in the world after the United States. Government officials have privately said they are working under the assumption that daily infections will surpass the record of more than 414,000 set in May, based on what has happened in countries like the United States, where daily cases have risen past 1 million. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-begins-rollout-of-vaccine-boosters-to-vulnerable-groups-as-covid-19-cases-multiply-1069716.html
10-01-2022||National||Covid surge: SC accepts plea to revive limitation extension orders||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to extend the limitation period of filing cases across judicial and quasi-judicial fora in the country. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana will issue a detailed order later in the day. The bench, also comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant said, "we are accepting the prayer". The Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA) had moved the top court seeking restoration of a March 2020 order through which the court had directed the suspension of the limitation period in the backdrop of difficulties faced by the litigants amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Advocate Shivaji Jadhav, President SCAORA, submitted that Covid cases have been increasing across the country over the past few days and urged the court to restore the limitation extension orders. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal supported the SCAORA plea. The SCAORA filed the application in the suo motu case "In Re Cognizance for Extension of Limitation", seeking restoration of the order dated March 23, 2020 and April 27, 2021, through which limitation period for filing of cases was extended. The SCAORA's application contended that there has been a drastic change in the Covid pandemic situation, in the view of a new variant, more particularly Omicron. The plea added that considering the alarming rise in the Covid cases, it becomes necessary to restore the relaxation with regard to the period of limitation. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-surge-sc-accepts-plea-to-revive-limitation-extension-orders-1069744.html
10-01-2022||National||Ahead of polls, PM Modi sends 100 pairs of jute footwear for workers at Kashi Vishwanath Dham||For scores of security personnel, sanitation workers, priests and others, who performed different works at the Kashi Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi barefoot it was a surprise but pleasant gift, especially at a time when the city was experiencing chilly weather conditions. Prime minister Narendra Modi, who represents Varanasi in the Lok Sabha, had 100 pairs of footwear made of jute sent to them so that they did not have to work barefoot in this weather. According to the Kashi Vishwanath Dham Project officials, the footwear were distributed among the workers, including priests and others, on Monday. "More pairs of jute footwear are expected in the next few days," said an official in Varanasi. The officials said that the priests, security personnel and other workers had to work barefoot inside the Kashi Vishwanath Dham complex as wearing of leather footwear was prohibited there. "They found it difficult to discharge their duties barefoot especially in these chilly conditions....jute footwear will give them a lot of respite," the official added. The official said that these shoes would come handy for them even during the summer season. "In summers also the floors become very hot making it difficult to walk on them barefoot," he added. A local BJP leader said that the prime minister, upon coming to know about the problems being faced by the workers and priests, immediately gifted them 100 pairs of jute footwear. Modi had a few days back inaugurated the first phase of the Project in his Lok Sabha constituency. Usually, those who perform different functions inside a temple complex, are either barefoot or wear 'khadaun' (thick wooden shoes). "Not everyone can work with khadaun on his feet...it requires a lot of practice....even then it makes one's movement slow and care has to be taken while working with khadaun," said a priest at a temple in the state capital. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-polls-pm-modi-sends-100-pairs-of-jute-footwear-for-workers-at-kashi-vishwanath-dham-1069747.html
10-01-2022||National||Can't allow every person who thinks of some solution to Covid-19 file petition: SC||Observing that it can't allow every person who thinks of some solution to Covid-19 to file a petition, the Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea alleging that China is deliberately spreading the virus as a biological weapon. A bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh dismissed a plea filed by a lawyer and said this was only a publicity move. The top court rapped the petitioner for filing the PIL, and said, "Is it the court's job to see what is the international ramification, whether China is committing genocide or not?. "What kind of petition is this. What is going on? It seems you wanted to file a petition just to appear before this court. Nothing else," the bench said. While dismissing the plea, the apex court noted in its order, "The plea alleged that China is deliberately spreading Covid-19 as a biological weapon and the court should issue some order to the government. It is for the government to take action. "We can't allow every person who thinks of some solution to the virus to come under Article 32 and file a petition. Nothing has prevented him from making suggestions to the appropriate authority. We do believe that he is here to get name in the press and we request the press not to oblige," the bench said. The PIL filed by a Karnataka-based lawyer contended that virgin coconut oil can dissolve the virus and sought directions to the Central government to stop China from spreading the virus.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-allow-every-person-who-thinks-of-some-solution-to-covid-19-file-petition-sc-1069750.html
10-01-2022||National||Lawyers get call against SC taking up PM Modi's security breach case||Several advocates of the Supreme Court on Monday claimed to have received an international call with a recorded message asking the top court not to "help Modi regime" by taking up a matter related to Prime Minister's security breach in Punjab last week. A criminal complaint was also filed by Advocate On Record, Deepak Prakash and his team, Ms Divyangna Malik and Nachiketa Vajpayee, before the Commissioner of Police, New Delhi and National Investigation Agency, regarding the "threatening calls" received by them. The recorded message claimed responsibility for blocking the Prime Minister's passage on Wednesday last week. It also claimed that the Supreme Court did not do enough with regard to killings of Sikh community members during the 1984 riots. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani demanded an NIA probe into this episode. He tweeted, "The audio sent by the “Sikhs for Justice USA” to AORs (Advocates on Record) in the SC must be treated with circumspection. The audio could be a hoax motivated by publicity or to blur the trail to the guilty. But since it contains a veiled threat to SC judges/AORs the NIA must investigate it forthwith." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-get-call-against-sc-taking-up-pm-modis-security-breach-case-1069752.html
10-01-2022||National||PM Modi to inaugurate National Youth Festival on January 12||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 25th National Youth Festival in Puducherry on January 12, the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda which is observed as National Youth Day. He will inaugurate the event via video-conferencing, the PMO said. Modi tweeted, "On the 12th, I would be taking part in the 25th National Youth Festival via video conferencing. Apart from asking my young friends to join the programme, I also urge them to share their inputs as well. Always a delight to hear from India's talented youth." The festival aims to shape the minds of India's youth and transform them into a united force for nation-building, the PMO said.  It is one of the biggest exercises in social cohesion and intellectual & cultural integration. It aims to bring diverse cultures of India and integrate them into a united thread of 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat', it added.  This year, in view of the emerging Covid situation, the festival has been scheduled to be held virtually on January 12-13. The inauguration will be followed by the National Youth Summit wherein there will be panel discussions on four identified themes. In line with the youth-led development and motivating youngsters to solve the emerging issues and challenges, the themes will include environment, climate and SDG led growth; tech, entrepreneurship and innovation; indigenous and ancient wisdom; and national character, nation building and home grown, it said.  Recorded video capsules of Puducherry, Auroville, Immersive City Experience, indigenous sport games and folk dances among others will be shown to the participants during the festival. There will also be open discussions with Olympians and Paralympians followed by live performance in the evening. Virtual yoga session will be organised in the morning, it said. During the event, Modi will unveil selected essays on “Mere Sapno ka Bharat” and “Unsung Heroes of Indian Freedom Movement”. These essays have been selected from submissions by over one lakh youth on the two themes, the PMO said.  He will also inaugurate a Technology Centre of the MSME Ministry, established at Puducherry with an investment of about Rs 122 crore. With focus on the Electronic System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) Sector, this Technology Centre will be equipped with the latest technology. It will contribute towards skilling youth and will be able to train around 6,400 trainees per year. He will also inaugurate the Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Manimandapam, an auditorium with an open air theatre, constructed by the Puducherry government at a cost of about Rs 23 crore. It would primarily be used for educational purposes, and can accommodate more than 1000 people. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-national-youth-festival-on-january-12-1069756.html
10-01-2022||National||BJP leader Khushbu Sundar tests positive for Covid-19||Actor-politician Khushbu Sundar on Monday said she has been infected with coronavirus and that she has isolated herself. The BJP leader said she hates being alone. "Ok. finally #Covid catches up with me after dodging last 2 waves. I have just tested positive. Till last eve i was negative. Have a running nose, did a test n Voila! I have isolated myself. Hate being alone. So keep me entertained for the next 5 days. N get tested if any signs," the senior actor said in a tweet. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-khushbu-sundar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1069775.html
10-01-2022||National||NCW seeks FIR against actor Siddharth for 'outrageous' tweet on Saina Nehwal||Actor Siddharth’s reply to ace badminton player Saina Nehwal’s tweet on PM Modi’s security breach during his Punjab visit has attracted much flak. Now, NCW has writter to Twitter India to “immediately” block the actor’s account, calling it “misogynist and outrageous”. The NCW has also written a letter to the Maharashtra police, seeking an FIR.   Reacting to Modi’s security breach for which the PM’s convoy remained on a flyover for around 20 minutes, Saina had tweeted, “No nation can claim itself to be safe if the security of its own PM gets compromised. I condemn, in the strongest words possible, the cowardly attack on PM Modi by anachists. #BharatStandsWithModi #PMModi (sic).” In response to this, Siddharth had tweeted, “Subtle cock champion of the world…Thank God we have protectors of India (sic)”. Subtle cock champion of the world... Thank God we have protectors of India. 🙏🏽 However, following strong criticism on social media for the tweet, Siddharth on Monday said that “nothing disrespectful was intended”. “’COCK & BULL’ That's the reference. Reading otherwise is unfair and leading! Nothing disrespectful was intended, said or insinuated. Period,” he tweeted. "COCK & BULL" That's the reference. Reading otherwise is unfair and leading! Nothing disrespectful was intended, said or insinuated. Period. 🙏🏽 Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-seeks-fir-against-actor-siddharth-for-outrageous-tweet-on-saina-nehwal-1069781.html
10-01-2022||National||Omicron sub-lineage replacing Delta in some states: Report||As India continues to see a spike in Covid-19 cases, Omicron's three sub-variants are likely replacing the dominant Delta strain in India. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the Omicron variant (parent lineage B.1.1.529) includes three descendent lineages (BA.1, BA.2 and BA.3). While BA.1 and BA.3 have the 69-70 deletion in the spike protein, BA.2 does not. BA.3 has not been detected so far in the country, a scientist told the publication. First detected in South Africa and Botswana in late November 2021, Omicron has been discovered in more than 100 countries and across all seven continents, as per the open access data sharing platform GISAID. However, in what could be a matter of concern, the BA.2 lineage does not get registered in the RT-PCR-SGF test. This means isolating it is as an Omicron case from the daily cases will be difficult. The unique mix of spike amino acid changes in Omicron (clade GRA, lineage B.1.1.529 and descendants BA.1 and BA.2) comprises several that were previously identified to affect receptor binding and antibody escape. According to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Monday, India saw a single-day rise of 1,79,723 coronavirus infections taking the total tally to 3,57,07,727, including 4,033 cases of the Omicron variant reported across 27 states and union territories so far. Of the total 4,033 cases of Omicron variant, 1,552 have recovered or migrated. (With agency inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-sub-lineage-replacing-delta-in-some-states-report-1069786.html
10-01-2022||National||Covid vaccination centres allowed to operate till 10 pm daily||The Centre on Monday made it clear to states and UTs that no time limit has been set for the operationalisation of Covid vaccination centres, and that they can operate till 10 pm daily based on the availability of human resources and infrastructure. In a letter to states and UTs, additional secretary in the Union Health Ministry, Manohar Agnani, said there is an impression that Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCS) can operate only from 8 am to 8 pm daily. "In this regard, it is to reiterate that no time limit has been set for the operationalisation of the CVCs. The session timings are subject to the demand and the requirement at a particular CVC. In case of increased demand, it is advised that multiple teams may be arranged at each CVC to cater to the need. "It is again reiterated that the timings of the CVCs are flexible and can be up to 10 pm based on the availability of HR and infrastructure," Agnani said. Also, given the rising trend of Covid-19 cases in the country, Agnani advised all states and UTs to ensure compliance to Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) at all levels.It must be ensured that queues and waiting areas of CVCs strictly enforce CAB. "Our efforts should be directed towards maximising the convenience of the citizens along with ensuring safety and quality under the National Covid-19 Vaccination Program. I would like to assure the continued support of the Government of India to States/UTs in achieving newer milestones under the vaccination program," the letter stated. India on Monday started administering precaution dose of Covid vaccine to healthcare workers, frontline workers including personnel deployed for election duty and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities. The country started administering vaccine doses to those in the 15-18 years age group from January 3.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccination-centres-allowed-to-operate-till-10-pm-daily-1069787.html
10-01-2022||National||Battle for UP: Aspirants apprehensive of virtual campaigning||After initially welcoming the Covid protocols announced by the Election Commission of India (ECI) in campaigning, political leaders are now developing cold feet on the issue. The temperature in political circles has fallen with the mercury, while apprehensions are growing. A sitting MLA, waiting in his car outside the BJP state headquarters, said: "We cannot publicly oppose the ECI's decision on virtual campaigning but the fact remains that this will not work in semi-urban and rural constituencies. The reality is that even those who have smartphones, use them only to watch movies and web series. My own driver says that he will not recharge his data to watch political events." While all parties claim to have a definite presence in the virtual world and exude confidence about campaigning on social media, it is the candidates and aspirants who are worried. "Now that even cycle rallies have been banned, how do we connect with our voters? Electioneering involves a personal touch where you go and meet voters, seek their support and blessings. You cannot expect to get votes through WhatsApp message and Facebook," said a Samajwadi Party (SP) legislator. He said that there was insufficient time for a door-to-door campaign too. "My constituency goes to polls in the first phase and I cannot cover the entire constituency in this manner. People want to meet their candidates and virtual rallies by leaders are not enough." Several candidates are now apprehensive that if the curbs continue beyond January 15, it could impact voter turnout. A BSP candidate from Kanpur said that since there was no physical campaigning, voters cannot be mobilised only through social media. "We know how difficult it is to get voters-especially those from educated class-to come out and vote on the polling day. Most people prefer to relax at home since it is a holiday," he said. Political analysts, on the other, are still unsure about the impact that virtual campaigning will have on voter turnout. Senior journalist R.K. Singh said: "We still do not know how virtual campaigning will impact voter turnout. There are still people even in urban areas who are not active on social media. The virtual campaign will have an impact on young voters but there is doubt about the elderly ones who may not be enthused enough to come out and vote." An election official, however, said that virtual campaigning will lead to a rise in voter turnout because voters in the state are "mature and smart". Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/battle-for-up-aspirants-apprehensive-of-virtual-campaigning-1069789.html
10-01-2022||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh tests positive for Covid||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said that he had tested positive for Covid. In a tweet, he said, "I have tested positive for Corona today with mild symptoms. I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested." Former Union Minister and Lok Sabha member Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore also tested positive for Covid on Monday. Union Minister Rajeev Chandrashekhar tested positive on Sunday. In a tweet, he had said: "And after succeeding in avoiding #COVID19 for last 21 months, it finally catches up wth me tdy as I tested +ve tdy." Recently several Union Ministers tested positive for Covid. These include Mahendra Nath Pandey, Raosaheb Patil Danve, Bharti Pawar, Nityanand Rai, and S P Singh Baghel. BJP MPs Varun Gandhi and Manoj Tiwari also tested positive for Covid. Tiwari, however, has recovered from infection as recent report on Saturday came negative. Today, India registered single-day rise of 1,79,723 new Covid cases and 146 deaths. I have tested positive for Corona today with mild symptoms. I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-1069802.html
10-01-2022||National||India's Covid-19 hospitalisation rate at 5-10%, says Centre||The hospitalisation rate during the third wave of Covid-19 is 5-10 per cent of the active cases at the moment, but the situation can change rapidly any moment, the Union government informed the states on Monday, asking them to make arrangements for additional manpower in case of such a rise. The current rate of hospitalisation was less than 20-23 per cent seen during the second wave but the situation could change, the Centre warned. "During the second surge of Covid cases, it was seen that the percentage of active cases that needed hospitalised care were in the range of 20-23 per cent. In the present surge, 5-10 per cent of active cases needed hospitalisation so far. The situation is dynamic and evolving, therefore, the need for hospitalisation may also change rapidly,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the states. The states have been asked to arrange for additional manpower and conserve the hospital resources by incorporating medical and nursing students in Covid-19 management and restricting the elective procedures. A sharp rise in Covid-19 cases – India recorded 1.79 lakh new cases on Sunday and the number is likely to race past the 2 lakh mark on Monday – and an increase in positivity rate is being seen all over the country due to the Omicron-driven third wave and continued presence of Delta variant. According to the National Institute of Epidemiology, India’s test positivity rate (seven-day rolling average) stands at 8.6 per cent, but the numbers are much higher in West Bengal (26 per cent), Maharashtra (17 per cent) and Delhi (15.6 per cent). With the states setting up jumbo health facilities, field hospitals and temporary hospitals to deal with the new surge, the ministry reminded them of the limitations they face in terms of infrastructure and manpower. "It is important to conserve healthcare workers by initiating staggering wherever possible and by restricting elective procedures in the hospitals,” he wrote. In addition, the states have been advised to earmark different categories of beds at private hospitals in consultation with their management. Also the local administration has been asked to ensure that the charges are reasonable and there is a mechanism to monitor any case of overcharging. Retired government doctors and MBBS students are to be roped in for tele-consultation services whereas additional ambulances and private vehicles are to be requisitioned to improve the referral transport. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-hospitalisation-rate-at-5-10-says-centre-1069804.html
10-01-2022||National||Inclusive classrooms will help children understand challenges the country is facing : Pradhan||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday urged schools to reflect how inclusive our leading schools are and what more can be done towards ensuring that every child in the country gets the best education. Pradhan made the comments in his virtual address during the 82nd Indian Public Schools' Conference (IPSC) Principals' Conclave organised by the Doon School. "National Education Policy (2020) focusses on equitable and inclusive education with special emphasis given on socially and economically disadvantaged groups. An inclusive classroom benefits everyone from myriad experiences and viewpoints, and understand the various challenges facing this country. "I urge all schools attending the conclave to reflect how inclusive our leading schools are and what more can be done towards ensuring that every child in the country gets the best education," Pradhan said. The minister stated that a knowledgeable individual is the building block of a good society, a just society, and a progressive society. "The will to learn, apply and pass that knowledge forward has pushed humanity as far as it has, from discovering fire, to farming, to soaring past the skies and floating amongst the stars. It is the duty of every single one of us to do what is best for our children to give them the fundamental right to education, to guide them to their full potential, and thereby make our country and this world a better, more inclusive place," he said. The IPSC, since its inception in 1939, has guided public schools in India in forming traditions that also build character and personality of students engendering a well-rounded education. The annual meet, which started with few residential schools, now has a strength of 81 schools including Sainik Schools and Military Schools. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inclusive-classrooms-will-help-children-understand-challenges-the-country-is-facing-pradhan-1069825.html
10-01-2022||National||Indian hospitals have plenty of Covid beds for children||Indian states have reserved more than double the Covid-19 hospital beds for children than recommended by federal experts out of fear of being under-prepared, government data shows, although doctors say not many youngsters have needed critical care yet. India reported 1,79,723 new cases on Monday, taking the total to 3.57 crore, the highest in the world after the United States. Deaths rose by 146 to 4,83,936, only behind the tally of the United States and Brazil. Data showed that India has more than 24,000 paediatric ICU beds, compared with a recommendation of fewer than 10,000 beds from a federal taskforce. Similarly, there are 64,796 non-ICU beds for children, much higher than the suggested 27,682. Since the last major infection wave in India starting April, the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in the eastern state of Bihar has kept aside 16 ICU beds for children affected by Covid-19. "None of the beds has been occupied since the beginning, but we have reserved them in case the third wave affects kids," Raj Kamal Choudhary, associate professor of medicine at the hospital with some 800 total beds, told Reuters. "States are scared and prepared because kids below 15 years have not been vaccinated. I support the decision of states to have more beds ready than recommended." There is no centralised public data on how many children have needed hospital care due to Covid-19 in India, but countries such as the United States and Britain have seen a rise in hospitalisation in children due to the fast-spreading Omicron variant. India has some 1,39,000 Covid-19 ICU beds in total, compared with 1,95,390 recommended. Oxygen-supported beds, which ran short during the second wave last year, have increased to nearly 4,95,000, still lower than over 5,19,000 suggested by experts. Basic isolation beds, however, are a plenty at more than 10 lakh. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-hospitals-have-plenty-of-covid-beds-for-children-1069830.html
10-01-2022||National||Total employment in 9 select sectors rises to 3.10 crore in July-September 2021||An estimated 3.10 crore people are working in nine core non-farming sectors, including manufacturing, construction and transport, in July-September last year, marking a rise of two lakh from April-June quarter and from 2.37 crore reported in the Economic Census of 2013-14, a government survey said on Monday. The second round of Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) for July-September 2021 released by Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav also showed women participation in the workforce of these nine sectors was  32.1%, up from 29.3% reported during the first round of QES. According to the Economic Census of 2013-14, the latest available, 2.37 crore people were employed in nine core non-farming sectors -- manufacturing, construction, trade, transport, education, health, accommodation and restaurants, IT/BPOs and financial services. The women participation in the workforce was 31% in 2013-14. The QES, an establishment-based survey, is aimed to provide employment estimates for a sizable segment of the non-farm economy covering nine sectors and the first round was held in April-June last year. The nine sectors chosen for the survey account for around 85% of the total employment in the establishments with 10 or more workers. The manufacturing sector accounted for the highest estimated employment at 39.1%, but it was lower than 40.6% reported in the first round of survey. The education sector came second with 22%, up from 21.8% in the first round followed by Health 10.8% as against 8.4% and IT/BPO sector 10.7%, a substantial increase from 6.7% recorded in the first round of the survey.  The transport sector was another sector which saw a rise in employment -- from 4.3% to 4.6% -- along with accommodation and the restaurant sector 2.4% to 2.5%. However, employment in the trade sector witnessed a slide from 6.6% to 5.3% while financial services saw a sharp dip from 5.7% to 2.8%. The survey showed that 90% of the establishments have been estimated to work with less than 100 workers, though 30% of the IT/BPO establishments worked with at least 100 workers, including about 12% engaging 500 workers or more. The survey showed that the IT/BPO sector had only 21% establishments with 100 to 499 employees during the first round while it was 14% in the more than 500 employees category.  In the Health sector, 19% of the establishments had 100 or more workers. Also, in the case of the transport sector, 14% of the total estimated establishments were operating with 100 or more workers.  Regular workers constitute 87% of the estimated workforce in the nine selected sectors, with only 2% being casual workers. However, in the Construction sector, 20% of the workers were contractual and 6.4% were casual workers. Most (98.3%) of the establishments were located outside households, though a highest 5.1 % of units in the accommodation and restaurants sector were found to operate from within households. On the education front, the survey said 28.4% of those working in seven of the nine sectors -- excluding Education and Health -- were matriculates/secondary or less educated, while another 37% were graduates or had higher qualifications. In fact, the share of graduates or above was as high as 91.6% in the IT/BPO sector and 59.8% in Financial Services. In the Health sector, as few as 18% of the non-clinical workers were matriculates/secondary or less educated, the figure being 26.4% in the non-teaching staff of the education sector. More than 40% of the employees in these two sectors were at least graduates. Estimated Number of Workers* Manufacturing -- 1,21,40,949 Construction -- 6,07,013 Trade -- 16,45,934 Transport -- 14,44,410 Education -- 68,47,572 Health -- 33,45,206 Accommodation & Restaurants -- 7,77,437 IT/BPOs -- 33,21,288 Financial Services -- 8,73,336 * In firms with 10 or more workers Source: 2nd round of Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) for July-September 2021||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/total-employment-in-9-select-sectors-rises-to-310-crore-in-july-september-2021-1069851.html
10-01-2022||National||Secretaries General of LS, RS asked to submit proposals on holding Budget Session||Secretaries General of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were on Monday asked to submit proposals on holding the Budget Session with effective safety measures, amid Covid-19 cases rising in the country and around 400 Parliament employees testing positive for the virus. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu held a meeting with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla following which they directed the Secretaries General to examine in detail the prevailing scenario and suggest effective measures for safe conduct of the upcoming Budget session. They asked both the officials to review the adequacy of the Covid-19 protocol followed during the last Winter Session in the context of the third wave of Covid-19. The 2020 Monsoon Session was the first session held under Covid-19 protocol with Rajya sabha meeting in the first half of the day and Lok Sabha during second half. This was followed for the first part of the Budget Session 2021. But since the second phase of Budget Session 2021, the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha reverted to normal timings but members sitting in the chambers and galleries of respective Houses.  On Sunday, DH reported, 398 people working in Parliament House have tested positive for Covid-19 between January 4 and 7 prompting authorities to impose restrictions on attendance on officials and staff. Sources said 200 from Lok Sabha Secretariat, 65 from Rajya Sabha Secretariat and 133 of allied services have tested positive for the virus infection between January 4 and 8.  Separately, a number of MPs are writing to Parliamentary Standing Committee chairmen to postpone the scheduled meetings owing to the third wave. "I requested the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha on the last day of the Winter Session to allow online meetings of Standing Committees.  And yet again this was disallowed. Now, important Committee meetings are being put off. I simply cannot understand why online meetings cannot be held!" Rajya Sabha Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh, who also heads the panel on Science and Technology, tweeted.  I requested Chairman of the Rajya Sabha on the last day of the Winter Session to allow online meetings of Standing Committees. And yet again this was disallowed. Now, important Committee meetings are being put off. I simply cannot understand why online meetings cannot be held! Sources had earlier said that online meetings of Parliamentary committees cannot be allowed at present as the Parliament has to clear the proposal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/secretaries-general-of-ls-rs-asked-to-submit-proposals-on-holding-budget-session-1069874.html
10-01-2022||National||I used to like him as an actor but this was not nice: Saina on Siddharth's remark||Badminton ace Saina Nehwal on Monday said it was "not nice" to see actor Siddharth's unsavoury remark after she expressed concerns on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent security breach and he could have used "better words" to comment on the matter. Siddharth's reply to the Olympic bronze medallist's tweet on PM Modi's security breach has attracted much flak, with the National Commission for Women (NCW) asking Twitter India to "immediately" block the actor's account. "Yeah, I'm not sure what he meant. I used to like him as an actor but this was not nice. He can express himself with better words but I guess it's Twitter and you remain noticed with such words and comments," Saina, who is also a BJP member, said in a statement. "If the security of the PM of India is an issue then I'm not sure what is secure in the country," she added. Reacting to Modi's security breach during his visit to Punjab, Saina had tweeted, "No nation can claim itself to be safe if the security of its own PM gets compromised. I condemn, in the strongest words possible, the cowardly attack on PM Modi by anrachists." In response to this, Siddharth had tweeted, "Subtle cock champion of the world…Thank God we have protectors of India (sic)." The NCW, which is headed by Rekha Sharma, said it has taken cognisance of the matter. "@NCWIndia has taken cognisance. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to @DGPMaharashtra for investigating & registering FIR in the matter. NCW has also written to @TwitterIndia for blocking the actor's account & to take appropriate action against him for posting such remarks." Following strong criticism on social media for the tweet, Siddharth said that "nothing disrespectful was intended". "'COCK & BULL' That's the reference. Reading otherwise is unfair and leading! Nothing disrespectful was intended, said or insinuated. Period," he tweeted. "COCK & BULL" That's the reference. Reading otherwise is unfair and leading! Nothing disrespectful was intended, said or insinuated. Period. 🙏🏽 Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-used-to-like-him-as-an-actor-but-this-was-not-nice-saina-on-siddharths-remark-1069876.html
10-01-2022||National||Derek O'Brien draws parallel with Tek Fog and Pegasus, insists on Parliamentary panel probe||Drawing a parallel with an app said to be used by the BJP IT Cell and Pegasus, Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien on Monday shot off a second letter to Parliamentary Standing Committee Home Chairperson Anand Sharma insisting on discussing 'Tek Fog', claiming that the use of "such manipulative technology is a danger" to national security while drawing parallel to the Pegasus controversy. "Use of such manipulative technology is a danger to national security and democratic rights of free speech and unfettered media, and a threat to individual citizens’ privacy and safety," O'Brien said in his latest letter. His letter came as news portal ‘The Wire’ reported that the BJP IT Cell was purportedly using the controversial app and allegedly hijacking trending topics on social media platforms like Twitter and taking control of inactive WhatsApp accounts and sending messages to frequently contacted numbers of the account among other things. O'Brien said in his second letter that more information about the illegal use of Tek Fog has come out and it showed that the app gives cyber troops the ability to hijack WhatsApp accounts of private citizens by sending them spyware disguised as a media file. "It then remotely accesses inactive accounts in their contact lists and uses the inactive number to send targeted messages to all their contacts. All of the hijacked number’s contacts are synced to a database on cloud, ripe for picking as future targets of disinformation and harassment...this hacking technique was formerly used by the Pegasus spyware, before the NSO Group developed an even more sophisticated zero-click hijacking method," he said in the letter. The Opposition were up in arms against the Narendra Modi government after it came to light that Opposition leaders, Constitutional post holders, activists, journalists and business honchos were suspected to be spied using the Israeli company's spyware. Referring to the investigation by the portal, O'Brien also said that the app allowed modification of existing news articles and links to them and creating fake news articles styled like true ones. "Similar sophisticated technologies have been created by companies like Open AI and Salesforce, which have expertise in Artificial Intelligence, permitting the actual creation of junk news to be done by AI models and the dissemination by networks of WhatsApp groups," he said. In his first letter, he said, "the existence and usage of manipulative technologies like Tek Fog is a severe danger to national and citizens’ security, a violation of our Fundamental Rights to Privacy and Free Speech, an exploitation of public discourse, and a defilement of the country's democracy and security." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/derek-obrien-draws-parallel-with-tek-fog-and-pegasus-insists-on-parliamentary-panel-probe-1069883.html
10-01-2022||National||Govt puts curbs on export of drug used to treat blood clots||The government on Monday imposed curbs on export of Enoxaparin, used to treat or prevent certain types of blood clot, with immediate effect. It has also put restrictions on exports of intra-venous immunoglobulin. Immunoglobulin is a component of blood's plasma.  Exporters of these products have to obtain permission or licence for its outbound shipments now.   "The export of Enoxaparin (formulation and API) and intra-venous immunoglobulin (formulation and API) ....has been put under restricted category with immediate effect," the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said in a notification. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-puts-curbs-on-export-of-drug-used-to-treat-blood-clots-1069889.html
10-01-2022||National||SC judges Chandrachud, Bopanna recuse from hearing Krishna water case||A Supreme Court bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna on Monday recused from hearing a matter related to distribution of Krishna water dispute between Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka. As the matter was called, Justice Chandrachud pointed out both him and his fellow judge Justice Bopanna belonged to Maharashtra and Karnataka respectively. Though counsel, appearing from different states, submitted that they had no objections to the bench taking up the matter, Justice Chandrachud pointed out previously judges Justice A M Khanwilkar and Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar had opted out due to similar reasons. "We don't want ourselves to be target of invectives. Day in and day out, we have been hearing cases arising out of our home States but it is better the matter is placed before some other bench," the bench said. With this, the matter is likely to be placed before the Chief Justice of India for assigning it to some other bench. A few months ago, Andhra Pradesh alleged that Telangana government has deprived it of its legitimate share of water for drinking and irrigation purposes in an “unconstitutional and illegal” manner. It further contended that Telangana was refusing to follow decisions taken in the apex council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, directions of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) constituted under this Act and directions of the Centre. "In view of no progress on notification of the jurisdiction of KRMB, Telangana by its acts of commission is seriously affecting the water supply to Andhra Pradesh for irrigation and other purposes," it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-judges-chandrachud-bopanna-recuse-from-hearing-krishna-water-case-1069890.html
10-01-2022||National||Supreme Court cancels bail to two men accused of flogging Dalit man to death||The Supreme Court on Monday cancelled bail granted to two men, facing charges of flogging a Dalit man to death on suspicion of theft in Rajkot in 2018, saying the Gujarat High Court committed "grave error" in ordering the release of the accused. A bench of Justices M R Shah and B V Nagarathna said the High Court passed the bail order "in a most perfunctory and casual manner" without considering the gravity of the offences as well as evidence collected including CCTV and mobile footage, test identification parade and statement of witnesses. The court noted deceased Mukeshbhai was brutally beaten by the accused. It rejected a contention by accused Tejas Kanubhai Zala and Jaysukhbhai Devrajbhai Radadiya that they did not misuse their liberty after their bail was granted two and half years ago. The court told them to surrender before the concerned jail authority within a period of one week. In its judgement, the top court pulled up the Gujarat government for not filing an appeal against the bail, saying "the state has failed to protect the rights of the victim in such a serious matter". "In criminal matters the party who is treated as the aggrieved party is the state which is the custodian of the social interest of the community at large and so it is for the state to take all the steps necessary for bringing the person who has acted against the social interest of the community to book," the bench added. The top court said the state ought to have been very serious even to maintain the rule of law in a serious matter like this where a person was brutally murdered or killed while he was just collecting scrap outside the factory with his wife and aunt. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-cancels-bail-to-two-men-accused-of-flogging-dalit-man-to-death-1069891.html
10-01-2022||National||Contacts of confirmed Covid cases don't need to get tested unless identified as high risk, ICMR says||The Centre on Monday asked the contacts of Covid-19 patients not to test themselves unless they belong to the “at risk” category due to their age or comorbidities. The Indian Council of Medical Research, in a new advisory on Covid testing, says the contacts of confirmed cases of Covid-19 need not undergo testing unless identified as high risk based on age or comorbidities. Others not requiring Covid-19 tests are (1) asymptomatic individuals in community settings (2) patients who stand discharged as per home isolation guidelines (3) patients being discharged from a Covid-19 facility as per the revised discharge policy and (4) individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel. The new testing strategy is in sync with the Centre’s new home isolation policy in which it has been suggested that a person is not required to undergo a Covid-19 test after a seven-day isolation period if he/she doesn’t have fever for the previous three days. The changes come at a time when a highly transmissible Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 is sweeping through the country triggering an unprecedented rise in the fresh Covid cases. Last month, the Union Health Ministry said that the Omicron variant is at least three times more transmissible than the Delta variant that caused the second wave. In a community setting, the Covid-19 tests are to be conducted for symptomatic individuals (cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste and/or smell, breathlessness and/or other respiratory symptoms) and the at-risk contacts of laboratory confirmed cases. Such contacts are the elderly population more than 60 years and individuals with co-morbidity such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic lung or kidney disease, malignancy, and obesity. In addition, individuals undertaking international travel are required to be tested. Also international travelers arriving at Indian ports of entries are required to be tested. India’s current level of daily tests stands between 13 lakh and 15 lakh per day. In a hospital, the Covid-19 tests are to be carried out as per the discretion of a doctor, but no emergency procedure should be delayed due to the lack of a Covid test, according to the revised ICMR guideline. Moreover, the patients should not be referred to other facilities for lack of a testing facility and all arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities, mapped to the health facility. Asymptomatic patients undergoing surgical or non-surgical invasive procedures including pregnant women in or near labour who are hospitalized for delivery should not be tested unless warranted or symptoms develop. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/contacts-of-confirmed-covid-cases-dont-need-to-get-tested-unless-identified-as-high-risk-icmr-says-1069899.html
10-01-2022||National||National Youth Parliament organises two-day Budget Dialogues 2022||The National Youth Parliament (NYP) has organised two-day Budget Dialogues 2022, where 150 selected school students from across India will prepare the Union Budget.   “Through Budget Dialogues 2022, we wish to harness the creative and entrepreneurial instinct of India’s youth to transform India into the land of our dreams,” Kartikeya Goel, Founder & President of NYP, said in a statement. More than 5,000 students from over 100 schools across India had participated in the preliminary stages. Among them, the best 150 students have been selected as Youth Parliamentarians. These Youth Parliamentarians have been assigned different ministries and have been mandated to present a budget from the perspective of the youth, he said. Guided by a set of experts, these Youth Parliamentarians have done their research and will present their budgets at a two-day event on January 10 and 11. Their proposals will be debated, deliberated and finally, the budget prepared by the youth of India shall be passed. A copy of this budget shall also be presented to the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to provide the Indian government with the perspective of the youth on the budget, he said.   Founded in 2019 by Kartikeya Goel, NYP is an initiative to give the youth in India a platform to discuss, debate and deliberate on social, economic, and political issues. NYP believes that such debate allows for a better appreciation of complex issues by the youth and the politicians. It also has the power to create new ideas and policies which are inclusive and implementable, the statement added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-youth-parliament-organises-two-day-budget-dialogues-2022-1069913.html
10-01-2022||National||Minimal or no improvement in air pollution levels, Ghaziabad most polluted: NCAP report||Delhi and most of the other non-attainment cities under the Centre's National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), launched exactly three years ago, have shown only a marginal improvement while some have recorded an increase in PM levels, said a new analysis released on Monday. NCAP was implemented across India in 2019 to reduce particulate matter (PM) levels in 132 cities by 20-30 per cent in 2024. The analysis by NCAP Tracker, a joint project by news portal 'Carbon Copy' and a Maharashtra-based start-up 'Respirer Living Sciences', designed to track India's progress in achieving the clean air targets set under the NCAP, ranked Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh as the most polluted city out of the 132 non-attainment cities listed under the NCAP with highest levels of PM 2.5 and PM 10. Delhi was the second most polluted city in the list of cities with the highest PM 2.5 level and fourth in cities with the highest PM 10 level. Despite the constant focus on the air pollution woes of the capital city, Delhi reduced its PM levels only marginally, the analysis said. "Based on the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System (CAAQMS) data, its PM 2.5 levels dropped from 108 ug/m3 in 2019 to 102 ug/m3 in 2021 and its PM 10 levels reduced from 217 ug/m3 to 207 ug/m3 during the same period, it said, adding that Delhi's PM 2.5 level continues to be more than 2.5 times the CPCB's safe limit of 40 ug/m3 and 20 times the WHO's safe limit of 5ug/m3," it said. “The data shows there has been little or no progress on ground. An analysis of the government's air quality data shows that not only have most non-attainment cities reduced PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels only marginally but some have also recorded an increase,” the analysis pointed out. According to the three-year comparative analysis, Ghaziabad, with annual PM 2.5 level above 100, remained at the top of the table in the most polluted cities, except in 2020, when Lucknow ranked first with an annual PM 2.5 level of 116. “Most other cities like Noida, Delhi, Moradabad and Jodhpur saw only a marginal dip in PM 2.5 level and remained in the top 10 polluted non-attainment cities throughout the year. Varanasi, with its drastic dip in PM 2.5 level, went from the fifth rank in 2019 to the 37th in 2021,” it said. Among the cities where PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels for 2019 and 2021 were available and monitors had an uptime of at least 50 per cent, Varanasi recorded the highest reduction and only 36 out of the 132 cities met the criteria. The analysis dives deep into the data publicly available under CAAQMS and National Air Quality Monitoring Program (NAMP) to rank the top 10 most and least polluted cities in 2019 and tracks their progress at the end of 2021. The other cities that have already met its reduction target of at least 20 per cent were Hubli, West Bengal, where PM 2.5 and PM 10 reduced by 42 per cent and 40 per cent respectively and Talcher, Odisha, which saw a PM 2.5 reduction of 20 per cent and PM 10 reduction of 53 per cent. Ahmedabad recorded a 26 per cent decrease in PM 10 level. On the other hand, Navi Mumbai's PM 2.5 level increased from 39 ug/m3 to 53 ug/m3 and PM 10 level from 96 ug/m3 to 122 ug/m3 in two years. With little gains in terms of PM reduction, recent data from the Ministry of Environment shows that the money spent across the states is dismal too. Under NCAP, Rs 375.44 crore has been provided to 114 cities during 2018-19 to 2020-2021 and Rs 290 crore is allocated to 82 cities for the financial year 2021-2022. The programme has an allocation of Rs 700 crore envisaged for 2021-2026, the analysis said. “However, data presented at the NCAP's National Apex Committee recently showed that most states have used little of the funds allocated to them,” it said. With only three months to the next financial year, only Bihar and Chandigarh have used 76 per cent and 81 per cent, respectively. Uttar Pradesh, which houses several of the most polluted cities, has used up only 16 per cent of the Rs 60 crore allocated to it. Maharashtra, the state with most non-attainment cities, has used less than 8 per cent of the allocated Rs 51 crore. Maharashtra's Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Nashik saw their pollution levels increase from 2019 to 2021, the CAAQMS data showed. Ronak Sutaria, CEO and founder, Respirer Living Sciences, said that the top 10 most polluted cities from 2019 continue to occupy the table in 2021 too. “This goes to show how hard the problem of reducing air pollution is... Ghaziabad has remained the #1 most polluted city, with Delhi #2 and Noida #3. The sources in these cities are affecting the entire airshed,” he said. Giving the credit to rains for bringing down pollution in Delhi, Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends, said the governance of air quality issues is not making required progress. “The two times Delhi had good air quality in the last six months was due to more than normal rains bringing down pollutants and not much due to the efforts on reducing air pollution,” she said. Khosla said that a review of the NCAP in the last three years shows that despite the programme's focus on improving air quality monitoring, only 36 out of 132 non-attainment cities had enough data available to analyse their performance. “Overall, data shows low fund utilisation. Clearly, the governance of air quality issues is not making the progress at the scale needed. Regions with multiple sources of pollution, including industry, transport, local sources like construction and also geographical and meteorological factors show as recurrent defaulters on the list. “The new Air Quality Commission for Delhi does talk about tackling air pollution as a region but there is much more needed on the nuts and bolts of getting good institutions, and governing air quality,” she said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minimal-or-no-improvement-in-air-pollution-levels-ghaziabad-most-polluted-ncap-report-1069915.html
10-01-2022||National||Extensive disinfection drive planned in Parliament complex amid surge in Covid cases||An extensive disinfection drive will be undertaken in the parliament complex in the next three days amid a surge in Covid cases across the country and around 400 Parliament staff members testing positive for the infection, sources said on Monday. Earlier in the day, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla asked officials to chalk out measures to hold a safe Budget Session. The presiding officers of the two Houses had directed the secretaries general of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha to examine in detail the prevailing scenario of the Covid pandemic and suggest measures for the safe conduct of the Budget session, sources said. Though the dates have not yet been announced, the Budget Session usually begins at the end of January. After the directive, an extensive disinfection drive will be undertaken in the parliament complex in the next "two-three" days. According to sources, Naidu had called up Birla and the two took stock of the situation and directed both secretaries general accordingly.  Congress leader Jairam Ramesh wondered why parliamentary panels were not being allowed to meet virtually amid riding coronavirus cases. "I requested Chairman of the Rajya Sabha on the last day of the Winter Session to allow online meetings of Standing Committees. And yet again this was disallowed. Now, important committee meetings are being put off. I simply cannot understand why online meetings cannot be held," he wrote on Twitter. The Monsoon Session of 2020 was the first full session held under Covid protocol with the Rajya Sabha meeting in the first half of the day and Lok Sabha during the second half. The same protocol was followed for the first part of the Budget Session in 2021. For the second part of the Budget session, and the Monsoon and Winter sessions last year, Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha reverted to normal timings with members sitting in the chambers and galleries of respective Houses. According to sources, 65 employees of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, 200 of the Lok Sabha Secretariat and 133 of allied services tested positive for Covid-19 between January 4 and 8 during regular tests.  Both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats have asked the employees to work at 50 per cent capacity to avoid crowding at the workspace. Pregnant women and people with disabilities have been asked against attending office. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extensive-disinfection-drive-planned-in-parliament-complex-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-1069969.html
10-01-2022||National||India will continue to press China for return of thousands of stranded Indians: Top diplomat||India will continue to take up with China the return of over 23,000 stranded Indian students, besides a large number of Indian workers and their families who are currently stranded back home for the last two years due to travel restrictions imposed by Beijing due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior diplomat has said. “For our diaspora in China, the last couple of years have been particularly challenging in view of travel restrictions imposed due to the pandemic”, charge d'affaires of the Indian Embassy Dr Acquino Vimal said during a meeting of expats on Pravasi Bharatiya Divas here on Sunday. “Here, I would like to assure you all that we at the Embassy have never failed to raise your concerns with all the relevant authorities at every possible opportunity. We will continue to do so till we arrive at an acceptable solution,” he said. Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, China stopped issuing visas for Indians in 2020 and currently, there were no flights in operation between the two countries due to which over 23,000 Indian students, mostly studying medicine in Chinese colleges as well as hundreds of Indian businessmen and their families were stranded back home. Last year, the Ministry of External Affairs said that since New Delhi had not imposed any travel restrictions on Chinese nationals in India, Beijing should also reciprocate accordingly. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-continue-to-press-china-for-return-of-thousands-of-stranded-indians-top-diplomat-1070004.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||EC must curb rising misuse of religion in politics during polls: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday expressed concern over the "increasing" use of religion in politics during elections and said the Election Commission must curb this “worrying” trend. Her remarks came a day after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the assembly elections in the state will be an “80 per cent versus 20 per cent” one, alluding to the roughly 20 per cent Muslim population. "In the past few years, during the elections, there have been attempts to derive electoral advantage using religion. This impacts the election and the entire country is worried about this,” Mayawati told reporters on Sunday. “The Election Commission should take serious steps to curb the narrow politics of selfishness as was evident in the past few years," she added. Accusing the Adityanath government of foisting a “jungle raj” through its biased policies, Mayawati also claimed that the BJP will lose the 2022 elections "if there is no misuse of government machinery and there are no discrepancies in EVMs". “The BJP will be thrown out of power this time, provided there is no misuse of government machinery and there are no discrepancies in voting machines," she said while urging the poll panel to “keep an eye on it”. Elaborating the reasons for her claim that the BVJP will be thrown out of power, Mayawati said, “Owing to the biased approach of the (BJP) government, a 'jungle raj' of criminals is prevailing.” “Due to this, people of every caste and section are feeling very sad. A section of the upper caste, which had in the previous elections voted enthusiastically for the BJP, is feeling very sad,” she added, insinuating that even upper caste voters will not support the BJP. Without naming the Samajwadi Party, Mayawati said, "In the state, there is a party, which is dreaming of bagging 400 out of 403 seats (of the UP legislative assembly) by banking on people who have been expelled from other parties and allying with other parties.” “Their dreams, however, will be shattered on March 10. The BJP and other parties too will face the same situation. Only the BSP can give a popular government," she added. Mayawati also said there has been a gross violation of the model code of conduct in the holding of rallies and roadshows amid the Covid pandemic. The fear of the Election Commission must be there in the government machinery too and only then the elections can be successfully held, she added. Claiming her party to be a "disciplined" one, she sought to assure that it will strictly adhere to the model code of conduct for which the party cadre too will be instructed separately. She also demanded that adequate arrangements should be made at hyper-sensitive booths for Dalits and people from the weaker sections of the society so that they could cast their votes. Urging people to be wary of “alluring poll manifestoes of rival parties”, she said they must not be carried away by promises of freebies. She said she has called a meeting of senior party leaders to select party candidates while claiming that her party will perform well in Uttarakhand and Punjab. In Punjab, the BSP has allied with the Shiromani Akali Dal. The BSP chief also asked people not to be misled by survey agencies which show the BSP "out of the race" till voting. "In the 2007 UP assembly elections, the BSP was kept out of the poll race and it was shown that the SP and BJP were in the contest. However, when the results came, these parties were much behind us," she said, adding that the 2007 situation will be replicated this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-must-curb-rising-misuse-of-religion-in-politics-during-polls-mayawati-1069688.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||DH Toon | Bengaluru Covid numbers not alarming, says DKS||“The BJP hatched a conspiracy against padayatra and declared weekend curfew in Ramanagara district though Covid numbers are not alarming here", said Shivakumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-bengaluru-covid-numbers-not-alarming-says-dks-1069692.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||Punjab Elections 2022: A crowded, chaotic affair||As Punjab is set to vote on February 14 for assembly elections 2022, an air of political uncertainty looms. The state has witnessed high drama in the past year and continues to remain in news. What began as farmers' protests at an unprecedented scale, moved to Akali Dal abandoning the BJP, followed by the change of CMs, and most recently, the drama over an alleged lapse in the security during PM Narendra Modi's visit to the state.  Not to forget Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party and a coalition of farmers that are now going to be contenders to be dealt with. The elections in the northern state are now a multi-party and multifaceted affair, and will set the course for the future of top leaders. Will Captain Amarinder Singh be able to avenge his ouster, or the relatively fresh face Charanjit Singh Channi hold on to the seat? Many such questions will be answered only on the counting day.  Each party is facing its own woes. Akali Dal is going to the polls without BJP as an ally., for the first time since 1996. And as for BJP itself, the party is hoping to scramble some support after the repeal of farm laws, which apparently dented its hold substantially. Congress, which came to power with an overwhelming majority in 2017, is yet to maintain poise after Amarinder's exit. Channi, a Dalit leader who wants to come off as someone with roots on the ground, has been kept busy through his relatively brief stint as chief of the state.  Punjab is crucial for Congress, a party that has struggled to keep its leaders together. State party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's tirades against his own party and his alleged role in the ouster of Amarinder have also sparked some angst. Channi has the responsibility of displaying collective leadership to win over enough votes to hold on to the power.  Amarinder has predictably moved on to form a party (Lok Congress Party) to aid the BJP, an eternal beneficiary of the tussles in the grand old party. The saffron party is increasingly trying to portray itself as the saviour of the border state and recent drama over PM's security has only added to their narrative. Meanwhile, AAP does not have a CM face as of now, but Kejriwal has held campaigns in the state, promising his model of development and multiple vows of benefits.  Akali Dal is left for Sukhbir Badal only now. The nonagenarian party veteran Parkash Singh Badal is still around and remains a crowd-puller for the Dal but their key sell remains their decision to abandon BJP in the wake of farmers' agitations.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-elections-2022-a-crowded-chaotic-affair-1069723.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||Elections right time to defeat hatred: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the upcoming assembly elections are a right time to defeat hatred. Assembly elections in five states including in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases starting February 10 to March 7. The counting shall take place on March 10, the Election Commission has announced.  "This is the right opportunity to defeat hatred.#Elections2022, " Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress is seeking to defeat the BJP in states of Uttar Pradesh,  Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, while seeking to retain power in Punjab. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/elections-right-time-to-defeat-hatred-rahul-gandhi-1069780.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||Congress CEC to meet to finalise tickets for state Asembly polls||The Congress Central Election Committee is scheduled to meet on Monday to finalise tickets for phase 1 elections in UP and the first list for Punjab, Manipur and Uttarakhand. Except in Goa, the party has not announced any list of candidates in the states going for polls. The Congress meeting will be held virtually in wake of Covid situation. The party's screening committees for states have filtered the names of the probable candidates which have been sent to the central panel. The Congress in Uttarakhand has more or less decided to give one ticket per family which has been an issue of conflict as some leaders want ticket for their kin, but sources say that this criteria may be waived for winnable candidates. In UP, the party has decided to give 40 per cent ticket to women and the party is likely to release the first list with the same quota to keep the momentum going. In Punjab, the Congress will have a risk in ticket distribution with state president Navjot Singh Sidhu asserting for more tickets to his supporters, so the party has to balance itself in ticket distribution. In Goa, the party has already released two lists but many leaders are upset that their name has been ignored by the party. The Congress has decided not to project Chief Ministerial face to overcome internal rift. Congress sources say that it will only be decided after the results and Congress legislature party will decide the new leader with the consent of the high command as except at few occasions, the party has not projected a chief minister's face. The Congress leaders in Punjab and Uttarakhand want to project the face of Chief Minister as supporters of Harish Rawat, former Uttarakhand CM and Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Punjab unit chief want to be projected as Chief Minister's face. But Congress will not take risk to alienate the other factions ahead of polls. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-cec-to-meet-to-finalise-tickets-for-state-asembly-polls-1069784.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||BJP creating Hindu-Muslim divide for elections, alleges Mehbooba Mufti||Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti Monday alleged that the ruling BJP was dividing Hindus and Muslims in the country “as the party has nothing to offer on the developmental front.” “They (BJP) only have one agenda in their hands which is rioting between Hindus and Muslims of the country,” she told reports at the party office in Srinagar. The firebrand PDP chief alleged that the BJP wants to break the harmony between the two communities “for which they are attacking the age-old communal harmony of the nation to win elections". Mehbooba, who along with three former chief ministers of the erstwhile state, Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Ghulam Nabi Azad recently lost Special Security Group (SSG) protection, also claimed that the government was afraid of the struggle carried out by her party for the people of J&K. “Covid-19 protocols come only when PDP leaders and workers have to visit for Fateh Khwani (prayers) at their leader’s (party founder Mufti Mohammad Sayeed’s) grave. Maybe the administration is scared of our party as PDP always stands with the truth,” she said. On January 6, Jammu and Kashmir Police booked 10 Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders, including a former minister, for violating Covid protocols during a gathering to mark the sixth death anniversary of late Mufti. The PDP leaders were booked on the directions of the Tehsildar of Bijbehara town in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district for “disobedience” and “unlawfully or negligently spreading an infection”. Mehbooba, who was chief minister of the PDP-BJP coalition in J&K from April 2016 to June 2018, said that her party will continue the struggle until “all motives get fulfilled and they will fight against all odds.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-creating-hindu-muslim-divide-for-elections-alleges-mehbooba-mufti-1069794.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||Jolt to Congress as another leader quits to join SP||In yet another jolt to the Congress, the party national secretary Imran Masood announced on Monday that he would join Samajwadi Party (SP). "Under the prevailing political conditions, we need to support the SP to prevent the division of votes of like-minded people and provide good governance in Uttar Pradesh to put it on the path of development and progress," he said. Masood said that although Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was working hard in Uttar Pradesh, the party is weak in the state. He claimed the Congress had given him "honour and respect", but "it is the need of the hour to work together to support a similar ideology to prevent the division of votes of youths, women and farmers who have similar thinking". SP spokesman Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said: "This trend of people from various parties moving towards SP is an indication of who is coming to power. Most of the disgruntled leaders of the BSP, the Congress, and the BJP are joining our party. There must be a strong wave in favour of the SP, and that is why leaders from other parties are trusting the visionary leadership of Akhilesh Yadav." Several leaders have left Congress in recent months. From Jitin Prasada, to Annu Tandon to Laliteshpati Tripathi, these leaders have expressed their resentment at the leadership's failure to address issues. Masood had been seeking a tie-up between the Congress and SP for the upcoming Assembly polls. He had won in 2007 as an independent and fought from Nakur in the 2012 Assembly polls on a Congress ticket, but lost. He joined the SP in 2013, only to return to the Congress the following year. Masood had stirred controversy in 2014 when he threatened to kill Narendra Modi when the latter was campaigning to be Prime Minister. He arrested for the comments. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jolt-to-congress-as-another-leader-quits-to-join-sp-1069814.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||BJP planning virtual outreach for voters in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh||To deal with the Election Commission’s ban on physical poll rallies till January 15, the Bharatiya Janata Party is working on a detailed plan for virtual outreach to the voters in Uttar Pradesh. Virtual rallies and the dissemination of these across thousands of WhatsApp groups, backended by a system to host lakhs of viewers is at the heart of the saffron party’s digital campaign network. A senior party functionary from the party’s headquarters told DH that during the three-day long meeting of the party’s core committee for Uttar Pradesh, which started Tuesday, the schedules of virtual rallies of the party’s four senior leaders –  prime minister Narendra Modi, president Jagat Prasad Nadda, home minister Amit Shah, and defence minister Rajnath Singh are being chalk out. Sources said that PM Modi is scheduled to have a rally days after January 14.  The BJP UP unit is working on scheduling the rallies of UP CM Yogi Adityanath. “We have just finished the first phase of the poll campaign on January 9 with the Jan Vishwas rallies. We are meeting soon to discuss the second phase of the campaign, which will be largely digital,” said the leader. BJP leaders said that during the Covid period rallies where 8 to 10 lakh people have connected have already been successfully conducted. Similar rallies using Zoom and Webex are being worked out. But this time, the party is creating a studio of sorts in the podium, where with video mixing and projection two or three leaders connecting from different locations can be viewed as being part of the podium. Three major rallies, of Nadda, and union ministers Narendra Tomar and Smriti Irani on the party’s ‘Sewa hi sangathan’ were conducted in this fashion, in addition to several rallies of PM Modi earlier. State IT Cell head Kameshwar Mishra said that the IT unit that is backending poll efforts started work in April 2020, days after the first lockdown was announced. “We anticipated in advance with covid spreading, and we never shut down office during two lockdowns even for a day,” said Mishra over the phone. Over 12,000 party workers are working as part of the unit, divided into two parts. The party’s social media unit has 8000-odd members, while the IT department has 4000 workers. If the covid situation continues, the party plans to rope in more cameramen, OB vans to telecast rallies on traditional platforms, and buy a lot more bandwidth that it has. The rallies, a leader involved in the party’s tech efforts said, will be pushed out in all of the party’s WhatsApp groups amounting to more than 2 lakh. As part of the Whatsapp hierarchical structure, the BJP has booth-level, mandal-level, and district wise groups. This does not include the WhatsApp groups spread across the six regions that the party has already divided the state in. These rallies will be designed for different segments of voters. Jawan (youth) and kisan (farmers), as well as women form the largest target groups. In addition to that, the party has been working on using technology to take Mann Ki Baat to voters to the booth level. Door to door efforts will be taken up, too, as the EC has allowed for four to five party workers to be part of that. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-planning-virtual-outreach-for-voters-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-1069916.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||AAP may just fall short of majority in Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress are projected to poll 40 per cent and 36 per cent votes in Punjab, respectively, as per the ABP-CVOTER Battle for the States survey. The 117-member Punjab Assembly will go to the polls on February 14, and the counting of votes will be taken up on March 10. The numbers could propel the AAP in pole-position as far as the race for Punjab is concerned, as per the survey. But despite the lead in vote share, AAP may just fall short of majority due to regional distribution of voter base. Also, Congress is benefiting from its Mayawati moment by installing the first Dalit CM in the state, Charanjit Singh Channi, thus consolidating its hold over Dalit voters. The sample size for the survey was 14,360 across 117 Assembly seats in Punjab. Regardless of AAP's continued lead, there is a distinct possibility of amplification of the current trend of convergence with Congress' vote share. If the race tightens any further, the eventual outcome will be decided on a seat-by-seat basis. Therefore, candidate selection may become very important. Which brings us to the conclusion that this is a waveless election in Punjab. For all the political and social turmoil witnessed in the state, the electorate is remarkably split in its expression. If this situation continues to hold for another month, we may see a hung Vidhan Sabha in Punjab with AAP emerging as the single largest party, closely followed by the Congress. Shiromani Akali Dal's (Badal) projected vote share has declined by 2 per cent from the last round, and it is expected to poll 18 per cent votes and may win around 20 seats in the Badal family strongholds. Currently it seems to be out of reckoning, but the party's performance will most certainly act as the tie-breaker between AAP and Congress. Amarinder Singh's alliance with the BJP does not seem to be adding up to anything significant. Currently the vote share (2.5 BJP) and seat share (2 seats) of the grouping is projected to remain in lower single digits. However, the alliance's performance may influence the fate of around 30 seats. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is preferred by 29 per cent Punjabis as the CM candidate in 2022 polls, and interestingly this number corresponds to the rough headcount of Dalit population in Punjab. Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu is preferred by only 6 per cent of the voters. AAP's Arvind Kejriwal is preferred by 17 per cent voters while Sukhbir Singh Badal of the SAD is the choice of 15 per cent Punjabis. The surprise of the pack is AAP's Bhagwant Mann, who has shot to 23 per cent approval rating in the latest round of the survey, up from 13 per cent last time. If AAP declares him as the CM face, it could consolidate his numbers further as the total support for Kejriwal and Mann is almost 10 per cent more than Channi and 5 per cent more than Channi and Sidhu put together. Regionally, the Dalit population is more concentrated in Doaba and Majha regions that account for a total of 48 seats. The Congress is projected to win 25 out of its 40 seats from these two regions. AAP is doing significantly better in Malwa region that accounts for the remaining 69 seats. It is expected to win 41 of its 55 seats from Malwa alone. Therefore, the three X factors that will ultimately decide the Punjab verdict are as follows : * The relative sweep of AAP and Congress in their respective strongholds * The performance of Akali Dal and its potential impact on AAP and Congress * Ability of Amarinder Singh to dent the prospects of Congress For now, despite a reenergised and repositioned political stance, Congress is facing more headwinds than AAP. Also, the rural peasantry, fresh from the protests at Singhu border, is unlikely to fully trust the Akali Dal or Congress. Both these parties have baggage with Jatt farmers that dominate the rural polity. In terms of Jatt Sikh politics, the survey projections are indicative of an emerging vacuum. From 1997-2021, Punjab saw a duopoly of Badal-Amarinder, and currently no leader is polling enough support to inherit the mantle of Jatt leadership. Sukhbir Badal is liked by some sections while others prefer Bhagwant Mann. Navjot Sidhu's theatrics have not helped him gain traction in state politics, despite the outsized media imagery projected. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-may-just-fall-short-of-majority-in-punjab-1069920.html
10-01-2022||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi meets senior leaders on Goa polls, to hold discussion with state leaders on Tuesday||Back in the country after a brief journey abroad, top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday held discussions with senior party leaders P Chidambaram and KC Venugopal to review the preparations and discuss on future strategy to be adopted for the Goa Assembly elections, including on alliance. Sources said Rahul, who returned on Sunday night, will also meet state leaders to gauge their opinion and mood on the alliance for the Assembly polls. However Congress General Secretary (Organisation) Venugopal said, "the rumour in circulation that a possible alliance with Trinamool was discussed by Rahul Gandhi in today's meeting is completely baseless and untrue. Let me assure that the Congress party is confident- we will put Goa back on the path to progress soon." The meetings come at a time Trinamool Congress has made a friendly gesture saying the party would do anything to ensure BJP's defeat. "Rest assured, we the Trinamool Congress will do everything possible to defeat BJP in Goa - Goa Forward Party, Goa Congress, Trinamool Goa and MGP," Trinamool Goa co-incharge Mahua Moitra tweeted last week. After Moitra's tweet, Chidambaram had said that his party was ready to accept the support of any party that is keen to defeat the BJP. "The Congress is capable of defeating the BJP on its own, but if any party wants to support the Congress to defeat the BJP, why should I say no?...I have read the TMC's statement on alliance in the newspaper...let's wait for the official word," he had said. Congress, whose 15 MLAs defected leaving it with just two lawmakers, has so far announced candidates for 17 seats in the state, including that of former Chief Minister Pratapsingh Rane and Digambar Kamat.  Congress had on December 22 announced the candidature of Rane as its candidate from Poriem, a day after his son  Vishwajit, a BJP Minister, asked him to retire gracefully and that he wants to contest against his father.  The party had on December 16 put on hold Rane's candidature when the first list was released, as party's Goa in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao submitted a note to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on the pressure faced by the former Chief Minister from the family against contesting. However, there is still speculation and the central leadership is watching the situation carefully. In what is good news for the Opposition, Goa minister Michael Lobo and BJP MLA Pravin Zantye resigned from the party as well as the Assembly on Monday. Lobo could be headed to Congress though he has said that he is considering all options. Congress sources said it has earlier decided not to give tickets to any turncoats, as there is huge anti-incumbency and that voters had not taken the action of ditching their own party well. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-meets-senior-leaders-on-goa-polls-to-hold-discussion-with-state-leaders-on-tuesday-1069929.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||2 militants killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Hassanpora village of Kulgam district following information about the presence of militants there, a police spokesperson said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces. Two ultras were killed in the exchange of fire with the security forces, the spokesperson said, adding the identity and group affiliation of the slain militants is being ascertained. He said incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the scene of the encounter.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-kulgam-1069682.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||46 inmates, 43 staffers of three jails in Delhi test positive for Covid||Forty-six inmates and 43 staffers of three jails in Delhi have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Monday. "All the infected inmates as well as staffers have been under isolation and are recovering," said a senior jail official. According to data shared by the jail authorities, 46 inmates tested positive till Sunday -- 29 inmates in Tihar and the remaining 17 in Mandoli jail. Among the 43 infected staffers, 25 are from Tihar, 12 from Rohini jail and six from Mandoli jail. As part of the steps taken to contain the spread of the viral disease in Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini jail complexes, prison dispensaries have been turned into Covid care centres. An oxygen plant in Tihar will be functional soon, officials said. Many medical isolation cells have been set up for inmates showing slight symptoms of Covid-19, they said. Those who test positive but are asymptomatic will be kept in separate isolation cells within the same jail. The 120-bed hospital in Tihar and the 48-bed facility in Mandoli have been converted into Covid Health Centres. The jail administration said they have formed four committees to look after the infected inmates and staffers. Social distancing among staff members and inmates is followed to the extent possible. Inmates are mostly restricted to their wards and awareness programmes about following Covid norms are carried out regularly, officials said. The total number of prisoners in all the three jails of Delhi Prisons as of January 7 was 18,528. Tihar has a maximum of 12,669 inmates, Mandoli 4,018 and Rohini 1,841. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/46-inmates-43-staffers-of-three-jails-in-delhi-test-positive-for-covid-1069704.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Nearly 1,000 Delhi Police personnel infected with Covid||Amid a surge in coronavirus infections in the national capital, nearly 1,000 Delhi Police personnel, including the Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch), have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Monday. According to Additional PRO/Consultant Anil Mittal (Delhi Police), "Nearly a thousand police personnel have been infected with Covid-19 as of now. All of them are under quarantine and will join duty after they fully recover." The overall strength of the Delhi Police is over 80,000. Recently, Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana had issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for preventing the spread of the coronavirus among police personnel. Since police personnel are frontline workers performing their duties amidst the public, it is imperative they take adequate precautions to protect themselves from exposure to Covid, it said. According to the SOP, all police personnel should wear face-masks, maintain social distancing and practise proper hand hygiene while performing their duties. All police personnel and eligible family members who have not been vaccinated may be motivated to complete the vaccination process.  "Those who have not been vaccinated due to medical reasons may be encouraged to seek medical opinion again for vaccination," it said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-1000-delhi-police-personnel-infected-with-covid-1069720.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Supreme Court to form panel to probe PM Modi's security breach||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to set up a panel, headed by a former apex court judge, to probe the Prime Minister Narendra Modi security breach in Punjab last week. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli asked both the Centre and the Punjab government not to move ahead with their respective inquires into the matter. Following a detailed hearing, the bench said it will pass an order in the matter. “We are taking the PM's security breach very seriously,” the bench said.  During the hearing, the bench indicated other members of the committee would be DGP Chandigarh, IG National Investigating Agency, registrar general (Punjab and Haryana High Court), and ADGP (security) Punjab. The bench added that it will ask the committee to submit its report to it within a shortest possible span of time. Advocate General of Punjab D S Patwalia raised issue of show-cause notices to its Chief Secretary and DGP.  He asked the court to form an independent committee to probe the matter.  "Hang me if I am guilty..... but don't condemn me unheard," Patwalia said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, defended the show-cause notices issued by the central government, citing the statute and Blue Book. The bench, however, asked what was the point of asking the court to examine the matter if the Centre wanted to go ahead on its own. "If you want to take disciplinary action against the state officers then what remains for this court to do," the bench asked Mehta, who maintained the top officers are responsible for the PM's security under the rules. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing the Delhi-based petitioner NGO 'Lawyer's Voice', emphasised on the importance of protection to the PM of the country. On Wednesday, Modi's convoy remained stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur. The incident forced the PM to cancel his rally and other events planned in poll-bound Punjab. The plea alleged lapse in the security of the Prime Minister was occasioned clearly in connivance with the Punjab Police.  "It was only the Punjab government that knew the precise route of the Prime Minister which is never shared due to high security reasons. It has been reported that this may have been the single biggest lapse in security of any Indian Prime Minister in recent years," the plea claimed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-form-panel-to-probe-pm-modis-security-breach-1069724.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Supreme Court to examine plea against hate speeches at 'Dharam Sansad'||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to consider a plea for taking action in connection with hate speeches made in Haridwar 'Dharam Sansad' against the Muslim community. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal mentioned the matter before a bench presided by Chief Justice N V Ramana for urgent listing. "We are living in different times where slogans in the country have changed from Satyamev Jayate," he said. The bench told Sibal, “We’ll look into it”.   In the brief proceedings, the bench asked Sibal if any inquiry was currently under way. The counsel informed that FIRs have been filed, but no arrest has been made so far. He also maintained without the court’s intervention, no action will be taken. Former Patna High Court judge, and senior advocate Anjana Prakash and a journalist approached the top court seeking urgent intervention in the matter pertaining to the hate speeches delivered last year, in separate two events organised by Hindu Yuva Vahini in Delhi and Haridwar respectively on December 17 and 19. Several Hindu religious leaders who had addressed the gathering in Haridwar had reportedly called upon the community to take up arms against Muslims. The petition sought independent and impartial investigation into the incidents of hate speeches against the Muslim community by a Special Investigation Team (SIT). Earlier, Former Union Minister Salman Khurshid, Dushyant Dave, Prashant Bhushan, senior advocate Basava P Patil and others, including the petitioner-former judge asked the CJI to direct action against those who made hate speeches in two events. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-examine-plea-against-hate-speeches-at-dharam-sansad-1069729.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Mayawati opts for a subdued birthday this year||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati's 66th birthday on January 15 this year, will not be a grand affair. The BSP president has asked her party workers to celebrate her birthday in their homes in view of the surge in the Covid cases across the state and also the implementation of the model code of conduct (MCC) after the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced the schedule for assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh. The BSP celebrates Mayawati's birthday as 'Jan Kalyankari Diwas' with much fanfare. "The usual pomp and show of the birthday celebrations will be missing this time as the party has decided to keep it a low-key affair due to the enforcement of the model code and sudden rise in Covid cases," said a BSP functionary. Mayawati, at a party meeting, has already asked her cadres to follow the Covid protocol and poll code guidelines during the electioneering for the assembly polls. "The party leaders, office bearers, workers and supporters will celebrate my birthday with their family members in their homes. They should assist the poor and impoverished people who have to suffer due to the Covid pandemic," Mayawati said at the meeting. The BSP president, however, will release the 17th edition of her book 'A Travelogue of My Struggle Ridden Life and BSP Movement' at the party's state unit office on the occasion. "The travelogue will generate self-respect among the party supporters and guide them to take the movement launched by the BSP forward," she said. Meanwhile, the BSP has finalised the candidates on the majority of seats and they have been made in-charge of the respective assembly segments. The name of the candidates will be released with the notification of the first phase polling by the ECI on January 14. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-opts-for-a-subdued-birthday-this-year-1069730.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Monkeys snatch baby, throw it in water tank in UP town||In a shocking incident, a group of monkeys grabbed a two-month-old infant from the terrace of his house and flung the baby in a water tank. The incident took place on Sunday and the baby died. According to reports, the baby Keshav Kumar, was sleeping next to his grandmother in a room on the terrace and the door was left open. The monkeys entered the room and dragged out the baby. When the grandmother found the baby missing, she raised an alarm and the family began searching for the toddler. He was later found floating in the water tank. The baby's parents said that the monkeys had tried to take away their baby on an earlier occasion too but alert relatives had thwarted the attempt. O.P. Singh, Station House officer (SHO) Chandinagar, said, "The monkey menace is a major issue and we are informing forest officials to take necessary action." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monkeys-snatch-baby-throw-it-in-water-tank-in-up-town-1069736.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Samajwadi Party alleges BJP minister inaugurated incomplete bridge to 'fool voters'||The Samajwadi Party has alleged that Uttar Pradesh Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna inaugurated an incomplete bridge on the Garra river here just to take credit and befool people ahead of assembly polls. "Khanna on last Thursday inaugurated the bridge which is incomplete. BJP is doing such inaugurations to befool people as it failed on all fronts," SP district President Tanveer Khan said. The bridge was inaugurated days before the model code of conduct for assembly polls came into force, he alleged. Asked about the inauguration of incomplete bridge by the minister, Municipal Commissioner Santosh Sharma told PTI that it was Bridge Corporation's work and not of his department. Chief Project Manager, Bridge Corporation, Bareilly, Devendra Singh told PTI that the bridge will be opened for the people on January 26. "Some work is pending, we are completing them," he said. Those working on the bridge told reporters that work on railing and approach road is incomplete and it was being done. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-alleges-bjp-minister-inaugurated-incomplete-bridge-to-fool-voters-1069740.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Two local Al-Badr militants killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Two local militants affiliated with Al-Badr outfit were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Monday. The police said the encounter broke out Sunday night after security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation (CASO) in Hasanpora-Tabela village in Kulgam, 60 kms from here, following specific inputs about the presence of a militant in the area. The trapped militants were given ample opportunities to surrender. However, they denied and instead fired upon the search party which retaliated, leading to an encounter in which two ultras were killed, a police official said. The gunfight concluded at 2:05 am and two pistols were recovered from the encounter site. The slain militants were identified as Imad Muzffar Wani and Abdul Rashid Thokar, both aged below 21 years. Both the slain militants had reportedly joined militant ranks in December last year. Inspector General of police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar in a tweet said Imad was a “categorised” militant of Al-Badr. “He was involved in an attack on police personnel Mushtaq Waggay in Pulwama on December 19, 2021, in which he got seriously injured,” he said. The 2022 has started with encounters in Kashmir as the first 10 days of the new year 2022 have recorded seven gunfights resulting in the killing of 13 militants, including top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander. Out of seven gun-battles, Srinagar district witnessed two encounters in a span of just one hour while Kulgam saw two encounters. North Kashmir’s Kupwara district, south Kashmir’s Pulwama district and central Budgam district saw one encounter each. Pertinently, 171 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2021 and according to police figures, 156 ultras, including 73 foreigners, were active in Kashmir as on December 31. This is for the first time that the number of active militants in the Valley has come down to less than 200 since the insurgency erupted in Kashmir in 1990. In 2021, out of 128 locals who joined militancy, 79 were killed and 17 arrested. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-local-al-badr-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-1069741.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Jammu-Srinagar NH reopens for traffic after three days||The Jammu-Srinagar National Highway was reopened for traffic on Monday after remaining closed for the past three days owing to heavy snowfall and multiple landslides in Ramban district, officials said. Senior Superintendent of Police, traffic-national highway, Shabir Ahmad Malik said the traffic from both the twin capital cities was allowed after the arterial road was cleared of fresh landslides at Panthiyal and Maroog by road clearance agencies. “The clearance of debris at certain places was still going on to ensure smooth movement of traffic,” the officer told PTI. The highway, the only all weather road linking Kashmir with rest of the country, was closed for traffic on Friday afternoon, shortly after it was opened after two-day closure following heavy snowfall and multiple landslides between Chanderkote and Ramsu. Over 50 passenger vehicles were left stranded at different places by the closure of the highway. They were allowed to move towards their destinations late Sunday evening after authorities speeded up the road clearance operation with improvement in weather conditions. The officials said the traffic was allowed from Jammu to Srinagar early Monday morning, while the movement of traffic from Srinagar to Jammu was allowed only after 11 am. The traffic was briefly halted at Nagrota in Jammu and Jakhani in Udhampur in the wake of the fresh landslides which were swiftly cleared by road clearance agencies, paving way for resumption of traffic, the officials said. They said the movement of traffic at landslide-hit areas is very slow as the road is narrow and only worthy of one-way traffic. The clearance operation is on and is likely to be completed within the next few hours, the officials said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-srinagar-nh-reopens-for-traffic-after-three-days-1069759.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Ex-Samajwadi Party MP arrested for killing rival in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur||Allegedly to eliminate competition, a former Samajwadi Party (SP) MP got the rival ticket aspirant from his own party killed in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district, about 250 kilometres from here, Police on Monday arrested ex-SP MP Rizvan Zaheer, his daughter Zeba and her husband on charges of hatching a conspiracy to kill one Firoz alia Pappu, a former Nagar Panchayat chairman, and a senior district leader of the party. District police chief Hemant Kutiyal said that Firoz was a strong contender for the party nomination from the Tulsipur assembly seat in the district. Rizvan was, however, trying to secure the SP nomination for his daughter Zeba. He said that Firoz was killed on January four when he had gone out to meet someone with a friend of his. Police later arrested two people, identified as Merazul and Mehfooz, who during questioning, revealed that they were hired by Rizvan to eliminate Firoz. Police said that Rizvan had been conspiring to kill Firoz for the past several days but his hired goons failed to execute the plan owing to one reason or the other. ''On January four they got the chance....as Firoz came out of his house and reached a narrow lane, the killers, who were waiting in the dark, pounced on him and attacked him with knives killing him on the spot....they had got the street lights switched off so that Firoz could not see them,'' the official said. He said that Firoz had emerged as a strong rival to Rizvan Zaheer, who had been a three-time MLA and two time MP, and was a strong contender for the SP ticket from the constituency. His wife was currently the chairperson of Tulsipur Nagar Panchayat. SP sources said that both Firoz and Rizvan had visited the party headquarters in the state capital a few days back. While Firoz wanted to contest the polls himself, Rizvan wanted the SP nomination for his daughter. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-samajwadi-party-mp-arrested-for-killing-rival-in-uttar-pradeshs-balrampur-1069770.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh caps attendance in offices at 50% in view of Covid surge||Amid rising cases of Covid, the Uttar Pradesh government on Monday restricted attendance of employees in government and private offices at 50 per cent. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed that if anyone from a private office test positive for coronavirus, he or she should be given seven days leave with salary and Covid help desks should be established in all the offices and no one should be given entry without screening, an official spokesman said. "To prevent spread of coronavirus, the CM has directed officials to implement 50 per cent attendance of employees, except for essential services departments, in both government and private offices and work from home should be encouraged," the spokesman said here. In hospitals, the CM said, online appointment should be given for OPD and patients should be called in hospitals in special cases. Tele-consultation should be encouraged, he added. The CM also directed that efforts should be made to achieve 100 per cent vaccination keeping in mind assembly polls beginning next month. "In districts, which are going to polls everyone should be vaccinated 10 days in advance and a plan in this regard should be chalked out immediately," he said. At present, there are a total of 33,946 active cases of coronavirus in the state of which 33,563 are in home isolation. In the past 24 hours, 8,334 fresh cases were reported in the state.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-caps-attendance-in-offices-at-50-in-view-of-covid-surge-1069776.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||No lockdown in Delhi, DDMA mulls stricter Covid curbs||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday decided not to impose lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 and discussed further restrictions such as closing dine-in facility in restaurants and scaling down seating capacity in Metro trains and buses, officials said. A DDMA meeting, chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, also discussed ways to strictly enforce existing restrictions to check rising cases of the coronavirus and its Omicron variant. It was discussed in the DDMA meeting that restrictions imposed in Delhi should also be imposed in National Capital Territory Region to prevent rise in cases. Currently, dine-in facility in restaurants is allowed to operate at 50 per cent of their seating capacity. The city buses and Metro trains are permitted to operate with 100 per cent seating capacity. Kejriwal had on Sunday said the rapid speed at which the coronavirus was spreading in Delhi had been a matter of "deep concern", yet added there was no plan to impose lockdown. There would be no lockdown if people wear masks, he had stated.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-lockdown-in-delhi-ddma-mulls-stricter-covid-curbs-1069788.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Stop musical chair of power between Congress & BJP, give AAP chance to rule Uttarakhand: Sisodia||AAP leader Manish Sisodia on Monday appealed to people of Uttarakhand to see the coming assembly polls as an opportunity to change their lives and get rid of the problems plaguing the state for years.  Initiating the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Nav Parivartan Samvad (dialogue for change) in the poll-bound state virtually, the Delhi Deputy Chief Minister said in the past 21 years of its existence Uttarakhand has failed to achieve the goals for which it was created. "BJP and Congress have been in power alternately in Uttarakhand but done nothing for its development which was the main objective behind its creation. All they have done is fill their coffers. Problems like migration, lack of schools and hospitals remain where they were at the time of its creation 21 years ago," the AAP leader said. "February 14 brings to you an opportunity to vote for change and get rid of the problems plaguing the state for years," he said.  Sisodia asked people to stop the "musical chair" of power going on between the Congress and BJP for two decades and give AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal a chance to implement the Delhi model of development in Uttarakhand.  "If you want good schools and good hospitals, crops in your fields and the deserted villages in the hills repopulated give us a chance," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stop-musical-chair-of-power-between-congress-bjp-give-aap-chance-to-rule-uttarakhand-sisodia-1069800.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Pressure politics of JD-U to get some seats in UP||In a bid to apply pressure on the BJP to get some seats in Uttar Pradesh, Janata Dal-United (JD-U) has claimed to contest on 12 seats in the Bihar Legislative Council (MLC). The JD-U has put Upendra Kushwaha to work on the issue, sources said. Kushwaha on Monday claimed that JD-U wanted to contest on the formula of 50:50 seat sharing for the upcoming MLC election in Bihar. At present, 13 seats are with the BJP, 8 JD-U, 2 RJD and 1 is with the Congress party. In the 2020 Assembly election, the JD-U had the upper hand. It had won 122 seats out of 243 of the Bihar Vidhan Sabha and given 7 seats to the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) from its quota. The BJP had contested on the remaining 121 seats and gave 11 seats to VIP. "JD-U under the 50:50 formula, wants to contest on 12 seats out of 24," Kushwaha said. Sources have said that JD-U will adjust the HAM. The whole idea behind the JD-U theory is to attract the attention of the BJP top leadership, which is currently busy with the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. The model code of conduct is in vogue in Uttar Pradesh and the JD-U wants BJP to give it some seats. Sources in JD-U said that the party has launched Upendra Kushwaha because Union Minister R.C.P. Singh turned out to be a weak force for the JD-U to apply pressure on the BJP. The JD-U national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh has already said that his party is interested in seat sharing with the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and wants to contest election under the umbrella of NDA. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pressure-politics-of-jd-u-to-get-some-seats-in-up-1069801.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh cop suspended for long hair, moustache reinstated||A Madhya Pradesh police constable who was placed under suspension for keeping his hair and moustache long in alleged violation of service rules for uniformed personnel was reinstated on Monday, with a senior official stating that the order to take him off duty was not issued by a competent authority. Constable Rakesh Rana, posted as a driver in the police's motor transport wing, was suspended, as per an order of Prashant Sharma, Assistant Inspector General, Cooperatives Fraud and Public Service Guarantee, for not obeying his senior official's order to correct his appearance. Sharma had told PTI on Sunday that Rane was adamant about keeping his moustache and hair long, both of which were not in accordance with norms for uniformed personnel, due to which the latter was suspended as part of disciplinary action. Monday's order issued by DIG (Personnel), MP police headquarters, stated the suspension order was being revoked with immediate effect as it was not issued by a competent authority. When asked in this regard earlier in the morning, MP Minister for Home Narottam Mishra told reporters he had called the officials and constable involved in the matter. Rana. who was posted as driver of Special Director General, Cooperatives Fraud and Public Service Guarantee section of the Madhya Pradesh police, had earlier told reporters he would continue to sport a long moustache as it was a matter of "self-respect". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cop-suspended-for-long-hair-moustache-reinstated-1069807.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Badri-Kedar temple committee reconstituted ahead of Assembly polls||In yet another decision to please the priest community after withdrawing the Chardham Devasthanam Board Act, the Uttarakhand government has reconstituted the Badrinath-Kedarnath Temple Committee under a new head to manage the affairs of the two Himalayan shrines. The move revives a body that controlled the two temples before the Chardham Devasthanam Board was constituted through legislation in the state assembly to control the affairs of 51 temples, including Char Dham. It is being seen as the state government's message to the priest community ahead of the coming assembly polls that it is committed to protecting their traditional rights over the Himalayan temples. BJP leader Ajendra Ajay has been appointed president of the committee, Kishor Panwar its vice president, and BD Singh its chief executive officer, a notification issued by culture secretary HC Semwal said. Besides, there are 13 members on the committee. Constituted through legislation during Trivendra Singh Rawat's chief ministership, the Chardham Devasthanam Board was dismantled and the Act which had led to its creation was withdrawn in December due to a prolonged agitation by priests. The priests always opposed the Devasthanam Board as they felt it infringed upon their traditional rights over the temples. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/badri-kedar-temple-committee-reconstituted-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1069831.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Actor Sonu Sood's sister joins Congress in Punjab||Actor-philanthropist Sonu Sood's sister Malvika Sood on Monday joined the Congress, with the party's Punjab chief Navjot Singh Sidhu describing the development as a "game-changer" ahead of the February 14 assembly polls. She joined the party in the presence of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Sidhu. "It is very rare that a party chief and the chief minister both have gone to someone's home to grant the honour, and she deserves it," Sidhu said. The joining in was held at the Sood residence in Punjab's Moga district and the actor had last year in November said that his sister would join politics. Asked if Malvika Sood will fight the election from the Moga assembly constituency, Channi indicated that she would be the party's choice. "It is a matter of great happiness for us that a young woman who has earned a name for herself by running an NGO and dedicated herself to the people's service is joining our party," Sidhu said while welcoming her into the Congress. Sonu Sood, who hails from Moga, had earlier also said that his sister has done a lot of "amazing" work in the past. The actor is known for his humanitarian works, both Sidhu and Channi said while talking to reporters. Referring to Malvika Sood's joining the Congress, Sidhu said, "In the cricketing world, it is called a game-changer." "She is an young and educated woman, and her education as software engineer will help her in her life ahead," Sidhu said. Speaking on the occasion, Malvika Sood said she has taken the political plunge to dedicate herself to serve the people Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/actor-sonu-soods-sister-joins-congress-in-punjab-1069837.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Grenade blast outside Army cantonment in Pathankot solved, police bust ISYF-backed terror module||Punjab Police on Monday said it has solved a case involving a recent grenade blast outside the gate of the Army cantonment in Pathankot by busting a major terror module backed by the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) group with the arrest of six of its operatives. The Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police has also seized six hand grenades, one 9 mm pistol and one .30 bore rifle, along with live bullets and magazines, from the arrested men, Director General of Police (DGP) V K Bhawra said here. No casualty was reported in the blast that took place in November last year in front of the Triveni gate of the cantonment in Pathankot. The ISYF is supported by Pakistan's intelligence agency ISI. The six men were arrested from different villages in Gurdaspur district. They were identified as Amandeep alias Mantri of Lakhanpal village, Gurwinder Singh alias Gindi of Kharal village, Parminder Kumar alias Rohit alias Rohta of Kharal village, Rajinder Singh alias Malhi alias Nikku of Gunnupur village, Harpreet Singh alias Dholki of Gotpokar village and Raman Kumar of Ghazikot village, according to a statement issued by the DGP's office. "In two instances, some unidentified persons had hurled hand grenades at Pathankot -- one grenade was hurled outside Triveni Dwar, outside the gate of Army cantonment at Pathankot, on November 21, 2021 at about 9 pm, while another one was hurled near Chakki Pull on November 11, 2021 at about 9:30 pm," the statement said. Separate FIRs in connection with the incidents were registered at the Pathankot Division 2 and Division 1 police stations respectively, it added. The DGP said "during the preliminary interrogation, accused persons revealed that they were directly in touch with self-proclaimed chief of ISYF (Rode) Lakhbir Singh Rode and his close aides, identified as Sukhmeetpal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal and Sukhpreet alias Sukh, for planning terrorist attacks".   "The entire cache of the recovered hand grenades, arms and ammunition was pushed in from across the international border by Lakhbir Rode and arrested accused persons had been tasked for further attacking the pre-identified targets, which were mainly police and defence establishments, religious places etc.," he said, adding that the accused have also confessed to have lobbed the two hand grenades in Pathankot. Senior Superintendent of Police, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Kanwardeep Kaur said an FIR has been lodged under the relevant provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the Explosive Substances Act and the Arms Act at the Nawanshahr City police station, and "further investigations are on". The role of Lakhbir Rode was also found in the killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh, who had fought against terrorism in Punjab, at Bhikhiwind in Amritsar district on October 16, 2020, besides in the recovery of tiffin IED, RDX, arms and ammunition from his relative Gurmukh Singh Rode from Jalandhar in August 2021, the statement said. Sukhmeetpal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, who is presently lodged in Delhi's Tihar Jail, was also involved in the killing of Balwinder Singh and in a murderous attack on a Hindu outfit leader, Honey Mahajan, at Dhariwal on February 10, 2020. "He was deported from Dubai in December, 2020. Sukh Bhikhariwal provided foot-soldiers, arms and ammunition, logistics, funds etc. for execution of these crimes," according to the statement.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/grenade-blast-outside-army-cantonment-in-pathankot-solved-police-bust-isyf-backed-terror-module-1069873.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||To beat moral code of conduct, minister 'launches' incomplete bridge in UP||Apprehending that the model code of conduct could kick in anytime, an Uttar Pradesh minister allegedly inaugurated an incomplete bridge in Shahjahanpur, his home town, a couple of days before the Election Commission (EC) announced the election schedules for five states. According to sources, minister Suresh Khanna inaugurated the unfinished bridge being built on the Garra river near the town on Thursday. The EC had announced the election schedule on Saturday. "The bridge is still under construction...the work is going on...it is not fit for the use of the public," said one of the engineers working there. The officials of the Uttar Pradesh Bridge Corporation, which is building the bridge, said it would take more than a month to complete the bridge. "We have no idea who informed the minister that the bridge was complete," said an official of the corporation here on Monday. "It appears the minister was in a tearing hurry and wanted to show to his electorate that the bridge was complete and that they can use the same to gain political mileage ahead of the polls," said a Samajwadi Party (SP) leader here. The Yogi Adityanath government had got scores of development projects either inaugurated or launched in the days before the model code of conduct kicked in. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated or launched expressways, medical colleges and other projects in the state in the past few days. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/to-beat-moral-code-of-conduct-minister-launches-incomplete-bridge-in-up-1069896.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Bars, restaurants to be shut in Delhi amid rising Covid cases||Bars and restaurants will be shut in the national capital amid rising cases of Covid-19 though takeaways will be allowed. This was decided at a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, ICMR head Prof Balram Bhargava, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria and NCDC head Dr SK Singh. Only one weekly market per day in a zone will be allowed, the DDMA decided as it reviewed the status of testing, positivity rate, hospital bed utilization, vaccination and home isolation. Baijal directed the officials to adhere to the strategy of Test, Track and Treat with emphasis on enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to contain the spread of infection. The LG said officials were advised to exercise vigil and constantly review the emerging data regarding positive cases, bed occupancy, geographical spread and number of deaths for appropriate action and containment measures to effectively tackle the situation. "In view of the increase in positive cases it was decided to close the restaurants and bars and to allow 'take away' facilities only. It was also decided to allow operation of only one weekly market per day per zone," he said. Instructions were also given to officials to "strictly ensure" wearing of masks and adherence to social distancing in market places and public areas to break the chain of transmission. Amid reports of doctors and other health workers testing positive, the DDMA also asked the Health Department to make adequate arrangements for additional manpower in hospitals and to scale up the vaccination efforts including those in the population between 15-18 years.  The Monday health bulletin, which recorded the trend on Sunday, showed that Delhi has 19,166 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 25% as against 22,751 cases (23.53% positivity rate) reported in Sunday's bulletin. Officials attributed the dip in numbers compared to lower tests conducted on Sunday. On the January 8 bulletin, there were 20,181 cases (19.60%) in the national capital, the first time Delhi witnessed over 20,000 cases during the third wave. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bars-restaurants-to-be-shut-in-delhi-amid-rising-covid-cases-1069911.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||Kashmiri girl turns reporter to show bad condition of roads||An undated video of a little girl from Kashmir who turned reporter to show the bad condition of lanes and bylanes has created a storm on the internet, with netizens complimenting her for her coverage. Dressed in a pink jacket, the girl, whose name as well as the place where she was shooting the video could not be immediately confirmed, is complaining that guests cannot come to her place because of the bad road condition. "Itni gandi road hai ki mehman bhi nahi aa sakte (the road is so bad that guests also cannot come)," the girl said while directing her camera person, whom she refers to as "mom", to show the pot holes. The Kashmir valley recently witnessed heavy snow and rain. Narrating how mud and rains have made the condition worse, the girl walked on a road showing the potholes in a 2.08 minute video apparently shot on a mobile phone. The girl showed how people were also dumping garbage on roads and shouted "sab gandha ho gaya hai (the neighbourhood has become dirty)". The enthusiastic little reporter also asks viewers to "like, share and subscribe" and promises to meet them in the next video. The video has been shared by many Twitter users and has been viewed over one lakh times. This is not the first time that a child from the valley has appealed to authorities through video messages. Last year, a 71-second video addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by six-year-old Mahiru Irfan, seeking a cap on duration of online classes, had propelled the girl from Kashmir to overnight media stardom as camera crews made a beeline at her residence for a soundbyte. The video had caught the attention of Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who directed the School Education Department to come out with a policy in 48 hours to ease the burden of homework on the school students.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-girl-turns-reporter-to-show-bad-condition-of-roads-1069932.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||After EC order, 9 lakh political posters, hoardings removed in Uttar Pradesh||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh have removed over nine lakh political campaign items such as posters following the imposition of the model code of conduct for the upcoming Assembly elections, officials said on Monday. Over 6,500 litres of liquor worth over Rs 15 lakh has also been seized, they said. Giving out details, Uttar Pradesh's Chief Electoral Officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said campaign material, including posters, banners and hoardings, numbering 9,60,482 have been removed. Of these, 7,32,186 items were removed from government properties and 2,28,296 items from private land. Slogans written on walls have also been cleared, he said. Shukla said the police department has so far got 10,007 licensed arms deposited, while nine licences have been confiscated and four of them cancelled. So far, cases have been registered against 28,474 people and non-bailable warrants issued against 335 of them, he said. Shukla also said 6,588 litres of liquor worth Rs 15.58 lakh has been seized. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-ec-order-9-lakh-political-posters-hoardings-removed-in-uttar-pradesh-1069944.html
10-01-2022||North and Central||BJP chief Nadda tests positive for coronavirus||BJP president J P Nadda on Monday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19. Nadda said he has isolated himself on the advise of doctors and urged those who came in his contact recently to get themselves tested for the virus. He underwent the test after having some symptoms for the disease and added that he has been feeling alright. India has been seeing a surge in the number of infections as the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the virus fuels the spread. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-chief-nadda-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-1070002.html
10-01-2022||Oasis||Be the master of your mood||Failure to achieve targeted performance, a bombed job interview, poor appraisal, a sudden severe cold attack, missing the bus/metro, accidental knife cut of fingers, power/internet disruption, never-ending arguments, repeated false promises by people and other unexpected relationship issues... Life can sometimes suck and tend to drive us crazy. We can’t get rid of bad days and bad moments. However, we all have the ability to improve our mood, which is within us, regardless of external triggers. How to find such triggers? Reaching out to babies and playing with them, cajoling them or simply observing them gives instant relief. Infants are always a bundle of joy. Smiling, moving legs in various ways and deep breathing are the hallmarks of babies. If you do not have a baby in your family, no worries. Just recall your past experiences and enact those acts of toddlers and you are back in a joyful mood in no time! "Forget not so happy past and let go’ attitude in babies is the single-most remarkable quality worth emulating. Smile, smile and smile. Smile without any reason like a child with glee in your eyes. Smiling brings us joy and keeps us in the present. Smiling helps shift the mood instantly and feel joy more often. Listen to a happy song or watch your favourite comedy show. It’s quick; it’s easy; it’s an instant mood lifter. Hang out with a pet. Cuddling, playing, or just chilling with your favourite pet can help feel happier and less stressed. De-clutter. Rearrange some furniture. Getting organised can help us destress instantly.  Changing an environment can help us feel refreshed, enabling us to bust out of a negative mood. Keep life simple. Show compassion. Helping others is an easy way to feel joy. Be grateful and count your blessings. Gratitude creates joy by producing a feeling of contentment. When you are content with things and people in your life, you have the opportunity to recognise the joy that is right there in front of you. Exercise, or practise yoga and meditation regularly. These are quick fixes for lightening the mood and chill out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/be-the-master-of-your-mood-1069984.html
10-01-2022||Opinion||Taliban-ruled Afghanistan stares at mass starvation||After a tumultuous 2021, Afghanistan transitioned into a new year with nothing 'happy' or 'new' about the situation in the war-ravaged country. The majority of the population continues to scramble for basic needs such as food, shelter, and fuel in the Taliban-dominated Afghanistan. As the harsh winter gripped Afghanistan, heart-wrenching images of women and children queuing up outside bakeries to get bread or a snowman made by Afghan children demanding that the World Food Programme provide food appeared on media portals, highlighting the dire situation in the country. Factors such as war, conflict, chronic poverty, drought, widespread food insecurity have protracted presence in Afghanistan. The Covid-19 pandemic was perhaps the most recent addition to that list. Over the years, all these issues have resulted in millions of Afghans needing humanitarian assistance. However, the political upheaval caused due to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan on August 15, 2021, exacerbated the humanitarian crisis in the country. Today, the situation is alarming because the country faces severe, multi-faceted, and interlocking humanitarian, economic, and political crises.  Months after the new rulers of Afghanistan announced the "interim government", the war-torn country is on the brink of mass starvation that threatens to take millions of Afghan lives this winter - a toll that may dwarf the number of civilians killed in war and conflict over the past two decades. Over the past few months, the UN has repeatedly warned that Afghanistan is on the brink of the world's worst humanitarian crisis. More than half the country is facing "acute" food shortages. According to the UN, almost 24 million people in Afghanistan, about 60 per cent of the population, suffer from acute hunger, and about 8.7 million Afghans are coping with famine.  UNDP's resident representative in Afghanistan, Abdallah Al Dardari, said in mid-November 2021, "The US $20 billion economy could shrink by US $4 billion or more and 97 per cent of the 38 million population are at risk of sinking into poverty. We have never seen an economic shock of that magnitude, and we have never seen a humanitarian crisis of that magnitude." The World Health Organization had predicted around 3.2 million children could suffer from acute malnutrition in Afghanistan by the end of 2021, with a million of them at risk of dying as temperatures drop. An estimated 22.8 million people, or 55 per cent of the population, are expected to face emergency levels of food insecurity between November 2021 and March 2022. The abrupt snapping of financial aid after the Taliban seized power worsened the country's shortage of essentials. Nearly 80 per cent of the budget of the Afghan government during the US-led era came from the international community, which funded ministries and also public services like healthcare and education. To prohibit the Taliban regime from accessing the funds, the US has frozen about US $9 billion of Afghanistan's central bank reserves. Although humanitarian workers have urged Biden Administration to take radical steps to release the frozen Afghan assets, the White House has not responded to such a proposition. There is unanimous recognition within the international community about addressing Afghanistan's looming economic and humanitarian crisis. Initiatives such as the G-20 Summit on Afghanistan, Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan, India-Central Asia Dialogue hosted by India and the OIC foreign ministers session on Afghanistan held in Islamabad, among others, extensively discussed the importance of providing aid to Afghanistan. In December, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution proposed by the US to facilitate humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan while keeping funds out of the Taliban hands. While this resolution promised to bring some respite to the Afghan people, how the aid will be delivered to them with little or no coordination with the regime in power, which the international community has not recognised, remains to be seen. The international community must develop a mechanism to deliver aid and open a safe corridor for those at risk in Afghanistan while ensuring that they do not enforce brutal and barbaric Taliban rule in Afghanistan. It is also vital to minimise parallel mechanisms and coordinate responses to make the efforts more effective and timely. For decades, the UN has played a vital role in Afghanistan, from coordinating humanitarian response to financing reconstruction and acting as a guarantor for peace and stability. Based on its historic role, unrivalled present-day capabilities, and past operating experiences, the UN can and should play a more significant role in Afghanistan as it struggles to deal with the current multi-dimensional and interconnected set of crises. (Anwesha Ghosh is a Research Fellow at New Delhi's Indian Council of World Affairs) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/taliban-ruled-afghanistan-stares-at-mass-starvation-1069717.html
10-01-2022||Panorama||'In 2017, BJP ‘stole’ Goa election. TMC will ensure it doesn’t happen again'||Mahua Moitra has emerged as a fiery opposition MP in the Lok Sabha. Now, she’s taking on the BJP in Goa as she leads Trinamool Congress’ charge for the Assembly elections there, scheduled for February 14. Mahua tells DH’s Mohammed Safi Shamsi that although it’s new to Goa, TMC is emerging as a credible alternative to the BJP there. What made Trinamool to spread its wings all the way to Goa? What are your expectations? It is a national necessity that Trinamool comes to Goa because Mamata Banerjee has emerged as the only consistent fighter against the BJP and against the divisive politics of the Modi-Shah regime. In Goa, we have to give an alternative to people who don’t want the BJP. In 2017, the people of Goa voted for the Congress and gave them 17 seats. But despite having more seats than the BJP, the Congress was unable to form the government. We cannot leave it to the Congress to do the same thing this time. So, we wanted to give the people of Goa a credible alternative to form a government, which is why it was a necessity that we went to Goa. In a span of three months, we have made a huge dent in the political fabric of Goa. We are really emerging as a credible alternative to the BJP. The rest is up to the people of Goa. You took over the party’s charge in Goa in November, and elections are only a few weeks away. Do you think you have sufficient time to build a support base and take on the BJP? There is a saying in Hindi, jahan aank khuli wahin se subah shuru. In Goa, the last time, the government was not decided by the people. The government was decided by politicians after the actual vote took place. People had voted (on) 17 seats for the Congress, but politicians did ‘buying’ and ‘selling’ of MLAs after the vote and formed the government. We have come well in time to prevent something like that from happening. Second, studies have shown that the majority of people make up their minds on who they will vote for in the last 72 hours before polling. We have come here on the back of our resounding success in Bengal and on the back of Mamata Banerjee’s fight against the BJP. It would have been better if we had gone to Goa earlier, but there’s no point looking at the past. We are here now, and we are progressing in leaps and bounds, and that’s why we believe we are amply justified in coming here. What’s your take on the Uttar Pradesh elections. Who do you think is more in sync with voters — Yogi Adityanath, Akhilesh Yadav, Mayawati or Priyanka Gandhi? I am not an expert on UP. All I can say is that Yogi Adityanath is perhaps one of the most dangerous, divisive figures in the history of India. So, it would be a great shame if a man like that, and after the history of the last five years in UP, is brought back to power. I hope the people of UP will vote in the right manner and vote his government out. Is Priyanka Gandhi going to make a difference in UP? I cannot comment. Covid has affected all spheres of life. How is it affecting politics? As we know, in UP, big rallies have been banned. Already, we have put all Covid protocols in place in our rallies in Goa, and it depends on the state government’s moves. But as of now, we have put all Covid protocols in place and obviously, our first duty at this time is to stand with the people. For example, as an MP, it is important that I stand with the people of my constituency in arranging healthcare and all that. I think it’s the duty of every political person and every government to fight against Covid first. Life doesn’t stop, but we have to make sure that we do it the right way. You have been part of the joint committee on the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill. What impact will this legislation on privacy have on the lives of individuals and on businesses? Trinamool Congress — Derek O’Brien and I — has given a dissent note on this Bill. The PDP Bill has got very wide-ranging exceptions for the government, and the government can pretty much do anything. We can turn into an Orwellian State. Every single freedom that any individual has with regard to data privacy, when it comes to the government, that right does not apply. So, unfortunately, even with this PDP Bill, for which we have been waiting for so long, the government has the right to snoop on everybody. You have been an aggressive voice during debates in Parliament. This has been appreciated. Who among your colleagues in Parliament, across parties, puts across their message as strongly? There are very good orators in Parliament. There are very good orators who speak in Hindi. There are orators cutting across party lines. In Rajya Sabha, Manoj Jha from RJD, who has spoken very passionately about Covid mismanagement and how, as a nation, we should be ashamed of not being able to provide dignity in death, stands out. In Rajya Sabha, we have somebody new like John Brittas of the CPM, who also spoke on the rot in the judiciary and the dynastic thing in the judiciary. In the Lok Sabha, there are many good speakers. You have Prof. Saugata Roy from our party. You have Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tiwari of Congress. You have Ravneet Bittu, who I would consider most wonderful, passionate about the farm laws. Pinaki Mishra from the BJD on anything legal. So, there are many good speakers. People feel, however, that you lose your temper very fast. To common readers and viewers, it could appear as arrogance. Does that worry you? It doesn’t worry me. But, obviously, it’s something I could work on. I am trying to be better at it. I still have a long way to go. What’s your best achievement in your political career so far? I think my best achievement has been fighting these last 13 years and getting to be a Member of Parliament without compromising on my basic principles. When you enter politics, everyone tells you that to succeed, you have to do this, you have to do that. I have realised that I don’t need to do anything that I don’t want to. And if you are strong enough to stay with your beliefs and principles, it’s always possible to succeed.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-2017-bjp-stole-goa-election-tmc-will-ensure-it-doesn-t-happen-again-1069967.html
10-01-2022||Panorama||The name is Bond... Electoral Bond||For those who get their adrenalin surge from Ian Fleming’s character saying, “The name is Bond, James Bond,” it might be time to move on. There is a new buzz phrase in town and all the Bond Fekus right up to Daniel Craig would probably have to go scurrying when they hear the power behind the words, “The name is Bond, Electoral Bond.” Bond fans may argue about how their favourite hero has access to the fanciest of gadgets and cars that can indulge in gravity-defying pyrotechnics. But none of them has ever been shown to own a Maybach whose tyres are bomb-proof, the body and windows bullet-proof and the fuel guard possessing safeguards that can prevent oil leakages from damaging the vehicle. It can travel even up to 50 kms, in case of a puncture or a blast and has a built-in air freshener that can protect the occupants from chemical or gas attacks.  So, eat your heart out, Q - bet you never could come up with something so smart. The most interesting thing about the car is that can totally undergo a name change because of the person sitting inside and is now called Mai-Baap India, thus totally turning it into a 100% Make-in-India project.   Whilst James, the original Bond has had to use his brawn, brains and charms to outwit his opponents, it has always been a transparent process. But the Electoral Bond is a whole new ball game in its sheer opacity. Being transparent need no longer be a virtue, for, in opacity, there lies mystery, imagination and power — the power to turn black into white — in other words, whitewash. According to the new rules of the Electoral Bond, no RTI is applicable and no one can be privy to the names of the contributions, nor the amounts given and even less so, the beneficiaries. This means that a high net worth individual can be given amnesty for unaccounted wealth if he donates to the Electoral Bonds, whilst the ordinary citizen of the country will be blasted with reminders from the IT Department if she has delayed in filing her annual returns. So basically, the Electoral Bond determines that what is sauce for the goose need not necessarily be sauce for the gander.   The Electoral Bonds are so powerful that they can ensure glowing publicity on the front pages of newspapers and on television channels too, where sold-out anchors are now in complete ‘Bond-age’ to the one and only cause. This gets even more complicated when these media companies are owned by big business houses, which have investments that are in need of official permission from the government. So one could probably rename the Electoral Bond as the ‘Merry-go-Round’ Bond, as the contributor becomes the beneficiary and the beneficiary becomes the contributor, and so it goes round and round and round, with all the cash staying with one set of people, whilst the poor get poorer and the rest scramble to make a living and pay their taxes and try to live decent, honest lives, to the best of their ability. The opacity of the Electoral Bond also has other benefits — the ability to use the carrot or the stick on anybody who is an obstruction. If the carrot does not work, then the stick should definitely do the trick. The various permutations and combinations of the English alphabet in the form of the CBI, the ED, the NB et. al. will have the individual so harassed that he might need a whole new legalese, to get out of the mess. The power of the Electoral Bond can also ensure a new crop of Make-in-India builders and architects who are giving India a new look and image, whilst the world looks on in sheer disbelief. Make way, Lutyens Delhi, here comes the new Vista, all ready to celebrate the Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. Who knows how long we may have to wait whilst the poison oozes or spurts out in the process of the Samudra Manthan?   In the meanwhile, skulk away James Bond. We are all shaken and stirred because the new Bond is here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-name-is-bond-electoral-bond-1069986.html
10-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Power to educate others||Recently, a news item mentioning the Padma Shri award received by an orange seller caught my attention. Harekala Hajabba, who earned his living by selling oranges, had the determination to start a school with grants from the government. The reason: He could not comprehend the English language spoken by a foreigner who wanted to buy oranges from him. To save the children of his village from facing the same plight, he set out to open a primary school from his meagre savings of Rs 5,000. Now the school has classes I to X. This news left me in total awe. Diwali was around the corner and I decided to give my househelp a bonus. After crediting the amount to her bank account, I informed her about it. She was overjoyed. I asked her how she would spend it. She wanted to spend it on the school fees of her children. Instead of buying fancy items or clothes for them, she wanted to educate them and secure their future with a better living.  Her reply made me think. I noticed the similarity in the thoughts shared by her and the orange seller. Both of them were determined to give a better future to the next generation by providing them with better education. One wanted to educate her young ones, the other wanted to educate the entire village. For both of them, poverty was not a hurdle in accomplishing this task. My daughter once came enthusiastically to me saying that her school had started a crowdfunding scheme to educate poor children. I was surprised at her excitement to collect money from various sources. She even went on to collect money from houses in our apartment complex. When the due date arrived, she was able to collect a sizeable amount and donate it to the funds. In all three scenarios, the donors were not very well-off. The first two were poverty-stricken and the third one was a minor who did not have money of her own. But the enthusiasm, selfless commitment and determination that each one showed were truly amazing. Of course,  I cannot compare my househelp and my daughter to the orange vendor who was determined to build a school, but the noble thought they all carried remains the same. So, where does the power to educate others lie? One need not be affluent to do this. The very thought that people around us should be literate can go a long way in educating our future generations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/power-to-educate-others-1069988.html
10-01-2022||Second Edit||A win for India in Sri Lanka||Decades of Indian diplomatic efforts have finally borne fruit with India signing three agreements with the Sri Lanka government on jointly developing the Trincomalee oil tank farm in eastern Sri Lanka. The oil tank farm will be managed by a 51-49% joint venture between Ceylon Petroleum Complex and Indian Oil Corporation’s Lankan subsidiary. The agreement will strengthen India-Sri Lanka economic cooperation, help boost India’s energy security, and provide it a presence in an area of high strategic value. The once-warm India-Sri Lanka relationship has been turbulent in recent years as Colombo assiduously courted China. While former President Mahinda Rajapaksa drove the country into multi-billion-dollar debts by allowing the Chinese to develop over-priced and often unprofitable infrastructure projects on the island, the Maithripala Sirisena government handed over Hambantota Port to China on a 99-year lease. Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s presidency has been no different. It handed over the East Container Terminal project at Colombo to the Chinese after cancelling an agreement with India and Japan for its development. Public opposition to India’s participation was cited as the reason for cancelling the ECT deal with India. However, Colombo is not proffering such excuses in relation to Chinese projects, although public unease with the Chinese policy of not hiring local labour is mounting. Sri Lanka is in the grip of a severe economic crisis. The country’s forex reserves are down to $1.6 billion, just enough to pay for imports for a few weeks; inflation has reached record levels; food prices are soaring. The Rajapaksa government is in talks with India for a $1.9 billion economic aid package. It has also asked the Chinese to restructure debt repayments to ease Sri Lanka’s economic burden. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi made no announcement in this regard during his just-concluded visit to the island. The possibility of China demanding handover of projects in lieu of debt repayment cannot be ruled out. This is what happened when the Sirisena government was unable to repay the debt incurred on the Hambantota project. China is not a generous partner, and although it may be willing to fork out larger amounts than India to bail Sri Lanka out of its current problems, it will only drive the island-nation into graver crisis. While India can draw satisfaction from the Trincomalee deal, the India-China contest for influence in Colombo will only intensify. The Rajapaksas, meanwhile, can be expected to seek to derive the greatest benefit by playing India and China off each other. Delhi must also expect them to hand over more projects, even military concessions, to China to get Beijing to bail them out of their problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-win-for-india-in-sri-lanka-1069961.html
10-01-2022||South||Protests across Tamil Nadu against desecration of Periyar statue||The Dravidar Kazhagam (DK) and the TPDK are conducting protests across Tamil Nadu against the desecration of a statue of Periyar, the father of the Dravidian movement, at Vellalore in Coimbatore. The desecration took place on Saturday night after 10 pm, police said. Dravidar Kazhagam president, K. Veeramani has said that the party is conducting protest marches across the state and added that the Covid protocol is being followed. He said that people in batches of three to five people were protesting, holding placards and getting arrested adhering strictly to the Covid protocol announced by the state government. While speaking to IANS, the DK leader said, "We are conducting protests in a symbolic manner against the regular desecration of the statues of Thanthai Periyar. If we don't respond this will continue and the government of the day must act strongly against the perpetrators of this crime." On Sunday morning it was found that a statue of Periyar or EV Ramsamy was found sprinkled with saffron powder and garlanded with a chain of chappals. With the lockdown on Sunday and night curfew after 10 pm, there were not many people around who could have seen the desecration of the statue. CCTV visuals have revealed the presence of a person near the statue, according to the Podanur police. K Ramakrishnan, President of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam while speaking to IANS said, "The desecration of the statue of Periyar at Vellalore in Coimbatore is not a single phenomenon. Of late there have been several instances of people showing disrespect to the statue of Periyar and we cannot lay low and take this any more against the greatest social reformer of Tamil Nadu." Police have arrested and removed the protestors from Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Salem, Erode, Madurai, Chennai central, Tirunelveli, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, and other districts of Tamil Nadu. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/protests-across-tamil-nadu-against-desecration-of-periyar-statue-1069753.html
10-01-2022||South||University exams in Tamil Nadu postponed indefinitely||University semester exams in Tamil Nadu slated for later this month have been deferred indefinitely due to the Covid-19 situation in the state, the government said on Monday. Higher Education Minister K Ponmudi said the decision has been taken in consultation with Chief Minister M K Stalin who was keen on students' welfare. "All university exams are being deferred indefinitely due to the surging covid numbers. The revised schedule will be announced later," he told reporters here. Presently, colleges are closed for study holidays and if there are complaints of any institution remaining open, they will be asked to close down, he added. Amid a steep rise in its coronavirus cases over the past few days, Tamil Nadu on Sunday reported 12,895 new cases while its active infections touched 51,335.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/university-exams-in-tamil-nadu-postponed-indefinitely-1069762.html
10-01-2022||South||Will continue fight for justice says, Kerala actress who survived assault||Stating that the journey from being a victim to becoming a survivor hadn't been easy, the Kerala actress on Monday said that she would continue this journey to see justice prevail and to make sure no one else went through such an ordeal again. The victim, whose post was shared on social media by a number of celebrities from the Malayalam film industry, said, "This has not been an easy journey. The journey from being a victim to becoming a survivor. "For five years now, my name and my identity have been suppressed under the weight of the assault inflicted on me. "Though I am not the one who has committed the crime, there have been many attempts to humiliate, silence and isolate me. But at such times, I have had some who stepped forward to keep my voice alive. Now, when I hear so many voices speak up for me, I know that I am not alone in this fight for justice. "To see justice prevail, to get wrongdoers punished and to ensure no one else goes through such an ordeal again, I shall continue this journey. For all those who are standing with me - a heartfelt thank you for your love." Meanwhile, on Sunday, the Kerala police registered a fresh non-bailable case against Malayalam actor Dileep. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-continue-fight-for-justice-says-kerala-actress-who-survived-assault-1069765.html
10-01-2022||South||PM Modi to inaugurate 11 new government medical colleges across Tamil Nadu on January 12||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate 11 new government medical colleges across Tamil Nadu and the new campus of Central Institute of Classical Tamil in Chennai, on January 12. The new medical colleges are being established at an estimated cost of about Rs 4,000 crore, out of which around Rs 2,145 crore has been provided by the Centre and rest by the Tamil Nadu government. The districts in which the new Medical Colleges are being established are Virudhunagar, Namakkal, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Thiruvallur, Nagapattinam, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram and Krishnagiri.      "Establishment of these medical colleges is in line with the Prime Minister's constant endeavour to promote affordable medical education and improve health infrastructure in all parts of the country," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) in a statement said. The new medical colleges, with a cumulative capacity of 1,450 seats, are being established under the Centrally Sponsored scheme of 'Establishing of New Medical Colleges attached with existing district/referral hospital'. Under the scheme, medical colleges are established in districts, which do not have either a government or private medical college. "The establishment of a new campus of Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT) in Chennai is in line with the Prime Minister's vision to protect and preserve Indian heritage and promote classical languages," the PMO said. The new campus is fully funded by the Union Government and is built at a cost of Rs 24 crore. CICT, which was operating from a rented building so far, will now operate from a new three-storey campus. The new campus is equipped with a spacious library, an e-library, seminar halls and a multimedia hall. An autonomous organisation under the Union Ministry of Education, CICT is contributing to the promotion of classical Tamil by doing research activities so as to establish the ancientness and uniqueness of the Tamil language. The institute library has a rich collection of over 45,000 ancient Tamil Books. To promote classical Tamil and support its students, the Institute indulges in academic activities like holding seminars and training programmes, granting fellowship etc. It also aims to translate and publish 'Thirukkural' in various Indian as well as 100 foreign languages. "The new campus will provide an efficient working environment for the institute in its pursuit of promoting classical Tamil across the world," the PMO added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-11-new-government-medical-colleges-across-tamil-nadu-on-january-12-1069777.html
10-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu allows Jallikattu, caps number of spectators to 150 amid Covid-19 surge||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued an SOP for Jallikattu events.  The state government has mandated a full Covid-19 vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 48 hours to attend Jallikattu events.  It has also capped the number of spectators to 150 or 50 per cent of seating capacity (whichever is less).  More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-allows-jallikattu-caps-number-of-spectators-to-150-amid-covid-19-surge-1069778.html
10-01-2022||South||Attendance at marriages, funerals capped at 50 persons in Kerala||In view of the rising numbers of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan directed that the number of attendees at weddings and funerals be limited to a maximum of 50 people. The decision was taken at the Covid review meeting chaired by the Chief Minister, a state government release said. Last week the government had directed that the number of people at marriages, funerals, political, social and cultural events in closed rooms be restricted to 75 and in open spaces to 150. Now in the latest decision, it has been further reduced to 50 without specifying whether it is for closed rooms or open spaces or both. In the meeting, it was also decided that reunions, ceremonies, and general social, political, cultural and community events should be conducted online, except in urgent situations, the release said. Precautions, including physical distancing, should be taken when conducting events with physical attendance and if possible, public meetings should be avoided, it said. Directions were issued, in the meeting, to the Department of Health and Education to ensure that vaccinations for students over the age of 15 are completed this week itself, the release said and added that that the departments were considering carrying out vaccinations at educational institutions also. Kudumbasree elections and gram sabhas can be conducted by following Covid norms like maintaining social distancing, the CM said in the meeting. He also directed that the telemedicine system should be implemented as well and that awareness programs should be conducted in connection with Omicron, the release said. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/attendance-at-marriages-funerals-capped-at-50-persons-in-kerala-1069779.html
10-01-2022||South||Trial court reserves order on Kerala nun rape case||A court in Kerala on Monday concluded the hearing and reserved its verdict in the case of alleged rape of a nun by Bishop Franco Mulakkal. The Additional Sessions Court is likely to pronounce the judgment on January 14. The trial in the case had started in November 2019. The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district in 2018. In her complaint to the police in June 2018, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by Franco, then Bishop of the Jalandhar diocese of Roman Catholic Church, between 2014 and 2016. The Special Investigation team which probed the case, arrested the Bishop and charged him with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation. The court had restrained the print and electronic media from publishing any matter relating to the trial in the case without its permission. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trial-court-reserves-order-on-kerala-nun-rape-case-1069792.html
10-01-2022||South||I am ashamed, I have to hang my head in shame: Kerala Governor on denial of honouring President||The ongoing tiff between Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Pinarayi Vijayan-led state government over the denial of giving the Honorary D Litt to President of India took a turn for the worse, with the former slamming the Kerala University Vice-Chancellor. Speaking to the media soon after arriving from Delhi, Khan said he is ashamed and has to hang his head in shame. "Kerala University is one of the oldest universities in the country and the Vice-chancellor cannot even write five lines correctly. He also cannot even speak properly. I was really ashamed," said Khan. Khan said he was surprised to find out that no convocation has been held at the Kerala University for the past 10 years, so he told the Vice-chancellor (V P Mahadevan Pillai) to hold one. "After a month he came back to me and I told him that I will personally go to the President of India to come and attend the convocation. But on 5th December he calls the Raj Bhavan and I was shocked to hear what he was saying. It took me 10 minutes to regain myself when I heard what he was saying. Soon after that, I called the Chief Minister," said Khan. A handwritten letter on a piece of paper of the Kerala University VC to Khan has now come out which contains mistakes and it states that the syndicate had turned down the decision to confer the D Litt to the President. Khan also slammed the way the Vice-Chancellor of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit was selected. "I was given just one name and I was told that six others who applied were not eligible. What does this mean, the six professors who applied are not at all eligible? This shows the quality of the higher education standards in Kerala," added Khan. It was on December 31 that former Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala asked Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to come clean on why the recommendation of Khan as chancellor to confer Honorary D Litt to President Ram Nath Kovind was shot down. On Monday, Chennithala said the silence of Vijayan is dangerous. "Time has run out and Vijayan cannot remain silent like this anymore. He has to tell what has happened," said Chennithala. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-am-ashamed-i-have-to-hang-my-head-in-shame-kerala-governor-on-denial-of-honouring-president-1069811.html
10-01-2022||South||Andhra Pradesh to impose night curfew as daily new cases near the 1000 mark||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has instructed officials to impose a night curfew in the state from 11 pm to 5 am. The decision comes even as the state has recorded 984 new positive cases on Monday when 24280 samples were tested for Covid-19. It is not clear yet as to when the curfew would come into force. A detailed order, guidelines are expected to be released by the authorities. Reddy held a review meeting on Monday on the pandemic situation and measures to be taken for its containment in the wake of a surge in cases, which is being linked to the Omicron variant. The CM wants a Covid-19 care center set up in each of the 175 assembly constituencies in the state, with all the required facilities. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to continue to impose fines on people not wearing masks in public places and RTC buses. Covid-19 protocols should be followed in shops and shopping malls. Not more than 200 people should gather in outdoor public places and the limit is 100 indoors. Theatre managements are directed to operate at 50 per cent capacity i.e., leaving a seat in between for distancing. The Chief Minister directed the officials to apply proper precautions and also modify the treatment, medicines offered to the affected in the wake of the new variant's emergence, in consultation with health professionals. Reddy ordered a review on the availability of required medicines and directed the officials to procure the needy drugs and other essentials as per the requirement. The CM also directed the officials to strengthen the ‘104’ call center services to ensure all the calls are attended to immediately. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-impose-night-curfew-as-daily-new-cases-near-the-1000-mark-1069818.html
10-01-2022||South||Engineering student killed in campus clash in Kerala||An engineering college student was allegedly killed in Idukki district of Kerala in clashes related to college union elections. The incident also triggered widespread tension in the state. Dheeraj R, a student of the Government Engineering College at Painavu in Idukki was killed on Monday afternoon. Son of Rajendran of Taliparamba in Kannur, Dheeraj was a seventh-semester student of commuter science stream. He was an activist of the CPI(M)'s student outfit Students Federation of India. Another student also suffered serious injuries in the clashes. The police held one person, identified as Youth Congress worker Nikhil P, in this connection. SFI alleged that workers of Youth Congress and Kerala Students Union, the student outfits of Congress, were involved in the crime. A gang that came from outside led by a Youth Congress worker unleashed the attack without any provocation, SFI alleged. College authorities said that the polling was over and the counting was about to begin when the incident occurred. Following the clashes the counting was put on hold. The incident led to tension at various parts of Kerala with workers of CPI(M) and its feeder organisations staging protest marches at various parts of the state and causing destruction to flags and offices of Congress and its feeder organisations. High tension prevailed at Malappuram district as the CPI(M) workers staged a protest march in front a venue of a Congress meeting attended by Congress state president K Sudhakaran. Congress workers also shouted slogans against the CPI(M). Police and senior party workers intervened to prevented a clash. The vehicle of Lok Sabha MP N K Premachandran reportedly came under attack in Kollam district. KSU activists were injured in clashes with SFI workers at a campus in Kochi in this connection. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/engineering-student-killed-in-campus-clash-in-kerala-1069864.html
10-01-2022||South||How Andhra Pradesh is becoming self-sufficient for medical oxygen||133 new oxygen plants started operating from Monday in Andhra Pradesh, where at least 30 lives were lost during the second Covid-19 wave due to short supply of the life-sustaining gas in the government-run hospitals. 11 more plants are in completion stage. All these are Pressure Swing Adsorption medical oxygen plants, set up in 104 state-run hospitals across the state with an expenditure of Rs 426 crore. The capacity of these plants ranges from 500 litres per minute to 1,000. The availability of the in-house plants, health officials say, would help the state deal with any surge in hospitalisations due to the Omicron variant induced third wave. The Jaganmohan Reddy administration had begun the installation of the PSA plants last year after at least a dearth of medical oxygen killed over 30 Covid-19 patients in the state. Eight people died on 3 May while undergoing treatment in the Hindupur government hospital due to interruption in oxygen supply and alleged lag on part of the staff in utilising cylinders kept on reserve. Barely a week later, about two dozen patients died in Tirupati Ruia hospital, again due to dearth of oxygen. Delay in the arrival of an oxygen tanker from Tamil Nadu was stated as the reason here. The death toll which was initially put at 11 was later revised to 23. Similar incidents were reported from other parts of the country too during the height of the second wave when oxygen crisis prevailed all around. Andhra Pradesh officials had to deploy special tankers to procure oxygen from far off places like Angul in Odisha and arrangements were made for their uninterrupted movement. “The demand for medical oxygen had skyrocketed after Covid-19 and especially last year, we had faced a major challenge in ensuring timely supply. Realising the need to be self reliant with the indispensable commodity, we went with the plan of setting up PSA plants in the premises of every government hospital with over 50 beds,” a health department official said. All the oxygen beds in the above 104 hospitals are now connected with piped supply from the plants. Cylinders could also be filled there. The combined oxygen output of these 144 plants is over 1.2 lakh litres per minute. "We took these steps to achieve self-sufficiency in oxygen availability, as the entire country faced severe shortage during the second wave,” chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy said while inaugurating the 144 plants in virtual mode on Monday. The Chief Minister mentioned that his government purchased 25 oxygen cryogenic ISO containers for transporting Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO), along with 74 LMO tanks. 24,419 hospital beds in the government sector are now connected with piped oxygen supply, at a cost of Rs 90 crore. The state government is also providing a 30 per cent subsidy to private hospitals with over 100-bed capacity to set up such oxygen plants. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-andhra-pradesh-is-becoming-self-sufficient-for-medical-oxygen-1069867.html
10-01-2022||South||Income Tax Dept detects Rs 800 cr hidden cash transactions after raids on Andhra, Telangana realty groups||The Income Tax Department has detected unaccounted cash transactions of Rs 800 crore after it recently raided three real estate groups in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the CBDT said on Monday. The unidentified groups are engaged in the business of land development and construction and the taxman raided over two dozen premises linked to them on January 5 in Kurnool, Ananthapur, Kadapa, Nandyal, Bellary and some other locations, it said. Incriminating documents like handwritten books, agreements and digital data have been seized from a specialised software application as well as from other electronic gadgets, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. One group has been using a software which has been "systematically modified" to eliminate the unaccounted cash element of the consideration received and to record in the regular books of account the sale consideration that matches with registered sale price, the policy-making body for the Tax Department said. These groups have been found to be "accepting cash" over and above the registered value of the properties and such unaccounted cash is used for cash payments towards the purchase of lands and incurring other expenditure, it claimed. "So far, the search action has led to the seizure of unaccounted cash of Rs 1.64 crore...and has resulted in the detection of unaccounted cash transactions to the tune of Rs 800 crore," the statement said. Check out latest DH vidoes here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/income-tax-dept-detects-rs-800-cr-hidden-cash-transactions-after-raids-on-andhra-telangana-realty-groups-1069872.html
10-01-2022||South||Fear in Kerala village amid wait for leopard's return for cubs||While the people of the Ummini area of Palakkad district in Kerala are under the fear of the return of a mother leopard in search of its two cubs that were found in a vacant building in the human-inhabited locality on Sunday, the forest department officials are on the other hand eagerly wishing its return to reunite the cubs. It was on Sunday afternoon that the leopard cubs — just a few days old — were found in a dilapidated building, several kilometres away from the forest area. Ponnan searched the building after spotting dogs barking unusually. He said he was shocked on seeing a leopard going out of the building. Subsequently, the forest authorities were alerted. The forest officials searched the building and spotted two cubs. The cubs were then shifted to a veterinary hospital. Forest department sources said for the healthy survival of the cubs it is essential for them to reunite with their mother. Divisional Forest Officer Kurra Srinivas told DH that cages and camera traps were set up in the locality and the officers were keeping a high vigil. Once the mother is caught, all the three could be released together in the forest. However, the locals are apprehensive that the leopard may become aggressive if the cubs were not spotted and hence fear to move around. Kerala has been witnessing many instances of wild animals entering human habitats leading to man-animal conflicts. But incidents like the present one were not reported in the recent past. In 2020 November, a tiger cub with deformities was found abandoned in the forest areas of the Idukki district. Though the forest officials waited for a couple of days for the mother to come in search of the cub, it did not happen and the forest authorities were now treating the cub and even trying to rewild it. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fear-in-kerala-village-amid-wait-for-leopards-return-for-cubs-1069892.html
10-01-2022||South||Kerala University Vice Chancellor under fire for 'linguistic abilities'||Even as the row between the governor and state government keeps on aggravating in Kerala, a letter said to be written by the Kerala University vice-chancellor to the chancellor has raised many eyebrows, owing to its 'poor language and phrasings'. The said letter was purportedly written by Kerala University vice-chancellor V P Mahadevan Pillai to the governor, who is also the chancellor of the university, informing that several syndicate members turned down the governor's proposal to confer D Litt to President Ram Nath Kovind.  The shabbily hand-written letter triggered criticisms against the vice chancellor's language skills on social media too. However, the vice-chancellor is yet to comment on it. Meanwhile, the governor alleged that the vice-chancellor could have rejected the proposal of conferring D Litt to the President under the direction of someone else. There has been a long-running feud between the governor and the state government over the appointment of vice-chancellors of universities in Kerala. The governor claims he has been subjected to political pressures for the same. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-university-vice-chancellor-under-fire-for-linguistic-abilities-1069919.html
10-01-2022||South||KTR extends Rs 15 lakh assistance to specially-abled Punjab chess player||Telangana IT, industries minister KT Rama Rao extended his helping hand to specially-abled chess player Malika Handa after the world champion complained about the “injustice” meted out to her by the Punjab government. In a video that went viral on social media, Handa lashed out at the dispensation in Punjab for refusing to honour a commitment reportedly made during Captain Amarinder Singh's time to provide a job and financial aid to her. Handa, 26, is the first Indian woman to win a gold medal in the International Deaf Chess Championship in 2016, held in Armenia. Taking to Twitter on 2 January, Handa rued while stating that she was told by state sports minister Pargat Singh that Punjab has no policy of rewarding deaf sports persons. “Singh said that his government cannot do anything as the assurance was made by his predecessor. I am only asking why it was announced then. Five years of my time wasted by the Congress government,” Handa said. Responding to her agony on Twitter, Rao had offered to help her. On Monday Handa landed in Hyderabad from Jalandhar and met the minister. Rao handed over a cheque of Rs 15 lakh and also a laptop to help her participate in online chess championships. “I am doing this in my personal capacity after hearing about the international chess player's plight and the unfair treatment she was receiving from the Punjab government. We are proud of what she has achieved already,” Rao said The minister sought inputs from Handa on policies that could be brought in to support disabled sportspersons in Telangana. Rao also appealed to Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Anurag Thakur to help Handa get a central government job. The two interacted with an interpreter's help and Malika opined that Chess is not being treated as a mainstream sport in the country. “I am overwhelmed by the support received from Telangana,” Handa said while thanking Rao. Malika was born in Jalandhar, Punjab. She was not born deaf but lost her hearing and speech when she was one year old. Now, she lives with a 90 per cent hearing disability. She began to play chess at the age of 15 and has won the national deaf chess championship six times until now. She is the only woman from Punjab to have represented the state nine times in national championships. She has won one gold and two silvers in world deaf chess championship and as well as in Asian deaf chess championship. Malika is now preparing for the World championship which is scheduled to take place in September in Poland. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ktr-extends-rs-15-lakh-assistance-to-specially-abled-punjab-chess-player-1069998.html
10-01-2022||State||Congress Padayatra on Mekedatu enters second day in Karnataka||The Congress' padayatra (protest rally) in Karnataka, demanding speedy implementation of the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river has entered its second day. The Congress leaders will march 16 km on Monday to reach Kanakapura city by night. The 10-day padayatra is being led by state Congress President DK Shivakumar. Despite Covid-19 restrictions and curfew imposed by the Karnataka government, thousands are participating in the padayatra, raising concerns over rapid spread of the virus. The Congress has announced that no matter what, the party would continue the padayatra. On Sunday night, Shivakumar refused to undergo Covid test after the completion of the first day of the protest march at his native place, Doddahalalli. He took the health officer to task and said he is fit enough to walk 15 km since morning. "It is shameful for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to indulge in such tactics to scuttle the padayatra. Let him (CM Bommai), Home Minister Araga Jnanendra and Health Minister K. Sudhakar take Covid tests. I can carry Home Minister on my shoulder and walk. I know my rights. I will not get tested," he said. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah could not participate in the padayatra as he had fever and went back to Bengaluru after the inauguration. However, the march managed to evoke tremendous response from people of the state. Villagers en route gave a warm welcome to the Congress leaders and showered flowers on them as they walked through the villages. The leaders even danced to the beats of drummers and folk artistes while walking during the rally. On Monday, padayatra will stop for lunch in Madappanadoddi village and reach Kanakapura by night. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-padayatra-on-mekedatu-enters-second-day-in-karnataka-1069732.html
10-01-2022||State||Covid violations in Congress' Mekedatu Padayatra will cause case surge: Shettar||Opining that the Congress' padayatra over Mekedatu issue may result in a spike in Covid cases, MLA and former chief minister Jagadish Shettar on Monday suggested that the Congress Party stop the padayatra instead of violating Covid guidelines and hold talks with the government about resolving the Mekedatu problem. "They should not take this as a prestige issue, that too when Covid cases are increasing in the State. When the common man is being fined for not wearing a mask, Congress leaders like D K Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah and Mallikarjun Kharge, along with thousands of people, are violating the rules in the name of this padayatra. It is dangerous for society. Let them stop this if they have a real concern about people's health," he said. "This padayatra has political intention. If they are good leaders and responsible Opposition, they should hold talks with the government on how to protect the interests of the State, and should give constructive suggestions. I ask them to adhere to the rules, and not to create confusion by violating Covid norms," Shettar noted. Charging that the padayatra is ill-intentioned, Shettar felt that Congress did not raise the Mekedatu issue in the Winter Session of the State Legislature as their true colour would have been unveiled if the answer was given. They would have raised this issue in the Session if they had a real concern. But, they lacked that courage. They just wanted to hit the streets to get publicity and create a 'vote bank. Mere padayatra would not resolve the Mekedatu issue, he observed. The government is not stopping the padayatra, because it wants to prevent confusion from being created. Issuing notices and other procedures are on as per law, and people would also teach a lesson to Congress if it continues the political gimmick, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-violations-in-congress-mekedatu-padayatra-will-cause-case-surge-shettar-1069751.html
10-01-2022||State||Karnataka sees 11,698 new Covid cases, 146 Omicron||Karnataka on Monday saw 11,698 fresh Covid-19 cases, a slight dip  compared to Sunday’s, and four deaths as the infection tally swelled to 30,63,656 while the toll reached 38,374. A total of 146 new cases of Omicron were recorded in Bengaluru on Monday taking the state’s tally to 479, tweeted Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. The state has been witnessing a steady surge in cases since December last week and had reported 12,000 daily cases on Sunday. On the bright side, the state has crossed the 9-crore mark in vaccinations on Monday. As many as 3,63,243 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Monday alone as the total number of doses administered in the state swelled to 9,00,34,783. Of the new cases reported on Monday, Bengaluru Urban registered 9,221. The state capital also saw 829 discharges and two deaths. Mysuru and Ramanagara also reported a death each. Mysuru district witnessed a surge in Covid cases with 309 fresh infections followed by Mandya 306, Udupi 219 and Dakshina Kannada 176.   The state has 60,148 active carriers of the virus, as on Jan 10. On Monday, the positivity rate in the state was 7.77% and the case fatality rate 0.03%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sees-11698-new-covid-cases-146-omicron-1069947.html
10-01-2022||State||Scrolls & Leaves: Arthur C Clarke's treasure ship||Standing on the shores of Kirinda, Sri Lanka, the faint outlines of a large rock lay ten miles out in the Indian Ocean. The waves were turbulent here and the Great Basses coral reefs below were treacherous, snaring countless ships along the busy trade routes rounding the southeast coast of Sri Lanka, until a lighthouse was built in 1873. Arthur C Clarke boarded a motorboat before dawn one day in April 1963 for the bumpy ride to the lighthouse. He was joined by fellow diver Mike Wilson, and Peter Throckmorton, an underwater archeologist, along with tools, rope and other equipment. Two years earlier, they had discovered a shipwreck here and they finally had the money and equipment to begin excavations. After unloading everything at the lighthouse into a dinghy, the men dived into the sea. But Arthur stayed in the rubber boat. He was still recovering from the almost total paralysis of post-polio syndrome and felt his body was not strong enough to support an oxygen tank for a dive. Instead, he slipped on flippers, face mask and snorkel and lay floating on the surface to watch as the men began their work. “I had quite forgotten how pure and transparent this ocean water could be, and its crystal depths looked very attractive,” Clarke wrote in his book “The Treasure of the Great Reef.” “As soon as the dinghy came to a halt, I could see the divers at work, though they were still fifty feet away and thirty feet down … I swam over to them and had a perfect bird's eye view of operations.” Small cannon were half buried in the coral and unearthed. Tapping through lumps of coral dislodged part of a lady's earring. Large anchors were scattered at the site. They made dozens of trips to the dinghy delivering the remnants of the shipwreck. It was only in the middle of the afternoon that, Arthur writes, the whole situation altered. “Around 2 pm, Peter came rowing back, and I am never likely to forget his first words to me: ‘I've found the mother lode. There's at least a ton there.’ There was no need for explanations; I knew exactly what he meant.” To find out what treasure was discovered at the bottom of the sea, listen to Episode 7 of the Scrolls & Leaves podcast by scanning the QR Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/scrolls-leaves-arthur-c-clarkes-treasure-ship-1069952.html
10-01-2022||State||Mekedatu: Now, Karjol releases documents to counter M B Patil||Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol on Monday released another document to buttress his claim that the Congress delayed the Mekedatu project when it was in power.  Speaking to mediapersons in Bagalkot, Karjol said the then law minister T B Jayachandra had sent a note seeking approval for the project in 2013. The note urged the CM to approve permission for the project, while noting that the project is significant to address drinking water needs and also to overcome power shortage in the state. This note was later approved by the then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and then sent to M B Patil, who was the then water resources minister. “Even then, Patil failed to act on it. When so many approvals were given, why didn’t the Congress begin work on Mekedatu,” Karjol asked.  Reiterating that the Congress padayatra is politically motivated, Karjol alleged that the whole campaign was just a popularity contest among Congress leaders and that there was no larger interest of the state involved. Last week, Karjol released documents to claim that after proposing 4G exemption under KTPP for preparation of the DPR for the project, the Congress government later decided to identify an agency and go for tender process, in spite of the exemption.  ‘Govt ad irresponsible’ Meanwhile, launching an attack on the BJP, Patil questioned the government on the advertorials on Mekedatu project recently published in a section of the print media. The advertorial was critical of the “delays” in moving files during the Congressgovernment. “Considering that the Mekedatu project is a sensitive matter which has many legal tangles, the government advertorial is irresponsible. This act by the government needs to be thoroughly investigated by the Chief Secretary, Advocate General and it has to be investigated by a retired judge,”he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mekedatu-now-karjol-releases-documents-to-counter-m-b-patil-1069980.html
10-01-2022||State||End Mekedatu padayatra and come for talks, Shettar tells Cong||Saying that the Congress’ padayatra over Mekedatu issue may result in spike in Covid numbers, MLA & former chief minister Jagadish Shettar on Monday suggested the Congress party to stop the campaign, which is in violation of Covid guidelines, and to hold talks with the government on the issue. “They should not take this as a prestige issue, that too when Covid cases are increasing drastically in the state. When the common man is being fined for not wearing a mask, Congress leaders like D K Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah and Mallikarjun Kharge, along with thousands of people, are violating Covid rules in the name of padayatra. It is dangerous for society. Let them stop this if they have real concern about the people’s health,” Shetter told media persons here. “If they are a responsible Opposition, they should hold talks with the government on how to protect the interests of the state, and should give constructive suggestions. I ask them to adhere to the rules, and not to create confusion by violating Covid norms,” Shettar said. Charging that the padayatra was ill-intentioned, Shettar said, “They would have raised this issue in the session, if they had real concern. But, they lacked that courage. They just wanted to hit the streets to get publicity and create a vote bank. Mere padayatra would not resolve the Mekedatu issue, he observed. When asked about the BJP workers violating Covid norms, Shettar said, whoever violates guidelines, the government would take action on them. In a few poll-bound states, which are witnessing a Covid surge, the BJP has cancelled its rallies, he added. Minister reacts Handloom, Textile & Sugar Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa on Monday said that the Congress was holding padayatra on the Mekedatu issue just for publicity keeping the BBMP and Assembly polls in mind. “People are watching how the Congress is adamant on holding the padayatra even when Covid restrictions are in place. They could have discussed the Mekedatu issue under some rule during the Winter Session of the Legislature which concluded recently,” he said. He said the government was capable of handling the situation. The chief minister has already given instructions to the officials, and he would take a suitable decision soon, Munenakoppa added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/end-mekedatu-padayatra-and-come-for-talks-shettar-tells-cong-1069982.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Forest dept gears up to fight fires with Cessna, drones||The Karnataka Forest Department is adding a Cessna C-188 aircraft and drones with thermal sensors to its arsenal to deal with forest fires that are becoming more frequent due to climate change. The aerial firefighting will complement the upgraded forest fire management system adopted by the department after learning from the 2019 Bandipur forest fires that destroyed about 12,000 acres due to the poor quality of preventive work by officers in charge. A senior official said the Cessna, which will be hired and stationed in Mysuru as part of a pilot project, has a proven track record in firefighting. “One third of Karnataka’s forests have been classified as sensitive (fire-prone),” the official said. “We are preparing a five-year action plan under which granular data from division level will be used to identify spots that are prone to repeated fires (“critical areas”).” The official said the “aircraft will provide a major boost” to fight fires in highly sensitive areas. Officials said that prolonged droughts and changing weather patterns have made the forests vulnerable to fire like never before. An added worry is the fragmentation of the forests by development activities as well as villages. Statistics show that copious rains in 2018 and 2019 helped in bringing down forest fire incidents in Karnataka for the next two years. Nevertheless, the number of incidents have remained on the higher side and indicate an upward trend. In the pilot project, estimated to cost Rs 1 crore, the aircraft will be stationed in Mysuru for the fire season between December and March. In the event of a fire, the aircraft will drop fire retardant and act as a quick response measure to check the spread. Large swathes of deciduous forests in Bandipur, Nagarahole and BR Hills, which include areas which are difficult to access by foot, will benefit from the project, an official said. In addition, the project includes procuring five drones with thermal sensors which can pick up heat signatures. This will help in monitoring the firefighting exercise at inaccessible areas and also conduct a follow up. Ground-level solutions When asked, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests P C Ray confirmed the proposal, but said the project will take off after gettingthe approval from the government. “The pilot project is aimed at supporting our ongoing effort to strengthen the existing system,” he said. While the Forest Survey of India provides regular fire alerts, the time lag of about 1.5 hours between detection and alert had remained an issue. Officials in the state forest department have improvised the system and come up with a new app that uses data from two satellites to alert a forest fire within 10 minutes. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/forest-dept-gears-up-to-fight-fires-with-cessna-drones-1069678.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||DKS refuses Covid test, says Karnataka govt deliberately hiking numbers||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar was seen in another viral video reprimanding officials who wanted to test him for Covid-19.  “You can’t blackmail me. Hey Mr…I’m fit and fine. You can’t compel me. I know the law of this land,” Shivakumar is heard telling a team of officials including the additional deputy commissioner and the district health officer. He later says sorry in the video. Speaking to reporters earlier in the day, Shivakumar said the government is manipulating Covid-19 case numbers. “I have ten doctors in my family. I know what’s going on,” he said. “To show high case numbers, they’re subjecting people to testing and showing them as positive. Even IAS and police officers have told me about whatever is happening,” he said.  Responding to this, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the government wanted to get people tested out of concern for their health. “Testing people is the duty of the health department. The way (Shivakumar) behaved shows his culture,” he said.  Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who returned to Bengaluru on Sunday after developing a fever, will skip Monday’s foot march. He has been advised rest by doctors, his office said. He will participate in the march on Tuesday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dks-refuses-covid-test-says-karnataka-govt-deliberately-hiking-numbers-1069731.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress Mekedatu march: 35 leaders booked, CM Bommai says law will act||The D K Shivakumar-led Karnataka Congress resumed its foot march demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project on the second day Monday, even as 35 party leaders have been booked for defying Covid-19 curbs.   The local police have registered FIRs against Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and others for violating prohibitory orders during the launch of the padayatra on Sunday.  “Anybody who violates the law will face action,” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters. “Now that cases have been registered, whatever needs to be done next as per provisions will happen automatically,” he said when asked about arrests.  Shivakumar dared the government to book more cases and caustically said he would provide lists and photographs of thousands of people who took part in the inaugural foot march.  On Monday, the Congress’ march will cover 15 km from Shivakumar’s native Doddalahalli to Kanakapura.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-mekedatu-march-35-leaders-booked-cm-bommai-says-law-will-act-1069743.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Hand over Nandita case to CBI: Kimmane demands Jnanendra||Urging the government to hand over Nandita death case of 2014 to CBI, Congress leader and former minister Kimmane Ratnakar will be staging a hunger strike in the premises of the taluk office on January 30 in Thirthahalli town.  Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, he alleged that BJP leaders including Aaraga Jnanendra, now home minister, had demanded the government to hand over the Nandita case to CBI. "Jnanendra had plotted to create a communal clash in the town using the suicide case of Nandita. BJP leaders had even projected the suicide case as rape and murder. Even Union Home Minister Amit Shah too had visited the residence of  Nandita during the 2018 assembly polls and had promised that the case would be handed over to CBI. So, it must be handed over to CBI without fail.  He would stage hunger strike for 24 hours from 10:30 am to the next day," he added. Daring BJP leader, he said he would resign from politics if he is found guilty in the case, if not, Jnanendra must step down from the posts of the minister, legislator. If he failed to do so, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai must sack him from the cabinet, he demanded.  He also alleged that Home Minister Aaraga Jnanendra has violated Covid-19 guidelines by organising annual fair, foundation stone laying ceremonies during the pandemic. "Lakhs of people participated in the annual fair held in the town recently. Are Covid norms only for common people?" he questioned.   Former MLA K B Prasanna Kumar, former MLC R Prasanna Kumar, Congress leader N Ramesh, Yamuna Range Gowda, Vijay Kumar and others were present on the occasion. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hand-over-nandita-case-to-cbi-kimmane-demands-jnanendra-1069857.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 146 more Omicron cases, tally reaches 476||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Monday said 146 more cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected in the state. This takes the state's tally of Omicron cases to 476. "146 new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Bengaluru today, taking the overall tally in Karnataka to 479," Sudhakar said in a tweet. The country’s first two Omicron cases were detected in the state on December 2.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-146-more-omicron-cases-tally-reaches-476-1069869.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai Covid-positive with mild symptoms||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he tested positive for Covid-19 late on Monday evening, after spending a busy day in office chairing meetings and attending an event. “I have tested positive for Covid-19 today with mild symptoms. My health is fine, I am under home quarantine,” Bommai said in a tweet. “I request everyone who has recently come into my contact to isolate themselves and get tested.” I have tested positive for COVID -19 today with mild symptoms. My health is fine, I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested. Earlier in the day, Bommai inaugurated the booster dose administration for frontline workers and senior citizens at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College & Research Institute along with Health Minister K Sudhakar and others. Bommai also paid his final homage to poet Chandrashekhar Patil who died earlier in the day. He also held a meeting with former vice-chancellors and chaired a discussion on administrative reforms with senior officials. Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar has also tested positive for Covid-19. Bommai was to hold a series of meetings to discuss the Covid-19 situation and Cauvery water supply in Bengaluru starting Tuesday till Thursday. All his official engagements stand cancelled, the chief minister’s office said. Earlier in the day, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said he tested positive for Covid-19. Last week, Revenue Minister R Ashoka tested positive. Primary & Secondary Education Minister BC Nagesh recovered from the infection and returned to work Monday.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-covid-positive-with-mild-symptoms-1069875.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Government to stop Congress march outside Bengaluru?||The BJP government in Karnataka is considering ways to keep the Congress’ foot march from entering Bengaluru, the epicentre of the fresh spike in Covid-19 cases. “We will do whatever it takes to protect Bengaluru,” Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said. The Congress’ 10-day padayatra demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project, which started Sunday, is scheduled to culminate at Basavanagudi in Bengaluru on January 19. “Bengaluru is reporting almost 10,000 cases daily. This being the situation, our first priority is to save lives. That's why we imposed a weekend curfew knowing that it affects livelihood,” Jnanendra said. “If the situation goes out of hand and we are forced to impose a lockdown for months, the Congress will have to take the responsibility,” he said. “We’re thinking about what needs to be done within Bengaluru.” Shivakumar’s silent protest KPCC president DK Shivakumar on Monday said he will not speak to the press for three days as a sign of protest against “national media” that he claimed are misrepresenting his views at the behest of the government. “I will participate in the march silently for three days. All press briefings will be done by our legislators, leader of the opposition, working presidents and other leaders,” he said. “Don’t waste your time talking to me, because I won’t speak.”  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-to-stop-congress-march-outside-bengaluru-1069893.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Government tried to infect me with Covid, says Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar, who is leading his party’s Mekedatu foot march, claimed Monday that the BJP government tried to ‘infect’ him with Covid-19 through an official who has tested positive. On Sunday night, a team of officers comprising Ramanagara additional deputy commissioner Javare Gowda T met Shivakumar to get the Congress leader tested for Covid-19. A video showing Shivakumar refusing to get tested and reprimanding the officials went viral.  Addressing an unscheduled news conference in the middle of the second day’s march, Shivakumar said the additional DC has tested positive for Covid-19. “What are they trying to do? Why are they trying such cheap politics,” he asked, accusing the BJP government of trying to sabotage the Mekedatu padayatra that kicked off Sunday. “Apparently, the Ramanagara DC, who was on stage with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai recently, has tested positive for Covid. The additional DC, who is a primary contact, was sent to get my sample and show it as positive,” Shivakumar charged. “I don’t think Bommai has such a mindset. This must be the plan of either the health minister or the home minister," he added. Earlier in the day, Shivakumar told reporters that the government is deliberately hiking the Covid-19 case numbers. “I have ten doctors in my family. I know what’s going on,” he said. “To show high case numbers, they’re subjecting people to testing and showing them as positive. Even IAS and police officers have told me about whatever is happening,” he said. Shivakumar demanded a judicial inquiry into allegations that the Covid-19 positivity rate is being manipulated, a claim the government has denied.  In the video that went viral, Shivakumar is heard pulling up officials. “You can’t blackmail me. Hey Mr…I’m fit and fine. You can’t compel me. I know the law of this land,” Shivakumar is heard saying. Later, he says sorry and asks them to leave.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-tried-to-infect-me-with-covid-says-shivakumar-1069917.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai calls for annual ranking system for government departments||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai asked officials on Monday to come up with an annual ranking system to assess the performance of government departments.  Bommai said this at a meeting he chaired on the reforms necessary to “tone up” the administration.  According to a release from the chief minister’s office, Bommai said citizen services should be made “easily available” by cutting down decision-making layers. “Petitions from people should get a response within hours. Accountability should be fixed at lower and higher levels. Some of the responsibilities of the revenue department should be delegated to gram panchayats,” Bommai said, adding that 40% of government work will be reduced if the revenue department is reformed.  Bommai said joint secretaries and deputy secretaries should be more empowered. “Regional Commissioners should manage major irrigation and land acquisition issues,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-calls-for-annual-ranking-system-for-government-departments-1069921.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Main priest alleges corruption at birthplace of Lord Hanuman in Karnataka||The head priest of the temple at Anjanadri hills, believed to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman near Gangavathi town in Koppa district of Karnataka, on Monday alleged illegal and immoral activities in the pilgrimage centre. Stating that there was no check on the elements indulging in such activities, Vidyadasa Baba said he would soon approach the court seeking solution to the problems. "Tehsildar and Revenue Inspector have joined hands to carry out many illegal activities at the pilgrimage centre. A parking fee has been charged illegally at the foot of the hill. The Revenue Inspector has given the contract to one of his relatives," Vidyadas Baba alleged. "I am rendering services at the temple as per the court orders. The Revenue Department had appointed another priest earlier. Now, they are appointing a few more priests unlawfully and trying to take off huge money that is contributed to the temple by devotees," he explained. There is corruption in the purchase of materials for providing food for pilgrims at the temple. Almost the raw material rates are quoted double. A complaint had already been filed with the Religious and Endowment department. However, the District Commissioner of Koppal, Assistant Commissioner has not initiated action in this regard. Hence, he is preparing to wage a legal battle, he explained. Anjanadri Hills or Parvatha is believed to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman according to myths. The pilgrimage centre is located close to the world heritage site Hampi. Lakhs of devotees from across the country visit the place including Bollywood bigwigs. It is 350 kilometres away from Bengaluru and 21 kilometres away from Hampi. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/main-priest-alleges-corruption-at-birthplace-of-lord-hanuman-in-karnataka-1069924.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai rules out Covid curb relaxation at places with less positivity rate||Citing spike in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday ruled out easing restrictions at places with less positivity rate. He instead stressed the need to take extra precautions. "No...what I had said is that depending on the Covid spread we will take a decision. Now you are seeing, yesterday there were 12,000 cases in the state, nearly 9,000 were only in Bengaluru. Positivity rate in the state is at 6.8 per cent, in Bengaluru it is 10 per cent, in the whole country we are in third place," Bommai said in response to a question on plans to relax Covid restrictions in some districts by Sankranti. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "in such a situation there is need to take extra precautions." After the cabinet meeting last week, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy had said that with plans to relax Covid restrictions at places with less positivity rate, the government is likely to review the containment measures announced by it by January 14 or 15. At the cabinet meeting chaired by Bommai, some Ministers had expressed reservations about enforcing restrictions across the state, especially in places where the positivity rate is low. The Karnataka government on January 4 had imposed curfew on weekends and restricted public gatherings to fight the third wave of Covid-19, till January 19. It has also decided to continue the night curfew for two more weeks, and has prohibited all rallies, dharnas, protests, among others. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-rules-out-covid-curb-relaxation-at-places-with-less-positivity-rate-1069931.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||NCPCR seeks action against Shivakumar for 'indulging' kids in politics||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked Karnataka DGP Praveen Sood to investigate KPCC President DK Shivakumar for allegedly indulging schoolchildren in political activity and interacting with them without a mask.  In a letter to Sood, the Commission has taken suo-moto cognizance of a video uploaded on Twitter, where Shivakumar is seen interacting with children in a school during the ongoing Mekedatu foot march. That he met the schoolchildren during the padayatra is tantamount to indulging children into political activity, the Commission said. Further, both Shivakumar and the children are seen without masks, violating Covid protocol, it added.  His act is a prima-facie violation of provisions under Juvenile Justice Act, Epidemic Disease Act, and Disaster Management Act, the Commission said, asking Sood to look into this and submit an action-taken report within a week. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ncpcr-seeks-action-against-shivakumar-for-indulging-kids-in-politics-1069938.html
10-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gives over 81K Covid-19 vaccine 'precaution doses' on day 1||The state administered 81,728 precaution doses of Covid vaccine till 8.14 pm, on day 1 of the jabs for healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) and citizens above the age of 60 years with comorbidities on Monday. The top five districts are: BBMP (11,597), Belagavi (4,942), Udupi (4,392), Tumakuru (4,367), and Uttara Kannada (4,236). Five other districts that administered over 3,000 doses are Mandya (3,919), Ballari (3,736), Dharwad (3,534), Chitradurga (3,310), and Mysuru (3,090). As per the health department’s bulletin, till 3.30 pm on Monday, 47,513 HCWs, 11,109 FLWs, and 10,022 senior citizens had received the precaution doses. An estimated 79,787 healthcare workers and 20,467 FLWs were due for third dose vaccination in Bengaluru on Monday.  Apart from them, 39,642 elderly who had completed nine months since their second dose were also due for their third dose if they had comorbidities and if a doctor had suggested a third dose for them (no certificate needed). Several medics, paramedics, emergency response personnel, police, ASHA workers, ambulance drivers, frontline workers and senior citizens got jabbed across the city’s government and private hospitals. CM Basavaraj Bommai, while inaugurating the precaution dose vaccination drive at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, said, “There are people hesitant about vaccination, thinking that it will make them infertile. Vaccines won’t be in use unless there have been trials, research and are certified by regulatory authorities.” Turning to Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, the CM said, “There will always be such impediments in society. Do not get bogged down and go ahead with your target of vaccination.” The state had administered 9,00,34,783 Covid vaccine doses till Monday, out of which 5,00,83,381 were first doses and 3,98,69,674 were second doses. While Nimhans administered 183 precaution doses to HCWs, 73 to FLWs and 31 to senior citizens, Manipal Hospitals administered 855 precaution doses to its health and frontline workers and 245 to senior citizens. Nimhans authorities said they have a target of administering precaution doses to 3,666 individuals, with a daily target of 400. Manipal Hospital authorities said 60 ambulance drivers and 60 emergency medical technicians (EMTs) (18 of them women) were given the precaution dose on Monday. Chaitra G, a 27-year-old female EMT, has spent seven years ferrying patients in ambulances, including Covid patients during the first and second wave. She told DH, “I have fortunately never contracted the virus. I suggest all health workers to get precaution doses without hesitation.”   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gives-over-81k-covid-19-vaccine-precaution-doses-on-day-1-1069945.html
10-01-2022||West||Congress declares second list of candidates for Goa polls||The Congress on Sunday released its second list of candidates for the Goa assembly elections. In this list, seven candidates have been named for the February 14 single-phase polls for the 40-member state assembly. The names of candidates were finalised after a meeting of the central election committee of the Congress, and it was chaired by party president Sonia Gandhi, according to a statement. The candidates in this list are Jitendra Gaonkar, Rodolf Louis Fernandes, Rajesh Faldessai, Manisha Shenvi Usgaonkar, Viriato Fernandes, Olencio Simoes and Avertano Furtado. The Congress had last month declared the names of eight candidates for the elections. The results will be declared on March 10 along with four other poll-bound states -- Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Manipur. AICC Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao said that the constituencies of Fatorda (South Goa) and Mayem (North Goa) would be contested by its alliance partner, the Goa Forward Party. Furtado will contest from the Navelim constituency in South Goa, Gaonkar from Pernem and Rodolf Fernandes from St Cruz segment. Usgaonkar will be in the fray from the Valpoi constituency, while Viriato Fernandes, a retired defence officer, is the Congress candidate from Dabolim. Olencio Simoes, who had raised the issues concerning local fishermen, is the nominee from the Cortalim seat.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-declares-second-list-of-candidates-for-goa-polls-1069681.html
10-01-2022||West||One killed, 2 hurt in Mumbai factory gas leak||One person was killed and at least two injured in a gas leak incident from an industrial area in suburban Ghatkopar here on Monday morning, BMC Disaster Control said. The incident occurred around 8 am when methanol and cyanuric chloride gas leaked, in the premises of a factory in Kurla Industrial Estate, north-east Mumbai. According to the Mumbai Fire Brigade which rushed there, one person Ramnivas Sarod, 36, died due to inhaling the toxic gas. Two others - Rubin Solkar, 36, Sarvansh Sonavane, 25, have been admitted to BMC's Rajawadi Hospital where their condition is described as stable. The cause of the gas leak, how many persons were present in the factory premises at that time and other aspects are being investigated, said an official. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-killed-2-hurt-in-mumbai-factory-gas-leak-1069727.html
10-01-2022||West||Two Goa BJP MLAs quit, say party has changed after Parrikar's demise||Goa BJP faced two setbacks in quick succession on Monday, days after the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced the poll schedule for five states including Goa. On Monday, the party's Ports Minister in the Goa government Michael Lobo and another sitting MLA Pravin Zantye resigned in quick succession, both of them claiming that the party was sidelining grassroots workers and departing from the culture inculcated by former Chief Minister late Manohar Parrikar. While Lobo is expected to join the Congress party soon, Zantye said that he would be joining the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, a regional political party shortly. "Party workers from other constituencies have told me that the party has become so big that it does not look at small workers. It brings new leaders and hoists them on us... We are grassroot level workers. We feel neglected, sidelined," Lobo told reporters after resigning from the cabinet, as a legislator and from the BJP's primary membership. "It has been quite a good, long journey with BJP. BJP workers are unhappy with the party. Maybe I am wrong also. I have seen with my own eyes, heard it with my own ears," Lobo also said. Hours after Lobo's resignation, Zantye also resigned as a sitting BJP MLA. “The party I had joined on the word and assurance of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar is not the same party today,” Zantye said, adding that he would be joining the MGP soon. Both Lobo and Zantye had joined the BJP when Manohar Parrikar was the de facto head of BJP affairs in Goa, before his demise in 2019. In all four BJP MLAs have quit the party over the last one month, which include Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha and BJP MLA from Vasco Carlos Almeida. While Saldanha has joined the Aam Aadmi Party, which has offered her a ticket to contest from the same seat, Almeida has joined the Congress. The BJP has however dismissed the allegations levelled by Lobo and Zantye, saying that their resignations were fuelled by vested interests. "Misleading statements that BJP has compromised on Shri Parrikar's legacy is nothing but a cover-up of their own deeds. Those who have switched over from BJP, just ahead of elections, for their vested interest should not use Shri Parrikar as an excuse to gain sympathy from the people," the party said in an official statement. Elections to the state legislative assembly are scheduled to be held on February 14. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-goa-bjp-mlas-quit-say-party-has-changed-after-parrikars-demise-1069737.html
10-01-2022||West||Goa Assembly Elections: TMC, AAP to challenge political scene in Goa as BJP fights anti-incumbency||The 40-member Goa Assembly will go to polls on February 14 – with new entrants TMC and AAP seeking to take on the ruling BJP.  According to the Election Commission of India (ECI) announcement, the polls will held in a single phase and results will be declared on March 10. along with four other poll-bound states -- Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Manipur. The coastal state has about 11,56,464 eligible voters, which includes 5,62,500 male voters, 5,93,960 female voters, apart from four from the third gender, who can cast ballot across 1,722 polling stations. The BJP, Congress, Goa Forward Party (GFP), Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), AAP, Trinamool Congress Party (TMC), and NCP are the main political parties in the fray. Local outfit Revolutionary Goans is also expected to make an impact with its sizable following. But it is the entry of the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC which has roiled politics in the BJP-ruled state for the past year.  Major parties contesting, new entrants and coalitions: TMC Political strategist Prashant Kishor pushed the TMC to focus on Goa after its resounding victory in West Bengal last year. The party has announced a pre-poll alliance with the  Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), one of the oldest surviving political parties of Goa. TMC has also inducted several leaders both from Congress as well as BJP.  Speculations are that the party sent feelers to all contestants in the polls for an anti-BJP front. AAP  The AAP will contest all 40 seats in Goa assembly polls and has not declared a chief ministerial candidate. Kejriwal said his party may go for post-poll tie-ups with non-BJP outfits in Goa if there is a fractured mandate and "if it is very necessary".  The AAP leader also claimed that if his party comes to power in Goa, people will see huge changes within a month in the way of the government's functioning. The government will also help the industrial houses to conduct their business in the state, he said. The AAP government would facilitate the re-entry of industries, which have left the coastal state, by providing them all the required assistance, Kejriwal said. On pre-poll alliance with the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which has jumped into the fray in Goa, he claimed the Mamata Banerjee-led party is "not even in the race". GFP: The Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Congress have announced a pre-poll alliance, while Nationalist Congress Party is still searching for allies. The GFP is a regional outfit that was a part of the Manohar Parrikar government in 2017. Congress: The Congress has decided not to project Chief Ministerial face to overcome internal rift. Congress sources say that it will only be decided after the results and Congress legislature party will decide the new leader with the consent of the high command as except at few occasions, the party has not projected a chief minister's face. The party has already released two lists but many leaders are upset that their name has been ignored by the party. There are also calls for the Congress to be part of an anti-BJP front, however, nothing seems to have materialised on that front. While All India Congress Committee senior observer in-charge of Goa P. Chidambaram has said that he was not in a position to comment on the broader anti-BJP coalition issue, state Congress president Girish Chodankar has said that the way Trinamool has gone about setting base in Goa, it appeared that the Congress and not the ruling BJP was the party's main enemy. BJP: Even as the consolidation of opposition votes could spell a challenge for the BJP, which until last week was relishing the prospects of a fractured opposition, the BJP has insisted that the coalition was too disparate and will not cut ice with the Goan voters. Since the early 2000s, an Assembly election in Goa meant a two-cornered contest between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress, with bit players like the once-mighty Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, United Goans Democratic Party playing tag. The Nationalist Congress party too was added to the mix, before Goa Forward, a new regional party also made its presence felt in the 2017 polls. However with the resurgence of the Aam Aadmi Party and the emergence of the Trinamool Congress -- fresh from its dogged victory against the BJP in the 2021 West Bengal polls -- the flavour of Goa's poll-pot has changed considerably. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has shown confidence that the saffron party will win the election based on its performance and popularity. The saffron party would, however, miss Manohar Parrikar, who passed away in March 2019. Parrikar had played a crucial role in consolidating BJP's power in Goa.  Over the last week, parties from both alliances -- the Trinamool Congress and Goa Forward -- voiced the need for both alliances coming together to form a larger alliance to take on the BJP. The Congress is ready to accept the support of any party that is keen to defeat the BJP in the upcoming Goa Assembly elections, senior leader P Chidambaram said after TMC's Goa desk in-charge Mahua Moitra suggested that the Mamata Banerjee-led party was open to a pre-poll alliance with the Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Congress.  2017 Assembly elections During the 2017 election, Congress had emerged as the single largest party winning 17 seats, but the BJP trumped it by cobbling together a coalition with smaller parties. By the end of 2021, Congress was left with only two MLAs after it faced a barrage of resignations besides en-masse defection of ten MLAs to the BJP. Two of its MLAs joined the TMC. BJP -- which bagged 13 seats in 2017 polls, allied with some independents and regional parties to form the government under Manohar Parrikar -- currently has 27 MLAs. Goa Forward Party which had won three seats is left with two MLAs while MGP, which too had won three seats has only one legislator left. After Parrikar’s death in March 2019, then Assembly Speaker Pramod Sawant became the CM. Sawant’s administration has come in for praise from PM Modi for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic and vaccination drive. What observers have said Political observers feel the Congress may upset BJP’s plans for retaining power in the coastal state, but appear less enthused about Trinamool Congress, whose entry has added colour to the poll campaign. “Congress will win around 20 of the 40 Assembly seats, while the BJP will garner around 15 seats,” a veteran political analyst based in the Goa capital told PTI. “The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) is likely to win 3 to 4 seats, and the Aam admi Party (AAP) will bag a seat or two,” the analyst said. He attributed the poll prospects of MGP, which came into prominence under the leadership of Goa’s first chief minister Dayanand Bandodkar, to its alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC. “On its own, MGP may have fared very badly. But TMC’s monetary clout will help it,” he added. (With agency inputs) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-assembly-elections-tmc-aap-to-challenge-political-scene-in-goa-as-bjp-fights-anti-incumbency-1069749.html
10-01-2022||West||Don't become 'Corona agents', Uddhav Thackeray warns reckless people||In an unusually tough statement, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday warned reckless people "not to become Corona agents" by flouting norms and risking the lives of others as the third wave of the pandemic has set in the state massively. Thackeray said that in the ongoing wave, "the rate of infection is very high", and it is critical to arrest it on priority without discussing how dangerous it is or not, otherwise it could lead to a huge strain on the state's health infrastructure. This is the reason why the state government has imposed some more restrictions after discussions with the state Covid-19 Task Force, Centre and views of all concerned in the medical field, he said. "We don't want to shut everything down with another lockdown. Laws and restrictions alone cannot help tackle such challenges. Each citizen, no matter their status in society, must follow the health department rules strictly to ensure that we can deal a fatal final blow to the Coronavirus," Thackeray said. The Chief Minister added that instead of attempting to halt life and livelihood it is imperative to get rid of the virus by adhering to the restrictions, which the government enforces through initiatives like 'Break the Chain' and Mission Begin Again. While lauding a majority of the citizens who diligently follow directives, he pulled up "the handful" of those irresponsible persons who flout them. "This won't be tolerated anymore. The rules must be scrupulously followed. For the violators, all agencies have been ordered to take strict action. Remember, its for your own good so we all can come out of this as early as possible," Thackeray urged. He pointed out that the healthcare system is already under duress, and if the number of symptomatic or unvaxxed patients shoot up then even the demands for oxygen will go up as they will need hospitalisation. Thackeray said in many places doctors, nurses and other frontline medical workers are also being infected and "this is a warning for all". "We have augmented all the medical facilities in the past two years, but if doctors also get ill, from where shall we get the manpower?" he asked, as hundreds of medicos, paramedics, police personnel and others are being afflicted in the state. Schools and colleges have again shifted online to ensure that education does not stop and the Chief Minister urged the "young friends" not to loiter around unnecessarily believing its holiday time. He also appealed that those who have not been vaccinated should immediately get their jabs and cautioned that in areas where inoculation is low, the state government would further tighten restrictions. From Monday onwards, the Maharashtra government has imposed a night curfew from 11 p.m.-5 a.m. across the state, besides a host of other daytime prohibitions of five or more people together, and extended school-college closure till February 15, barring the Class 10-12 students who will write their board exams. The government has slashed crowd limits for restaurants, cinemas, malls, gyms, salons, beauty parlours, gatherings, events, weddings, funerals, shut down swimming pools, curbed visits to beaches, gardens, parks, playgrounds from 5 p.m.-5 a.m. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-become-corona-agents-uddhav-thackeray-warns-reckless-people-1069761.html
10-01-2022||West||Gujarat begins administering precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine; aims to cover 9 lakh eligible people||The Gujarat health department on Monday started administering the precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine to frontline and healthcare workers as well as co-morbid people aged 60 and above, with an aim to cover nine lakh eligible people. Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel was present at an urban health centre in the state capital Gandhinagar during the commencement of the drive, as per a release issued by the Chief Minister's Office. Approximately nine lakh eligible people will be administered the precaution doses at around 3,500 vaccination centres where more than 17,000 health workers would be engaged for the purpose, the release said. According to guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry, the gap between the date of administering the second dose of vaccine and the precaution dose would be nine months (39 weeks). CoWIN will send reminder messages to all those eligible for this dose and after administration of the shot, it will be noted in the digital vaccination certificate. Online appointments for precaution dose began on the CoWin portal on Saturday evening. However, there is also the option of an onsite appointment. Meanwhile, the state health department has administered vaccine doses to 18.73 lakh beneficiaries in the 15 to 18 age group till Sunday, since the beginning of the drive for this category from January 3 this year. Besides, since the commencement of the vaccination drive last year for health, frontline workers and people aged 18 and above, a total of 9.31 crore doses have been administered so far in the state. The countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of inoculation commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1, 2021, while the inoculation of teenagers in the age group of 15-18 years started from January 3 this year. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-begins-administering-precaution-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-aims-to-cover-9-lakh-eligible-people-1069763.html
10-01-2022||West||Goa Elections 2022: Congress will perform well, TMC may flop, say observers||With just over a month to go for Assembly elections in Goa, political observers feel the Congress may upset BJP’s plans for retaining power in the coastal state, but appear less enthused about Trinamool Congress, whose entry has added colour to the poll campaign. “Congress will win around 20 of the 40 Assembly seats, while the BJP will garner around 15 seats,” a veteran political analyst based in the Goa capital told PTI. “The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) is likely to win 3 to 4 seats, and the Aam admi Party (AAP) will bag a seat or two,” the analyst said. He attributed the poll prospects of MGP, which came into prominence under the leadership of Goa’s first chief minister Dayanand Bandodkar, to its alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC. “On its own, MGP may have fared very badly. But TMC’s monetary clout will help it,” he added. Former State Election Commissioner Prabhakar Timblo said Congress will form the next government in the coastal state. “Anti-incumbency is very high in the state, and that will work against the BJP,” he added. The grand old party will win around 20-22 seats, Timblo said. “Congress will do well as long as it does not project those who have crossed their expiry date in politics in these elections,” he added. Timblo was emphatic that neither TMC nor AAP will have much of an impact in the February 14 elections. Giriraj Pai Vernekar, a political analyst and a BJP sympathizer, said the ruling party presented a report card of its regime’s performance in the last 10 years, while seeking votes. “BJP is not afraid of anti-incumbency as people know that a double-engine government is necessary to continue the state’s development. Otherwise, there is confrontation between the Centre and the state, as in case of West Bengal,” he said. Durgadas Kamat, General Secretary of Goa Forward Party (GFP), which has a pre-poll alliance with Congress, said that the alliance will be victorious. “There is a groundswell against the BJP and in favour of Congress and GFP as people know we can give a good and honest government,” he said. AAP Goa unit convener Rahul Mhambrey said the Arvind Kejriwal-led party is projecting “fresh and clean faces” in the next month’s Assembly elections. “People have seen the Delhi model of development. We will emulate it here,” he added. There is also a talk of a grand alliance of all opposition parties that could effectively avoid the split of the traditional Congress votes in many constituencies and cause concern for the ruling BJP. However, nothing concrete has emerged on that front so far. Prominent leaders like PM Narendra Modi, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were in Goa ahead of the elections. BJP chief J P Nadda, Union minister Nitin Gadkari and former Union minister P Chidambaram were other prominent leaders to visit the coastal state. Two major pre-poll alliances took shape in Goa. Congress has tied up with GFP, a regional outfit that was a part of the Manohar Parrikar government in 2017, while TMC has found a regional partner in the form of MGP, which fought the 2017 polls in alliance with the Shiv Sena but later joined the Parrikar-led government. In the last few months, many posters featuring Mamata Banerjee’s photo and the slogan 'Goenchi Navi Sakal' (Goa's new dawn) have been put across the state. TMC MPs Mahua Moitra and Derek O’Brien are leading the party’s campaign in Goa. AAP entered Goa’s political scene during the 2017 Assembly elections and tried to build a base in the coastal state. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, BJP won only 13 seats while Congress won in 17 constituencies. However, BJP staked claim to form the government with the support of 3 MGP MLAs, 3 GFP MLAs, two Independents and an NCP MLA under the leadership of Parrikar who resigned as defence minister to return to the coastal state. After Parrikar’s death in March 2019, then Assembly Speaker Pramod Sawant became the CM. Sawant’s administration has come in for praise from PM Modi for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic and vaccination drive. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-elections-2022-congress-will-perform-well-tmc-may-flop-say-observers-1069782.html
10-01-2022||West||Bulli Bai accused Vishal Jha tests Covid positive, quarantined||In latest update in Bulli Bai controversy, Vishal Kumar Jha, 21, an engineering student who was the first one to be arrested by Mumbai Police from Bengaluru, has tested positive for Covid-19. He has been sent to a quarantine centre by the BMC. His lawyers and family members have been informed by the Police. He was arrested on January 3 by the a Mumbai Police team from Bengaluru following technical inputs. On January 4, Mumbai Police arrested one Shweta Singh, a resident of Uttrakhand. She was second person who was arrested in the controversy. Mayank Rawal was the third person who was arrested by Mumbai police. Apart from Mumbai Police, the Special Cell of Delhi Police which was doing a parallel probe has made two arrests. The special cell arrested Niraj Bishnoi, the main accused of Bulli Bai and Aumkareshwar Thakur the main accused behind Sulli Deal. On January 1, Bulli Bai app which was on GitHub's space posted the photos of a number of women of a particular religion including of journalists, social workers, students and famous personalities. It happened six months after the controversy of Sulli Deals. Jha was one of the followers of Bulli Bai which led the Police team to other accused. Hosting platform GitHub provided space to Sulli Deals and this time too the Bulli Bai was created on GitHub platform. Later, after the controversy, GitHub removed the user from its hosting platform. But by then Bulli Bai had sparked a nationwide controversy. The Bulli Bai app was also being promoted by a twitter handle with the name @bullibai, with the display picture of a Khalistani supporter. This twitter handle was endorsing the Bulli Bai app saying the women can be booked from the app. This handle was also promoting Khalistani content at the same time. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bulli-bai-accused-vishal-jha-tests-covid-positive-quarantined-1069812.html
10-01-2022||West||Sahara Group chief Subrata Roy Sahara undergoes surgery||Sahara Group chief 'Saharasri’ Subrata Roy Sahara has successfully undergone a neurological surgery in Mumbai. The surgery was performed by Dr Manish Srivastava at Kokilaben Hospital, on 6 January. He was detected with a brain disease recently and advised for brain coiling and it was done by fixing stent and Endo saccular device. Subrata Roy Sahara is fine and has been discharged from hospital. He praised the doctor and staff of Kokilaben Hospital for the hospital’s excellence in treatment, services and his speedy recovery. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sahara-group-chief-subrata-roy-sahara-undergoes-surgery-1069839.html
10-01-2022||West||Mumbai’s famed Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj museum turns 100||The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (CSMVS) in Mumbai — previously known as Prince of Wales Museum — turned 100 on Monday. It is a landmark event, not only in the history of the Museum but also for the cultural movement of the country. The museum has played an important role as the custodian of the country’s heritage for all these years. The museum opened its doors to the public on 10 January 1922, but the idea germinated in the year 1904 by a few enthusiastic citizens who wished to give erstwhile Bombay a gift of cultural legacy. In 1904, a resolution was passed by the Government of Bombay Presidency and a committee was formed to determine the feasibility of having a public Museum in Bombay. Some of the eminent citizens of the city — Sir Pherozeshah Mehta, Sir Ibrahim Rahimtulla and Sir Vithaldas Thackersey, were members of this committee. It was proposed that the Museum of Art and Archaeology should be combined with a Museum of Science and Natural History and Industrial Art. The first object came to the Museum in the year 1906 — a plaster cast head of the Buddha created and donated by Lockwood Kipling. The priceless artefacts from the Buddhist site of Mirpurkhas, excavated by renowned archaeologist Henry Cousens in 1909 are an important part of the Museum collection. Seth Purushottam Mavji’s collection of antiquities and miniatures was purchased by the trustees in 1915, and antiquities acquired from the Archaeological Survey of India have enriched the grand collection of the Museum.  The year 1922 was marked with the bequest received by Sir Ratan Tata. The encyclopaedic collection built up by Sir Ratan Tata which was previously displayed in his house at York House, London was bequeathed to this Museum according to his will. In the subsequent years, in 1933, the collection of Sir Dorab Tata came to the Museum as a bequest. Besides outstanding Indian antiquities such as textiles, arms, bronzes, and paintings, the Tata collection also comprises European, East-Asian, and Southeast Asian art as part of this gift.  Over the past century, the Museum’s wide-ranging collections have grown to about 70,000 objects, telling the human story, especially of the Indian subcontinent, right from pre-historic time to the present. A multitude of other collections bequeathed to the Museum by individual collectors enriched the repository of the Museum to a great extent. The collection includes the gifts received from Sir Akbar Hydari, Alma Latifi, Amravati Gupta, Karl Khandalavala, Veena Shroff, Dr. Pheroza Godrej and Pauline Rohatgi, Ernst and Mischa Jenkel, and Kuldip Singh. Catering to the needs of contemporary art lovers, Jehangir Nicholson’s collection of works of modern and contemporary arts from India is also housed at the Museum premises. This collection is currently on a 15-year loan to the Museum and it has added a modern and contemporary dimension to the Museum’s collection. The members of the Board also desired that the Museum should inspire and give stimulus to visitors, and especially to the children and youth of India, and that the main objective of the Museum should be educational. CSMVS director general Sabyasachi Mukherjee said: “The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya is a cultural, as well as a social space and also a meeting place for communities to engage in dialogue and exchange of ideas.” According to him, the museum plays a direct role in preserving and enriching the community in which it is sustained. As the Museum evolves and grows in popularity, it becomes more accountable to the different communities living in the city.” In the year 1923, The Natural History Section was jointly established by the Bombay Natural History Society and the Trustees of the Museum. An attractive collection of the minerals of Bombay Island gathered by Jayme Ribeiro was also donated to the Museum. Dr Salim Ali, the famous ornithologist, was the first Guide lecturer of this section. A significant collection of antiquities was lent to the Museum by the Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society. In the year 1928, the Trustees acquired the collection of decorative arts from the J.J. School of Art. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-s-famed-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-museum-turns-100-1069863.html
10-01-2022||West||Uddhav’s dream Mumbai coastal road project moves ahead||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray’s dream project — the Mumbai Coastal Road — crossed a major milestone on Monday with the excavation of the first tunnel from Priyadarshini Park to Girgaon Chowpatty. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is executing the mega project. As part of the 10.58-km coastal road project from Princess Street Flyover at Marine Lines to the Worli end of Bandra-Worli Sea Link, the BMC is constructing 2.07-km twin tunnels between Priyadarshini Park to Girgaon Chowpatty passing under Malabar Hill and the Arabian Sea near the coast. The tunnel is being made using 'Malva', India's biggest Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM). Thackeray himself witnessed the historic moment joining virtually.   “Excavation of the first tunnel from Priyadarshini Park to Marine Drive of the Mumbai Coastal Road is completed today. The work began on January 11, 2021,” Thackeray tweeted.  प्रियदर्शनी पार्क पासून मरिन ड्राइव्हच्या दिशेने कोस्टल रोडच्या पहिल्या बोगद्याचे खोदकाम आज पूर्ण झाले. Excavation of the 1st Tunnel from Priyadarshani Park to Marine Drive of the Mumbai Coastal Road is completed today! Work began on 11th January 2021 Thackeray’s son and state tourism, environment, and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray said: "We witnessed the completion of the first tunnel from Priyadarshini Park towards Marine Drive. It was truly the most incredible moment! I thank all the BMC officials and engineers who’ve been working day and night to turn this dream project into a reality.” Aaditya said that the excavation for the second tunnel will commence in April 2022. “The Mumbai Coastal Road is making great strides, and we are committed to completing it by December 2023 and proudly opening it in the service of Mumbaikars,” he said. “It is a major milestone for the project,” Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-s-dream-mumbai-coastal-road-project-moves-ahead-1069900.html
10-01-2022||West||Satej Patil questions govt's silence on Tek Fog expose||Maharashtra Minister of State for Home and senior Congressman Satej Patil has raised questions over the silence of the Government of India and Information and Technology ministry over the Tek Fog expose.  He has also demanded that the Centre should take cognisance of it by keeping the party politics aside.  In his tweet, Patil has said, “I am astounded by the silence of the GoI & IT Ministry over the #TekFog expose. A political party is using an app for mass targeting and harassment of Indian citizens and journalists, especially women journalists, hacked into inactive WhatsApp numbers of Indian citizens. This is a severe crime and a global shame to our democratic country! I request @GoI-Meity, @Ashwini Vaishnaw to go beyond party lines and take impartial cognizance of this issue at the earliest.” Raising concern about BJP for using Tek Fog app to manipulate social media and organise mass targeting against individuals including female journalists on Twitter, Patil had last week termed it as a severe breach of the privacy of the Indian citizens.  “Disturbing yet not shocking that the Tek Fog app is used by the BJP to manipulate social media to target and maximize harassment of Indian citizens, including that of female journalists,” he said. Patil said: “This app also uses WhatsApp numbers of Indian Citizens for mass messaging without the user even knowing! This is highly offensive & a severe breach of every Indian citizen’s privacy.” In an investigative report by the online publication The Wire, it was revealed that Tek fog is a secret app used to manipulate trends on social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp by BJP to automate hate attacks on individuals on the social media. The app, according to publication, could bypass the security features such as Captcha in social media platforms and had ability for app operatives to delete or remap all existing accounts at a moment’s notice. This feature theoretically allowed them to destroy all incriminating evidence of their past activity, the article said. The app also hacked into inactive Whatsapp numbers of Indian citizens to mass forward messages. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/satej-patil-questions-govts-silence-on-tek-fog-expose-1069918.html
10-01-2022||West||ED opposes in HC Anil Deshmukh's wife plea against attachment of assets in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday opposed in the Bombay High Court a plea filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's wife, Aarti, challenging the provisional attachment of assets in a money laundering case. The ED, in an affidavit, said the petition was not maintainable as the issues raised in it could be put forward before an adjudicating authority which is seized of the matter pertaining to the attachment of assets under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The affidavit further said the Act provides for statutory mechanisms to raise the issue before the adjudicating authority. Further, the adjudicating authority has concluded the hearing and closed the matter for order, said the ED. A division bench headed by Justice G S Patel on Monday took the affidavit on record and posted the matter for further hearing on January 19. In December 2021, the bench had permitted the adjudicating authority to hear and pass final orders on the provisional attachment of assets belong to Anil Deshmukh and his wife Aarti, but restrained it from taking any coercive action pending hearing of her plea in the HC. Aarti Deshmukh, in the petition, had contended that the authority is supposed to include a chairperson and two members, one of whom has to be compulsorily from law background, but this rule is not being followed. The authority is a quasi-judicial body established under the PMLA that adjudicates on matters connected with attachment of properties. Anil Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader, is currently in jail under judicial custody in the case. Earlier last year, the ED had provisionally attached assets worth over Rs 4 crore belonging to Anil Deshmukh (71) and his family. The ED had initiated a probe after the Central Bureau of Investigation filed an FIR against Anil Deshmukh following a preliminary inquiry into the allegations of corruption and official misconduct levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The NCP leader, who resigned from the state cabinet in April 2021, has denied any wrongdoing. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-opposes-in-hc-anil-deshmukhs-wife-plea-against-attachment-of-assets-in-money-laundering-case-1069989.html
10-01-2022||West||Mumbai reports 13,648 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||In a sign of improvement, the Covid-19 cases in Mumbai dropped significantly on Monday.  During the day, 13,648 cases and 5 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 9,28,220 and 16,411, respectively, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Last Friday, Mumbai reported 20,971 cases, however, on Saturday and Sunday, it dropped to 20,318 and 19,474 cases. The drop by over 5,000 cases has come as a major relief for Mumbai. In Mumbai, the total active cases stand at 1,03,862. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-reports-13648-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-1069991.html
10-01-2022||West||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra drop by 10,000||In a sign of improvement in the Omicron-triggered third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the cases in Maharashtra dropped by over 10,000 on Monday. During the last 24 hours, 33,470 cases and 8 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 69,53,514 and 1,41,647, respectively.  The total active cases in the state stand at 2,06,046, according to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department.  On Sunday, a total of 44,386 cases were reported which dropped by 10,916 in a day’s time. In Mumbai too, the cases dropped and during the day, 13,648 cases and 5 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 9,28,220 and 16,411, respectively, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Last Friday, Mumbai reported 20,971 cases, however, on Saturday and Sunday, it dropped to 20,318 and 19,474 cases.The drop by over 5,000 cases has come as a major relief for Mumbai. In Mumbai, the total active cases stand at 1,03,862. “We cannot let our guard down. we have to follow all covid appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of  Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 Task Force and consultant endocrinologist, Lilavati Hospital. “Delhi has overtaken Mumbai in the last two days, both in real numbers as well as Test Positivity Rate! Mumbai today is 22 per cent, down from 30 per cent two days back,” pointed out Dr Ishwar Gilada, the secretary-general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-drop-by-10000-1069993.html
