11-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||30 students, principal contract Covid in Davangere||As many as 30 students and a principal at Indira Gandhi Residential school at Mavinahole village in the taluk tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday evening and they are studying in classes between sixth and 10. The school has been sealed to contain the spread of the pandemic. According to taluk health officer Prabhu, as many as 238 students are studying in the school. As some students had symptoms such as fever, cough, a team of health officials led by taluk general hospital doctor Channakeshav visited the school and conducted Covid-19 test for them. Of them, 31 persons including the principal were tested positive for the pandemic. After being given treatment in taluk general hospital, they had been quarantined in the school. All classrooms had been sanitised and throat swabs of over 500 persons are being collected everyday for the test, he added. It may be mentioned here that four students of Jawahar Navodaya school at Devarahalli village in the taluk were tested positive for the pandemic. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/30-students-principal-contract-covid-in-davangere-1070182.html
11-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu to get an international cricket stadium||The dream of having an international cricket stadium in Kodagu will be fulfiled, as the bottleneck regarding the crematorium land has been solved. Sports enthusiasts have expressed their joy as ‘bhumi puja’ was performed on the 12.70 acres of land dedicated to the stadium in Palemadu near Hoddur. Even as Kodagu has been acclaimed as the sports district, there has always been a dearth of facilities for sports, such as the state-of-the-art stadiums. Even though there are stadiums, there are no facilities. Budding sports persons and sports lovers often complain about the lack of amenities at the turf hockey ground. The State Cricket Association has initiated work towards the construction of the cricket stadium. Association district convener Prithvi Devaiah said that the stadium, equipped with modern facilities, will encourage the budding cricketers in the district. The association had planned to construct the stadium in 2015. However, the villagers of Palemadu posed objection as the proposed land was the crematorium. The villagers said that the tombs of their ancestors lie in the land and the stadium cannot be constructed on that. Despite holding several meetings, the stakeholders were unable to arrive at a common conclusion, and the work remained stagnant after levelling of the land. However, the issue was resolved amicably during mediation talks initiated by Deputy Commissioner Dr B C Sateesha. The district administration has assured that a one-acre land from the existing crematorium and another acre land near Palemadu village, a total of two acres, will be sanctioned to the villagers. Also, the State Cricket Association has assured of adopting a village for the development. Only local labourers will be deployed for the construction work of the stadium. Nirnanappa, who has been representing Palemadu villagers in their fights towards the crematorium land, said that some officials who had come to conduct the survey of the land, have created confusion by stating that the villagers are entitled to get only one-acre land while it was told during the mediation talks that a villager will be getting two acres of land for the crematorium. Severe fights will be carried out if the assurance is not fulfilled, he said. The Bhumi Puja, towards the cricket stadium, was held in the presence of the DC, Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra, Assistant Commissioner Ishwar Kumar Kandoo, State Cricket Association Managing Committee member Shanti Swaroop and district convener Prithvi Devaiah. The budget for building the stadium is Rs 50 crore and will comprise an indoor stadium, restaurant, swimming pool, gymnasium and air conditioned rooms and gallery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-to-get-an-international-cricket-stadium-1070269.html
11-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Our MLA said sorry, but D K Shivakumar bullied officer: Eshwarappa||Slamming Congress leaders, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said KPCC President D K Shivakumar is not courteous enough to apologise to people of the state for violating Covid-19 guidelines. "But our MLA M P Renukacharya has tendered a public apology for taking part in a bull taming event held in Honnali taluk on January 10," he said. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, he charged that Congress leader D K Shivakumar indulged in goondagiri when the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Ramanagar asked him to undergo Covid test. Congress leader bullied the official and his behaviour is not acceptable, Eshwarappa said.  Referring to violation of guidelines by BJP MLAs, he said let police book case against them for violating the rules. But Congress leaders are not keen on tendering an apology for violating guidelines. D K Shivakumar has argued that the state government is releasing false data on Covid cases. "So, did the Congress-led government in Karnataka give false data on development works in the past? " he questioned and said "we have immense faith in the government." Coming down heavily on the Congress leader, he said Shivakumar has insulted people of the state by saying that the government gave false data on Covid cases. So, he must tender a public apology at the earliest. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/our-mla-said-sorry-but-d-k-shivakumar-bullied-officer-eshwarappa-1070159.html
11-01-2022||National||Piyush Goyal inaugurates first Startup India Innovation week||Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal on Monday inaugurated the first Startup India Innovation Week here to bring together the country's key startups, entrepreneurs, investors, incubators, funding entities, banks, policymakers, etc., under one platform to celebrate entrepreneurship and promote innovation. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) is organising the first-ever Startup India Innovation Week from January10-16. This virtual week-long innovation celebration aims to commemorate the 75th year of India's Independence 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' and is designed to showcase the spread and depth of entrepreneurship across India. Goyal said his ministry is now at a position to recognize at least four startups in an hour, and the government has recognised more than 60,000 startups so far. Inspiring the young entrepreneurs, innovators, incubators, funding entities, Goyal said, "We all should take failures as stepping stones to success and should focus on three goals -- strengthening Make-In-India, innovation and mentoring the young talents." Sharing data about the participation of startups from the Tier-2 and Tier-3 towns, Goyal urged the established startups to come forward to mentor them and help them to flourish their innovative ideas. Emerging as a global innovation hub, India is now boasting the world's third-largest startup ecosystem. DPIIT has recognised more than 60,000 startups as of date. "Indian startups representing 55 industries, spread across 633 districts with at least one startup from every State and UT of the country have created over six lakh jobs since 2016. 45 per cent of the startups are from Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities, and 45 per cent of them are represented by women entrepreneurs. Startups have the potential to accelerate India's integration into global value chains and create global impact," said the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piyush-goyal-inaugurates-first-startup-india-innovation-week-1070017.html
11-01-2022||National||Contacts of Covid patients don't need to get tested unless they are in 'at risk' category: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday asked the contacts of Covid-19 positive patients not to test themselves unless they belong to the “at risk” category due to their age or comorbidities. Others not requiring Covid-19 tests are (1) asymptomatic individuals in community settings (2) patients who stand discharged as per home isolation guidelines (3) patients being discharged from a Covid-19 facility as per the revised discharge policy and (4) individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel. The new testing strategy is in sync with the Centre’s new home isolation policy, in which it has been suggested that a person is not required to undergo a Covid-19 test after a seven-day isolation period if he/she doesn’t have fever for the previous three days. The changes come at a time when the Omicron variant is sweeping across the country, triggering an unprecedented rise in fresh Covid cases. In a community setting, Covid-19 tests are to be conducted for symptomatic individuals (cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste and/or smell, breathlessness and/or other respiratory symptoms) and the at-risk contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, said the ICMR in its advisory. Such contacts are the elderly population more than 60 years and individuals with co-morbidity such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic lung or kidney disease, malignancy, and obesity. In addition, individuals undertaking international travel are required to be tested. Also international travelers arriving at Indian ports of entries are required to be tested. In a hospital, Covid-19 tests are to be carried out as per the discretion of a doctor, but no emergency procedure should be delayed due to the lack of a Covid test, according to the revised guidelines. Moreover, patients should not be referred to other facilities for lack of a testing facility and all arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities, mapped to the health facility. Asymptomatic patients undergoing surgical or non-surgical invasive procedures, including pregnant women in or near labour, who are hospitalised should not be tested unless warranted or symptoms develop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/contacts-of-covid-patients-dont-need-to-get-tested-unless-they-are-in-at-risk-category-icmr-1070024.html
11-01-2022||National||'Bulli Bai' case complainant receives threat calls; probe launched||Mumbai Police's cyber department registered a Non-Cognizable (NC) offence against an unidentified person after a complainant in the “Bulli Bai” app case told them that she had received threat calls on her phone, an official said on Monday. The complainant told the police that the caller threatened her over the phone and asked why she revealed their names and filed FIR against them, the official at the Cyber police station in the Bandra Kurla Complex said. An NC case was registered against an unidentified person on Saturday, he added. He said the police are investigating how the caller got the mobile phone number of the complainant. No FIR was registered and further investigation is underway, the official added. The case pertains to the creation of the 'Bulli Bai' app, which targeted Muslim women by putting up their images online for "auction". Mumbai cyber police had arrested Shweta Singh and Mayank Rawal from Uttarakhand and Vishal Kumar Jha from Bengaluru. The Delhi police's special cell, which has also registered an FIR in the case, on January 6 arrested one Niraj Bishnoi from Assam. According to the police, Bishnoi was the main creator of the app.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bulli-bai-case-complainant-receives-threat-calls-probe-launched-1070030.html
11-01-2022||National||India, UK discuss trade, investment, security||External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar on Monday discussed various issues including trade, investment, and security with his UK counterpart Liz Truss. Jaishankar invited her to visit India for bilateral talks. According to the UK's Department for International Trade, the total trade in goods and services (exports plus imports) between the UK and India was 19.8 billion pounds in the four quarters to the end of Q2 2021, a decrease of 7 per cent from the four quarters to the end of Q2 2020. Of this, the total UK exports to India amounted to 7.3 billion pounds in the four quarters to the end of Q2 2021 (a decrease of 9.5 per cent compared to the four quarters to the end of Q2 2020), and the total UK imports from India amounted to 12.5 billion pounds in the four quarters to the end of Q2 2021 (a decrease of 5.5 per cent compared to the four quarters to the end of Q2 2020). India was the UK's 15th largest trading partner in the four quarters to the end of Q2 2021 accounting for 1.6 per cent of total UK trade. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-discuss-trade-investment-security-1070031.html
11-01-2022||National||Over 9 lakh 'precaution' doses of Covid vaccine administered on first day||Over nine lakh beneficiaries received their third dose of the Covid vaccine on the first day of the drive to administer the 'Precaution Dose' to the healthcare workers, frontline workers and sixty plus individuals commenced on Monday across the country. "On the first day of 'Precaution Dose' for the identified categories of beneficiaries for Covid vaccination today, more than 9 lakh doses were administered to the eligible age group," the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Earlier in the day, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a tweet, "The programme for administering the 'Precaution Dose' on the advice of doctors to healthcare and frontline workers and people of 60+ age is starting from today across the country". "Under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi ji, the government is committed to provide additional security cover to healthcare and frontline workers on priority," he added in the same tweet. The Co-WIN portal on the first day sent over one crore reminders messages to the beneficiaries to get the 'Precaution Dose'. The online booking of appointments for dose through CoWIN portal was started from Saturday. The ministry had clarified that there would be no need for new registration for the 'Precaution Dose'. Overall, with the administration of over 82 lakhs vaccine doses on Monday, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 152.78 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-9-lakh-precaution-doses-of-covid-vaccine-administered-on-first-day-1070042.html
11-01-2022||National||With 1.68 lakh new Covid-19 cases, daily infections see dip||India on Tuesday reported a slight dip in daily Covid-19 cases with 1,68,063 fresh coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours, Union Health Ministry data showed. The active cases rose to 8,21,446, the highest in 208 days, while the death toll climbed to 4,84,213 with 277 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. Of the total 4,461 cases of the Omicron variant, 1,711 people have recovered or migrated so far. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 1,247 cases followed by Rajasthan at 645, Delhi 546, Karnataka 479 and Kerala 350. The active cases comprise 2.29 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate decreased to 96.36 per cent, the ministry said.  An increase of 97,827 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 10.64 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 8.85 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,45,70,131, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 152.89 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 227 new fatalities include 166 from Kerala and 17 from Delhi. A total of 4,84,213 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,647 from Maharashtra, 49,757 from Kerala, 38,374 from Karnataka, 36,866 from Tamil Nadu, 25,177 from Delhi, 22,932 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,917 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  India began administering the 'precaution' dose of the coronavirus vaccine to high-risk groups on Monday. Over nine lakh beneficiaries received their third dose of the Covid vaccine on the first day of the drive to administer the jab. Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday asked the contacts of Covid-19 positive patients not to test themselves unless they belong to the “at risk” category due to their age or comorbidities. The new testing strategy is in sync with the Centre’s new home isolation policy, in which it has been suggested that a person is not required to undergo a Covid-19 test after a seven-day isolation period if he/she doesn’t have fever for the previous three days. (With inputs from PTI) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-168-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-daily-infections-see-dip-1070058.html
11-01-2022||National||PM Modi likely to hold meeting with CMs on Covid-19 situation on January 13||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold a meeting with chief ministers over the Covid-19 situation on Thursday as the number of virus infections sees a surge due to its Omicron variant.  Fresh curbs have been imposed in various parts of the country to check the spread of the highly transmissible virus.  Reviewing the Covid situation at a high-level meeting on Sunday, Modi had called for ensuring adequate health infrastructure at the district level and accelerating the vaccination drive for adolescents in mission mode. The precaution vaccination drive for healthcare and frontline workers besides those over 60 years of age with comorbidities has also started.  Vaccination remains among the most effective means to fight Covid, Modi had said.  The prime minister has held numerous meetings with chief ministers to spearhead India's response to the disease since its outbreak in 2020.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-likely-to-hold-meeting-with-cms-on-covid-19-situation-on-january-13-1070088.html
11-01-2022||National||Lata Mangeshkar admitted to ICU after testing positive for Covid-19||Legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar has tested positive for Covid-19 and been admitted to a private hospital in Mumbai. The condition of 92-year-old Lata Didi, as she is popularly known, has been described as stable. She is currently admitted to the ICU of Breach Candy Hospital and Research Centre in south Mumbai. “She is doing fine; has been kept in ICU only for precautionary reasons considering her age. Please respect our privacy and keep Didi in your prayers,” her niece Rachana was quoted saying. Meanwhile, leader of opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis extended her wishes for speedy recovery. “Wishing speedy recovery to Lata Didi…I pray she recovers fast,” Fadnavis said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lata-mangeshkar-admitted-to-icu-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-1070090.html
11-01-2022||National||DDMA orders private offices in Delhi to work from home||In the wake of spike in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has directed all private offices, barring those under exempted categories in the national capital, to send their employees to work from home. "All private offices, except those which are falling under the 'Exempted Category' as prescribed in DDMA's GRAP order dated 08.08.21. The practice of work from home shall be followed," the order read. Till now, offices were asked to function with half their employees in office and the rest at home. Government offices in the national capital are already working with 50 per cent capacity. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal after chairing the DDMA meet on Monday afternoon had announced that restaurants in the national capital have been closed for dine-in options amid a surge in the Covid-19 cases and only takeaways will be allowed. Besides, only one weekly market per day per zone will be allowed to operate. The governor also said that the health department has been advised to make adequate arrangements for the additional manpower in hospitals and to scale up the vaccination efforts, including those in the population between 15 and 18 years. "After detailed discussion with experts it was advised to adhere to the strategy of Test, Track &Treat with emphasis on enforcement of Covid Appropriate Behaviour to contain the spread of infection," Baijal further tweeted. The LG also emphasised the extra vigilance and importance of strict adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines. The DDMA meeting decided that the restrictions will be tightened further in the national capital amidst the spike in Covid-19 cases, but there will be no lockdown for now. Delhi reported a 25 per cent surge in Covid-19 cases after recording 19,166 fresh cases. With this, the infection tally has climbed to 15,68,896. Meanwhile, the city has recorded 17 Covid deaths on the second consecutive day, pushing the death toll to 25,177. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ddma-orders-private-offices-in-delhi-to-work-from-home-1070098.html
11-01-2022||National||Technology can democratise healthcare delivery in society: Cardiologist Devi Shetty||Technology has the power to democratise healthcare delivery as even the top doctors could be consulted with a click of a button, eminent cardiologist and Narayana Hrudayalaya Chairman Devi Prasad Shetty said on Tuesday. Speaking at an industry event here, Shetty noted that with digital aid, people from all strata of society and even from the remotest locations across the country can reach out to top physicians in the country for consultation, which was not the case earlier. "Technology gives the rich people what they always had in a better format. But technology will give poor people what they can never dream of having and this is the beauty of technology. What it will do is to democratise healthcare. And this is one industry which is ripe for digital disruption," Shetty said while participating in the online Microsoft Future Ready event. Noting that healthcare is dependent on data, he said 95 per cent of the people who are unwell do not need to be operated upon and thus do not require physical presence of a doctor. "If they don't need an operation, I don't need to touch them. And if I don't need to touch them, I don't need to be there. I can be anywhere. I can talk to them, get the data and explain to them what the problem is and I can make the decision. So technically speaking, when you hear that somebody is unwell 95 per cent of the time, you can treat them online," Shetty said. He noted that the AI and software linked to electronic medical records (EMRs) would help doctors to make better diagnoses. "Within the next five years the smart EMR will start making smarter diagnoses than doctors. And within seven years, I can tell you that we doctors will be mandated to get a second opinion from the software before starting the treatment. That is going to happen," Shetty stated. Healthcare providers already have smarter software that can give amazing interpretation of the data and relatively accurate diagnosis, he added. "Now, it may not be available everywhere, but it is a matter of time. Before it will happen. Healthcare will become safer for the patient...it will become affordable and it will become accessible. We have millions of diabetics in India and there are only 1,000 diabetologists. How can 1,000 diabetologists treat such a huge number of people? You just convert all the diabetic consultation online. We will have a phenomenal healthcare delivery," Shetty noted. When asked about the lessons he has taken from other industries, he stated that as a medical practitioner he has taken inputs from the manufacturing sector which believes in volumes and scale of economies. "The hospital where I work, we do about 30 to 37 heart surgeries every day. And what we noticed is when you do a large number of procedures, your results get better. Your cost goes down, there is economy of scale and everyone is oriented for some particular aspect of treatment," Shetty noted. He also stated that if a solution is not affordable, it is not a solution. "In any industry, you may create a fantastic product, but if your customers cannot afford it, it is of no use. So in my industry I keep getting excited when somebody has developed an artificial heart. We have been implanting artificial hearts for the last 12 years. It is a phenomenal achievement. But an artificial heart in the Indian context costs more than a few million dollars. How many people in my country can afford it? So that is not of any use here," Shetty said. Bengaluru-based Narayana Hrudayalaya operates a network of hospitals across the country. It also operates a facility in the Cayman Islands. The company now features over 5,859 operational beds through a combination of greenfield projects and acquisitions. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/technology-can-democratise-healthcare-delivery-in-society-cardiologist-devi-shetty-1070127.html
11-01-2022||National||India mulls easing curbs on some Chinese investments||By Shruti Srivastava India is considering easing scrutiny on certain foreign direct investment, according to people familiar with the matter, after rules mainly aimed at China created a bottleneck for inflows.Currently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government scrutinises all investment proposals from companies that are either based in countries that share a land border with India or have an investor from one of these nations. It is now considering exempting proposals where the so-called beneficial ownership is less than 10 per cent, which means the investor may be from a neighboring country but holds only a small stake in the firm proposing the investment. The move is being considered after proposals worth $6 billion were stuck amid the red tape, the people added, asking not to be identified discussing private deliberations. The proposal could be approved as early as the next month. The government had imposed curbs on such investments amid a bloody border standoff with China and also avert risks of opportunistic takeovers. The move slowed down the approval process with proposals from the neighboring nations including China and Hong Kong piling up.  An email and text message sent to the Trade and Industry Ministry spokesperson remained unanswered.  Apart from delaying, the restriction had also complicated deal-making for investors. Relaxing the rules will broaden the pool of investors that capital-hungry Indian firms can tap, as local firms increasingly turn to large global investors to fund their growth. As of November 2021, over 100 proposals are awaiting clearance from the government, with around a quarter of them of over $10 million each.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-mulls-easing-curbs-on-some-chinese-investments-1070132.html
11-01-2022||National||HC drops Suvendu Adhikari from Gangasagar Mela monitoring panel||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday dropped the leader of the opposition in the state assembly from a three-member committee formed on January 7 to monitor compliance of Covid restrictions at Gangasagar Mela in Sagar Island. The West Bengal government run by the Trinamool Congress objected to the inclusion of the Leader of the Opposition, BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, in the committee. The division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice Kesong Doma Bhutia has instead reconstituted it to a two-member committee comprising former Justice Samapti Chatterjee and the member secretary of the West Bengal Legal Services Authority. Earlier, while allowing the annual congregation of pilgrims to take place between January 8 and 16, the bench directed that the entire Sagar Island be declared a notified area. The bench on Monday iterated that this be done within 24 hours. It also instructed that all those visiting the Mela should be doubly vaccinated and test negative in an RTPCR test, conducted 72 hours before reaching the venue. It has also asked for strict regulation of crowds to maintain social distancing. Declaration of the island as a notified area will empower the state to take measures for safeguarding the health and welfare of the pilgrims as it deems necessary. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-drops-suvendu-adhikari-from-gangasagar-mela-monitoring-panel-1070133.html
11-01-2022||National||A million set to throng Ganga for holy dip despite Covid||Nearly one million Hindu worshippers are expected to gather on the banks of the Ganges river this Friday and Saturday for a holy bathe despite galloping Covid-19 infections across the country, an official told Reuters on Tuesday. India reported 168,063 new Covid-19 infections on Tuesday, a 20-fold rise in a month. Most infected people have recovered at home and the level of hospitalisations has been less than half of that seen during the last major wave of infections in April and May. Many states have announced night curfews while the capital Delhi has also imposed a weekend lockdown, closed private offices as well as restaurants and bars in a bid to rein in the fast-spreading Omicron variant. But tens of thousands of pilgrims have already reached the site of the annual Ganges ritual on an island in the eastern state of West Bengal, which is reporting the most number of cases in the country after Maharashtra state in the west. "The crowd may swell to anywhere between 800,000 to one million. We are trying to implement all Covid protocols," Bankim Chandra Hazra, a West Bengal minister in charge of organising the festival known as the Gangasagar Mela, told Reuters. "We have also arranged for sprinkling of the holy water from drones so that there is no crowding ... but the sadhus (Hindu holy men) are bent on taking the dip. We can't prevent them." A similar big religious festival in the north of India last year helped spread the Delta variant that infected millions of people and killed tens of thousands. The Calcutta High Court, responding to a plea from doctors who are worried the festival could become a virus "super spreader" event, ruled on Tuesday that all pilgrims must be tested for Covid-19. It was not immediately clear how so many pilgrims could be tested over the next few days or if the ruling would be enforced. Doctors had appealed to the court to reverse the decision to allow the festival this year. Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of epidemiology at the University of Michigan, has said the gathering could be "disastrous". We need to learn from our past mistakes. Schools are closed, funerals and weddings have limited gathering. Tremendous disruption to the public life due to Omicron. Rightfully so. Continuing with unmasked political rallies and "Gangasagar Mela" will be disastrous for people. Every year on January 14, on the important Hindu day of Makar Sankranti, pilgrims visit Gangasagar village for a dip at the confluence of the Ganges and the Bay of Bengal. They believe doing so washes away their sins and those of their ancestors. India has reported a total of 35.88 million Covid-19 infections, the world's biggest tally after the United States. Deaths rose by 277 to 484,213 on Monday. India conducted 1.6 million Covid-19 tests on Monday, while the capacity is more than 2 million. It has dropped the need for all close contacts of confirmed patients to get tested.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-million-set-to-throng-ganga-for-holy-dip-despite-covid-1070135.html
11-01-2022||National||Centre mulls 30-35% hike in standard deduction limit: Report||The Centre is also likely to continue with current income tax slabs given the limited fiscal headroom, the publication reported citing officials. "There are many suggestions on personal taxation. This year one common demand was to enhance the limit of standard deduction, especially considering inflated cost of medical expenses on account of Covid-19," a senior official from the finance ministry told the publication.  The official said the proposal is to increase it by 30-35 per cent and the plan is subject to final approval.  DH could not independently verify the report. The standard deduction is not available for those who go for the new tax regime.  The standard deduction limit, currently at Rs 50,000, provides tax reliefs to salaried workers and pensioners in their taxable income.  Industry bodies told the publication that an increase in the limit is welcomed in light of rising medical and other expenses during the Covid-19 pandemic. Trade bodies like Assocham and Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) had reportedly asked for a higher standard deduction. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulls-30-35-hike-in-standard-deduction-limit-report-1070139.html
11-01-2022||National||Bidders of PM Modi's mementos get damaged items: Report||Bidders who participated in an auction of the mementos received by Prime Minister Narendra Modi have reportedly received broken or damaged goods. A total of 1,348 mementos were auctioned, which include "replicas of the Ayodhya Ram temple, Char Dham, and the equipment gifted to the Prime Minister by winners of the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games, and the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games" such as the boxing gloves of Olympian Lovlina Borgohain, Paralympian Bhavani Devi's autographed fence and Neeraj Chopra's javelin. While the publication did not cite an exact figure for the number of damaged mementos, it mentioned that the bids were submitted under the third round of e-auctions for gifts and mementos presented to the Prime Minister held from September 17, 2021 to October 7, 2021. An NGMA official, brushed aside such cases of damaged mementos as "outliers." “Even if you order from Amazon or Flipkart, it does happen that broken items end up being delivered. Here, too, some broken items have been received by bidders but their number is very small,” he told the publication. The official added that it was yet to be decided whether the refund for such items would be borne by the NGMA or India Post – which was responsible for the delivery and also charged customers for the same. Greenize Jain, an MNC executive, told the publication that he had bid for two items — a shawl and a photo of a tree — among which the tree photo was damaged. After receiving a call from the NGMA, he returned the item and was informed by a courier agency that he would be getting a replacement. Jain has since not been able to get in touch with NGMA officials. Ajay Kumar Mahawar, a member of the Delhi legislative assembly from Ghonda constituency, also received a broken memento. Mahawar, a BJP MLA, had bid for a framed photo of Matabari deity, Tripura Sundari, and bagged it for Rs 1,900. However, the photo frame was broken when it arrived last month. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bidders-of-pm-modis-mementos-get-damaged-items-report-1070143.html
11-01-2022||National||UIDAI open to looking at solutions on 'partial authentication': CEO||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) is open to looking at solutions that can enable 'partial authentication' where needed, and is keen to get feedback from the industry about the demand for such solutions, its CEO Saurabh Garg said on Tuesday. The Aadhaar-issuing body is also exploring possibilities for the usage of blockchain and quantum computing, as it marches ahead towards the 'Aadhaar 2.0' vision. "We are also open to looking at what is called partial authentication. Some people might only want to verify the age, they are not looking at anything more than that. "These are things that we also want to get feedback from the industry...what is the kind of demand there is, and we can accordingly create...might be just the age you want to verify," Garg said. He was speaking at the India Digital Summit 2022, organised by the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI). Citing another example of 'partial authentication' requirement, Garg said verification may only be needed for confirming whether a person is a resident of a particular area, and not the full address per se. "Someone just wants to verify whether that the person is living in that area and they don't want address but they just want a confirmation whether that person is a resident of that area...these are kinds of services, where we have not yet developed the solutions but would be open to looking at," Garg said. Garg further said that over five crore Aadhaar authentications are taking place per day and over 40 crore last-mile banking transactions are being done every month through the Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AePS). Talking about Aadhaar 2.0, he said it will ensure faster automated biometric matching solutions, with a primary focus on the security of the ecosystem. He said the authority is exploring possibilities for leveraging blockchain and quantum computing. "We are looking at what blockchain has to offer, and whether blockchain can be utilised in any manner for making decentralised-level solutions...it is for something in future but it is on our horizon. "In quantum computing, we need to look at whether there are quantum resilient security solutions," he said. Security-related aspects are "paramount", he said adding that UIDAI is working constantly on improving information security and cyber security. Services such as 'eSign' and 'Digilocker' offer tremendous opportunities for start-ups, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uidai-open-to-looking-at-solutions-on-partial-authentication-ceo-1070146.html
11-01-2022||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh recovering well from Covid-19: Official||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who tested positive for Covid-19, is recovering well, a government spokesperson said on Tuesday. A Bharat Bhushan Babu, the principal spokesperson of the Defence Ministry, said a team of doctors from the Army's Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital examined Singh. "A team of doctors from Army Hospital (R&R), Delhi Cantt examined Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh who had tested Covid positive, yesterday. He is recovering well," Babu tweeted. Singh on Monday said on Twitter that he tested positive for Covid-19 and was under home quarantine. "I have tested positive for Corona today with mild symptoms. I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested," he said. Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt also said that he tested positive for Covid-19. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-recovering-well-from-covid-19-official-1070149.html
11-01-2022||National||Supreme Court defers hearing on Mekadatu case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday deferred its hearing a plea related to the Mekadatu balancing reservoir project to January 25. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar adjourned the matter as it was pointed out the case was wrongly tagged with the Mullaperiyar dam case. The council said the matter should be detagged and listed again. The court said the Mekadatu case would come up for hearing on January 25. The Tamil Nadu government had filed several pleas, including one for a direction to the Central Water Commission to reject and return the detailed project report for the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir cum drinking water project filed by Karnataka on January 18, 2019. In its application, the state government asked the court to restrain the Ministry of Environment and Forest and its agencies from entertaining any application for clearance relating to the Mekedatu project. The planning of the Mekadatu project by Karnataka with a capacity of 67.16 TMC ft and generation of 400 MW power at a cost of about Rs 9000 crores is in gross violation of the decision of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (Tribunal) of February 5, 2007, as affirmed by this court in its judgment on February 16, 2018, it said. Tamil Nadu claimed that the project was located in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and a Reserve Forest.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-defers-hearing-on-mekadatu-case-1070160.html
11-01-2022||National||Ensure special care for MPs above 60 years: Om Birla to officials ahead of Budget Session||With just three weeks left for the Budget Session, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday inspected the Parliament House Complex and instructed officials to take measures to ensure special care for MPs above 60 years in a proactive manner. Birla took stock of the health safety-related measures, especially against the backdrop of around 400 Parliament staff testing positive for Covid-19 last week. He visited the Covid-19 testing facility set up in Parliament House Annexe for MPs and staff and reviewed the preparations there. Reviewing the testing and medical facilities, Birla directed officials to immediately address any requirements that were felt necessary. The Speaker also directed officials to put in place all precautionary measures to check the pandemic and keep track of positive cases. Speaking to doctors and other Covid-19 warriors, Birla assured them that all resources will be provided to tackle the pandemic and that it will be made available on priority. For the Budget Session, he said necessary arrangements are being made in order to facilitate the performance of Constitutional responsibilities of MPs. He directed officials to take special care of MPs above the age of 60 years and attend to their requirements in a proactive manner.  He also said all steps are being taken to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. He also instructed to ensure that sanitation and other arrangements are in place at all places, as per official guidelines and SoPs. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-special-care-for-mps-above-60-years-om-birla-to-officials-ahead-of-budget-session-1070170.html
11-01-2022||National||Priyanka slams Yogi's '80 vs 20%' remark, urges youth to make UP polls about their issues||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday hit out at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over his remarks that the Assembly polls in the state will be about '80 per cent vs 20 per cent', and urged the youth to make the elections about issues such as employment and education. The Congress general secretary said remarks such as "80-20" were aimed at diverting attention from real issues of the youth. At an event on Saturday, Adityanath had said it will be a "80 per cent versus 20 per cent" election in Uttar Pradesh and the BJP will retain power in the state. Several Opposition leaders have attacked the chief minister over his comments, alleging that it was an attempt at polarisation by the "80-20" reference which they said was aimed at pointing to the ratio of Hindus to Muslims in Uttar Pradesh. Making remarks like '80-20' is a way to fraudulently divert attention from the issues of the youth, Priyanka Gandhi said. The reality is that under the BJP government, out of every 100 people, 68 have no work, she said. "My young friends, with your power, make the UP polls, an election of issues such as employment and education," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Voting for the high-stakes assembly elections will be held in seven phases, starting from the western part of the politically crucial state on February 10 and moving eastwards, with the final phase on March 7. Counting of votes would take place on March 10. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-slams-yogis-80-vs-20-remark-urges-youth-to-make-up-polls-about-their-issues-1070171.html
11-01-2022||National||India's petrol demand rose 4.1% year-on-year to 9-month high in December||India's fuel consumption in December scaled a nine-month peak, government data showed on Tuesday, although a fresh coronavirus wave may slow the gradual recovery of demand in the world's third-biggest oil consumer. Fuel consumption, a proxy for oil demand, totalled 18.43 million tonnes, up 7.6 per cent from November and 0.4 per cent from a year before, data from the oil ministry's Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell showed. But consumption was still about 3 per cent lower than December 2019, shortly before the coronavirus pandemic broke out. The Indian oil market "has bounced back post Covid-19 and we expect it to continue," said Phil Flynn, senior analyst at Price Futures in Chicago. There are signals of strong output — refinery runs rose to a two-year high in November — and while demand is up relatively modestly from December 2020, January 2022 could be a 'blockbuster' month, Flynn added. Consumption of diesel, accounting for about 40 per cent of India's refined fuel sales, grew 12.2 per cent month-on-month to 7.31 million tonnes, their highest since December 2019, and 1.6 per cent from the same period last year. However, "the recent surge in Omicron cases will no doubt weigh on activity and put a dent in the demand figures early in the new year," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA. "But the broader trend remains positive and should recover once this next wave passes." Sales of petrol rose 6.4 per cent from November to 2.82 million tonnes, a record-high as per data going back to 1998, and were 13.9 per cent higher than December 2019, and about 4.1 per cent year-on-year. The recovery is in full swing, with the exception of some headwinds, and high oil prices may slow, but not derail it, said Refinitiv analyst Ehsan Ul Haq. Sales of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) declined nearly 1.9 per cent to 2.48 million tonnes year-on-year, while naphtha sales fell 2.1 per cent to 1.19 million tonnes. Bitumen sales fell 18.8 per cent, while fuel oil use rose 2.5 per cent in December. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-petrol-demand-rose-41-year-on-year-to-9-month-high-in-december-1070183.html
11-01-2022||National||India test-fires advanced version of BrahMos missile||India on Tuesday successfully test-fired the sea-to-sea variant of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile from a navy warship off its western coast The missile was launched from the Indian Navy destroyer INS Vishakhapatnam off the western coast. With tension between India and China escalating over the 21-month-long military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that the successful launch of the advanced version of the BrahMos missile from the INS Vishakhapatnam had “reconfirmed the robustness of the mission readiness” of the Indian Navy. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) stated that the missile hit the designated target ship precisely during the test. The BrahMos is a Joint Venture between India and Russia for the development, production and marketing of the supersonic cruise missile. The air version of the missile was successfully test-fired from the supersonic fighter aircraft Sukhoi 30 MK-I on December 8 last. The surface-to-surface supersonic cruise missile featuring indigenous booster and airframe Section along with many other ‘Made in India’ sub-systems was successfully flight tested for designated range on September 30 in 2020. The DRDO on Tuesday also successfully flight tested the final deliverable configuration of the Man-Portable Anti-Tank Guided Missile (MPATGM). The indigenously developed anti-tank missile is a low weight, “fire and forget” missile and is launched from a man-portable launcher, integrated with thermal sight. The missile impacted the designated target and destroyed it. The final impact event was captured on camera and the test has validated the minimum range successfully. The test of the MPATGM was to prove the consistent performance for the minimum range and all the mission objectives were met, the Ministry of Defence stated in New Delhi. The missile has a miniaturised infrared imaging seeker and advanced avionics for onboard control and guidance. The missile performance has been proven for the maximum range in earlier test trials. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-test-fires-advanced-version-of-brahmos-missile-1070192.html
11-01-2022||National||CBDT extends Income Tax Returns filing deadline for AY 2021-22 till March 15||The government on Tuesday extended till March 15 the deadline for corporates to file Income Tax returns for the fiscal ended March 2021. The deadline to file tax audit report and transfer pricing audit report for 2020-21 fiscal too has been extended till February 15. This is the third extension given to corporates for filing the income tax return for 2020-21 fiscal. The original deadline for filing ITR for corporates was October 31, and those with transfer pricing transactions was November 30. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) in a statement said that on consideration of difficulties reported by the taxpayers and other stakeholders due to COVID and in electronic filing of various reports of audit, it has decided to further extend the due dates for filing of Income Tax Returns and various reports of audit for the Assessment Year 2021-22 (2020-21 fiscal). The extended deadline for filing ITR for corporates is now March 15, and the tax audit report is February 15, 2022. The last date for filing 2020-21 ITRs without penalty for individual taxpayers ended on December 31, 2021, and nearly 5.89 crore ITR was filed by the due date. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said considering the difficulty of taxpayers in light of the fresh surge of Covid cases in the country and also technical glitches being faced in filing Tax Audit Report and other compliances related to filing ITR, the extension of around one month granted by the government to taxpayers for filing their Tax Audit Report and extension of 15 days for cases covered by Transfer Pricing compliances is a welcome move and will grant relief to taxpayers. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said the finance ministry has finally accepted the request to allow additional time for taxpayers and audit professionals to complete the tax filings and it considers difficulties reported by the tax professionals due to Covid. “This will come as a substantial relief for all the corporate taxpayers. However, no relief has been extended to salaried class individuals and MSME non-auditable non-corporate businesses,” Mohan added. Taxmann DGM Rahul Singh said it should be noted that no relief has been granted from the interest chargeable under section 234A if the tax liability exceeds Rs 1 lakh. Thus, if the self-assessment tax liability of the taxpayer exceeds Rs 1 lakh, he would be liable to pay interest under section 234A from the expiry of the original due dates. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbdt-extends-income-tax-returns-filing-deadline-for-ay-2021-22-till-march-15-1070193.html
11-01-2022||National||USDA approves export of Indian mangoes to US||India has secured approval of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for the export of domestic mangoes to America in the new season, the commerce ministry said on Tuesday. The export of Indian mangoes has been restricted by the US since 2020 as the USDA inspectors were unable to visit India for inspection of irradiation facilities due to restrictions imposed on international travel because of the Covid-19 pandemic. On November 23, 2021, the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the USDA signed a framework agreement for implementing the "2 Vs 2" agri-market access issues. Under the agreement, India and the US will follow a joint protocol on irradiation for India's mango and pomegranate exports to the US and import of cherries and Alfalfa hay from America. The ministry said that a revised work plan has been worked out, including phase-wise transfer of oversight of pre-clearance of Irradiation treatment to India as agreed upon between both countries. "As part of the mutual agreement, India will be able to export mangoes to the USA in the mango season commencing with the Alphonso variety of mangoes by March onwards...The central government has secured the approval of the USDA for export of Indian mangoes to the USA in the new season," it noted. According to the ministry, India had exported 800 Metric Tonnes (MTs) of mangoes to the US in 2017-18 worth $2.75 million. Similarly, in 2018-19, 951 MT mangoes of $3.63 million were exported and 1,095 MT worth $4.35 million in 2019-20. "As per estimates received from the exporters, the export of mangoes in 2022, may surpass the figures of 2019-20," the ministry said. The USDA approval would pave the way for exports from traditional mango production belts such as Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) said that this would also provide an opportunity for the export of other delicious varieties of mangoes from North and East India, such as Langra, Chausa, Dushehri, Fazli, etc from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/usda-approves-export-of-indian-mangoes-to-us-1070195.html
11-01-2022||National||Molnupiravir to not be included in Covid-19 clinical management protocol over safety concerns||The ICMR's National Task Force for Covid-19 has decided against including antiviral drug Molnupiravir in the Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19 as of now, official sources said on Tuesday. The experts of the task force cited safety concerns and argued that Molnupiravir was not of much benefit in Covid treatment to arrive at the decision in a meeting held on Monday. According to the Health Ministry, Molnupiravir is an antiviral drug that inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication by viral mutagenesis. This anti-Covid pill got the Drug Regulator General of India's approval on December 28 for restricted use in emergencies. "Members of the National Task Force for Covid-19 were not in favour of including the drug in the national treatment guidelines citing that it does not have much benefit in the treatment of coronavirus infection and that there were safety concerns," an official source told PTI.  Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief Dr Balram Bhargava had last week said that Molnupiravir has major safety concerns. He added that WHO and the UK have not included it for treatment. "We have to remember that this drug has major safety concerns. It can cause teratogenicity, mutagenicity and cartilage damage. It can damage the muscles also. "Contraception will have to be done for three months for male and female if this drug is given because the child born could be problematic due to teratogenic influence," he had said. The UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency had on December 4 granted approval for Molnupiravir under special conditions for treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults who have at least one risk factor for developing severe illness. USFDA on December 23 granted Emergency Use Authorisation for the drug for treating mild-to-moderate Covid-19 in adults at high risk for progression to severe disease, including hospitalization or death, and for whom alternative treatment options are not accessible or clinically appropriate. According to conditions, the drug should be sold by retail only under the prescription of medical specialists and the recommended dose should be 800 mg twice daily for five days. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/molnupiravir-to-not-be-included-in-covid-19-clinical-management-protocol-over-safety-concerns-1070196.html
11-01-2022||National||'Worse than expulsion', says SC on suspension of 12 Maharashtra BJP MLAs for one year||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said suspension of 12 BJP MLAs from Maharashtra Assembly in July for allegedly misbehaving with the presiding officer in chair, both inside and outside the Assembly, was “worse than expulsion”. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar expressed an inclination to interfere with the resolution passed by the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on July 5, last year. Hearing a petition filed by suspended MLAs led by Ashish Shelar, the bench said that the suspension for one year was "worse than expulsion" as the constituency would remain unrepresented in the House. A one-year suspension will amount to a punishment on the constituency of these elected representatives, the bench added. Citing constitutional provisions, the bench said a constituency cannot go unrepresented for beyond six months. Referring to relevant rules, the court also pointed out that the Assembly lacked power to suspend a member beyond 60 days. It said Article 190(4) of the Constitution mentioned a seat will be deemed to have become vacant if a member remains absent in the House without its permission for a period of 60 days. Senior advocates Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for the MLAs submitted that Rajya Sabha recently suspended 12 MPs for disorderly behaviour, and the suspension operated only for the duration of the session. The bench did not agree to a contention by senior advocate C A Sundaram, representing the Maharashtra government, that the court cannot examine the quantum of punishment imposed by a Legislative Assembly. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on January 18. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worse-than-expulsion-says-sc-on-suspension-of-12-maharashtra-bjp-mlas-for-one-year-1070216.html
11-01-2022||National||India to allow import of pork, pork products from US||The Central government has for the first time agreed to allow import of pork and pork-products from the United States to India. President Joe Biden’s administration in Washington announced New Delhi’s decision, just days after two governments signed a framework agreement to allow export of mango and pomegranate from India to the United States. The US Trade Representative, Katherine Tai, and the Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, said that the Government of India had agreed to allow import of pork and pork products from the US, removing a long-standing barrier in agricultural trade between the two nations. “India’s agreement to allow US pork imports for the first time is great news for the US producers and for Indian consumers,” said Tai. Tai and her counterpart, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, had met in New Delhi on November 23, reviving the India-US Trade Policy Forum. She had taken up with Goyal the issue of barriers in export of the US pork and pork products to India. “We will continue working to strengthen the US-India trade relationship and I appreciate Minister Goyal’s efforts to facilitate this important development,” said Tai. “This new opportunity marks the culmination of nearly two decades of work to gain market access for US pork to India – and it signals positive movement in US-India trade relations,” said Vilsack. “We will continue working with the Indian government to ensure that the US pork industry can begin shipping its high-quality products to consumers as soon as possible.” The United States was the world’s third-largest pork producer and second-largest exporter in 2020, with global sales of pork and pork products valued at $7.7 billion. The US exported more than $1.6 billion worth of agricultural products to India in the fiscal year 2021. The Department of Agriculture and farmer’s welfare (DAC&FW) of the Government of India and the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) signed a framework agreement for export of mangoes, pomegranate and pomegranate arils from India and import of cherries and Alfalfa hay from the US. Mango and pomegranate exports from India to the US is expected to start from January, February 2022 and pomegranate aril exports from April 2022. The export of Alfalfa hay and cherries from the US will begin in April 2022. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-allow-import-of-pork-pork-products-from-us-1070225.html
11-01-2022||National||PIB in soup for misreporting facts on 1857 revolt||Mentioning Swami Vivekananda and Ramana Maharishi as among those who influenced the 1857 First War of Independence in 'New India Samachar' have earned ridicule for Press Information Bureau with several, including a historian, politician and a party, asking how can someone born after the event influence it. One of the infographics in the New India Samachar's latest issue said, "the Bhakti movement heralded the freedom struggle in India. During Bhakti Yuga, the saints and mahants of this country, from every part of the country whether it is Swami Vivekananda, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Ramana Maharishi, were concerned about its spiritual consciousness. It served as a precursor to the revolt of 1857," the article said. Following a social media storm, the PIB has quietly changed the portion under the headline 'inspiration from history' omitting all names. The revised portion read, "The Bhakti movement acted as the foundation of the freedom struggle. As the Bhakti movement gave strength to the freedom movement, in the same way, the inspiration for the Atma Nirbhar Bharat is derived from those great personalities associated with it." Earlier in the day, the PIB tweeted the screenshot of the magazine cover and the infographics with a comment, "There has been great participation of the common man in the freedom movement. But many of them have been forgotten. With the purpose to shift the spotlight on these anonymous freedom fighters, #AmritMahotsav celebrations have started." There has been great participation of the common man in freedom movement. But many of them have been forgotten. Soon after, several people mentioned that Swami Vivekananda was born in 1863 and Ramana Maharshi in 1879 while the first war of independence was in 1857. Historian Srinath Raghavan tweeted, "ROLL OVER historians of India. PIB has spoken..." Senior Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera tweeted, "Swami Vivekananda was born in 1863 (six years after 1857); Ramana Maharishi was born in 1879 (22 years after 1857). But the PIB says they were a precursor to the ‘revolt of 1857.’ Slow claps for this degree in Entire History." Trinamool Congress tweeted, "Something fishy about the Amrit in #AmritMahotsav. Swami Vivekananda Ji was born in 1863. We're still trying to figure out how he influenced the 'Revolt of 1857', if that's what we're going to call it... @PIB_India, can you send some help?" Swami Vivekananda Ji was born in 1863. A Twitter user @IbrahimMaliyam asked whether Swami Vivekananda and Ramana Maharshi "time-travelled" to create a spiritual consciousness that acted as a precursor for rebellion. "Bravo," he tweeted. Another Twitter user @Digjoy15 said, "1) Chaitanya Mahaprabhu was born in 1486 and died in 1534. First British came to India around 1608. 2) Swami Vivekananda was born in 1863, Ramana Maharshi was Born in 1879 and Sepoy mutiny or revolt happened in 1857. None of them from the Bhakti movement era." One of the Twitter account holders @AQalbee asked whether the PIB Fact Check Unit could do its own fact-checking, please. "If not we can outsource this fact-checking to @zoo_bear @AltNews @free_thinker," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pib-in-soup-for-misreporting-facts-on-1857-revolt-1070230.html
11-01-2022||National||Sentence of Indian convicted by foreign court can't be reduced: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that sentence of an Indian convict transferred from a foreign country cannot be reduced in contradiction to the terms and conditions and the statute governing shifting of prisoners. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai referred to the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003, to point out, "One of the salient features of the legislation is that the enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the law of the receiving State. However, the receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of the sentence as determined by the transferring State." The court said the government was empowered to adapt the sentence to that provided for a similar offence had that offence been committed in India.  "This can be done only in a situation where the government is satisfied that the sentence of the imprisonment is incompatible with Indian law as to its nature, duration or both," the court added. The top court allowed a petition by the Union government against the Bombay High Court's order reducing the sentence of Shaikh Istiyaq Ahmed from 26 years to 10 years. Ahmed was sentenced to 26 years by the Supreme Court of Mauritius for possession of 152.8 grams of heroin. He was transferred here as per the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003 on March 4, 2016. He made representation to the Union government for reducing his sentence. On rejection of his, he had approached the High Court. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sentence-of-indian-convicted-by-foreign-court-cant-be-reduced-sc-1070243.html
11-01-2022||National||Maurya's induction a shot in the arm for Samajwadi Party's Muslim Yadav plus outreach||When BJP leader Swami Prasad Maurya, who like late Ram Vilas Paswan is considered a "Mausam Vaigyanik" of politics, resigned from the Yogi cabinet in UP to join Samajwadi Party and flagged his discomfort with "adversarial ideology" and "complete apathetic approach towards Dalits, OBCs and others", he played a script which could help Akhilesh Yadav give an edge to his MY (Muslim Yadav) plus outreach, which once Mulayam Singh Yadav represented in the state politics. In the Eastern UP, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi's constituency Varanasi is situated, the BJP had won 115 of the 156 seats while it had won 109 of the 136 Assembly seats in the 2017 Assembly polls. In Western UP, Samajwadi Party had allied with the Jaat party Rashtriya Lok Dal and is looking to reap the harvest of farmers' anger -- that had resonated in Western UP and was backed by RLD. Besides, Imran Masood, a prominent young Muslim leader from Saharanpur in Western UP, who had grown close to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, also quit Congress on Monday and announced to support SP. Masood is the nephew of former MP Rasheed Masood. Hence SP seems to have fortified its position in Western UP, where the polarisation politics since 2013 had seen BJP grow in the region by leaps and bounds. From Eastern UP,  a prominent OBC leader Om Prakash Rajbhar, an erstwhile NDA ally and a minister in the Yogi government was sacked in 2019 after being at loggerheads with the Chief Minister for more than two years.  Now with Maurya quitting with five of his supporting MLAs from the Yogi government, two prominent non-Yadav OBC leaders representing Kushwaha and Rajbhar communities are out of BJP, posing a challenge before the BJP's Extremely Backward castes outreach. Of OBCs, which are roughly 44% of UP’s electorate, Yadavs are most dominant numerically followed by Kushwahas (Koeris) while Mayawati's community Jatav is dominant among 21% Dalits. Swami Prasad Maurya, the then BSP national secretary was inducted into BJP in 2016 while another Maurya leader Keshav Prasad Maurya was made BJP state chief. Keshav Maurya later became Deputy CM. Mauryas are also called Kachhis, Kushwahas, Sainis and Shakyas, Yadavs, the core of the SP’s base, are numerically and socially dominant among OBCs. However, the 200-odd non-Yadav OBCs make up more than double the Yadav population. They include Kurmis (Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s community), Koeris, Lodhs, Jats, Sunars, etc. Among the Dalits, Pasis and Valmikis are the large non-Jatav communities. BJP has inducted Anupriya Patel (a Kurmi leader) in the Modi cabinet while SP has allied with her mother in law Krishna Patel in Eastern UP. Recently Rajbhar floated a trial balloon saying Anupriya Patel was also in touch with SP. With back to back inductions of leaders from different parties, SP has taken a leaf from BJP's rule book and managed to give an impression of a resurgent party in UP ahead of polls. Tapping the perception of anger among the Brahmin community against the Yogi government, SP has inducted a number of Brahmin leaders in its fold from different parties -- BJP MLA from Khalilabad seat in Sant Kabir Nagar, Digvijay Narain Chaubey, BSP MLA Vinay Shankar Tiwari and his brother Kushal Tiwari (both sons of known Bahubali Brahmin leader from Gorakhpur Harishankar Tiwari, a known detractor of Yogi Adityanath. This was after the SP inducted six suspended BSP MLAs in October last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mauryas-induction-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-samajwadi-partys-muslim-yadav-plus-outreach-1070247.html
11-01-2022||National||Dismantle misogynistic, abusive digital ecosystem: EGI over online harassment of women journalists||Calling it a ‘travesty of democratic norms’, the Editors Guild of India on Tuesday demanded that the government take urgent steps to investigate the online harassment of women journalists. The Guild’s intervention follows the online 'auction' of Muslim women and news reports of an application Tek Fog which steals unused WhatsApp accounts to send toxic messages to journalists.  The Guild also demanded that the Supreme Court take cognisance of the matter and order an online probe. It said that the continued harassment was part of efforts to silence vocal journalists and intimidate them.  “The Editors Guild of India condemns the continuing online harassment of women journalists, which includes targeted and organised online trolling as well as threats of sexual abuse. What is further disturbing is that most of these attacks are targeted at journalists who have been outspokenly critical of the current government and the ruling party,” the Guild’s statement read. It was signed by Guild president Seema Mustafa, general secretary Sanjay Kapoor, and treasurer Anant Nath.  The Guild mentioned an article in The Wire which reported “an extensive and well-funded network” built around the Tek Fog app.  “The purpose of these deeply hurtful messages was to instil fear in them and to prevent them from expressing themselves freely and go about their jobs. According to the reports, several women journalists were subjected to thousands of abusive tweets,” read the statement.  The Guild also mentioned the earlier instances of online ‘auctions’ of Muslim women on open source apps on GitHub that targeted journalists critical of the government.  “Though law enforcement agencies have arrested those supposedly behind such apps, there is need for further investigation in order to ensure that all those behind such despicable acts, even beyond those arrested, are brought to justice,” the Guild said.  It demanded that the government take “urgent” steps to dismantle the “misogynistic and abusive digital eco-system”, and carry out investigations to identify and punish the culprits behind it.  “Further, given the allegations that there may be the involvement of influential people linked to the ruling party with the app Tek Fog, the Guild demands that the Supreme Court of India takes cognisance of the matter and order a probe into it,” the Guild said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dismantle-misogynistic-abusive-digital-ecosystem-egi-over-online-harassment-of-women-journalists-1070253.html
11-01-2022||National||8.23% registered unrecognised parties available in public domain: ADR||Audit reports of only 8.23% registered unrecognised parties are available in the public domain, a study by election reform watchdog Association for Democratic Reform (ADR) has revealed.  In its survey, ADR analysed the status of submission of annual audit and contribution reports of 270 registered unrecognised parties all over India including their election activity since 2017. These parties are from the five poll-going states of Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa for the financial year 2019-20. ADR said that 102 of the 270 parties did not contest any elections since 2017. In its survey, ADR found that only 230 or 8.23% of India’s 2,796 registered unrecognised parties had submitted their annual audit reports. Of them, only 160 or 5.72% of the parties had made their annual contribution reports public.  “This report analyses the status of submission of annual reports of a total of 270 registered unrecognised parties all over India, whose either audit or contribution reports were available on the ECI website for the FY 2019-20. Out of these 270 unrecognised parties, the audit details of 40 parties are unavailable in the public domain for FY 2019-20,” the report said.  Political parties are completely exempted from paying Income Tax, whether they file tax returns to the IT Department of donations received above Rs 20,000 to the ED, or not.  “Out of these 270 unrecognised parties, the audit details of 40 parties are unavailable in the public domain for FY 2019-20. While for the remaining 230 parties, audit statements are either available on the state CEO website or were accessed through the RTI responses received,” the survey said.  There are 889 unrecognised political parties registered in the five states: Punjab (767), UP (66), Uttarakhand (37), Goa (10) and Manipur (9). The 90 registered unrecognised parties of UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab whose audit reports were available declared a total income of Rs 840.25 lakhs; total expenditure declared was Rs 876.76 lakhs for 2019-20. During this period, these parties spent Rs 36.51 lakhs more than their total income for that year.   “The Jan Raajya Party of UP declared the highest income of Rs 338.01 lakhs while the total expenditure declared by the party was Rs 332.16 lakhs for the FY 2019-20. Anarakshit Samaj Party and Apna Dal (Soneylal) of UP declared the second (Rs 157.68 lakhs) and the third-highest income (Rs 76.05 lakhs) during this period,” the report said. The Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968, stipulates that a political party can be accorded recognised national party status if it wins 6% of votes in four states, or has four Lok Sabha MPs, or has a minimum of 2% votes polled in a general election from two states. A state party is recognised when it has three seats or 3% of votes in a state’s assembly, or 8% of the total votes in the Assembly, among other conditions.  According to the Election Commission of India’s gazette notification of September 23, 2021, there are a total of 2,858 political parties registered with the Commission. Of them, 2,796 or 97.83% are unrecognised Parties.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/823-registered-unrecognised-parties-available-in-public-domain-adr-1070260.html
11-01-2022||National||Omicron overload prompted new testing norms: Experts||The latest guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — which limit the testing of contacts of Covid-19 patients to elderly and at-risk individuals, and do away with the testing of interstate travellers, asymptomatics and patients awaiting discharge — is a response to Omicron having overloaded the system across the country, experts said on Tuesday. The guidelines released on Monday push the testing regimen towards the early detection of symptomatic individuals, especially among high-risk categories such as senior citizens. However, this comes at the cost of weakened overall community surveillance. Several experts said the new guidelines have become necessary because the virus has become ubiquitous and is in danger of driving the nationwide testing infrastructure to the breaking point. "The surge in cases means that identifying every case, especially asymptomatics, can no longer be a priority," said Dr V Ravi, a member of the State Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). He pointed out that Karnataka might record between 50,000 and 1 lakh cases per day (in the worst-case scenario) by the end of the month. "The infection is spreading. It is everywhere. All contacts of a case will be positive. One tenet of public health in a wave is that we should not be testing everyone and instead focus on symptomatics because our resources will be limited,” he added. For Dr T Jacob John, former director of ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology, this was a crisis that could have been avoided had the Centre brought in decisive interventions a month ago that could have helped flatten the curve. "The change in strategy is happening because the current wave of cases is already out of control,” he said. “The central government underplayed the looming crisis between November 27 and December 26, and did little to flatten the curve. The government began to look for evidence after the event had happened — which is a typical disaster management approach,” he said. But the new guidelines, if implemented, could mean that states will have a less clearer picture of their outbreaks, in terms of case numbers and potentially even deaths. “It is one way to flatten the curve,” Dr John said. Karnataka’s nodal officer for testing, for one, said that some of the new guidelines appear to go against the grain of Covid-19 management strategies. “The central principle of Covid-19 containment is more and more testing,” said Dr C N Manjunath. “In my view we should absolutely be testing all contacts in the interests of containment, not just those who are at high risk based on age or comorbidities. Furthermore, interstate travellers, especially from high-risk states, must be tested.” He added the guidelines still require substantial debate with epidemiologists and public health experts before they can be implemented at the state level. “The guidelines are only a recommendation and state authorities have to make their own decisions. The issue will likely be considered in the next TAC meetings,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-overload-prompted-new-testing-norms-experts-1070267.html
11-01-2022||National||Seeking money for construction of house is 'dowry demand': SC||Seeking money for construction of a house is a 'dowry demand' which attracts offence under Section 304B of the Indian Penal Code, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday while restoring conviction and sentence of a man and his father in a dowry death case. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said Section 304-B was inserted in the IPC to combat the social evil of dowry demand that has reached alarming proportions. It cannot be argued that in case of an ambiguity in the language used in the provision, the same ought to be construed strictly as that would amount to defeating the very object of the provision, it said. "In the light of the provision (Dowry Act) that defines the word 'dowry' and takes in its ambit any kind of property or valuable security, in our opinion, the High Court fell into an error by holding that the demand of money for construction of a house cannot be treated as a dowry demand," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli, said. The apex court said interpretation of a provision of law that will defeat the very intention of the legislature must be shunned in favour of an interpretation that will promote the object sought to be achieved through the legislation meant to uproot a social evil like dowry demand. "In this context the word 'Dowry' ought to be ascribed an expansive meaning so as to encompass any demand made on a woman, whether in respect of a property or a valuable security of any nature. "When dealing with cases under Section 304-B IPC, a provision legislated to act as a deterrent in the society and curb the heinous crime of dowry demands, the shift in the approach of the courts ought to be from strict to liberal, from constricted to dilated," the bench said. It said that any rigid meaning would tend to bring to naught, the real object of the provision. "Therefore, a push in the right direction is required to accomplish the task of eradicating this evil which has become deeply entrenched in our society," it said. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by Madhya Pradesh government against the High Court judement which set aside conviction and sentence against husband, father-in-law of a woman, who committed suicide at her matrimonial home, under Sections 304-B (dowry death)and 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. The apex court said that taking into account the evidence brought on record by the prosecution, it has no hesitation in holding that the analysis of the trial Court was correct and the respondents deserved to be convicted under Sections 304-B and 498-A IPC. "Accordingly, the judgment of conviction and sentence passed by the trial Court in respect of both the respondents under Section 304-B and Section 498-A IPC, is restored. However, the sentence imposed on them by the trial Court of RI for life is reduced to RI for seven years, which is the minimum sentence prescribed for an offence under Section 304-B IPC," the bench said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seeking-money-for-construction-of-house-is-dowry-demand-sc-1070272.html
11-01-2022||National||Omicron less likely to be severe but can stress healthcare systems, says top biologist||A physician turned researcher, Anurag Agarwal is one of India’s leading biologists who heads CSIR’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi. He is a key member of the INSACOG and heads a WHO advisory group that recommends the Variants of Concern. Agarwal talks to DH’s Kalyan Ray on the Omicron variant and the third wave of Covid-19 in India. Excerpts: Has the third wave started in India? Yes, genetic sequencing has shown clear community transmission in Delhi, Mumbai and other metros. Omicron is rising in bigger metros. Then it will rise in smaller places and rural areas. What could be the size of the peak? The size of the peak depends on how much you test. In the South African wave, the number looks smaller than the UK wave because the UK is very different from South Africa in terms of testing. The size itself doesn’t have much meaning but in terms of total number of cases, the current wave should exceed the previous one. But since we are not testing the asymptomatic patients now, the numbers would not be immediately comparable. What’s your opinion on the new testing strategy? There is no point in testing the asymptomatic as you really can’t stop this virus from transmitting. That's why we have decided not to test the low-risk asymptomatic people. What percent of infected persons would require hospitalisation? Is there a chance of the healthcare system getting overwhelmed? Severe disease seems 60-80 per cent less likely for Omicron. Many people are previously infected, vaccinated, or both which additionally reduces risk of severe disease. However, infections are rising very fast and that can cause stress to healthcare systems. Another potential problem is that healthcare workers may get infected and available manpower may reduce at critical periods. So, yes healthcare systems can get overwhelmed in Omicron waves, and we should take measures to reduce transmission and severe disease. Can the existing vaccines offer protection against Omicron? Yes, they do. Two doses give adequate protection against severe disease by Omicron. It seems that a third dose raises it further, based on UK data, but as of now, such precautionary use is being restricted to elderly and high-exposure professions such as healthcare. Once local data is available, the best strategy will become clearer. What type of vaccine has a better chance to succeed as a booster dose? The best vaccine to use as a booster is not fully known for India, but based on the available evidence, protein subunit vaccines such as Novovax/Covovax or Corbevax seem like excellent choices, once they are ready. Given that nearly 90 per cent of eligible people have been vaccinated with Covishield, one must have the availability and supply of any other possibility before a decision is taken. In my mind, the protein subunit vaccine, Covovax, is the best third dose, as per available data. Is there a possibility of the Omicron variant evolving further, picking up some of the attributes of Delta to emerge as a more dangerous variant? It can certainly evolve further. Other variants may also come. Recombination is unusual for this virus, but not impossible of course. Do you foresee a lockdown once again? No one wants a lockdown. Everyone must do what they can to avert a lockdown – proper use of the N95/FFP masks should be the top priority. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-less-likely-to-be-severe-but-can-stress-healthcare-systems-says-top-biologist-1070274.html
11-01-2022||National||India appeals against WTO dispute panel ruling on sugar subsidies||India has appealed against a ruling of the World Trade Organisation's trade dispute settlement panel on domestic sugar subsidies, stating that the panel has committed "certain errors of law" in its report, the WTO said on Tuesday. The appeal was filed by India in the WTO's Appellate Body, which is the final authority on such trade disputes. "India has notified the Dispute Settlement Body of its decision to appeal the panel reports in the cases brought by Brazil, Australia and Guatemala in 'India - Measures Concerning Sugar and Sugarcane," the WTO said in a statement. It said that given the ongoing lack of agreement among WTO members regarding the filling of Appellate Body vacancies, there is no Appellate Body division available at the current time to deal with the appeal. The panel in its ruling on December 14, 2021, recommended India to withdraw its alleged prohibited subsidies under the Production Assistance, Buffer Stock, and Marketing and Transportation Schemes within 120 days from the adoption of this report. Ruling in favour of Brazil, Australia, and Guatemala in their trade dispute against India over New Delhi's sugar subsidies, the WTO panel has stated that the support measures are inconsistent with WTO trade rules. In its submissions to the Appellate Body, India has appealed and requested the body to "reverse, modify, or declare moot and of no legal effect, the findings, conclusions, rulings and recommendations of the Panel", with respect to certain "errors of law or legal interpretation contained in the panel report". India has sought review of the panel's finding that the scheme for providing assistance to sugar mills for expenses on marketing costs, including handling, upgrading and other processing costs and costs of international and internal transport and freight charges on the export of sugar for the 2019-20 sugar season (MAEQ Scheme), is within its terms of reference. "The Panel grossly errs in holding that the MAEQ Scheme is of the same essence as other alleged export subsidies identified in the complainants' requests for the establishment of a panel. India considers that the Panel has cherry-picked a few broad similarities while ignoring the differences between MAEQ and the other alleged exports subsidy measures," according to a communication of India, circulated to members. New Delhi has also said that the panel has erred in finding that India's fair and remunerative price and state advised price constitute market price support under the WTO's agreement of agriculture. In 2019, Brazil, Australia, and Guatemala dragged India into the WTO's dispute settlement mechanism alleging that New Delhi's domestic support measures to producers of sugarcane and sugar and export subsidies are inconsistent with global trade rules, including various provisions of the WTO's Agreement on Agriculture, Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT). Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-appeals-against-wto-dispute-panel-ruling-on-sugar-subsidies-1070286.html
11-01-2022||National||India flags market access issues in Korea during trade ministers' meet||India on Tuesday flagged market access issues being faced by domestic players from several sectors such as steel, engineering and agri products in Korea and sought redressal of the matter with a view to boost bilateral trade ties, an official said. The issue was raised during the meeting between Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and Korean Trade Minister Yeo Han-koo. Certain industry groups are of the view that due to some stringent regulatory issues in Korea, there are difficulties in terms of market access for Indian products. "These barriers need to be addressed and some concessions need to be made on both sides," the official said. Among the products that are facing market access issues in Korea are bovine meat, grapes, pomegranate, okra and eggplants. The Indian side also raised its concerns over the widening trade deficit with Korea. The deficit has increased from $5 billion in 2008-09 to $8 billion in 2020-21. Both the countries implemented the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA), a kind of free-trade pact, in January 2010. The bilateral trade between the countries stood at $17.5 billion in 2020-21. The trade is in favour of Korea. In the last fiscal, India's imports stood at $128 billion while exports were only $4.7 billion. During the meeting, India sought investments from Korean companies in sectors like semiconductors, chemical batteries for e-vehicles, and technical textiles. India's share in total steel exports to the Republic of Korea is abysmally low and averaged a meagre 0.04 MMT per annum over the last five years. According to industry experts, Korean steel companies prefer to do business with firms with which they have prior experience of business relations and these things act as an implicit barrier for accessing the Korean steel market. Similarly, in the case of rice, Korea has introduced the tariff rate quota (TRQ) arrangement for the import of rice from January 2020, under which 3,88,700 tonnes is allocated to its five major importing partners — China, USA, Vietnam, Thailand and Australia. And, as a result, only 20,000 tonnes is left for all other countries across the globe including India. Indian textiles exporters face the issue of the Korean Certification mark. This mark is required on textile/apparel items (including footwear and leather products) to be imported or sold in Korea. Complaints have also been received from Indian exporters of engineering goods on requirements of local certification from a Korean agency, which is a time-consuming process and takes on an average of 27-28 weeks. Meanwhile, a joint press communique issued after the meeting of the trade ministers said that both sides have agreed to impart fresh momentum to the discussions on CEPA up-gradation negotiations and also promote extensive business-to-business interactions on trade and investment between the industry leaders of the two countries. "The two ministers agreed...to address difficulties expressed by the industry from both sides and instructed their respective negotiating teams to meet on a regular basis in order to conclude the CEPA up-gradation negotiations as soon as possible (and) in a time-bound manner," it said. They expect to achieve the target of $50 billion trade before 2030, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-flags-market-access-issues-in-korea-during-trade-ministers-meet-1070305.html
11-01-2022||National||Nitin Gadkari tests positive for Covid-19||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has mild symptoms. Taking to Twitter, he also said he is under home quarantine. I have tested positive for Covid 19 today with mild symptoms. Following all the necessary protocols, I have isolated myself and I am under home quarantine. I request all those who have come in contact with me to isolate themselves and get tested. He urged all those who had come in contact with him to get tested and self-isolate. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1070306.html
11-01-2022||National||SC to pass order on panel to probe PM's security breach||The Supreme Court is likely to pronounce order on Wednesday on a panel to probe into the security breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Punjab last week. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli would take up the writ petition filed by NGO 'Lawyers Voice', according to the Supreme Court's causelist. On Monday, the top court had orally said it would appoint a retired Supreme Court judge to head the probe panel.  “We are taking the PM's security breach very seriously,” the bench said.  The court had then also asked both the Centre and the Punjab government not to move ahead with their respective inquires into the matter. The bench had also indicated other members of the committee would include DGP Chandigarh, IG National Investigating Agency, registrar general (Punjab and Haryana High Court), and ADGP (security) Punjab. The bench also said that it would ask the committee to submit its report as soon as possible. On Wednesday, Modi's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur. The incident forced the PM to cancel his rally and other events planned in poll-bound Punjab. The plea filed in the top court alleged lapse in the security of the Prime Minister was occasioned clearly in connivance with the Punjab Police.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pass-order-on-panel-to-probe-pms-security-breach-1070308.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||Digvijaya Singh uses termite analogy to attack RSS||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday used the "termite" analogy to target the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the BJP, which he said is damaging the entire system. Speaking to reporters here in Madhya Pradesh, Singh also targeted Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, saying his speeches are replete only with divisive references like “Hindu-Muslim” and “Shamshan-Kabristan”. Attacking RSS, the Congress Rajya Sabha MP said it was like "dimak" (termite) which silently damages a house or household goods. Similarly, RSS also works discreetly and damages the entire system. "I know I will be severely abused for comparing RSS with termite. But, I have not called RSS termite. I have said that the character of the ideology that is silently damaging the entire system in the country is termite," Singh added. Speaking about upcoming elections in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, he said, "You (media) people must be listening to the speeches delivered by Yogi Adityanath. Have you heard phrases other than Hindu-Muslim, Hindustan-Pakistan or shamshan-kabristan (cremation ground and graveyards) in them?” Singh alleged that a false narrative is being created to spread the message that the Hindu religion is under threat. "This is done so that the fascist ideology can be taken forward and money can be earned through political posts," he claimed. Singh said that the Hindu religion had never faced any danger even during the hundred years of rule under Muslims and "Christian Britishers". Speaking at a symposium organised by the state Press Club here, Singh said that the concept of Hindutva is being used as a political weapon and it has nothing to do with Hinduism. He claimed that V D Savarkar had written in his book in 1923 that "it is wrong to assume the Hindu religion as Hindutva". "Mistaking Hindutva as the Hindu religion would be the biggest mistake not only for Hindus but for the entire country,” he said. Singh claimed that the proposal on the Partition under the two-nation theory was supported by the Muslim League as well as by Savarkar. Referring to the latest cases relating to "Bulli Bai" and "Sulli Deals" hate apps, Singh said that the poison of bigotry is being infused in young minds through the internet and social media.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/digvijaya-singh-uses-termite-analogy-to-attack-rss-1070029.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||DH Toon | CPM rules out Congress alliance||The CPM leadership in Kerala said that an alliance with regional parties was more important than depending on Congress for forming an alternative against the BJP and other Sangh Parivar outfits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-cpm-rules-out-congress-alliance-1070051.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||In battle for UP, Bihar parties may upset the apple cart||The Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections this year will have a lot of Bihar in them. At least four regional parties from Bihar have formally announced that they will contest the polls in Uttar Pradesh, either in alliance or on their own. Two of these four regional parties are a part of the NDA in Bihar. The Janata Dal (U) is all set to contest the UP polls and its leaders claim that they are in talks with the BJP for seat sharing. The BJP, meanwhile, has not uttered a word on a possible seat sharing with JD(U) in Uttar Pradesh. "We have our allies -- Apna Dal and Nishad Party -- with whom seat sharing is being finalised. We are not aware of any other alliance at the moment," said a senior BJP functionary. Bihar Minister Mukesh Sahani, who heads the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), is all set to contest 165 Nishad-dominated seats in Uttar Pradesh. The VIP is not negotiating with the BJP, which has already allied with its arch rival -- the Nishad Party. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), led by Chirag Paswan, is another Bihar party that is trying its luck in the UP elections. The party leaders say that they will contest elections on their own and will try to field a maximum number of candidates. Former Bihar Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi's Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) is also making a debut in UP politics. Manjhi has said that he would prefer to go solo if not given adequate seats in any alliance. These Bihar parties may or may not win seats in the Uttar Pradesh elections since most of them lack a proper organisational base in the state but they are bound to cut into votes of major parties and could even upset the apple cart, especially in constituencies along the UP-Bihar border. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-battle-for-up-bihar-parties-may-upset-the-apple-cart-1070073.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||Karntaka anti-conversion bill | 'When will you speak up?' Former governor Margaret Alva asks PM Modi||Former Governor Margaret Alva wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing her concerns over the proposed anti-conversion law in Karnataka and lack of “response or action” by the Centre against attacks on minorities. "Mr Prime Minister, how can you close your eyes and remain silent when atrocities on India's minorities are mounting,” the Congress leader asked Modi in a four-page letter. She said his silence is “misread as tacit approval and encouragement“ to violence against minorities. “When will you speak up and put a stop to this madness and violence?" The former union minister said that the 'Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill' is draconian and includes provisions previously struck down by the courts for violating Constitutional norms. "It makes all minorities, our institutions, practices, services and charities suspect," she wrote. The Bill is yet to become a law as it awaits passage in the Karnataka Legislative Council, the upper house.   Personal liberties of privacy, religion, marriage and decision-making are taken away by the proposed legislation, she wrote. “Is this the India we have struggled over 70 years to build?" Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/karntaka-anti-conversion-bill-when-will-you-speak-up-former-governor-margaret-alva-asks-pm-modi-1070093.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||BJP jolted ahead of Uttar Pradesh polls as key OBC minister, four MLAs quit party, join SP||BJP suffered a huge jolt ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh when senior minister and influential OBC leader Swami Prasad Maurya and four other MLAs on Tuesday resigned from the Yogi Adityanath ministry and the saffron party and joined the Samajwadi Party (SP). Besides Maurya, the others, who left the party, included Roshan Lal Verma, Bhagwati Sagar, Brijesh Prajapati and Vinay Shakya, all sitting MLAs. All of them joined the SP. According to sources close to Maurya, a few more BJP legislators and at least two senior OBC ministers in the UP cabinet could resign from the party and follow Maurya. Maurya, who held the labour portfolio, in his resignation letter to the governor, said that he was resigning in protest against "apathetic attitude of the state government toward farmers, youths, dalits, backwards and small and medium traders", He said that he remained in the ministry despite having a 'divergent ideology' but he could not turn a blind eye to the sufferings of the dalits, OBCs, youths and small and medium traders.  Welcoming Maurya into his party, SP president Akhilesh Yadav said that Maurya was a popular leader, who always fought for social justice and equality. "Samajik nyaya ka inqulab hoga, 2022 mein badlav hoga" (social justice will triumph, 2022 will witness change), he said. सामाजिक न्याय और समता-समानता की लड़ाई लड़ने वाले लोकप्रिय नेता श्री स्वामी प्रसाद मौर्या जी एवं उनके साथ आने वाले अन्य सभी नेताओं, कार्यकर्ताओं और समर्थकों का सपा में ससम्मान हार्दिक स्वागत एवं अभिनंदन! Maurya, who was considered to be an influential OBC leader from the Purvanchal region of UP, was a multiple term MLA. His daughter Sanghamitra Maurya is currently a BJP MP from Badayun. Maurya's departure was a huge setback to the saffron party ahead of the polls and could severely dent its efforts to repeat its 2017 assembly polls performance when the party had won 115 of the 156 seats in the region. Sources said that Maurya had earlier also expressed his resentment against Adityanath's style of functioning and conveyed the same to the senior BJP leaders, including union home minister Amit Shah, but it was ignored. Maurya claimed that at least ten to twelve BJP MLAs would leave the party and join the SP.  On the other hand it would certainly augment Akhilesh's attempts to bring important 'non-Yadav' OBC leaders to his fold. Earlier the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar, who wields considerable influence over the 'Rajbhar' (an OBC) community in the eastern region of the state, had joined hands with Akhilesh after quitting the BJP alliance. "It is a setback. Maurya is an influential OBC leader. His departure can hurt our electoral prospects on several assembly seats in the eastern UP region," admitted a senior state BJP leader here. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-jolted-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-polls-as-key-obc-minister-four-mlas-quit-party-join-sp-1070151.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||Two years after its notification, MHA yet to frame CAA rules||Two years have passed since the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act came into existence but the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is yet to frame rules and have sought an extension for the sixth time from a Parliamentary committee for the exercise. The Citizenship Amendment Act was passed by Parliament on December 11, 2019 and signed by the President the next day. The government notified it on January 10, 2020. The Opposition had risen in rebellion against the Bill when it came for passage in Parliament, accusing the government of introducing religion as criteria for citizenship. It also resulted in huge protests across the country, amid accusations that it was aimed at targeting Muslims. With the MHA not notifying the rules, the Act that grants Indian nationality to non-Muslim migrants from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan cannot be implemented. The MHA had first sought an extension in mid-July 2020. The MHA sought four more extensions and the latest one ended on Monday. Sources said the MHA has once again written to Parliamentary Standing Committees on Subordinate Legislation in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha seeking another extension. According to the Manual of Parliamentary Procedure, rules have to be framed within six months from the date on which the statute came into force. "In case the Ministries/Departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension; such extension being not more than for a period of three months at a time. The request should be made after obtaining the approval of the Minister," the manual said. According to the report of the Joint Committee of Parliament that vetted a previous version of the Bill, there were 31,313 people belonging to minority communities from these countries will be "immediate beneficiaries", as they had been given Long Term Visas on the basis of their claim of religious persecution in their respective countries and want Indian citizenship. Among 31,313 beneficiaries, the Intelligence Bureau told the panel that 25,447 are Hindus, 5,807 are Sikhs, 55 Christians and two each are Buddhists and Parsis. For citizenship, the IB said, they will have to prove that they came to India due to religious persecution. "If they had not declared so at the time of arrival in India, it would be difficult for them to make such a claim now. Any future claim will be enquired into, including through RAW before a decision is taken," the IB had told the panel. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-years-after-its-notification-mha-yet-to-frame-caa-rules-1070180.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||Shah seeks suggestions to make criminal laws 'people-centric'||The government has set in motion a process for making "comprehensive changes" in the framework of criminal laws to make it "people-centric" with Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking suggestions from the Chief Justice of India, Chief Ministers and MPs among others. Shah has written to MPs on December 31 last year requesting them to send their "valuable suggestions" regarding the amendments in the Indian Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Indian Evidence Act. In his letter, he said the experience of the seven decades of Indian democracy calls for a "comprehensive review" of the criminal laws and adapt them in accordance with "contemporary needs and aspirations" of the people. "The government of India intends to create a people-centric legal structure," he said. He said the endeavour to bring about a "paradigm shift" in the criminal justice system would "actually be an enormous exercise of public participation, which can only be successful with the participation of all stakeholders". Shah said he has requested the Chief Justice of India, Chief Justices of High Courts, Chief Ministers, administrators of Union Territories, Bar Councils and Law Universities to send their suggestions. "The MHA intends to make comprehensive amendments in criminal laws after receiving suggestions from various stakeholders. Parliament is one of the three important pillars of democracy. An MP has a significant role in the lawmaking process. The suggestions of MPs will be invaluable in this exercise of comprehensive amendments in criminal laws," Shah said in his letter to MPs. The MHA had in May 2020 set up a 'Committee for Reforms in Criminal Laws' with five members while the committee now has seven members, including a woman. The composition of the committee had attracted criticism as a group of former judges and bureaucrats, lawyers and academicians have demanded reconstitution of the panel, saying it has no representation of women, Dalits and minorities in the panel tasked with recommending wide-ranging changes in the statutes. The panel is tasked with recommending reforms in a "principled, effective, and efficient manner which ensures the safety and security of the individual, the community and the nation and which prioritises the constitutional values of justice, dignity and the inherent worth of the individual". The committee had embarked on an online consultation with experts to recommend wide-ranging reforms in key criminal statutes by looking into aspects like sedition, marital rape and sexual offences. An RTI query by DH and subsequent appeal seeking a copy of Terms of Reference and deadline set for the committee were not responded to by the MHA. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shah-seeks-suggestions-to-make-criminal-laws-people-centric-1070188.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||Alliance with Akali Dal in Punjab cost BJP heavily: Hardeep Singh Puri||Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said that he "personally" feels that alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab had cost the BJP heavily. Puri, the BJP election co-incharge for Punjab, said: "It is my personal view that our alliance in the past had cost us heavily in many ways. Today with the people who are joining us, we will take Punjab on a fast path of development." He said that earlier in the 117-member Punjab Assembly, the BJP used to contest 22-23 seats and won three seats in the last Assembly polls but now the party has left with just two MLA and five per cent vote share. He claimed that a new political situation is developing in Punjab and in this, with new alliance partners and people joining the party, the BJP will go up and up. "When we were in alliance, the BJP never contested more than 22-23 seats and Alkalis were in dominant position. The BJP was not able to rise in the state. This time we formed an alliance with Captain Amarinder Singh, Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and people are joining us. Now we are equal partners and it is a good opportunity for us to rise in Punjab. In the five corner contest, BJP will have a good show in Punjab," he said as a few leaders from Punjab joined the BJP at the party headquarters. The BJP is jointly contesting the Punjab assembly election with former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). The three parties have formed a six-member committee, comprising two each from three parties to decide the seat-sharing formula. Three parties will also make a common manifesto. Polling in Punjab will be held on February 14 and counting of votes will take place on March 10. Taking a dig at Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, Puri said: "The time he (Yadav) took to conduct the trial run of Kanpur Metro, our government has run the metro. Uttar Pradesh is number one in implementing all the Central government schemes. There is a saying 'success has many father', and Akhilesh is trying to take credit for our work." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/alliance-with-akali-dal-in-punjab-cost-bjp-heavily-hardeep-singh-puri-1070197.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||BJP in damage control mode after mass desertions in Uttar Pradesh||Stunned by mass desertions of its senior OBC leaders in Uttar, including state minister Swami Prasad Maurya, barely a month before the first phase of polling, BJP on Tuesday launched a damage control exercise and deputed its top leaders to talk to the 'sulking' MLAs and persuade Maruya to return to the party. Soon after Maurya sent his resignation to the governor, UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya appealed to the Padrauna MLA to return to BJP. "Please don't take any decision in haste....let's talk and resolve the issues," Keshav Maurya said in a tweet. Swami Prasad Maurya, however, hit back saying that the Deputy CM should have thought about resolving the issues through talks earlier. "Why did he not think about talking earlier...we had flagged several issues earlier also but nothing happened...they were ignored," he said. Sources said that the saffron party could witness an exodus of around a dozen MLAs and ministers, mostly from the OBC community, in the days to come. "Resentment is brewing among the BJP legislators, especially those from the OBC and Dalit community.....many will leave the party ahead of the polls," claimed a leader close to Swami Prasad Maurya. Apparently stung by the spate of resignations, which came as a surprise for many — even in the rival parties — the central BJP leadership had deputed Keshav Maurya and party functionary Sunil Bansal to reach out to the MLAs and ministers and resolve their issues. Barely a few months back, several senior BJP MLAs and ministers had conveyed to the central leadership about their resentment against chief minister Yogi Adityanath's style of functioning. There were speculations that Adityanath could be replaced. The central leadership also tried to foist an ex-Gujarat cadre bureaucrat, who was considered to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but Adityanath put his foot down and virtually forced the leadership to continue with him. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-in-damage-control-mode-after-mass-desertions-in-uttar-pradesh-1070215.html
11-01-2022||National Politics||People consider Samajwadi Party as alternative to BJP, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said the state's people consider his party as an alternative to the BJP and in this assembly polls, they will wipe out the saffron party. He also alleged that the BJP has betrayed farmers and youths, while prices of diesel, petrol and fertilisers have increased manifold during its regime. "The people of the state consider Samajwadi Party (SP) as an alternative to the BJP and this time, they will wipe it out in the assembly polls and form the SP's government," Yadav said while addressing party workers at the SP's headquarters here. According to a party statement, he also promised that if voted to power, the SP will provide 300 units of free electricity, free laptops to the youth and make arrangements for free irrigation for farmers. "The party is moving forward taking all sections along and has formed alliances with regional parties. This time old issues will not work. The SP is training its workers for the past few years on how to take forward work done by the SP government and the party's future plans in the interest of people," the former chief minister said. The SP was defeated by the BJP in the last assembly polls in 2017. The BJP has betrayed farmers and youths, Yadav said, adding that prices of diesel, petrol and fertilisers have increased manifold. "Contrary to the BJP's promise, the income of farmers is now half and price rise has doubled. BJP leaders never take up issues of youths and farmers. Three farm laws were brought to ruin farmers, who were labelled as terrorists," he added. The laws, which were enacted in 2020, triggered over a year of protests at Delhi's borders by farmers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana. The agitation was called off after the central government repealed the laws in Parliament last year and agreed to meet their other demands such as those on minimum support price. Yadav said that all the promises and advertisements of the BJP are a "blatant lie" and asserted that his party always gave honour to women and initiated many schemes for their welfare. The Uttar Pradesh polls will be held in seven phases -- on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, March 3 and 7. The results will be declared on March 10 along with the four other poll-bound states of Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-consider-samajwadi-party-as-alternative-to-bjp-says-akhilesh-1070245.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||UP Polls: Congress, AAP leaders face MCC violation charges||The Uttar Pradesh Police have lodged first two cases of violation of model code of conduct (MCC) against Congress and Samajwadi party leaders in Jaunpur and Saharanpur district. An FIR for violation of the model code of conduct has been lodged against Imran Masood and over 300 persons. Imran Masood, on Monday, quit the Congress and announced his decision to join the Samajwadi Party. According to the FIR filed by Station House Officer (SHO) Piyush Dixit of Kutubsher police station, "Imran Masood had organised an unauthorised public meeting at his residence to lure voters ahead of upcoming polls, which was a clear violation of model code." The Kutubsher police named 11 men, including Imran Masood, and booked 300 unnamed persons under IPC section 171 H (Illegal payments in connection with an election), 188, 269,270 and Epidemic Act section 3 &amp; 4. Saharanpur Superintendent of Police (SP) city Rajesh Kumar said, "Imran Masood had organised a public gathering at his Ambla road residence without taking permission even though he was well aware of model code implementation. Further, the men gathered at his residence were not following Covid protocol. FIR in the matter has been lodged." Another case was lodged against former Congress MLA Nadeem Javed. He was accused of taking out an unauthorised convoy of five SUVs with party flags to address a gathering in the Mazdiha village of Shahganj police limits on Sunday evening in Jaunpur district. A video of the incident was widely shared on social media, featuring Javed's convoy passing through the state highway with high pitch hooter sound and Congress flag. After the incident, SHO Shahganj Sudhir Kumar Arya lodged an FIR against Nadeem Javed under IPC section 188, Representation of the People Act Section 133 and Motor Vehicle Act 177. Superintendent of Police (city) Sanjay Kumar, said, "The FIR against the Congress leader has been lodged for violating the model code of conduct. Prima facie the allegation against him was found true, as the video was shot on Sunday." Meanwhile, Samajwadi party former MLA Guddu Pandit a.k.a. Bhagwan Sharma's convoy of SUVs led by a Range Rover were detained in Bulandshahr for a short time. Circle Officer Dibai, Vandana Sharma caught them plying on the road with party flag. The entire incident was video graphed. Later after thorough checking, SUVs were let off. Meanwhile, the BJP MLA from Bhojipura constituency in Bareilly was also booked under Epidemic Act as well as for violating the model code. Samajwadi Party leader and former minister Shahzil Islam had complained to the district administration about the MLA Bahoran Lal Maurya's alleged act of distributing blankets and food packets at Swami Divyanand Ashram auditorium in Bhojipura on Sunday. A video of the act was widely circulated. District Magistrate Manvendra Singh said, "Based on the preliminary inquiry into the viral video, assistant returning officer Atul Yadav has filed a complaint against MLA Bahoran Lal Maurya under sections of the Representation of the People Act and under Epidemic Act." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-polls-congress-aap-leaders-face-mcc-violation-charges-1070081.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||India's oldest sloth bear Gulabo dies at Bhopal's Van Vihar national park||India's oldest sloth bear, fondly named Gulabo, died at the age of 40 at the Van Vihar National Park and Zoo in Bhopal, an official said on Tuesday. The female sloth bear, who was rescued from a Madaari or street performer in May 2006 at the age of 25 years, died on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday after attaining the age of 40, an official statement said. Gulabo was one of the star attractions in the park. She was the oldest sloth bear of the country, it added. Gulabo was cremated by staffers of the Park as per the norms, the statement said. The Van Vihar National Park, located on the banks of Bhopal's Upper Lake, also runs a rescue and breeding centre for sloth bears. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-oldest-sloth-bear-gulabo-dies-at-bhopals-van-vihar-national-park-1070091.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi reports 46 Covid-19 deaths in 5 days, 11 fully vaccinated||As per the Delhi health department data, out of the total 46 deaths recorded between January 5 to 9 in the national capital, 11 people were vaccinated with both doses of vaccines against Covid-19. The national capital so far has recorded a total of 70 Covid deaths in this month. The capital city has recorded 17 deaths for two consecutive days on Saturday and Sunday. Of the total 46 deaths in five days, 34 had comorbidities such as cancer and heart and liver diseases. As per the data, 21 people with comorbidities got infected with Covid after being admitted to the hospitals. Of the total deaths, 32 patients were admitted into the ICU ward of the hospital. More than half of the deaths in the last five days were people above 60 years of age. Of these, 25 were in the 60 plus age bracket, while 14 patients were from 41 to 60 age group. Five deaths have been reported from the 21 to 40 age group, while one from 16 to 20 and one from zero to 15 age group. Of the total deaths, 12 succumbed on the same day of the hospital admission as per the data. 11 patients died within one day of hospital admission, 6 died after two days of admission. 14 people died within three to seven days and three died after one week of hospital admission. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-46-covid-19-deaths-in-5-days-11-fully-vaccinated-1070100.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||66 inmates, 48 staffers of three Delhi jails test positive for Covid-19||Sixty-six inmates and 48 staffers of three jails in Delhi have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Tuesday. "None of those infected is serious. We are taking all precautions related to Covid-19," Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. According to data shared by the jail authorities, 66 inmates -- 42 in Tihar and 24 in Mandoli jail -- had tested positive for Covid-19 till Monday. Among the 48 infected staffers, 34 are from Tihar, six from Rohini jail and eight from Mandoli jail. As part of the steps taken to contain the spread of the viral disease in Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini jail complexes, prison dispensaries have been turned into Covid Care Centres. An oxygen plant in Tihar will be functional soon, the officials said. Many medical isolation cells have been set up for inmates showing mild symptoms of Covid-19, they said. Those who test positive but are asymptomatic will be kept in separate isolation cells within the same jail. The 120-bed hospital in Tihar and the 48-bed facility in Mandoli have been converted into Covid health centres. The jail administration said four committees have been formed to look after the infected inmates and staffers. Social distancing among staff members and inmates is followed to the extent possible. Inmates are mostly restricted to their wards and awareness programmes about following Covid norms are conducted regularly, the officials said. As of January 7, a total of 18,528 prisoners were lodged in the three jails of Delhi Prisons. Tihar has the maximum number of inmates at 12,669, Mandoli 4,018 and Rohini 1,841.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/66-inmates-48-staffers-of-three-delhi-jails-test-positive-for-covid-19-1070112.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Rate at which Covid-19 infection was spreading has slowed down in Delhi: CM Kejriwal||The rate at which Covid-19 infection was spreading in Delhi has slowed down in the past few days, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. "Covid-19 cases are on rise in Delhi as well as the rest of the country but it has been observed that the rate at which infection was spreading earlier has slowed down which is a good news," Kejriwal said in a virtual conference this noon. "I hope that this trend will continue and soon Covid-19 positivity rate will fall further," he added. On January 7, Delhi logged in total 17,335 positive cases with the positivity rate standing at 17.73 per cent which increased to 19.60 per cent on January 8 with 20,181 cases. The national capital recorded 22,751 positive cases with a 23.53 per cent positivity rate. Monday, the total number of positive cases stood at 19,166 with a positivity rate of 25 per cent. Meanwhile, to curb the infection, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has directed all the private offices, barring those under exempted categories in the national capital, to follow work from home. "All private offices, except those which are falling under the 'Exempted Category' as prescribed in DDMA's GRAP order dated 08.08.21. The practice of work from home shall be followed," the order read. The exempted categories include healthcare workers, those involved in essential services, media persons, judges and judicial officers, staff in the offices of diplomats of various countries. After chairing the DDMA meeting on Monday, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal announced that restaurants in the national capital have been closed for dine-in options amid a surge in the Covid-19 cases and only takeaways will be allowed. Delhi reported a 25 per cent surge in Covid-19 cases after recording 19,166 fresh cases. With this, the infection tally has climbed to 15,68,896. Meanwhile, the city has recorded 17 covid deaths on the second consecutive day, pushing the death toll to 25,177. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rate-at-which-covid-19-infection-was-spreading-has-slowed-down-in-delhi-cm-kejriwal-1070113.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Amid debt issues, MP government to install Rs 2,000 crore Adi Shankara statue||The government of Madhya Pradesh has announced that a Rs 2,000 crore initiative to build a 108-foot tall statue of religious leader and philosopher Adi Shankara, or Shankaracharya, as well as an international museum in the state. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke at a meeting of the Acharya Shankar Sanskritik Ekta Nyas' Board of Trustees last week to discuss the project. The conference was attended by prominent saints and trust members, including Swami Avedhashanand Giri Ji Maharaj. The idea has been questioned by the opposition Congress, which has stated that it will only examine it once money are granted in the state budget. The party has also raised concerns about the state's large indebtedness. The statue, dubbed the Statue of Oneness, would stand 108 feet tall and be mounted on a 54-foot-high platform. On the Mandhata mountain, the statue and the Shankar Museum will be built on a 7.5-hectare plot. On the other side of the Narmada river, a 5-hectare gurukulam will be built, and a 10-hectare Acharya Shankar International Advaita Vedanta Sansthan will be built. The installation of Shankaracharya's statue at Omkareshwar, according to Chouhan, is an endeavour to bring practical Vedanta to life. "The goal is to make the entire planet into one big family. The state government will put members of the trust's proposals into action, and work will be done quickly to complete the full action plan "he stated. It should not be taken seriously, said Kamal Nath, the Leader of the Opposition. "We'll talk about it when the money for the project is given in the budget," he said. This expenditure on a statute occurs at a time when the state's debt exceeds its budgetary allocation. The state's budget is Rs 2.41 lakh crore, yet it owes Rs 2.56 lakh crore in debt. The state's per capita debt is roughly Rs 34,000. A white paper on debt has been requested by Congress. Jitu Patwari, a former minister and senior Congress politician, stated, "The state already owes Rs 2.56 lakh crore in debt, yet the Shivraj government continues to take loans on various pretexts. It has now opted to borrow a Rs 48,000 crore loan. The state government should publish a white report on its financial situation." The announcement also comes as a standing rabi or winter crop stretched across hundreds of acres in 18 districts of the state was devastated on Friday evening after the state was hit by a hailstorm and heavy rains. After unseasonal rain devastated his crops in Madhya Pradesh's Shivpuri area, a farmer was seen in a video falling at the feet of former MLA Mahendra Singh Yadav. In Ashok Nagar, ruling BJP MLA Jajpal Singh warned farmers that if there are "irregularities in payments," he "would quit and protest." Officials from the revenue and agriculture departments are examining the affected villages, according to Madhya Pradesh Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel. Farmers will receive 25 per cent of the settlement money right away, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-debt-issues-mp-government-to-install-rs-2000-crore-adi-shankara-statue-1070115.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Ensure specialists attend Covid patients with comorbidities: Delhi govt issues advisory to hospitals||The Delhi government on Tuesday issued an advisory asking all hospitals to ensure that Covid-positive patients with comorbidities are duly attended by specialists. The advisory noted that Delhi has witnessed an upsurge in Covid-19 deaths since last week and 70 fatalities have been reported from medical facilities since the last week of December. Most of the deceased patients suffered from comorbidities such as cancer, heart and liver diseases, it said. "It may be ensured that all Covid-positive patients admitted with various comorbidities or the patients admitted with other serious diseases who turn out to be Covid-positive are duly attended by concerned specialist and due attention is to be given to the patients," the advisory stated. According to government data, 46 Covid-19 patients died in Delhi between January 5 and January 9. Of these, 34 had comorbidities such as cancer, heart and liver diseases. Only 11 of the 46 patients were vaccinated against Covid-19. On January 9, 1,912 patients were admitted to hospitals and 17 deaths were reported, the data showed. "Medical directors/medical superintendents of all hospitals are directed to issue necessary directions to all concerned to put in place prompt and appropriate systems in their hospital to ensure compliance of timely management of hospital admissions as per protocol, proper treatment protocol, satisfactory levels of patient care and analysis of Covid-19 deaths," the advisory said. On Monday, Delhi logged 17 more deaths due to Covid and around 19,000 infections with one in every four persons undergoing testing turning out to be positive.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-specialists-attend-covid-patients-with-comorbidities-delhi-govt-issues-advisory-to-hospitals-1070123.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Uttarakhand Assembly Elections 2022: Major parties in the fray||In the ‘young’ state of Uttarakhand, the power has been alternating between Congress and BJP. As the Election Commission of India announced single-phase elections in the state on February 14, BJP’s Pushkar Dhami and Congress’s Harish Rawat remain the key players, but with a new entrant – AAP expecting to win the hearts of the people. Here’s a look at what’s there for Uttarakhand in the upcoming Assembly polls: Major parties contesting  Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) While BJP is pinning its hope on the Modi-Vajpayee combo, merging the past and the present to march ahead in Uttarakhand, the party is also pushing for a ‘young’ CM like Pushkar Singh Dhami in the ‘young’ state of Uttarakhand. Pushkar Dhami is BJP’s third Chief Minister of Uttarakhand for the past five years. Along with that, BJP is also highlighting the central projects like Kedarnath redevelopment, Char Dham all-weather road and Rishikesh-Karnprayag rail project which were done under its leadership. Indian National Congress The Congress is banking on its old guard Harish Rawat to come back to power in the hill state. During the election campaign, Congress is pointing out three BJP CMs in Uttarakhand in the last five years. It is also pointing out farmers’ protests against the ruling party. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) The Arvind Kejriwal led party has a former fauji, Col Ajay Kothiyal (retd) as its CM face for Uttarakhand. The party convener Kejriwal has made it a point to visit the state every month for the past few months for campaigning. Opinion poll predictions The incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is likely to retain power in next year's tight electoral contest in the hilly state of Uttarakhand, as per the third ABP News-CVoter Battle for the States Tracker. According to the survey data, the saffron party is expected to grab 39.8 per cent votes in the upcoming Assembly polls in the state. While the main opposition party -- Congress -- is likely to garner 35.7 per cent votes, new entrant AAP is expected to corner 12.6 per cent votes in the Assembly polls scheduled early next year. Congress leader and former Chief Minister Harish Rawat is the most preferred candidate for the CM's post in the upcoming Assembly elections. During the survey, while 33.5 per cent of the respondents said that Congress leader Harish Rawat is their preferred choice for the post of Chief Minister, 26.6 per cent of those surveyed said that they want sitting Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami to return to the top job in the state. A total of 18 per cent of those interviewed said that Anil Singh Baluni of BJP is the best choice for the CM's post, and 8.9 per cent spoke in favour of Col Ajay Kothiyal of AAP. (With agency inputs) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-assembly-elections-2022-major-parties-in-the-fray-1070131.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Comment against Saina Nehwal reflects ignoble mentality: Kiren Rijiju||Condemning actor Siddharth's tweet on Olympic medallist Saina Nehwal, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday said that a cheap comment on such an icon personality depicts a person's ignoble mentality. Rijiju said that Saina is a steadfast patriot besides being an Olympic medallist. Quoting Nehwal's tweet, Rijiju said, "India is proud of @NSaina for her outstanding contributions in making India a sporting powerhouse. She is a steadfast patriot besides being an Olympic medallist. Making a cheap comment on such an icon personality depics a person's ignoble mentality." On January 5, Nehwal tweeted, "No nation can claim itself to be safe if the security of its own PM gets compromised. I condemn, in the strongest words possible, the cowardly attack on PM Modi by anarchists. #BharatStandsWithModi #PMModi." On January 6, quoting Nehwal's tweet Siddharth said, "... champion of the world... Thank God we have protectors of India. Folded hands. Shame on you #Rihanna." Nehwal was referring to a security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Punjab visit on January 5. Modi was visiting Ferozepur, Punjab to lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than Rs 42,750 crore. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had said that the Prime Minister's security was breached during the Punjab visit. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/comment-against-saina-nehwal-reflects-ignoble-mentality-kiren-rijiju-1070157.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Supreme Court reserves verdict on pleas of Future Group firms||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved verdict on a batch of pleas filed by Future Group firms against a Delhi High Court order declining stay on an arbitration tribunal decision refusing to interfere with the Emergency Award (EA) of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). “We reserve the order. All the four SLPs (special leave petitions) are over. A lot of homework for us. Anyway, I will not write the lengthy judgement,” a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. Initially, the bench, also comprising justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli, suggested to the counsels for Amazon and the Future Group firms that the single-judge bench of the Delhi High Court be allowed to hear the statutory appeals of the Future group against the final arbitral award of the SIAC. The bench said that the pleas, which are arising from the EA’s award and are pending before it, may not be “relevant now as the final award of the SIAC has already been passed". “Your (Future Group) first SLP which has challenged Justice J R Midha (Delhi HC) order, we had said that no implementation of that order. We never said Delhi High Court to not hear the matter for what has come up subsequently,” the bench observed at the outset. The apex court has been hearing pleas including the fresh petition of Future Group against the Delhi High Court’s recent order declining its plea for stay on an arbitration tribunal decision refusing to interfere with the SIAC's EA, which restrained it from going ahead with the Rs 24,731 crore merger deal with Reliance Retail. The SIAC, in the EA, had granted relief to US e-commerce major Amazon by restraining the Future from going ahead with the Rs 24,731 crore merger deal of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) with Reliance Retail. Amazon had dragged Future Group to arbitration at SIAC in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance Retail. On October 21 last year, a duly-constituted panel of arbitrators at the SIAC reiterated the EA's decision. On October 29, 2021, the Delhi High Court declined Future Group's plea for a stay on the arbitration tribunal. The high court sought a response from Amazon which had challenged the merger before the SIAC and listed the appeals by FCPL and FRL for further hearing on January 4, 2022. FRL and FCPL moved the top court recently against the order with fresh pleas. Kishore Biyani and 15 others including FRL and FCPL have been embroiled in a series of litigations with Amazon, an investor in FCPL, over the deal with Reliance. Following the EA, subsequently, a three-member arbitral tribunal was constituted to decide the issues arising from the deal. On September 9, last year, the apex court had stayed for four weeks all proceedings before the high court in relation to the implementation of the EA and also directed statutory authorities like National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Competition Commission of India (CCI) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) not to pass any final order related to the merger deal in the meantime. Subsequently, the arbitration tribunal under the SIAC rejected on October 21, last year, the FRL plea to lift the interim stay granted by its EA on October 25, 2020, observing that "the Award was correctly granted". The FRL and FCPL had moved the top court against the high court order of August 17, 2021, which said that it would implement the earlier order by its single-judge restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal in pursuance of the EA's award. The high court had said that in the absence of a stay, it would have to enforce the order passed by its single judge, Justice J R Midha, on March 18, 2021. On March 18, besides restraining FRL from going ahead with its deal with Reliance Retail, the court had imposed costs of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group and others associated with it and ordered attachment of their properties. On August 6, last year, the Supreme Court gave the verdict in favour of Amazon and held that the EA award, restraining the Rs 24,731 crore FRL-Reliance Retail merger deal, is valid and enforceable under Indian arbitration laws. The apex court had also set aside the two orders of February 8 and March 22, 2021, of the division bench of the Delhi High Court order which had lifted the single judge's orders staying the FRL-RRL merger. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman, since retired, had dealt with the larger question and held that an award of an EA of a foreign country is enforceable under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-reserves-verdict-on-pleas-of-future-group-firms-1070165.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Chhattisgarh CM's father writes to President seeking use of ballot papers instead of EVMs in polls||Raising doubts on the credibility of the electronic voting machines (EVMs), Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel has written to President Ram Nath Kovind requesting that elections in the country be held using ballot papers. In the letter written to the President on Monday, he also pleaded for "euthanasia" if his demand cannot be fulfilled. "All the constitutional rights of the citizens of the country are being violated on a large scale. The three pillars of democracy- Legislature, Judiciary and Executive, are being destroyed. The media is also working at the behest of the three pillars of democracy. No one is paying heed to the citizens of the country. There is a sense of fear among citizens,” the letter stated. The CM's father heads Rashtriya Matdata Jagriti Manch, which creates awareness towards voting. “The right to vote is the supreme right of democracy which is being executed through EVMs. No nationally or internally recognized institutions or governments have certified the EVMs as a cent per cent accurate. Despite this fact, by conducting polling using the machines in India, which is the biggest democracy in the world, the constitutional right of my vote is being violated. There is no guarantee whether my vote is cast in favour of whom I pressed the button through the EVM machine,” he said. It is the constitutional duty and responsibility of the Election Commission and the Central government to introduce such a transparent system of voting and counting in the elections, which can be evaluated by the public, the voters themselves. Many developed countries in the world have adopted ballot paper and box system of elections, he claimed. "In such circumstances, when all my rights are being violated, then the very purpose of my life is getting lost and being a citizen of India, my conscience is not allowing me to live any longer. Honourable President Ji, you have taken an oath to protect the Constitution, but my constitutional rights are not being protected, due to which I have no option but to die," he said. He urged the President to issue an order to conduct elections using ballot papers in place of EVMs in the larger interest of healthy democracy and said, “if voting with ballot paper is not possible, then he (President) should allow me euthanasia on National Voters' Day on January 25 this year”. Nand Kumar Baghel had landed in controversy in September last year when he was arrested for allegedly making derogatory remarks against a community. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cms-father-writes-to-president-seeking-use-of-ballot-papers-instead-of-evms-in-polls-1070166.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||UP Polls: Yogi's '80 vs 20%' remark stokes a controversy||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who is known for his firebrand speeches on communal issues, has sparked a row with his statement that the elections in the state will be '80 per cent versus 20 per cent', in a veiled reference to the percentage of the Muslim population in the country. He made these comments as Election Commission announced the schedule for the Assembly elections this year, thus enforcing the Model Code of Conduct. Opposition leaders across parties were quick to slam Adityanath's comments, alleging that they were in a violation of MCC.  Voting for the high-stakes assembly elections will be held in seven phases, starting from the western part of the politically crucial state on February 10 and moving eastwards, with the final phase on March 7. Speaking at a televised program, the saffron leader said: "The 80 per cent supporters will be on one side while 20 per cent will be on the other. I think 80 per cent will move forward with positive energy whereas 20 per cent have always opposed and will oppose further. The BJP will win, and again work to take forward the 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' campaign," Adityanath said. Former Home Secretary Sajeev Gupta took to Twitter to allege that Adityanath's comments were a violation of the very first point mentioned in the MCC by the Election Commission. Point 1 in the General Conduct for MCC for the guidance of political parties and candidates mentions: "No party or candidate shall include in any activity which may aggravate existing differences or create mutual hatred or cause tension between different castes and communities, religious or linguistic." Opposition parties are likely to mount pressure on Election Commission to take action against the leader's comments, which have sparked anger from various parties.  After Gupta, senior Congress Digvijay Singh reacted by saying "Wake up and show some Spine Hon Chairman and Members of Central Election Commission. Just watch what Yogi and their Ad campaign are projecting," he said.  Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati, who has declared that she will not be contesting polls this year, also urged Election Commission to curb misuse of religion in elections. "In the past few years, during the elections, there have been attempts to derive electoral advantage using religion. This impacts the election and the entire country is worried about this,” the UP leader said. Adityanath's made these remarks while speaking on the last day of a two-day Doordarshan Conclave 'Kitna Badla UP' here. Attacking Adityanath, Samajwadi Party (SP) spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhari said, "Although the statement of 80 per cent versus 20 per cent is aimed at giving a communal colour, but people will not take notice of it." There will be no such issue as Hindu-Muslim in these elections, and people will vote to save democracy, he said. Election Commission has banned all political rallies and roadshows till January 15, in view of rising Covid-19 cases but has encouraged parties and leaders to campaign using digital modes, such as social media. The EC FAQ about social media mentions that political advertising and political content on social media also come under the purview of MCC "since social media websites are also electronic media by definition, therefore Commission's instructions with regards to pre-certification of political advertisements shall also apply mutatis mutandis to websites including social media websites." (with inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-polls-yogis-80-vs-20-remark-stokes-a-controversy-1070174.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||NCPCR writes to Delhi government over dextromethorphan poisoning of toddler||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to the Delhi government over the poisoning of a toddler who was administered dextromethorphan syrup in a Mohalla clinic. The Commission’s chairperson, in a letter to Delhi Chief Secretary, said that immediate remedial measures against errant officers of the Mohalla Clinic should be taken, and that the Delhi government should submit a factual report within five days. The toddler was administered the syrup without prescription, the letter noted, and the child’s parents had to rush her to Kalawati Saran Hospital on Thursday evening where she was put on a ventilator. The toddler reportedly suffered a respiratory failure. The hospital had earlier shot to notoriety after three children lost their lives due to dextromethorphan poisoning, and 13 more children fell sick. The Commission had written to the clinic demanding action, but had received no reply, it said. “In this connection, your kind reference is also invited that the Commission has taken cognisance … with direction to submit an ATR to the Commission within 15 days. However, no action taken report in the said incident has been received from your office, yet another above cited incident of Dextromethorphan Poisoning is reported in the Mohalla clinic of Delhi Government,” the letter read. “In view of the seriousness of such matter of medical negligence by the Mohalla Clinics of Delhi government, thereby putting the life of the children in danger, the Commission viewing it seriously, request your good office to look into the matter urgently,” the Commission said. The Commission said it has taken cognisance under section 13 (1)(j) of CPCR Act, 2005. The medicine is not prescribed to children below six years of age, and the Directorate General of Health Services had sent directives to dispensaries and mohalla clinics in the capital in this regard. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncpcr-writes-to-delhi-government-over-dextromethorphan-poisoning-of-toddler-1070178.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Former Punjab MLA Arvind Khanna, others join BJP||Former Sangrur MLA and businessman Arvind Khanna, former PWD minister Kanwar Singh Tohda, Shiromani Akali Dal general secretary Gurdeep Singh Gosha and former counsellor Dharamveer Sareen were some of the prominent faces who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the party’s headquarters in New Delhi ahead of the Assembly polls in Punjab.  The leaders were brought into the party’s fold in the presence of the union minister and party Punjab in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, and union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. “Their presence will boost the BJP’s performance in Punjab, and in this coming election, BJP will open a new chapter in Punjab. Had it not been for the state machinery’s mischief, and the Punjab police, PM Modi’s rally in Ferozepur would have seen the biggest turnout in the state so far,” Shekhawat said.  The BJP and Congress have been indulging in a war of words since PM Modi’s cavalcade was stuck atop a flyover for 20 minutes. The BJP has alleged mischief by Congress and has said that this was a breach of national security.  Congress, on the other hand, has said that the BJP’s allegations are to divert attention from the poor attendance at Modi’s rally. Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi said that “barely 700 people” turned up at the rally, and so the BJP was pointing fingers at the Punjab government over the PM’s security.   Khanna, a Congress leader, was a general secretary of the Congress’s Punjab unit, and was a legislator from Dhuri in the past.  Tohda is the grandson of late Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief. Gosha is a businessman and president of the Youth Akali Dal. Sareen is a former chairman of the Market Committee.    Earlier, two Congress MLAs from Punjab, Fateh Singh Bajwa and Balwinder Singh Laddi and former cricketer Dinesh Mongia had joined the BJP.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-punjab-mla-arvind-khanna-others-join-bjp-1070212.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Doctors go on strike, Haryana enforces ESMA||Government doctors across Haryana went on strike on Tuesday over their demands and Health Minister Anil Vij subsequently enforced the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA). Acceding to one of their key demands, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also pitched in by giving in-principle approval to the creation of specialist cadre post for MD or MS doctors. Also, the doctors will not be given any administrative work. An official statement said the government would create a special sub cadre for specialists who will be designated as consultants or senior consultants. Earlier, a doctor with MBBS qualification and MD/MS qualification used to be in the same cadre. However, with the creation of specialist cadre posts, these doctors will be able to focus on their work which will definitely protect their interest, it said. Moreover, the specialist cadre doctors will now be posted in big and renowned hospitals, rather than in Primary Health Centres, which will ensure their swift promotions thereby nurturing their talent, it said. The decision will also be beneficial for patients as they will get the consultation of specialists and the doctors will be closely able to monitor and manage the working of the hospitals. The Chief Minister said the doctors have a very pivotal role to play in society, especially in the present crisis situation, and the government is committed to their welfare. Gathered under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association, the doctors said the government has ignored their long-pending demands and backtracked on promises made to them by Health Minister Vij. Acting tough, the minister said with the enforcement of ESMA, health workers will not be able to go on strike for six months. "This step has been taken after a group of doctors went on strike to obstruct the prevention of coronavirus," Vij tweeted. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctors-go-on-strike-haryana-enforces-esma-1070214.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Parties in UP struggle to maintain Covid protocol at offices||Though the Election Commission has banned poll rallies till January 15, the surge in Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh has failed to dampen the spirits of ticket-seekers and their supporters at the offices of major political parties. The roads leading to the Samajwadi Party office at Vikramaditya Marg were nearly choked on Tuesday with SUVs of leaders and their supporters parked haphazardly on both sides. The road outside Janeshwar Mishra Trust, which is linked to the SP office and used by party president Akhilesh Yadav to meet leaders, was similarly jammed. A local shopkeeper said it is the same scene at the SP office every day. Though there are instructions to party workers to use masks and practise social distancing, few in the crowd seemed to be taking precautions. "There is an arrangement for hand sanitiser and instructions to maintain protocol. But when the gate is opened for workers, it is difficult to maintain it. Every second day there is someone joining the party and the leaders’ supporters enter the office in large numbers," an SP leader said. The scene was no better at the Bharatiya Janata Party office here, though office-bearers claim the Covid protocol is being strictly followed. "The visitors who are coming to the office are being thermally screened at the entrance and their details taken. They are sanitised and allowed to enter the office premises only if they are wearing a mask. Inside the office, social distancing is also observed," spokesperson Abhay Singh said. BJP’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh has tested positive for coronavirus --- after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and party president J P Nadda, who had been touring the state extensively, too were found infected. Not much crowd was visible at the Congress office on Tuesday. UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said the Covid protocol is being observed and only people wearing masks are being allowed to enter. Rashtriya Lok Dal spokesperson Rohit Agarwal also claimed that the Covid protocol is being strictly followed at the party office in Lucknow and party leaders will follow Election Commission guidelines while campaigning. On Monday, the state reported 8,334 new Covid cases, including four deaths. Nearly 23,000 people have died due to Covid in the state since the pandemic began. The seven-phase polling for the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh begins on February 10. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parties-in-up-struggle-to-maintain-covid-protocol-at-offices-1070244.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Jammu-Srinagar highway closed again due to fresh landslides||The Jammu-Srinagar national highway was closed again due to fresh landslides in Ramban district on Tuesday, triggering massive traffic jams on the stretch, officials sources said. Many truckers, who are stranded on the highway for the past several days, blamed the traffic management authorities for not allowing them to move on, causing them huge financial losses as perishable goods they carry have been damaged. The highway was closed for traffic due to a landslide in the Mehar area of Ramban, the official sources said. The men and machines are working to clear the highway of the debris and shooting stones, which pose a grave danger to the lives of the people, they said. Massive traffic jams were seen at many places on the highway. The 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway was reopened for traffic on Monday after remaining closed for the past three days owing to heavy snowfall and multiple landslides in Ramban district. The highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, was closed for traffic on Friday afternoon, shortly after it was opened after two days closure, following heavy snowfall and multiple landslides between Chanderkote and Ramsu. While passenger vehicles and some vehicles carrying essentials were allowed to move towards the Kashmir Valley on Monday, others remained stranded on the stretch. Some vehicle owners protested over their halt on the highway and said the perishable items in their vehicles have destroyed. "We are stranded on the highway for the past five days. We are carrying vegetables and most of them have perished. If they allow vehicles carrying chicken, why they have halted vehicles carrying vegetables. It has caused us a grave loss," a trucker, Sadiq, told reporters.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-srinagar-highway-closed-again-due-to-fresh-landslides-1070248.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||SC to hear plea on hate speeches made in Haridwar, Delhi on Wednesday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Wednesday a petition seeking a direction to ensure investigation and action against those who made hate speeches during two events held recently in Haridwar and the national capital. The plea is scheduled to come up for hearing before a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The petition, filed by journalist Qurban Ali and former Patna High Court judge and senior advocate Anjana Prakash, has sought a direction for an "independent, credible and impartial investigation" by an SIT into the incidents of hate speeches against the Muslim community. On Monday, a bench headed by the CJI had taken note of the submissions of senior advocate Kapil Sibal that no action has been taken against those who made the hate speeches despite registration of FIR by Uttarakhand Police. "I have moved this PIL in respect of what happened in Dharam Sansad in Haridwar on December 17 and 19 (last year). We are living in difficult times where slogan in country has changed from 'Satyamev Jayate' to 'Shastramev Jayate'," Sibal had said. The FIR has been filed but no arrests have been made, the senior lawyer had said, adding that no action would be possible without the intervention of this court. The bench had said that it would take up the matter for hearing. The plea, which specifically referred to the "hate speeches" delivered between the "17th & 19th of December 2021 at Haridwar and Delhi", has also sought compliance of apex court's guidelines to deal with such speeches. One event was organised in Haridwar by Yati Narsinghanand and the other in Delhi by 'Hindu Yuva Vahini' allegedly "calling for genocide of members" of a community, it said. The Uttarakhand Police filed the FIR on December 23 under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code against some persons including Sant Dharamdas Maharaj, Sadhvi Annapoorna alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, Yati Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj. A similar complaint was filed with the Delhi Police for the second event organised in the national capital. The plea said that no effective steps have been taken by Uttarakhand and Delhi police. Till date no FIR has been lodged by the Delhi Police despite calls for ethnic cleansing at the event organised here, it said. Besides this petition, another plea has also been filed in the apex court by the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind to ban anti-Muslim speeches and programmes like the 'Dharma Sansad'. The petition has demanded stern legal action against those who allegedly threatened to massacre Muslims and said it was not just a matter of religion but of the Constitution, law, unity and integrity of the country. "Hate speeches and statements against Muslims have suddenly intensified in the country in recent times," the plea said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-hear-plea-on-hate-speeches-made-in-haridwar-delhi-on-wednesday-1070256.html
11-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi riots: Police opposes Umar Khalid's bail, says 'idea was to bring govt to knees, destabilise democracy'||Delhi Police opposed the bail plea of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid on Tuesday, saying that the “ultimate objective” of the riots conspiracy was to bring the government of India to its knees and destabilize the foundation of democracy. Khalid and several others have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), a stringent anti-terror law, and are accused of being the "masterminds" of the riots which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured in 2020. The arguments on their bail pleas have been going on for more than five months. Opposing his bail plea before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad contested the claims of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid that the investigating agency was communal and the charge sheet in the riots conspiracy case was a “figment of imagination”. Representing the police, the SPP said: “The ultimate objective was to overthrow the government and undermine the authority of the parliament, which enacted the Citizenship (Amendment) Act CAA and destabilize the very foundation of the democracy. “The idea was to bring the government of India on its knees and enforce the withdrawal of CAA. It is not that I am making the statement. This is evident from the chats which clearly state that government has to be brought to its knees.” Prasad further relied on the charge sheet to claim that the 2020 riots were not a spontaneous outburst of violence. “From the charge sheet, we have demonstrated that 23 protest sites were created and those sites were not organic in nature. They were meticulously planned with the location which was in close proximity to the masjids (Mosques),” he said. “Multiple teams were formed to monitor these sites, give logistic supports, there were remote supervisors, local leaders, people who were visiting. We have also demonstrated the use of identical placards and banners at different protest sites which clearly shows that they were not organic and created in a coordinated manner,” he added. Prasad said the protests were not woman-dominated, rather they were managed by menfolk, and protest sites were swelled by bringing in women from the outside. “We have also demonstrated from the charge sheet that there was a clear interrelation between December 2019 riots and the February 2020 one. A similar pattern of crime was followed – blocking of roads attacking police, destructing properties, and violence with public and police,” he said. The charge sheet disclosed that 53 people died, he said, adding that 101 police officers and 41 public persons were injured in the first phase of riots in December 2019. In the second phase, 132 police officers and 76 public persons were injured. “There was clearly a case of death and injuries to persons. Total damage and claim settlement amount to Rs 21.93 crore. 61 claims have been settled and more are yet to be settled,” the SPP said. The investigation in the case revealed that firearms, petrol bombs, acid attacks, sticks, iron rods, stone-pelting through pre-fabricated large-sized slingshots were used to attack and kill police personnel, government employees, and public persons, he added. Prasad further said that Khalid, through his lawyer, focused on “irrelevant materials” while arguing his bail application in a bid to divert the court's attention. “He (Umar) wants his application to be decided with reference to a web series and present case to be equated with 'The Family Man' or 'The Trial of the Chicago 7'. You do not have something on merit, you want to divert the attention of the court, focus on irrelevant materials, you want to go on media trial, create headlines,” the SPP said. On September 3, 2021, Khalid, through senior advocate Trideep Paid, said that the charge sheet in the case read like a script from a web-series 'The Family Man' and news channels. The lawyer also gave a reference to Voldemort, a villain in Harry Potter movies, to draw parallels between the statements in the chargesheet. Again on December 9, he referred to 'The Trial of the Chicago 7' in the courtroom. On this, the SPP said, “To equate the riots where 53 lives were lost with a web series is unfortunate. He does not want to refer to the law laid down by the constitutional courts. The idea is that you create a public perception. You want to refer to something which is relevant in media and not the law. The entire submission has been made on surmises and conjectures.” He further emphasized that the court cannot go on a speculative analysis. Besides this, Prasad opposed the alleged claims made by Khalid that the investigation agency and the investigating officer are communal. “I do not appreciate my learned friend arguing that the investigation agency and the Investigating officer are communal. The investigation agency is not of a particular person, it's of a State. The first conviction in the riots case was that of a Hindu. To say that investigation agency is communal does not go well,” he submitted. In the last hearing, Umar, through his lawyer, said that advocacy against a law like the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is not a crime and that the police pressured the witnesses to give statements against him. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-police-opposes-umar-khalids-bail-says-idea-was-to-bring-govt-to-knees-destabilise-democracy-1070307.html
11-01-2022||Opinion||To vaccinate the world against Covid-19, we need to look beyond mRNA||By Mihir Sharma Early on in the pandemic, many of us hoped that India would help vaccinate the world. India’s pharmaceutical sector, dominated by companies capable of churning out generic medicines in vast quantities, looked like the obvious location for vaccine production at the scale needed to inoculate the developing world. That hasn’t worked out, partly because the Indian government restricted vaccine exports after the Delta variant emerged here — but also because of the unexpected and early success of the mRNA-based shots from Moderna Inc. and Pfizer Inc. These came on the market early and set high standards for efficacy against the original variant of the virus. But they were remarkably ill-suited for production and distribution in the emerging world. They need to be stored at untenably low temperatures, and their novel and unfamiliar production process isn’t easy to replicate. But we shouldn’t be too sure. Indian regulators have just approved two shots — both, as it happens, developed largely in the United States — which might turn out to be a safer bet than mRNA for much of the world. The first has been developed by Maryland-based Novavax Inc. It encodes genetic sequences from the spike protein into a virus that targets insects, then loads that virus into cultured moth cells. Novavax — which received $1.6 billion in 2020 from the Trump administration’s Operation Warp Speed, the largest such payout at the time — took some time scaling up this fiddly process. Its Indian partner, the Serum Institute of India, complained last year that the Biden administration was holding back the raw materials India needed to produce the shot, delaying its rollout by six months or more. The vaccine has now been approved by India, the European Union and the World Health Organization — and is already being administered in Indonesia and the Philippines. Like the mRNA vaccines, the Novavax shot retains efficacy against the Omicron variant. A booster shot ups protection 73-fold, a higher multiple than mRNA boosters provide. Moreover, protein subunit shots such as Novavax’s can be stored in regular refrigerators. And the technical process behind such vaccines has been described as “old-school,” far better understood than that for mRNA vaccines. That has allowed Novavax to enroll manufacturing partners in countries across the world, though Serum Institute will be its workhorse, producing 150 million shots a month. The other new vaccine is called Corbevax. While its Phase III trial data is not yet public, its potential is exciting. It’s also a protein subunit vaccine but, instead of baculoviruses and moth cells, the manufacturing process uses yeast — similar to the methods that have been used for decades for Hepatitis B vaccines. It was originally developed by researchers at Texas Children’s Hospital and Baylor University, and co-developed subsequently by India-based Biological E Ltd., a major producer of Hepatitis B vaccines. Perhaps most importantly, the technology to make Corbevax is not just easy to understand and replicate, it involves no complicated intellectual property questions. That means production can be scaled up quickly in many different parts of the world. The vaccine’s developers have already transferred the technology to manufacturers in developing countries such as Indonesia, Bangladesh and Botswana. Here’s what’s strange: Corbevax wasn’t on policy makers’ radar. The vaccine took only $7 million to develop, mostly raised from Texas philanthropists. You can’t help wondering if “old-school” vaccines had received a fraction of the billions handed out by G-7 countries to “innovative” vaccines, whether we would be a lot further toward ending the pandemic than we are. One of the vaccine’s developers told NPR that government officials weren't interested in their shot: “People were so fixated on innovation that nobody thought, ‘Hey, maybe we could use a low-cost, durable, easy-breezy vaccine that can vaccinate the whole world.’” We shouldn’t make that mistake twice. Accelerating global vaccinations is the only way to ensure we don’t ruin 2022 or 2023 with yet worse variants. To ramp up production globally, we need to focus on processes that are easy to replicate and where the technology can swiftly be transferred. mRNA isn’t the only game in town. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/to-vaccinate-the-world-against-covid-19-we-need-to-look-beyond-mrna-1070094.html
11-01-2022||Opinion||Novak Djokovic isn’t the populist freedom fighter many believe||Novak Djokovic may yet defend his Australian Open tennis title, but he’s not the freedom fighter many of his supporters believe. As governments around the world struggle to guide their nations through a third year of the Covid-19 pandemic, tolerance for anti-vaxxers is waning. The uproar in Australia to news that a Melbourne court, over the objections of the federal government and immigration authorities, had cleared the Serbian to enter the country without being vaccinated is not the bleating of a backward land at the far end of the world. Instead, it’s a sign that he really is among a global minority that’s shrinking by the day as the high-speed spread of the Omicron variant energizes a new round of vaccinations. Djokovic may have secured a win when the court quashed the cancellation of his visa. But it’s a Pyrrhic victory in the battle against science and the thousands of researchers developing and rolling out inoculations to protect global populations. The European Union has around 80 per cent of its adults fully immunized. Australia, which may yet deport Djokovic if the government decides to push the case further, has 91 per cent of people 12 years and over fully vaccinated.  Even in the US, where a misinformation campaign has deepened partisan divides over the response to Covid-19, more than 79 per cent of the population aged five and older has had at least one dose. From vaccine and mask mandates at Broadway shows in New York to school closures in Italy, life as we once knew it is in disarray. Leaders who’d hoped that vaccine rollouts would guide their countries back to normalcy are increasingly frustrated with the few who are not only opposed, but continuing to spread misinformation even as they are more likely to die from the disease. Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi is among the latest to show his annoyance. With 100,000 new cases and 700 hospitalizations on Monday, the nation is grappling with whether to reopen schools. While his government won a court battle against Italy’s Campania region that had fought to keep them shut, he made clear where he thinks the true trouble lies. “Most of the problems we have today stem from the fact that there are people who are not vaccinated,” Draghi said. And that’s a distinct minority, with more than 90 per cent of the adult population having had at least one dose by the end of December. Policies that exist in various countries of excluding those who’ve chosen not to be vaccinated from places like restaurants and public buildings has been labeled vaccine apartheid, a decidedly off-key reference to South Africa’s policy in the mid-20th century of separating people by race. But the difference is stark — individuals have a choice of getting immunized or not. That wasn’t the case for victims of decades of legalized racist oppression. As solid majorities in wealthier countries become vaccinated, some leaders have tired of persuading the holdouts and grown unapologetic about pressuring them. French President Emmanuel Macron said what many others are likely thinking, that he wants to “piss off” the unvaccinated until they get their shots. And he may not have far to go — 93 per cent of adults in France have received at least one dose. Much was made of the uproar against such language, and Macron’s vocalization of disdain for a minority that’s unlikely to vote for him anyway in presidential elections in April. Indeed, criticizing them might shore up his support within the vaccinated majority. But his logic, from a public policy perspective, can’t be faulted. “The idea of freedom brandished by some of our fellow citizens to say, ‘I’m free not to get vaccinated.’ That stops where you impinge on others’ liberty, where you put others’ lives in danger," he later said. All that anyone wants at this point is the freedom to return to something resembling life pre-Covid. The people preventing that from happening are not the vaccine advocates — a group that by now includes even Donald Trump — but those, like Djokovic, who put their own idiosyncratic views before the welfare of those who are less young, healthy and powerful. He’s said he opposes vaccines, but later clarified that he’s open-minded about them while refusing to get inoculated against Covid-19. The 34-year-old has previously stated that positive thoughts could cleanse polluted water, among other claims. At this moment, roughly one in 44 Australians is infected with Covid-19, one of the highest rates in the world. The fact that the country is now able to ride this out without stringent lockdowns or a devastating wave of deaths is a tribute to the vast majority who have taken their shots to support the health of their fellows and neighbors. This is what a return to normality looks like — and, given the ingenuity of SARS-CoV-2 in generating new variants, it will require continued vigilance around booster shots and modest distancing measures for some time to come. By chipping away at the public health measures that Australia has used to give itself this outcome, Djokovic has given succor to those who would flout vaccine rules and leave the world less capable of coping with the next variant, and the next pandemic. Liberty for a world No. 1 tennis player that leaves the less fortunate captive to the risks of a fatal infection is no true freedom. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/novak-djokovic-isn-t-the-populist-freedom-fighter-many-believe-1070102.html
11-01-2022||South||Prof Kamakoti to succeed Prof Bhaskar Ramamurthi as IIT-Madras Director||Prof V Kamakoti, who led the research team that designed and booted up India’s first indigenously developed microprocessor ‘SHAKTI’, is the new director of the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras following Prof. Bhaskar Ramamurthi stepping down from the position after two terms.  An alumnus of IIT Madras, Prof Kamakoti belongs to the Computer Science and Engineering Department of IIT-M. He is currently the Associate Dean for Industrial Consultancy and Sponsored Research (ICSR), IIT-Madras and is also a member of the National Security Advisory Board. ‘SHAKTI’, which can be used in mobile computing devices and networking systems, has the potential to reduce India’s reliance on imported microprocessors in communications and defence Sectors. ‘SHAKTI’ Microprocessors can be used by other sectors as well as it is on par with its international peers, the IIT-M said.  Prof Kamakoti, who was appointed by the Union Commerce Ministry in 2017 as the Chairman of a Taskforce on leveraging Artificial Intelligence for development across various fields, is a recipient of the Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship, 2020, among other awards.  “In the last two decades IIT Madras has focussed on Interdisciplinary translational research of relevance to our Nation. We have also reached out to a large number of students through NPTEL, Swayam and On-line degree programs.  “With these gathered strengths, our immediate priority would be on augmenting the skill-set for indigenous technology development addressing local and global requirements aligning with the objectives of the National Education Policy,” Prof. Kamakoti said about his priorities. During Prof. Bhaskar Ramamurthi’s tenure, IIT-M was ranked no1 in ‘Overall’ category for three consecutive years in India Rankings released by National Institutional Ranking Framework, Ministry of Education, and as no. 1 in the ‘Engineering Institutions’ category in the same Rankings for six consecutive years – from 2016 to 2021.  The institute was also adjudged as the ‘Top innovative Institution’ in the country in Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) in 2019, 2020 and 2021, besides being selected as an ‘Institution of Eminence’ in 2019 A statement from IIT-M said Prof. Ramamurthi oversaw a rapid expansion of Campus infrastructure including the launching of a Rs. 1,000-crore satellite campus called ‘Discovery Campus’ to accommodate the increase in research requirements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prof-kamakoti-to-succeed-prof-bhaskar-ramamurthi-as-iit-madras-director-1070045.html
11-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 curbs: Places of worship closed from January 13-18, lockdown on January 16||Tamil Nadu government has announced that the general public will not be allowed entry to places of worship from January 14-18 in view of the mounting Covid-19 cases. The state will have a complete lockdown on January 16 (Sunday). However, essential services will be exempted, a statement from the state government said. Passengers will be allowed only up to 75 per cent of the seating capacity in buses and the present Covid restrictions will continue in the state till January 31. Tamil Nadu had reported 13,958 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Monday and the number of active cases in the state stood at 62,767. The state health minister Ma Subramanian had told the people of the state to be on guard and to celebrate festivals at home as the third wave has already commenced in the state. The precautionary dose vaccine for the healthcare workers, frontline workers, and senior citizens above 60 years of age with comorbidities also began in the state on Monday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-covid-19-curbs-places-of-worship-closed-from-january-13-18-lockdown-on-january-16-1070110.html
11-01-2022||South||2 Youth Congress workers held in SFI activist murder case||Two Youth Congress workers were arrested on Tuesday in connection with the murder of an SFI activist at the Idukki Engineering College here. Nikhil Paily, a district level leader of the Youth Congress and Jerin Jijo were arrested for allegedly stabbing to death Dheeraj Rajendran (21), a student at the college. KSU unit secretary Alex Rafel has been taken into custody in the case. Idukki SP R Karuppasamy told the media that except Rafel, others are not students of the college and the police are trying to ascertain why they reached the campus with a knife. "We need to take more people into custody in order to look into the conspiracy angle behind the crime. The first two accused are not students of the college. We need to find out why they reached there with weapons," the senior police official said. Two students, Abjijith and Amal, were also seriously injured in the attack. In the FIR, the police have mentioned that the murder took place due to political rivalry. The ruling CPI(M) had alleged that the murder was pre-planned and claimed that 21 Left workers were killed in the state in the last six years. State Congress Chief K Sudhakaran today said his party will never support any sort of violence. Hundreds of students and senior Left party leaders, including MLAs, gathered at the Idukki Medical college and received the body of Dheeraj after postmortem. The CPI(M) has purchased land adjacent to the house of Dheeraj, where it said the student activist will be cremated and a monument will be erected. The procession carrying the body of the SFI activist is expected to reach Kannur this evening. Meanwhile, the Congress demanded action over violence against their party offices across the state. The Congress alleged that the protesting SFI and DYFI activists destroyed flag posts of the party and its student outfit KSU in many places including Pathanamthitta, Kollam and Idukki. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-youth-congress-workers-held-in-sfi-activist-murder-case-1070141.html
11-01-2022||South||Kerala Police register case against hypermarket owner over 'Love Pakistan' balloons||A hyper market owner near Kozhikode in Kerala has landed himself in 'trouble' after a packet of balloons he sold carried the words 'Love Pakistan'. Trouble began when the vernacular newspapers on Tuesday published from the area came out with a news item on this. Speaking to IANS, managing director of Carrefresh Hypermarket at Azhiyur, Vadakara in Kozhikode district said that they have been in the business for the past five decades. "The local police came after hearing about this balloon. We told them and showed them the packet of balloons which come in a pack of 100s. This product is made in China. We get this through a Mumbai supplier. These packets are basically sold to people who celebrate birthdays. We just sell this packet to the customers," said Ajeer. "We do not inflate any of these balloons. Only after this became news, we opened it and in a packet there are various balloons of size and shapes. A few of the balloons in the packet are ones those when inflated we can see the word "Love Pakistan'. After the police came, we have decided to withdraw this from the counter," added Ajeer. "The police have also found out what the real issue is. They said they have to do their duty and a case also has been registered. The police will also probably get in touch with our Mumbai supplier. We have done no wrong at all," said Ajeer. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-register-case-against-hypermarket-owner-over-love-pakistan-balloons-1070161.html
11-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu government rules out complete lockdown after Pongal||Tamil Nadu has no plans to impose a “complete lockdown” after the Pongal festivities as Chief Minister M K Stalin is against any move that would cripple the economy and would result in difficulties to the people, the Health Department said on Tuesday. Health Minister Ma Subramanian said the restrictions that are in place currently are “sufficient enough” to tackle the spread of the Coronavirus provided people follow Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing face masks and ensuring physical distancing at public places. The minister also asked the unvaccinated to get their jabs immediately. The state government has imposed a Sunday lockdown on January 16 for the second consecutive week and brought in fresh restrictions like closing temples during the Pongal holidays. Beaches across the state are already out of bounds for the people, while a night lockdown from 10 pm to 5 am have been extended till January 31. “We have no plans to impose a complete lockdown. The Chief Minister is against any move that would cripple the economy or result in financial difficulties to the people. We feel the current restrictions are enough to bring the cases down,” Subramanian told reporters, responding to a query on whether the government was planning a lockdown after January 16. He stressed people wearing masks and pointed to Stalin’s personal campaign in creating awareness among the people on the importance of having a mask on their faces. “The Chief Minister spent two hours last week distributing masks to people on the arterial Anna Salai. On Monday, he visited a few localities in the city and spoke of the importance of wearing masks,” the minister said. Subramanian also said there was no need for a complete lockdown as long as people follow the rules. “The restrictions are enough. If people cooperate with us, there will be no need for tightening of restrictions,” he said. Tamil Nadu has been reporting a huge number of cases every day in the past two weeks. From 1,489 fresh cases on January 1, the state reported 13,990 cases on January 10. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-rules-out-complete-lockdown-after-pongal-1070207.html
11-01-2022||South||Omicron 'most dominant variant' in Tamil Nadu, says Health Minister Ma Subramanian||Almost 85 out of 100 people who test positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu are infected with the Omicron variant, which is now the “most dominant variant” in the state, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday. With the majority of the people being infected with the Omicron variant, the state government has stopped sending Covid-19 samples to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genomic sequencing, as most patients recover from the illness and are out of hospitals by the time the results arrive. Briefing reporters about the Covid-19 situation in the state, Subramanian said a majority of the patients admitted to hospitals are not in need of oxygen or intensive care support, stressing the point that such patients are double vaccinated. “We are not sending samples for (genomic sequencing) to NIV, Pune. If we test 100 people, 85 to 86 are infected with the Omicron variant. Even if we send these samples for genomic sequencing, most patients get discharged from hospitals by the time the results come. We have enough evidence that Omicron is the most dominant variant in the state,” Subramanian said. However, the state was looking for S-Gene dropout, a proxy test for Omicron variant, at the State Public Health Laboratory (SPHL) set up by the Tamil Nadu government after the second wave of Covid-19. While handing out an assurance that an adequate amount of oxygen was available in the state, Subramanian said, for now, the oxygen need for patients is very less and asked corporates to help the government buy pulse oximeters to be distributed to people under home isolation for monitoring their health. “The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) in Chennai and district administrations are procuring the pulse oximeters. If corporates want to contribute something through their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds, they can buy these oximeters and give it to the civic body and district administration,” he said. On the situation in Chennai, Subramanian said 21,987 Covid-19 patients in the city are under home isolation and they are being monitored by doctors through teleconsultation. He also said the GCC will utilise the services of 1,000 volunteers who will be involved in monitoring the health of the patients who are under home isolation. Chennai has been witnessing an exponential increase in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus with the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) jumping from 3.3 per cent on January 1 to 17.4 per cent on January 9. The number of daily cases which stood at 1,470 on the first day of 2022 increased to 6,190 on January 9, even as the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) continues to enhance the number of RT-PCR tests every day. While the TPR on January 1 was 3.3 per cent, it rose to 3.6 per cent on January 2, 4.3 per cent (Jan 3), 7.3 per cent (Jan 4), 9.6 per cent (Jan 5), 11.5 per cent (Jan 6), 14.2 per cent (Jan 7), 15.5 per cent (Jan 8), and 17.4 per cent (Jan 9). Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-most-dominant-variant-in-tamil-nadu-says-health-minister-ma-subramanian-1070209.html
11-01-2022||South||Madras High Court orders notice to Centre on plea against Dam Safety Act||The Madras High Court on Tuesday admitted and ordered notice on public interest litigation (PIL) petition from the DMK, which sought to declare the recently enacted Dams Safety Act (Act 41 of 2021), as null and void. The first bench of Acting Chief Justice M N Bhandari and Justice P D Audikesavalu ordered the issuance of notices to the Union Ministries of Law and Justice and Jal Shakti. When the PIL from Mayiladuthural MP D Ramalingam came up today, another DMK MP and senior advocate P Wilson submitted the Parliament had no competence to legislate laws on List II entry 17 and it was hit by the doctrine of co-operative federalism. He prayed for a direction to Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan, who was present in the court, to instruct the Union govt not to constitute any authority under the new Act, which was notified on December 14, last year. When asked by the bench, the ASG replied that no such authority has been constituted so far. In the petition, Wilson contended the impugned Act, hit by Article 246(3), was ex-facie unconstitutional and ultra vires of the Constitution, as the Parliament lacked legislative competence to enact the same, as the subject matter was in the State's domain. The Act had the effect of taking control over all major dams in the state. The Union government was taking steps to constitute National Committee on Dam Safety and National Dam Safety Authority, whereupon the States would be completely deprived of the control over dams located inside and outside the states covered under the Act. He also contended various provisions of the Act were manifestly arbitrary, discriminatory, unreasonable and hit by Art 14,19 and 21. It was, as a whole, unconstitutional and liable to be struck down. It encroached upon the exclusive legislative domain of the State, Hence, it infringed the doctrine of cooperative federalism and violated the federal structure of the Constitution which was a part of the basic structure of the Constitution. The pith and substance of the new Act was to interfere and regulate the entire functioning of dams including its safety. A dam was nothing but a water storage unit and the power to promulgate laws on the same vested exclusively with the state legislatures as per entry 17 of List II and the Union cannot transgress into such subjects. Hence it was ab initio void, a nullity and non-est in the eyes of law, he argued. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-orders-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-dam-safety-act-1070210.html
11-01-2022||South||Order inquiry into Pongal gift hamper procurement: AIADMK||Tamil Nadu’s ruling DMK on Tuesday came under fire from the principal opposition party, AIADMK, for “looting public money” under the pretext of Pongal gift hampers containing 21 grocery items which demanded an inquiry into the “discrepancies” and “irregularities” in the scheme.  Party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami launched a frontal attack on the DMK government accusing it of procuring the grocery items from traders in North India for a “huge amount of commission.”  The leaders also criticised the DMK dispensation for ignoring traders from Tamil Nadu and highlighted that people have complained about the “poor quality” of the grocery items distributed to them as part of the Pongal gift hamper. In a statement, Panneerselvam questioned the need for procuring the products from traders in North India while it opposes Hindi at the drop of a hat. “The Chief Minister should order a detailed inquiry into the discrepancies and irregularities in procuring the items and distribution of the Pongal gift hampers,” Panneerselvam said.  Speaking to reporters in his native district of Salem, Palaniswami alleged that the hampers were “over-priced” and that the quality of the cloth bag distributed by the government through ration shops were poor. He also alleged that middlemen procured sugarcane from farmers at a very low rate than the one prescribed by the government.  “Not just the quality of the products in the gift hamper, not everyone is getting all 21 products. The government wanted huge commission and that is the reason they procured these items from traders in north India,” he said. “Corruption, Commission, Collection seems to be the motto of the government,” he alleged. However, Food Minister R Sakkarapani dismissed the allegations levelled by AIADMK leaders saying the distribution of Pongal gift hampers were smooth and there were no irregularities.  The allegation by the AIADMK comes two days after Chief Minister M K Stalin directed ministers, district collectors, MPs, and MLAs to ensure that the state government’s Pongal gift hampers are distributed to ration cardholders with “quality products.”  The gift hampers are being provided to 2.15 crore ration cardholders at a cost of Rs 1,297 crore on the occasion of Pongal, which will be celebrated from January 13 to January 16 this year.  Pongal, the harvest festival, will be celebrated on January 14 this year and the government decided to provide a gift hamper with 21 grocery items, including 100 gm of ghee produced by state-owned Aavin, to 2.15 crore ration cardholders.  The AIADMK government had in 2019 and 2021 added a cash gift along with the hampers distributed for Pongal. However, the DMK government decided to drop the cash part from the hamper. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/order-inquiry-into-pongal-gift-hamper-procurement-aiadmk-1070227.html
11-01-2022||South||Madras High Court grants reprieve to Isha Foundation||In a reprieve to Isha Foundation, the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered the Tamil Nadu government not to proceed with any further action of prosecution on its show cause notice issued to the organisation led by Jaggi Vasudev. The first bench of Acting Chief Justice M N Bhandari and Justice P D Audikesavalu restrained the District Environmental Engineer (DEE) of Coimbatore from proceeding with the notice issued for having constructed several buildings without obtaining environmental clearance. The High Court will take up the matter again on February 1. The court also ordered notices to the Union and state governments while hearing the petition filed by Isha Foundation against a show cause notice issued by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) in November 2021 on environmental clearances for buildings constructed between 1994 and 2012. The buildings house educational institutions that the foundation runs. The Foundation maintains that the notice is based on a wrong interpretation of a 2014 notification issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forests. "Our understanding is that an educational institute that is less than 1.5 lakh square meters in the area does not need environmental clearance. We had communicated this to the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, which unfortunately did not consider our response,” a spokesperson for Isha Foundation said in a statement after the court order. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-grants-reprieve-to-isha-foundation-1070228.html
11-01-2022||South||After cock fights, punters bet on pigs this Sankranti in AP, Telangana||In Andhra Pradesh and some parts of Telangana, where cockfights have become a hallmark of the Sankranti festive season, another blood sport seems to be emerging as a low budget option for the punters to bet and the crowd around to entertain on. Even as the police impose curbs citing the animal cruelty prevention laws and relevant court directions, rooster fights are held on a large scale every year. Hundreds of crores of rupees change hands in betting, majorly over the three days of Bhogi, Sankranti and Kanuma. Like Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu, Kodi-Pandelu (cock-fights) has become a regional sentiment, something the successive governments in Andhra Pradesh are finding hard to deal with given its huge popularity. Especially in the East-West Godavari, Krishna districts, special arenas are set up in the agricultural fields, coconut groves with several politicians, celebrities from even afar places like Hyderabad in attendance, arriving in their swanky cars for the carnival. However, away from the police and media glare, pig fights appear to be gaining traction in some regions of the two Telugu states. On Sunday, swines clashed as the people around egged them on along the banks of the Krishna river in Atmakur Mandal, in Telangana's Wanaparthy district, an area close to the Andhra and Karnataka borders. The country hogs were reportedly brought from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, where pig fight incidents were reported earlier from places like Tadipatri in Anantapuram district and Tadepalligudem of West Godavari. “Like cock fights, pig fights are also prohibited as it comes under cruelty towards animals. We will take necessary legal action against people indulging in such sports,” KS Ratnam, inspector, Atmakur police station, told DH. “We all know about cock fights but pig fights are new to us too.” Animal rights activists state the lack of strict enforcement as letting the cockfight culture and gambling money proportions become bigger year on year “while some people are turning to whatever animals they could find to satisfy their punting crave.” “Animals like cocks, pigs, and rams are being subjected to cruelty in the name of culture, sports. In Assam, there are bulbul fights. It is high time the state governments stop playing to the gallery and put an end to all such blood sports,” says Shreya Paropkari, an advocate associated with Humane Society International India. In cock fights, razor-sharp blades are tied to the roosters' legs, for the victor to emerge in minutes. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-cock-fights-punters-bet-on-pigs-this-sankranti-in-ap-telangana-1070232.html
11-01-2022||South||Tension over campus murder continues in Kerala||Tension over the murder of a student at an engineering college in Kerala continued with the CPI(M)-DYFI staging violent protests at various parts of the state. So far, the police have arrested two persons in connection with the murder of SFI activist Dheeraj R, a student of the Government Engineering College at Painavu in Idukki. Four more were wanted in the case. The key accused Youth Congress leader Nikhil Paily was learnt to have stated to the police that the SFI workers were attacked as self-defense. The police first information report said that political differences was the reason for the killing. The CPI(M) and Congress leaders in Kerala were involved in a political spat of accusing each other of instigating political violence in college campuses. CPI(M)-DYFI workers staged protest march to the house of Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran. CPI(M) workers also continued to damage Congress flags in various parts of the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tension-over-campus-murder-continues-in-kerala-1070239.html
11-01-2022||South||Septuagenarian author held in Hyderabad for sexually assaulting 13-year-old girl||A 72-year-old man, who is an author and publishes law books, was arrested here for allegedly sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl, police said on Tuesday. The man, who used to visit the girl's house to purchase stitched bags to sell with his law books, allegedly misbehaved with her in September last year and in December, he sexually exploited her in the absence of other family members at her house, a release from Rachakonda Police Commissionerate said. The girl informed the matter to her mother who filed a complaint in Meerpet Police Station and during the course of investigation the police arrested him on Monday evening. Police said they seized two non judicial stamp papers, which they said were sent by the accused to the girl's mother and uncle through WhatsApp threatening them to withdraw the case or else he will commit suicide alleging their harassment in his death. In 2010, the girl’s mother used to work as a maid in his house and later in 2017, he gave her a job to keep watch over one of his open plots. Thereafter the girl’s mother and her uncle purchased a house and were residing there, police added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/septuagenarian-author-held-in-hyderabad-for-sexually-assaulting-13-year-old-girl-1070242.html
11-01-2022||South||Covid TPR in Kerala triples in a week; Deaths cross 50,000||Covid cases in Kerala is witnessing a steep increase with a nearly threefold increase in test positivity rate in one week time and the active cases doubling. Covid death in Kerala also crossed the 50,000 mark. Health Minister Veena Geroge said that the growth rate of Covid cases in the last week was around 100 per cent and the majority of the fresh cases were found in people belonging to the age group of 20-40 years. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) of the state was around five per cent about a week back. On Tuesday the TPR was 14.1 per cent. Active cases in the state doubled over the last one week to reach 44,441 and the Covid deaths reached 50,053 as 277 more pending cases were added to the tally. Meanwhile, health department sources said that even as the total Omicron cases confirmed in Kerala was only around 345, the actual number would be very high. Only samples from those coming from abroad are being subjected to genome sequencing to identify Omicron cases. Already restrictions on gatherings like marriages were tightened by limiting the maximum participation to 50. Schools and colleges in the state were still functioning. The health minister said that so far no clusters among students were found. Fresh restrictions might be required after evaluating the situations, she said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-tpr-in-kerala-triples-in-a-week-deaths-cross-50000-1070250.html
11-01-2022||South||SC defers hearing on Mekedatu case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday deferred its hearing a plea related to Mekedatu balancing reservoir project to January 25. A bench, presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar, adjourned the matter as it was pointed out the case was wrongly tagged with the Mullaperiyar dam case. The counsel said the matter should be detagged and listed again. The court said the Mekedatu case would come up for hearing on January 25. The Tamil Nadu government had filed several pleas, including the one for a direction to the Central Water Commission to reject and return the detailed project report for the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project filed by Karnataka on January 18, 2019. In its application, the state government asked the court to restrain the Ministry of Environment and Forest and its agencies from entertaining any application for clearance relating to the Mekedatu project. The planning of the Mekedatu project by Karnataka with a capacity of 67.16 TMC ft and generation of 400 MW power at a cost of about Rs 9,000 crore is in gross violation of the decision of Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (Tribunal) of February 05, 2007 as affirmed by this court in its judgment on February 16, 2018, it said. Tamil Nadu claimed that the project was located in the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and a Reserve Forest. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-defers-hearing-on-mekedatu-case-1070264.html
11-01-2022||South||Mother leopard takes one cub, wait for second continues||One of the two leopard cubs found in a vacant building at Palakkad district in Kerala was taken by the mother leopard on Monday night, while the forest department officials were expecting that the mother will soon come again to take the second one too to the forest. Two cubs that were hardly a few days old were found in a vacant building in the human-inhabited locality of the Ummini area of Palakkad which is several kilometres away from the forest. On Monday night the forest officials set a cage near the building and kept the cubs in a carton inside the cage. The forest officials anticipated that the leopard could be trapped in the cage and later the mother and cubs could be released in the forest areas. But the mother leopard managed to take one cub without entering the cage. Though the forest officials waited till Tuesday morning the mother did not return to take the second one. Forest department officials said that a similar exercise would be carried out in the coming nights also. The leopard would probably return to take the second cub also. The cubs were being fed with goat milk using feeding bottles. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mother-leopard-takes-one-cub-wait-for-second-continues-1070281.html
11-01-2022||South||Jagan government enters realty, offers plots at affordable prices||The Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has entered the real estate sector, promising to “fulfil the middle-class family aspirations of building their own house at affordable costs.” On Tuesday, Reddy launched a scheme — Jagananna Smart Townships — offering developed plots to middle-income groups at a “discounted price.” The CM also threw open a website where interested people can log in to book plots. “Our government had already provided 31 lakh house pattas to the poor and has begun the phase-1 construction of 15.6 lakh houses. Similarly, to fulfil the own house dreams of the middle-class families, we have brought this initiative to provide residential plots with clear titles,” Reddy said on the occasion. Jagan’s real estate move comes after its attempts to regulate the cinema, entertainment industry especially the ticket pricing, and plans of a government monitored portal for ticket sale. The YSRCP government says the slashing of prices (like from Rs 150 to Rs 100 in single screen AC theatres in cities) is to make movie-going affordable for the common man. However, several Telugu film industry personalities said the low prices would be detrimental to the industry growth. ‘Litigation-free sites’ Reddy said the plots would be made available at reasonable prices “much lower than the market rates.” The “litigation-free sites with no legal implications” would be provided to the applicants in a developed layout with all basic infrastructure facilities. Families with income of up to Rs 18 lakh per annum are eligible to apply for three categories of plots — 150 square yards, 200 and 240 square yards. Reddy assured that all the allotments would be made transparently with a computerised lottery system “regardless of caste, religion, region, or political affiliation.” To begin with, plots are offered at Dharmavaram in Anantapuram district, Mangalagiri in Guntur, Rayachoti in Kadapa, Kandukur in Prakasam, Eluru in West Godavari and Kavali in Nellore districts. The programme would be later expanded to all the constituencies. Eligible people can apply on https://migapdtcp.ap.gov.in, by paying 10 per cent of the total price as an advance. The first instalment of 30 per cent is to be paid in a month after the agreement, another 30 per cent in six months and the remaining 30 per cent can be paid at the time of registration. Ten per cent of the layouts would be reserved for the government employees for whom a 20 per cent rebate will be offered. Half of the layout area will be utilised for common needs of the colony like parks, playgrounds, schools, banks, 60 feet wide BT roads, 40 feet wide CC roads, footpaths with coloured tiles. Avenue plantations will also be taken up. For maintenance, a corpus fund would be established and handed over to the owners association. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-government-enters-realty-offers-plots-at-affordable-prices-1070294.html
11-01-2022||South||Kerala former health minister Shailaja tests Covid positive||Kerala former health minister K K Shailaja has tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources close to her, she had undergone a Covid test after exhibiting some symptoms upon returning from the CPM central committee meeting in Hyderabad. She does not have any health issues as such, and is undergoing home quarantine. Shailaja had received much recognition as Kerala's health sector managed to contain Nipah and Covid-19 spread in the state when she was the health minster in the previous Pinarayi Vijayan government. She had also received international honours. Although she was considered as a 'sure member' in the second LDF government, she was denied a second term in the cabinet due to party policies. She won with a record majority in the Assembly elections and some poll surveys had even projected her as a Chief Ministerial candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-former-health-minister-shailaja-tests-covid-positive-1070311.html
11-01-2022||State||Indi's 'Kagzi Lemons' months away from getting GI tag||Karnataka is just months away from securing the Geographical Indication (GI) tag for a rare variety of lemon largely grown in the northern plains of the state, especially in the Indi taluk of Vijayapura district. Often referred to as 'Kagzi Lemon', this is the second lemon variety in India to get the label after Manipur's 'Kachai Lemon'. After five years of efforts, the Karnataka State Lime Development Board (KSLDB), supported by scientists of the Horticulture University of Bagalkot, is awaiting the final clearance from the GI Registry of India in Chennai. The cultivation of 'Kagzi Lemons', a distinctive variety of Central India, was started across Vijayapura as early as 1900. However, the ones cultivated in Indi are known for their unique texture and high acidic value. Yashvantharaygouda V Patil, MLA of Indi, told DH that all necessary documents pertaining to the history and uniqueness of the crop had long been submitted. "However, in the absence of follow-up action by the state government, the issue had taken a back seat. But now, scientists from Bagalkot have offered insights into the uniqueness of the fruit and relevant documents have been submitted for final clearance," he said.  Santosh Sappandi, Managing Director of the KSLDB, told DH that the GI registrar had raised asked questions in the past and an expert committee was appointed for clarifying doubts over the quality of the fruit. "In the last few months, the Board has cleared more than 20 objections that were raised by the GI office in Chennai. They had sought information pertaining to the history, cultivation area, studies on the acidic values along with other technical details. We are expecting the GI tag for Indi lemons in a month or two," Sappandi said. Compared to other popular varieties, Kagzi Lemons of Indi have a thinner rind and have more juice, adding to the overall weight of the fruit. "The ascorbic acid content is the highest in these varieties," Sappandi said. Karnataka has been the fourth-largest contributor of lemons at the all-India level while Vijayapura produces 60% of the state's lemons. Indi taluk alone contributes to 30%-40% of the lemon production in the district with over 15,000 farmers engaged in lemon cultivation. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/indis-kagzi-lemons-months-away-from-getting-gi-tag-1070028.html
11-01-2022||State||MLA tenders apology for violating Covid guidelines||Karnataka MLA and chief minister's political secretary M P Renukacharya violated Covid guidelines enforced by the government at a bull taming race contest held at Balamuri village in the taluk on Monday. After he came under criticism from various sections of the society, he has openly tendered an apology for taking part in it. The MLA inaugurated the bull taming contest which was attended by thousands of people. Most of spectators had not worn face masks. His supporters carried him on their shoulders and they also garlanded him and many took selfies with their beloved leader violating the norms. MLA M P Renukacharya said he participated in the contest as youths of Honnali assembly constituency wanted him to be part of it. "I apologise to people of the state and chief minister for violating guidelines. My participation has embarrassed me." He also claimed that he had done good deeds during the first and second wave of Covid-19. He promised that he would take steps towards postponing various events including ram fight in his constituency. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police C B Rishyanth told that a case will be against organisers and participants in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-tenders-apology-for-violating-covid-guidelines-1070044.html
11-01-2022||State||Champa: A sensitive poet and a belligerent street fighter||Chandrashekhar Patil, popularly known as Champa, was my teacher, a senior colleague and above all my witty, life-affirming guerilla guru. The news of his death has sunk somewhere deep inside me. But I cannot associate him with sadness and sorrow even in memory. It was always full-throated laughter, ready wit and beneath it a serious, uncompromising anti-establishment mindset. As Bertolt Brecht wanted to say of himself, Champa always kept those in power uncomfortable with his devastating humour, satirical writings and his ‘Dharwadi querulousness’. At the department of English in Karnatak University, he had already formally divorced English literature, taught phonetics and took us out of classrooms onto the streets to protest against a fake spiritual guru and later to participate in the JP movement and against emergency. He taught us the skills of fearless argument, quick guerilla-like moves and protecting ourselves from activists’ life-denial through gregarious laughter. His presence always ensured freedom from all conventions, allowing me and my friends to smoke while he read his poems in a corner room of Karnataka Vidya Vardhaka Sangha. When I told him that his activism had made him a minor poet despite his immense talent, he retorted, ‘No, I am not a major poet, I prefer to be a razor poet’. He was imprisoned during the emergency and wrote a brilliant memoir of his time in the Dharwad prison. Later, we met often and there was always that warmth and affection for me. He was a fine poet blending a deep lyricism with wit and political consciousness.  His absurd plays are among his finest achievements wherein he probes the ambiguities of existence through a rich metaphorical dramatic idiom. He edited the little journal Sankramana for over 50 years without a break till his recent serious illness. It was a lively forum for literary debate and anchored the Navya (literary modernism) in Kannada. He was also one of the pioneers of the Barahagarara Okkuta and the protest (Rebel) (Bandaya) movement which brought about a paradigm shift from the solipsistic individualism of modernism to committed socially-oriented writing. As a denizen of Shivamogga, I can never forget his courage as president of Kannada Sahitya Parishat in defying the political regime’s pressures to prevent Gauri Lankesh from speaking at the Sahitya Sammelana held in Shivamogga. He was the eternal rebel, of course always with a cause. His passing away marks the end of a liberal argumentative rebellious phase in Kannada literature when it was not antinational for the young to speak out their minds. There was always a Lankesh, a Champa and a Tejaswi to mentor them. In some rare moments of togetherness without a crowd, I would always tell him that there were two Champas in him. One, the witty belligerent street fighter and the other an inward-looking sensitive lyric poet who wrote, “I can’t do anything without love, not even hate”. He would rubbish me by saying I was a typical middle-class individual. (The writer is a well-known literary critic based in Shivamogga)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/champa-a-sensitive-poet-and-a-belligerent-street-fighter-1070084.html
11-01-2022||State||Festivals: No processions, events allowed, says govt||The Karnataka government on Tuesday decided to prohibit processions and other entertainment events for the upcoming Sankranti and Vaikunta Ekadashi festivals.  In an order, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar stated that religious activities will be allowed in temples as long as they are confined to the inner premises.  “For Vaikunta Ekadashi, the existing protocol of allowing inside temples only 50 people who are doubly vaccinated will continue. Darshan is allowed only once. No sevas and other activities are allowed,” Kumar stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/festivals-no-processions-events-allowed-says-govt-1070259.html
11-01-2022||State||Govt to resolve guest faculty issues soon: Minister||Reaching out to the protesting guest faculty lecturers, the state government on Tuesday assured them that it will resolve their issues in a day or two. The guest faculties working at various first grade colleges across Karnataka are on a protest for the last one month demanding job security and a minimum honorarium.  Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan held a meeting with the Legislative Council Chairperson Basavaraj Horatti and other MLCs and assured of resolving the issue in a couple of days. “This meeting should have been chaired by the chief minister. As he is under home isolation and busy with other works, he could not take part in the meeting,” said theminister.  He said, “Resolving the issues of guest lecturers is dependent on several factors, including the finances. However, the state government is looking into the demands on compassionate grounds.”  MLCs Ayanuru Manjunath, Shashil Namoshi, Puttanna, Chidanandagowda, S V Sankanuru, Arun Shahapura, YA Narayanaswamy, K T Srikanthegowda, Bhojegowda, Hanumanth Nirani, G Kumar Naik, IAS, additional chief secretary, Higher Education Department and P Pradeep, commissioner, DCTE, were present during the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-to-resolve-guest-faculty-issues-soon-minister-1070261.html
11-01-2022||State||Kids' low infection rate doesn't warrant school closure: DPI||As many as 860 children in the age group of 6 to 16 years have tested positive for Covid-19 in the third wave in the state, as per the data collated by the department of public instruction (DPI). The department says that the number of infected children is only a small percent of the total population of children in this age group, allaying fears among the public about schoolkids testing positive. "Karnataka has 1,04,35,006 children in the age group of 6-16 years. Out of this, only 860 children getting infected does not constitute even 0.1%. There is no need to create panic among kids and parents by closing down schools," said a DPI official. This data, collected from December 8 to January 10, was submitted to the chief minister during his video conference with his cabinet colleagues and other senior officers on Tuesday evening. DC's discretion However, the CM reportedly told the officials not to take any risk and left it to the discretion of the DCs of the respective districts to take a decision on the closure of schools, based on the infection rate. DPI officials have requested the CM to permit the holding classes under the Vidyagama programme in taluks and districts where schools are not allowed to conduct offline classes due to an increase in cases. Review on Jan 19 "The CM has decided to wait and watch till January 19 and review the situation," an official said. As per data made available by DPI, some districts have not reported even a single case of Covid-19 among children. "Our argument was very clear. We are not against the closure of schools where the positivity rate is high, but our request was to consider it taluk-wise," the official said. Belagavi reported the highest Covid cases among kids at 166, followed by Chikkamagaluru (144), Mandya (65), Mysuru (62). Yadgir, Bagalkot and Koppal districts reported zero cases. As many as 85 teachers tested positive for Covid-19 in the state in the last one month. TV classes to resume The education department will resume video classes on Doordarshan Chandana channel from January 13. The classes will be telecast from 8 am to 6 pm (Monday to Friday) for grades 5 to 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kids-low-infection-rate-doesnt-warrant-school-closure-dpi-1070276.html
11-01-2022||State||Schools closed in Mysuru city, taluk from today||With the rise in number of children testing positive for the Covid-19 in Mysuru city and taluk, Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham has issued orders to discontinue physical classes for students of all grades, including Anganwadi centres, till Class X in the city and taluk from Tuesday. In a press release issued here, the deputy commissioner stated that the district administration had taken the decision as a precautionary measure and directed to resume online classes for the students. In all, 138 children have tested positive in the last three days. On Tuesday, 562 people have tested positive and the active cases have increased to 1,868.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/schools-closed-in-mysuru-city-taluk-from-today-1070314.html
11-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Deciphers | Mekedatu project: What is it and where does it stand now?||The controversial Mekedatu balancing reservoir project is back in the limelight with the Congress party launching a 100-km-long Padayatra (foot march) demanding its implementation. The project has been in the pipeline for years now, and the Congress party has blamed the BJP for not taking it forward despite ruling both at the Centre and the state. The BJP has, in turn, blamed the Congress party for having done nothing on Mekedatu when it was in power between 2013 and 2018. The project has also faced stiff opposition from Tamil Nadu, which has vowed to get it scrapped. Here's what you need to know about the project:  What is the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project and what will it do?  The project will actually come up at Ontigondlu, about 1.5 km from what is known as Mekedatu (literal meaning, goat's leap), at the confluence of Cauvery and Arkavathi rivers, about 90 km southwest of Bengaluru and 4 km from the Tamil Nadu border.  The project was first announced in 2013 by the then law minister T B Jayachandra during the Congress government.  It's primarily aimed at supplying 4.75 tmcf (thousand million cubic feet) of drinking water to Bengaluru and surrounding areas but will also generate 400 MW of hydroelectric power.  For this, Karnataka wants to construct a concrete gravity dam at Mekedatu with a storage capacity of 67.16 tmcft.  What will be the project area?  The project requires a total of 5,252 hectares of land. Of this, about 4,996 hectares will be submerged while the actual dam will be constructed in the remaining 256 hectares. Of the total land required, 3,181 hectares fall in the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary, 1,869 hectares in a reserve forest and 201 hectares is revenue land.  How much will it cost?  While the project was previously estimated to cost Rs 5,000 crore, the cost has now escalated to Rs 9,000 crore. And considering that the project has still not been approved by the central government, the actual cost will likely go up further depending on when the final approvals come.  What is the current status of the project?  In January 2019, Karnataka submitted the Detailed Project Report (DPR) to the Central Water Commission (CWC) and later to the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) to get the consent of the co-basin states. The CWMA is yet to approve the DPR because Tamil Nadu, which is the co-basin state, has opposed the project. The lower riparian state has also approached the Supreme Court against Mekedatu, and the matter is pending adjudication.  Why is Tamil Nadu opposing Mekedatu?  If the reservoir is constructed, Tamil Nadu fears, Karnataka will hoard water in the dam, thereby cheating it of its share of the Cauvery water. The neighbouring state has argued that as per the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act, Karnataka cannot build the dam without the consent of the lower riparian state, which is Tamil Nadu in this case.  Are there any other hurdles to the project?  Other than opposition from Tamil Nadu, green activists have questioned the environmental price of the project. A major chunk of the land that will be submerged by the dam will be of the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary area, which is a key elephant corridor. The sanctuary is also home to many endangered wildlife species. The sanctuary also acts as a buffer area for wildlife animals such as tigers in the nearby MM Hills and BR Hills. Activists fear that the loss of this space will only lead to more man-animal conflict.  What's Karnataka's argument?  The Karnataka government has maintained that it is well within its rights to construct the dam as long as it makes sure that Tamil Nadu gets its annual share of water as prescribed by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal. And since the dam will come up within Karnataka, the state is not violating any law, officials argue. More than that, the state sees Mekedatu as an opportunity to supply sufficient water to meet the ever-growing needs of Bengaluru and the surrounding districts. There is also an acute power shortage, Karnataka has told the Centre. The state also hopes that the dam will boost tourism in the area.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-deciphers-mekedatu-project-what-is-it-and-where-does-it-stand-now-1070022.html
11-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Mekedatu padayatra: NCPCR seeks action against Karnataka Congress chief Shivakumar||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has sent a letter to the Karnataka Police Department to initiate action against state Congress President DK Shivakumar for failing to follow Covid appropriate behaviour with school children during the Mekedatu Padayatra. NCPCR has further asked the department to submit the Action Taken Report within seven days. Priyank Kanoongo, Chairperson, NCPCR on Monday sent the letter to Praveen Sood, the Director General and Inspector General of Police, Karnataka in this regard. "The commission has taken suo-moto cognizance of a video uploaded on Twitter wherein it can be seen that KPCC President DK Shivakumar met school children during the event Mekedatu Padayatra, thereby indulging children into political activity," the letter said. In the said video, it can further be seen that the children as well as KPCC President are without masks further failing to follow Covid-19 appropriate behavior. In view of the above, the Commission deems it appropriate to take cognizance under section 13 (1) (j) of CPCR Act, 2005, and observes prima-facie violation of provisions under Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005. The letter further stated that it is requested to look into the allegations made against Shivakumar to ensure the welfare and safety of children and further submit an Action Taken Report within seven days. The state police department has lodged an FIR against Shivakumar, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah and 30 others in connection with defying curfew orders and carrying out the padayatra. Thousands are gathering for the padayatra, raising fears of the spread of Covid-19 in the state. However, Shivakumar had stated that the government is showing fake numbers to scuttle the padayatra. He has also refused to undergo Covid test. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mekedatu-padayatra-ncpcr-seeks-action-against-karnataka-congress-chief-shivakumar-1070083.html
11-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP wants to sacrifice Karnataka's interest to expand base in Tamil Nadu: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka assembly, Siddaramaiah on Tuesday charged the ruling BJP with not implementing the Mekedatu project to expand its political base in Tamil Nadu. Joining the padayatra organised by the Congress party demanding speedy implementation of the project on its third day, Siddaramaiah said: "To make its roots stronger in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, the ruling BJP is not implementing the project in the state. They are betraying the people of Karnataka for political gains. The padayatra is being organised not to give BJP any opportunity in this regard. There is only the state's interest in conducting the padayatra." Reacting to state Home Minister Araga Jnanedra's warning that the Congress will have to take responsibility if there is a spurt in cases and a lockdown has to be announced, Siddaramaiah dubbed it as an irresponsible statement. "Previous lockdowns have pushed the life of the common public to the brink. If at all the government wants to announce a lockdown, let them release compensation to organised and unorganised sector workers," he said. The party workers from 11 assembly constituencies have arrived in Kanakapur city to participate in the padayatra. Party workers from Hassan, Mandya, Tumakuru, Chikkaballapur and Kolar will join the padayatra in the coming days. People are coming forward to join the rally voluntarily. This shows their interest in the Mekedatu project, he explained. The BJP in Karnataka didn't show any interest in implementing the project between 2008 and 2013 when it was in power. "We came to power in May 2013. With the intention to implement it by September, we prepared a DPR and presented it before the Cauvery Water Tribunal. When we were in power, the BJP government at the Centre didn't allow us to take up the project. Now, the BJP is at the Centre as well as ruling in the state. People have elected 25 MPs from the state so why has it not been implemented," questioned Siddaramaiah. "We are not scared of FIRs. The BJP cannot threaten us by lodging cases. Why are there no cases against Union Ministers of State Shobha Karandlaje, Bhagavanth Khooba who took part in public functions and rallies?" he said. One lakh masks have been distributed in the padayatra. Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is not able to sleep with the response that the Congress is getting and he is trying to stop this at any cost, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-wants-to-sacrifice-karnatakas-interest-to-expand-base-in-tamil-nadu-siddaramaiah-1070163.html
11-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Modi rings Bommai and enquires about his health post-Covid infection||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who has tested positive for Covid-19, and enquired about his health. Modi rang up Bommai at 4.30 pm on learning about his infection along with two others in the family, according to an official statement. "The conversation took place for five minutes where the Prime Minister advised him and others in the family to take proper treatment," the statement said. During the conversation, Modi also enquired about the prevailing Covid-19 situation in Karnataka and the measures taken by the State government. In reply, the Chief Minister told the PM that he was holding a virtual meet with the ministers and officials on Covid-19 to prepare for the January 13 meeting with him (Modi), the statement said. "All necessary steps have been taken. The vaccination drive has also been intensified. Measures will be taken based on the recommendations of the experts," Bommai informed Modi, the statement said. Meanwhile, sources said Bommai went to the Manipal Hospital for a check-up and later returned home where he held a virtual meeting on Covid with officials. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/modi-rings-bommai-and-enquires-about-his-health-post-covid-infection-1070199.html
11-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Two Congress leaders test Covid positive; Siddaramaiah defends Mekedatu march||Senior Congress leaders HM Revanna and CM Ibrahim have tested positive for Covid-19 even as the party’s Mekedatu march entered its third day Tuesday. Revanna, who took part in the padayatra, is undergoing treatment at a hospital whereas Ibrahim, who attended a CLP meeting before the march, is at home. Both have mild symptoms, party sources said.  Day three of the march, which saw Congress leaders covering 15 km from Kanakapura to Chikkenahalli, marked the reentry of Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah following his recovery from fever.  “Covid-19 cases are rising everywhere. The surge in the case is not because of our padayatra,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. He admitted, however, that maintaining social distance is difficult given that the third day of the march also saw thousands of people taking part.  “We will finish our march at any cost,” he said. “People are coming on their own. It’s just like our Ballari padayatra where five lakh people came voluntarily on the last day. That’s why the Bommai government is scared and is trying to scuttle our march.”  The Mekedatu project will benefit 2.5 crore citizens, Siddaramaiah said. “There is no legal impediment. We will store 67 TMC water. Bengaluru, where 30% of people don’t have access to Cauvery, will get water,” he said. “It’s our government that started the project. We submitted the DPR. We waited for 2.5 years before taking out the march because the BJP has done nothing.” DK Suresh pushes Nalapad During the foot march, Bangalore Rural MP DK Suresh angrily pushed aside Youth Congress leader Mohammed Haris Nalapad for coming in the way. Suresh was making the path clear for Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president DK Shivakumar when Nalapad happened to come in the way. Holding Nalapad by the collar, Suresh pushed him to the side, gesturing to steer clear. Nalapad is slated to become the Karnataka Youth Congress president next month.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-congress-leaders-test-covid-positive-siddaramaiah-defends-mekedatu-march-1070211.html
11-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka extends Covid curbs till end of January; Bengaluru to get Covid Care Centres||Karnataka decided Tuesday to extend the existing Covid-19 curbs such as night curfew and the weekend curfew till the end of January, wary of the way the virus is spreading, taking the state's positivity to 10.30 per cent.  The existing curbs were to end on January 19.  The decision to extend the curbs was taken in a virtual meeting with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired with senior officials, ministers and the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). Considering that majority of the cases are from Bengaluru, the government has decided to open 27 Covid Care Centres in the city immediately. Daily testing in the city will also be raised to 1.3 lakh per day. In recent days, there have been several instances of schoolchildren getting affected by the virus. The government has now decided to authorise the Deputy Commissioners of respective districts to take a call on closing residential schools and hostels based on the number of cases, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said, briefing reporters.  The government also directed officials to ensure adequate children's wards, ICUs and other treatment facilities for children at taluk and district hospitals. Education and Health department officials were asked to conduct a general health checkup in schools every fortnight. Triaging will be strengthened to ascertain whether an infected person needs hospitalisation or not. The government also decided to rope in the services of House Surgeons and Final Year Nursing students for Home Isolation and Triaging. Meanwhile, all the DCs and SPs were also asked to ensure that Covid guidelines were strictly adhered to in public spaces. The officials were asked to regularly monitor the situation of those under home quarantine and to make sure that they received their health kits on time. In other decisions, the government decided to speed up the process of booster dose, especially to frontline workers. Markets were another area of focus. In a bid to prevent crowd gathering in large markets, officials were asked to decentralise markets by breaking them into smaller units in proximity to one another. The officials also discussed the possibility of crowd gathering in temples and other places on the occasion of Sankranti and Vaikunta Ekadashi festivals. To curb the large number of people crowding, both revenue and endowment departments have been asked to issue relevant directions. The CM also instructed the officials to take stringent action against those holding public conventions. Further decisions are expected to be taken after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's virtual meeting with CMs on January 14. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-extends-covid-curbs-till-end-of-january-bengaluru-to-get-covid-care-centres-1070234.html
11-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Cops register second FIR against 40 Cong leaders over Covid norm violations during Mekedatu march||Karnataka police have registered a second FIR against 40 Congress leaders and supporters for defying Covid-19 curbs during the party’s second day of the Mekedatu foot march on Monday.  The FIR has named DK Shivakumar, DK Suresh, Krishna Byre Gowda, MB Patil, Madhu Bangarappa, Saleem Ahmed and others under various IPC sections and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who is also booked in the first FIR, said the Congress will not get scared. “If they think they’ll scare us with cases, then the BJP government is foolish,” he said. “The BJP’s intention is very clear. They don’t want people to become aware and the Congress to make political gains.”  Siddaramaiah also trained his guns at the BJP whose leaders also flouted Covid protocols. “How many cases were filed when it comes to (BJP MLAs) Subhash Guttedar and MP Renukacharya who took part in mass events? What about the big fair that was held in the home minister’s constituency? Chief Minister Bommai himself took part in the oath-taking ceremony of MLCs where norms were flouted,” he said.  Meanwhile, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra maintained that the law is the same for everyone. “An FIR has been registered in connection with Renukacharya’s event. On others, I’m getting details,” he said. The fair held in his constituency earlier this month happened before the curbs came into effect, he said.  Attacking the Congress, Jnanendra said the Mekedatu foot march has more loss than gain.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cops-register-second-fir-against-40-cong-leaders-over-covid-norm-violations-during-mekedatu-march-1070249.html
11-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister terms Cong's Mekedatu march 'padayatra of lies'||Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan termed the campaign by Congress as a 'padayatra of lies' meant to feed falsehoods about the Mekedatu project to the common man. "Congress cannot implement the project at all. Only BJP can implement the project. We are men and will complete the project in a manly manner," he said, addressing a news conference. Training his guns at KPCC president D K Shivakumar and MP D K Suresh, he said that the duo should reveal their contribution to the district. "Shivakumar is not interested in working (as an elected representative)," he said, accusing him of accumulating wealth by looting natural resources.  In a separate media briefing, BJP chief spokesperson M G Mahesh accused Congress of pursuing politics of greed and organising the Mekedatu padayatra only to come to power in the state. He said the foot march runs the risk of becoming a 'super spreader' (of Covid).  The drinking water project will be implemented by BJP, whereas Congress delayed taking it up, he said. While Congress took five years to submit a Detailed Project Report, the project was fast-tracked by the BJP government under B S Yediyurappa and Basavaraj Bommai, Mahesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minister-terms-congs-mekedatu-march-padayatra-of-lies-1070266.html
11-01-2022||West||Maharashtra takes baby steps towards clean air||Home to the country’s financial capital, Mumbai, and being one of the most urbanised states in India, Maharashtra has the most number of cities that have experienced air pollution levels exceeding National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). However, three years since the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) was announced, researchers at the Centre for Research and on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) in their report - “Tracing the Hazy Air: Progress Report on National Clean Air Programme (NCAP)” reveal that progress has been scarce and shoddy. Despite having 25 such cities, only 19 cities have been included in NCAP and local authorities have set emission reduction targets only for two cities in the state -- Amravati, and Aurangabad. “The state government has announced that it will complete the mandatory source-apportionment studies in 19 cities by March 2023 -- just a year ahead of the country’s deadline to reduce PM 2.5 levels,” said Sunil Dahiya, author of the report and an analyst at CREA. “The studies were started way back in 2017 and were expected to be completed by 2019, such a delay is wastage of public money and resources and would delay the directed sector-specific actions,” he added. Maharashtra has 80 manual and 41 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations across 36 districts in the state. Commenting on the air quality monitoring infrastructure, Dahiya said, “In Maharashtra, existing monitoring infrastructure is currently insufficient, and there is an urgent need to aggressively monitor air quality across the state. While increasing the number of monitoring stations is one way to improve the transparency of air quality data, another step that should be taken in ensuring that industries share data from monitoring stations installed in and around their facilities, as they are required to monitor air quality in accordance with environmental clearance conditions.” The report highlights that apart from city-specific action plans, no other plans have been formulated under NCAP prescribed timelines, state action plans, regional action plans, and the transboundary action plan still have to see the light of the day. “NCAP and Clean Air Action Plans for Cities were dynamic documents which were expected to be updated and made more efficient in controlling the rising air pollution levels with completion of research studies. But, sadly, all timelines for the formulation of state and regional level action plans as well as emission inventory and source apportionment studies have passed, and Maharashtra has not formulated any of them till now,” said Dahiya. The past two years have been unusual due to the Covid-19 pandemic resulting in a halt for industrial and economic activities due to national and regional lockdowns. A better indicator to track the effectiveness and implementation of NCAP was to track the progress on indicators identified under the programme. “Maharashtra has proved its intent that it is serious about confronting air pollution and climate change by becoming a member of many national and international programmes to clean the air and decarbonize,” Dahiya proposed as a path forward for Maharashtra. “It must establish explicit absolute pollution/emission load reduction objectives, clean or close polluting industrial units such as non-compliant power plants, complete all research and action plans, and improve openness on clean air action and financial usage,” he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-takes-baby-steps-towards-clean-air-1070130.html
11-01-2022||West||BJP-led delegation flags unauthorised construction at Maharashtra forts||A delegation led by BJP leaders Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and Sunil Deodhar on Tuesday petitioned the Centre on the issue of unauthorised constructions with the "intention of revival of religious structures" at several forts, including Raigad and Kulaba, in Maharashtra. The delegation of Rajya Sabha member Sahasrabuddhe, BJP national secretary Deodhar and Vaibhav Dange of Dilli Marathi Pratishthan met Union Minister of State for Culture Arjun Ram Meghwal in this regard. Sahasrabuddhe said similar illegal constructions have been reported from Fort Vishalgad in Kolhapur in Maharashtra, and urged Meghwal to set up a high-level committee of elected representatives and government officials for an on-the-spot assessment of the "grave situation". "Recently, the incidence of fresh illegal constructions and renovations of structures claimed as associated with religious worship in the past were brought to our notice.... It was evident that an attempt was made by a few miscreants to reconstruct old structures with the application of white paint in order to revive the religious practice," the delegation said in a memorandum to Meghwal. They said forts in Maharashtra have been declared as monuments of national importance and protected by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Chhatrapati Shivaji was coronated as King at Fort Raigad and Fort Kulaba served as a naval base of the Maratha empire, they said. They asked Meghwal to direct the ASI to ensure that no construction or renovation takes places inside any of the protected monuments with the intention of revival of religious practices. Sahasrabuddhe said incidents of illegal construction were spotted by mountaineers and youth groups at Raigad and Kulaba recently. He claimed that "miscreants" have already named a part of Fort Chandgad in Satara district of Maharashtra as Dargah Chandan and were preparing for constructing a place of worship. "Similarly, at the famous Lohagad Fort, locals have started celebrating Urs on a large scale at a place which was a temple of Bhairoba, a local village deity," he said. The delegation also asked Meghwal to warn the local administration against "protecting such miscreants" and alert the ASI to prevent such "aggressions". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-led-delegation-flags-unauthorised-construction-at-maharashtra-forts-1070134.html
11-01-2022||West||NCP to contest polls in Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Manipur with alliance||The Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) will be contesting Assembly elections in three states of Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Manipur. “Five states are going to polls, we will contest elections in three states,” Pawar told reporters in Mumbai. The NCP would work an alliance with like-minded parties in these polls. On Uttar Pradesh, Pawar said: “People want ‘parivartan’…Uttar Pradesh is set for a change, people are unhappy with the communal politics of the BJP…Communal polarisation is being done in Uttar Pradesh, ahead of Assembly elections. The people of Uttar Pradesh will give a befitting reply to this.” “The BJP would like to contest the elections on communal lines but I am confident that the voters will not accept it,” said Pawar, a former union minister. Pawar  slammed Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the latter's recent "80:20" statement . “It is not befitting of a senior leader like him  seeking to divide the people on religious lines and hurting the sentiments of the minority community there," he said. Pawar also said in Uttar Pradesh, the NCP would be the part of the alliance led by Samajwadi Party while in Manipur, they are working on alliance with Congress. “We are in talks with Congress and Trinamool Congress,” he said about neighbouring Goa. Pawar said that NCP leader Praful Patel, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and Goa Congress leaders are in touch discussing things. Pawar hoped that the Samajwadi Party-led alliance would sweep to power in the ensuing elections, Pawar hinted that at least a dozen more MLAs from various other political parties are likely to enter the SP soon. On Manipur, Pawar said that the NCP had 4 legislators in the outgoing Assembly. “We will tie-up with Congress to contest five seats,” he said. Speaking of Punjab, Pawar said that the incumbent Congress will return to power, but with the recent turn of events even the Aam Aadmi Party  had become a contender. "It is too early to say anything," he said. On the much-talked grand opposition alliance at the national level, Pawar reiterated that the Congress must be an integral part of any such opposition front against the BJP. "It is up to the Congress to decide whether to go alone or join hands with like-minded parties in the coming Assembly elections," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-to-contest-polls-in-uttar-pradesh-goa-and-manipur-with-alliance-1070169.html
11-01-2022||West||Very disturbing scenario in Maharashtra where ex-police commissioner has no faith in own force: SC||It is a "very disturbing" scenario in Maharashtra where former police commissioner Param Bir Singh does not have faith in his own force and the state government has no faith in the CBI, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. A bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh made this observation after the counsel for the former police chief submitted that the state police was trying to corner him in departmental cases. The top court, which refused to extend protection from arrest to Singh, said: "This is the same police which you headed for so much of time. What do we say that head of police force doesn't have any trust in the police force, state government has no faith in the CBI. Look at the scenario which is being painted. It is a very disturbing scenario for us. We can't resolve it peacefully. "The state government doesn't think it appropriate for CBI to look into it and they filed a plea regarding this in Bombay High Court which they lost. Now the matter is in the Supreme Court. We do not know what will be the view of the concerned bench here. We have given you enough protection, we are not giving any more protection," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, expressed apprehension that the state government may take steps which could make its task difficult in concluding the probe. He told the bench that an affidavit has been filed by CBI in the matter and it is ready to take over the probe in one of the criminal cases lodged by Maharashtra police against Singh. Senior advocate Puneet Bali, appearing for Singh, contended that the former Mumbai police commissioner is being targeted and the state government is trying to scuttle the probe in the CBI matter. The top court, however, remarked, "Nobody is holier-than-thou in this whole scenario. When things go fine everybody gets along, when things don't go fine everybody is getting at each other." Senior advocate Darius Kambatta, appearing for Maharashtra, informed the bench that the state government has filed an appeal against the Bombay High Court order dismissing its plea to hand over the investigation into the 'cash-for-transfer' allegations against Deshmukh from the CBI to a special investigation team. The top court has now posted the matter for hearing on February 22. The apex court had earlier allowed Mumbai Police to carry on the investigation against Singh but restrained it from filing charge sheets on the FIRs against him over the allegations of misconduct and corruption. The state police had earlier told the apex court that Singh cannot be considered as a "whistleblower" under the law as he chose to speak out against alleged corruption involving former home minister Anil Deshmukh only after his transfer. The top court had granted a major relief to Singh on November 22 by directing the Maharashtra Police not to arrest him in criminal cases lodged against him and had wondered if he was being hounded for filing cases against police officers and extortionists, "what could happen to a common man". Seeking dismissal of Singh's plea for a CBI probe into the entire matter and against any coercive action by the state, the Maharashtra government has filed a reply affidavit in the apex court and said that the ongoing probe in criminal cases against the former top cop should not be interfered with. Prior to this, the Bombay High Court had dismissed Singh's petition seeking to quash inquiries initiated against him by the Maharashtra government, and said he can approach the Central Administrative Tribunal. The high court had held that it was a service matter, and rejected his claim that the government's action was a consequence of his allegations of corruption against Deshmukh. After Singh was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner in March 2021 in the aftermath of the 'Antilia bomb scare case', in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, he levelled corruption allegations against Deshmukh. In his petition, Singh had also alleged that DGP Pande told him that the inquiries were the fall-out of his allegations against Deshmukh, an NCP leader. Singh was transferred to the Home Guard after Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze was arrested in the case of an SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, 'Antilia', and the subsequent suspicious death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/very-disturbing-scenario-in-maharashtra-where-ex-police-commissioner-has-no-faith-in-own-force-sc-1070179.html
11-01-2022||West||Maharashtra govt creating stumbling block in Anil Deshmukh probe, CBI tells SC||The CBI on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that the State of Maharashtra was creating several stumbling blocks in its probe against former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. In an affidavit, the agency said, “It prima facie appears that there is clearly an attempt to meddle in the court entrusted investigation carried on by the CBI and further, an attempt to jeopardize the same. In such circumstances, it is requested that this court may exercise powers vested with it in order to ensure that such attempts by various quarters are thwarted once and for all”. The CBI also cited the chat transcript of Maharashtra DGP Sanjay Pandey given by Param Bir Singh. Taking up a plea by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, however, said it is a “very disturbing scenario” in Maharashtra, where the IPS officer has no faith in the police force, which he headed recently, and the state government has no faith in CBI. Senior advocate Puneet Bali, representing Singh, on the contrary, submitted that his client was being targeted. He claimed the matter was handed over to the CBI, but the state government has tried to scuttle the proceedings of the CBI.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the CBI, said this is a matter of chain of events. Senior advocate Darius Khambata, representing the Maharashtra government, contended that the top court will have to look into this matter. A bench comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said: “This is the same police force that you headed. Now, the head of the police force has no trust in the police force. The administration has no trust... This is a disturbing scenario.” The bench also queried whether there was a possibility to resolve this matter peacefully. Mehta submitted the state is creating several stumbling blocks in its probe against Deshmukh and making CBI’s job difficult. Bali added that the Maharashtra government has started departmental action against his client in the same cases where FIR has been registered. The top court, however, extended the protection from arrest granted to Singh in the cases and scheduled the matter for further hearing on January 27. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-creating-stumbling-block-in-anil-deshmukh-probe-cbi-tells-sc-1070223.html
11-01-2022||West||Satej Patil asks 'Tek Fog' victims to file complaint with Mumbai Police ||Maharashtra Minister of State for Home and Information Technology Satej Patil, while revealing that many journalists based out of Mumbai were targeted using Tek Fog app, has made an appeal to all the victims to come forward and lodge a complaint with the police. Patil has said that these acts cannot be ignored and the Maharashtra government "strives to make the country safe for everyone".  Patil has been continuously raising questions over the Tek Fog expose by The Wire, a web portal last week. On Tuesday, Patil tweeted, “It has been brought to my notice that several journalists who were targeted using the #TekFog app are based out of Mumbai. I request them to please come forward to officially file a complaint - @ Mumbaipolice & @Mahacyber1 will investigate & take it to a logical end.” “Social media is now an extension of our real-world and no once can be targeted and attack in both! We cannot normalise such acts and ask the victims to ‘Ignore’. Maharashtra govt. will strive to make this country safe for everyone, with the Constitution of India by our side," he further said. Social media is now an extension of our real-world and no one can be targeted and attacked in both! We cannot normalize such acts and ask the victims to ‘Ignore’. Maharashtra Govt. will strive to make this country safe for everyone, with the Constitution of India by our side On Saturday, he raised questions over the silence of the government of India and the Information and Technology Ministry over the Tek Fog expose. He also demanded that the Centre should take cognisance of it, keeping the party politics aside.  Raising concern about BJP  for using the Tek Fog app to manipulate social media and organise mass targeting against individuals include female journalists on Twitter, Patil had last week termed it as a ‘severe breach of the privacy’ of the Indian citizens.  Patil who is also a senior Congress leader from Maharashtra has further added, “This app also uses WhatsApp numbers of Indian Citizens for mass messaging without the user even knowing! This is highly offensive & a severe breach of every Indian citizen’s privacy.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/satej-patil-asks-tek-fog-victims-to-file-complaint-with-mumbai-police-1070233.html
11-01-2022||West||Citing wrong messages on social media, Jio puts cell towers proposal in Gir sanctuary on hold||In view of "wrong" messages circulating on social media that the firm wanted to establish nearly three dozen mobile towers in Gir National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary, the home of Asiatic lions, for its "commercial benefits", Reliance Jio Infocomm, commonly known as Jio, has decided to put on "hold" its proposal and wouldn't move ahead "unless confirmed" by the state forest department. A statement released on Twitter by Director, Corporate Affairs, Reliance Industries Limited, and Rajya Sabha MP, Parimal Nathawani, stated, "...recently, it is wrongly being circulated in social media by some elements that Jio wants to establish this network for its commercial benefits and tried to create misconception against company's vision and mission. Jio wants to clarify that the said proposal was put forward only to facilitate the need of wildlife-wing of Forest Department and company has no commercial concern and benefit out of this initiation." The statement, posted on Monday claimed,"...Jio was requested to establish its network surrounding and within Protected Area of Sasan Gir by the wildlife-wing of Gujarat Forest Department in 2020. The purpose behind the request was to find out technology based solution for wildlife management and protection, and to provide seamless connectivity to ground staff of wildlife-wing, so they can use e-tabs for real time reporting from the field, to ensure proper CCTV surveillance among other things." According to forest officials, the proposal was discussed in the meeting of the state wildlife board earlier in December. They said that apart from 34 mobile towers in forest areas spread in three districts including Gir Somnath, Amreli and Junagadh, the habitat of more than 60 per cent of lions, the telecom giant has also proposed to set up seven towers in Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Narmada district and two in the Ratanmahal Sloth Bear Sanctuary in Dahod district in central Gujarat. In the statement, Nathawani defended the proposal by stating that following discussion with the forest department, "Jio carried out technical feasibility survey and put forward its proposal to forest department with 'minimum infrastructure and maximum coverage' concept for clearance. During the course of discussion, we understand that state forest department has prioritised on high-tech effective and critical wildlife management of Asiatic Lion the pride of Gujarat, which is not possible without end-to-end seamless connectivity." "I can't say whether the proposal is good or bad. It has to be decided by the policymakers. All I can say is that connectivity is needed," a top forest official told DH on the condition of anonymity. When asked about the impact of electromagnetic radiation on wildlife, another senior officer said, "it is a contentious issue. There are advisory issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) from time to time flagging the negative impact of electromagnetic radiation emitted by the mobile phone towers." An online signature campaign against the proposed cell phone towers has claimed that it will "disturb the sanctuary". Gir National Park and WildLife Sanctuary has 674 lions as per the forest department's latest counting done in 2020. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/citing-wrong-messages-on-social-media-jio-puts-cell-towers-proposal-in-gir-sanctuary-on-hold-1070246.html
11-01-2022||West||TMC, Goa poll partner promise 50,000 subsidised homes to homeless||Pre-poll alliance partners, the Trinamool Congress and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party on Tuesday made a populist announcement offering 50,000 subsidised homes to indigenous homeless Goans, while also promising to allot land ownership titles to native families, with 250 days if the alliance comes to power in the upcoming state assembly elections. Addressing a joint press conference in Panaji, leaders from both parties also said that the scheme would cost the state exchequer just 0.6 per cent of the state government's budgetary outlay. "Today, in the history of the state of Goa we are moving a very very important step. This step will affect the lives of 60 per cent of the population of Goa. It will affect 2.1 lakh families in Goa," national vice president of the Trinamool Congress Luizinho Faleiro told a press conference in Panaji. "Griha laxmi card represents eight per cent of the budget, Yuva Shakti card represents four per cent of our budget and subsidised houses represent 0.6 per cent of our budget. In other words, if anyone wants to know, the various schemes which TMC has brought hardly affects 13.2 per cent of the budget," he also said. The Griha Laxmi scheme promises to allot Rs. 5,000 to each woman head of the family in the state, while the proposed Yuva Shakti scheme is aimed at offering low-interest loans for the youth to start a business. "It will impact the lives of 60 per cent of the population of Goa. It will affect 2.1 lakh families in Goa. It is a landmark housing rights scheme that aims at securing the housing rights of Goenkars which is a constitutional duty of any government and is interpreted as a fundamental right under Article 21 (Right To Life) of the Constitution," Faleiro also said. Effectively, through the proposed schemes, the TMC-MGP alliance has assured to ensure that within 250 days of forming the government, all Goan families residing in Goa since before 1976 will be provided with title and ownership rights of land under possession and 50,000 subsidised homes to homeless families. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmc-goa-poll-partner-promise-50000-subsidised-homes-to-homeless-1070254.html
11-01-2022||West||Ex-Goa BJP Minister Michael Lobo joins Congress||The Congress in Goa got a shot in the arm on Tuesday, after former state Ports Minister Michael Lobo, who had resigned from the BJP on Monday, formally joined the Opposition party with assembly polls scheduled to be held next month. After joining the Congress at a formal ceremony at the party's state headquarters in Panaji, Lobo expressed confidence in the Congress winning a majority in the February 14 polls. "The Congress will win 22 seats in 2022. The people of Goa want a change and the Congress will usher in this change," Lobo told reporters. Lobo and his wife Delilah were welcomed into the Congress party by All India Congress Committee official and former Karnataka state Congress president Dinesh Gundu Rao. "People of Goa want change. The Congress will surely form a government after the elections," Rao said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-goa-bjp-minister-michael-lobo-joins-congress-1070255.html
11-01-2022||West||TMC promises land rights for Goa residents, if voted to power||A direct transfer of Rs 5,000 per month into bank accounts of women, a ‘credit card’ promising up to Rs 20 lakh to youth, and now ownership of land - the Trinamool-Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) is generating enough heat in Goa to get noticed, as other political parties, too, gear up for the 40-seats scheduled to go to polls on February 14. Titled “Mhaje Ghar, Maalki Hakk”, the Trinamool-MGP alliance is promising land-ownership rights to residents, if the 11.57 lakh voters of the state offer the parties a chance to form a government. The Trinamool has stated, “It is a landmark housing rights scheme that aims at securing the housing rights of Goenkars which is a constitutional duty of any government and is interpreted as a Fundamental Right under Article 21 (Right To Life).” The alliance has claimed that if voted to power, all families residing in the state since 1976, or before that year, will be provided with the title and ownership rights of land that’s under their possession. Besides, around 50,000 houses would be available to ‘homeless’ families. Instead of opting for a cut-off date that’s more historical - like the state’s liberation, or statehood, the year 1976 has been picked as the year, till which land ownership rights will be considered. “In addition, TMC will operationalise pro-people legislations like The Goa Daman and Diu Agricultural Tenancy Act, 1964 and The Goa Daman & Diu Mundkars (Protection from eviction) Act, 1975 on the ground and take the cause further,” a party statement adds. Meanwhile, speculations are building up over newer alignment possibilities, as Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar is in talks with the Trinamool Congress and the Congress to explore possibilities of alliances.  So far, the Trinamool has maintained that it has come to Goa, as it wants to give an “alternative to people who don’t want the BJP”, and despite having more seats in 2017, Congress failed to form the government in the state. With Pawar’s comments, newer political equations could now emerge. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmc-promises-land-rights-for-goa-residents-if-voted-to-power-1070258.html
