12-01-2022||Comment||From Hindustani State to Hindu State||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s open involvement in the construction, rebuilding and restoration of Hindu temples is a perilous thing for the Indian State and society. There is nothing wrong with the construction, rebuilding or restoration of Hindu temples as such. Those are iconic shrines that Hindus see as abodes of their highest deities and have a right to construct, rebuild or restore them. But why should the Prime Minister get involved? Narendra Modi is a self-professed Hindu believer. Nobody would have raised a question if he were to be engaged along with other Hindu believers in the construction, rebuilding or restoring those temples as a private individual. Much like other devotees, he would have worn saffron clothes and a tilak on his forehead and joined them at the inauguration ceremonies in the performance of the rituals, and nobody would have objected. The media would have noticed his presence because he is the Prime Minister, but it would still have been regarded and applauded as a common Hindu’s act of piety. Nobody can take away Modi’s right to believe in, follow and practise Hindu faith. Everyone in India is entitled to their faith. Where the problem arises is his participation in the projects and ceremonies in his official capacity as Prime Minister. He is completely ignoring the fact that as Prime Minister, he represents the Indian State. By his participation, he is making his personal faith the faith of the Indian State. Surely, that is the RSS project and all those grandiose, intoxicatingly choreographed and widely broadcast ceremonies with him at the centre are calculated and designed to demonstrate that Hinduism is the national religion of India. The RSS and Modi seem to have decided that if they are constrained by various domestic and global factors to officially declare India a Hindu Rashtra, they can proclaim it so without a formal declaration. In the process, they are causing serious damage to the Indian State and society. The ruler in India throughout history, be it Hindu, Buddhist, Jain, Sikh or Muslim — of course, barring some exceptions — could not ignore the reality that their subjects followed different faiths and they could not impose their personal faith upon them. That is why theocracy found no space in India, unlike Europe where kings had to adopt extreme secularism to end the dominance of the extreme religionism of the Pope. Independent India’s concept of the relation between the State and religion was a continuity of the historical political tradition. This concept stood on a firm tripod of principles: one, everyone would be free to follow their faith; two, the ruler would not impose his faith upon the people; and three, he would equally honour all faiths. Throughout history, kings gave grants of land and other support to their subjects of different faiths to set up their places of worship. Following that political tradition, the State in independent India provided subsidies for Hindus to participate in the Kumbh Mela, Sikhs to go to Pakistani Punjab for pilgrimage, Muslims to go to Mecca for hajj. There was equal respect and honour to all faiths. The State treated them impartially. All that is changing with Modi in the Prime Minister’s office. Under him, the State has become partial to Hindu religion. Had he been as personally involved in building, rebuilding and restoring the holy places of other faiths too, the world could still have said that the Indian State was following the old tradition of equal respect for all faiths. But he is doing it only for the Hindu faith. Under him, the State is using public money for the promotion, preservation and maintenance of only one faith. The money in the public treasury comes from followers of all faiths. But it is being used for building and rebuilding the holy places of only one faith. India under Modi might not be looking like what Iran became after the Islamic Revolution of 1979, but it is certainly showing some likeness to the Iraq of Saddam Hussein who, while his State remained secular on paper, started a ‘Return to the Faith’ campaign to promote Sunni Islam as the preferred religion in public life and the life of the Iraqis. Modi’s partiality to Hinduism is a clear proof of the pseudo-secularism of the RSS. In theory, the RSS stands for a State that respects all religions and has no religion of its own. In the words of the RSS chief ideologue M S Golwalkar, there has always been “scope and opportunity in India for every religious persuasion to grow”. The king, he says, respected and encouraged “every single religious thought, however few its adherents, to grow according to its genius.” The king was the pillar of support and protection for all faiths. To the king, followers of all faiths were equal in the eyes of the State. Golwalkar’s clinching line is: “Never did the king prostitute the State apparatus to impose his personal religious dogmas.” But that is the secularism the RSS preaches. The secularism it practises is just the opposite of it. What we are seeing is the State’s open partiality to one faith. The ‘king’ is openly prostituting the State apparatus to impose his personal religious dogmas. The ‘king’ is not a pillar of protection for all faiths but the promoter and propagator of one faith. Modi’s partiality to Hinduism is changing the character and image of the Indian State from multi-religious to mono-religious in the eyes of Indians and people abroad. From a Hindustani State, we are becoming a Hindu State. And that shift has unleashed venomous dragons that are attacking followers of other faiths in every nook and corner of the country. The writer is a senior investigativejournalist and author, best known for his exposé of the Bhagalpur blindings)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/from-hindustani-state-to-hindu-state-1070477.html
12-01-2022||First Edit||Uniform Civil Code: Take the long view||The central government stuck to its known position on a uniform civil code (UCC) for the country, without going into many details, when the matter came up in the courts last week. While the Supreme Court told the government to make its position clear and file its response within four weeks, the government told the Delhi High Court that it would examine the matter and hold consultations with all stakeholders after receiving the Law Commission’s report on it. The government also told the court that the matter is sensitive and called for an in-depth study of various personnel laws of different communities. In the Supreme Court, the petitioners had sought a direction to the government to take steps for implementation of a UCC, which the court itself has favoured in the past. It is in this context that the court told the government to make its position clear.  The issue of a UCC has been discussed for decades in the country. Article 44 of the Constitution directs the State to endeavour to secure a UCC for all citizens and there is no doubt that it is a desirable objective. It has been one of the earliest demands of the BJP, right from its Jan Sangh days. The government made this clear to the court when it said that it is an affront to national unity when citizens belonging to different religious denominations follow different property and matrimonial laws. It also explained that the rationale behind Article 44 was to strengthen the objective of a “secular, democratic republic.’’ This assertion is welcome, though the government and the ruling party have often spoken and acted in ways contrary to that objective.   The government is also right in maintaining that the legislature in its wisdom has to formulate a Uniform Civil Code. It allowed the matter to rest there for the time being, with the statement that it is awaiting the Law Commission’s views on it. The Law Commission is said to be trying to codify the various personal laws of different communities. The Supreme Court has given the government the “last opportunity’’ to make its stand clear and has directed that all petitions on the matter pending in High Courts be transferred to it for adjudication. But from the affidavit submitted to the Delhi High Court, it can be assumed that the government does not consider that the matter is to be judicially decided. This is the message it has given by stating that it is a policy matter to be decided by the legislature. It is also clear that only the government will decide the specifics and timing of the decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/uniform-civil-code-take-the-long-view-1070486.html
12-01-2022||First Edit||PM security breach: SC-ordered probe welcome||The Supreme Court has done well to appoint an independent team under a retired judge of the court, Justice Indu Malhotra, to investigate the security lapse that occurred when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was stranded on a road flyover in Punjab for about 18 minutes on January 5. The Prime Minister was on a visit to Ferozepur when the incident happened, and he cancelled his programme after the blockade. The court acted promptly on a petition that sought its intervention in the matter. There was a breach of security and it was necessary to understand how it happened and who were responsible for it. But the incident was immediately politicised by both the central government and the BJP on one side and the state government and the Congress on the other. The Prime Minister suggested that there was a threat to his life, and there was a chain of charges and counter-charges from both sides.  The politics around the incident created a situation where it would be difficult to understand what exactly happened if there was no independent probe. Both the Punjab government and the Centre announced their own investigations. It is clear that these would only have been used to endorse their respective versions and to justify their political positions, without throwing much light on the matter. The central government issued notices to some state government officials even before its investigation started. The court asked the Centre what remained for it to do if the government wanted to take disciplinary action against state officers. The team also had as a member an official of the Special Protection Group (SPG) whose role itself had to be investigated. The Punjab government had also decided that none of its officials was at fault before its investigation was even announced. In this situation, there probably was no option for the court other than to order its own probe. The court ordered the seizure of all records and communications pertaining to the incident by the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and set up its own four-member investigation team. It has also stopped the central and state governments from going ahead with their investigations. The committee’s brief is to find out the causes of the breach of security, fix responsibility for it, and to suggest measures to ensure that such incidents do not happen again. The committee has been told to submit its confidential report at the earliest, and hopefully, it will be made public. But it is unfortunate that the highest court has had to expend its time and attention on a matter that should have been addressed without politics and partisanship by the Executive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pm-security-breach-sc-ordered-probe-welcome-1070606.html
12-01-2022||In Perspective||Dude, what happened to my privacy?||The concept of individual privacy is often questioned and deliberated upon in the current technologically advanced and internet-reliant world. The use of the internet in everyday life is almost inescapable these days. From watching a movie to booking a cab, from exercising to enjoying a meal, from personal security to enjoying bedtime, the internet is in every activity and all of us log on to it, increasingly through mobile phones, which provide cheap and easy access. Thanks to our ‘smart’ devices and complex algorithms, the choices presented to us for any of the above actions are already influenced and also recorded by our likes, searches, location, spending habits, and any other data we may have given. Moreover, the ease of auto-complete or auto-correct suggestions, continuously record the choices we make on a daily basis. Any act of choice on the internet is being observed, if not influenced. There can be little doubt that we cannot enjoy complete privacy. The question is, how much privacy are we willing to give up? As technology grows, with each passing day, there is further intrusion into individual privacy. Initially, we had cameras in public places for surveillance. So each time you stepped out of your house and into a public place, your privacy was compromised. This was justified as a trade-off for the larger good i.e., the safety of everyone in society outweighs the compromise of individual privacy. Hence we needed to have cameras in public places. While surveillance in public seemed reasonable, the same “larger good” logic is now being weaponised to monitor the data in our phones. Apple, sometime in 2018, discussed introducing a feature that could check the photos sent on iMessage on the phone of any user to prevent the sexual abuse and exploitation of children. While child abuse should be prohibited and abusers should be punished, the fact that a private company could legally and willingly admit openly and proudly that they now have the technology to scan the photos in your phone is a scary thought. Until now at least, we knew we were being watched. However, with the rampant presence of virtual assistant devices, our privacy becomes non-existent as soon as we buy/use them. For no conversation around such a device goes unrecorded. In 2018, a court in New Hampshire, during a murder trial, ordered Amazon to produce audio recorded in its smart speaker. Though not stated explicitly, the underlying principle is that for the larger good -- the safety of society -- it is important that alleged criminals are tried, though the trial may require comprising what is being spoken within the boundaries of one’s home. Alexa, as it is commonly called, is a virtual assistant for your home and is capable of recording all conversations within its surroundings. It may seem that the surveillance of our audio communications inside our homes would be the line that we draw where this invasion ends. However, there is more. The final frontier of privacy, our most sacred space -- our sleep -- is no longer private, either. With technology such as Google Nest, another virtual assistant, a bedside device collects data on an individual’s sleep pattern, including the period of sleep, patterns of waking up at night, snoring, and cough count. With this technology, even when an individual is sleeping, a private company somewhere knows the person’s precise sleep pattern and if the person is well or sick or in need of a particular thing such as pillows or blankets, or anxiety medicines. It is argued that this monitoring may help improve sleep patterns and perhaps the overall health of the individual that chooses this technology, but it does mean that the final frontier of individual privacy is under threat. The need for surveillance is always wrapped up in the language of the “larger good” argument and the demonisation of those who speak against it. For example, when opposing voices were raised against allowing Amazon to present the audio recordings made by its device in the murder trial, they were termed “opponents of a safe society” and “supporters of crime”. While the demonisation of dissent is a pattern, it is important to ask ourselves, how much of a “larger good” is too good? Where do we draw the line for privacy when it keeps shifting away from us? As of now, we really have no choice over sharing our data: refuse and you might not get any access to technology and you may also be labelled a misanthrope, an anarchist, a Luddite. Our acquiescence is assumed, and that is where the problem lies. While we are losing the battle to safeguard our right to privacy, let us not let it become a lost cause already. (Motwani is a lawyer;Barucha is a writer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/dude-what-happened-to-my-privacy-1070483.html
12-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi-Dharwad MLA Abbayya tests positive for Covid-19||Hubballi-Dharwad East MLA Prasad Abbayya of the Congress, on Wednesday, contracted Covid-19. He tested positive for the infection on Wednesday and is under home quarantine for one week as per doctors' advice. Prasad Abbayya was in Hubballi itself and did not participate in Mekedatu Padayatra led by Congress. He had mild symptoms like cold and cough, due to which he was tested for Covid, sources close to him said. "I am healthy, and people of my constituency are requested not to visit my house. Those who had met me and have symptoms should get tested immediately," he said.  Prasad also had tested positive in July 2020 and was treated at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS). Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-dharwad-mla-abbayya-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1070394.html
12-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Dharwad officer appointed ASI director||Dr V S Badiger, a Kannadiga, has been appointed as one of the directors of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Dr Badiger worked as the superintendent of the ASI Dharwad Circle. The department’s promotion committee finalised his name for the director’s post. He will work from the ASI head office in New Delhi. Hailing from Chadachan in Vijayapura district, Badiger pursued postgraduation and PhD degree from the Karnataka University’s Kannada Research, and History & Archaeology Departments. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dharwad-officer-appointed-asi-director-1070616.html
12-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Ramanagara witnesses sudden Covid surge||In the last five days, Ramanagara district, which is not known to generate a high daily caseload of Covid-19, has been recording a high number of cases. Since January 7, the district has recorded an explosive 737% growth rate in the number of active Covid-19 cases, when it grew from 37 to 273 as of Wednesday. In comparison, at the start of the second wave, cases grew at a rate of 100% from five to 10. District Health Officer, Dr Niranjan said that new cases had been recorded equally in all four taluks of the district and added that most have mild symptoms. “The cause of the spread is still unclear,” the DHO said. Several epidemiologists who weighed in confidentially on the rise noted that something abnormal is happening in the district. “Ramanagara never saw a rapid growth in numbers in the second wave. So, this time around there is something strange happening in the district and that needs to be looked into,” one epidemiologist said, adding that whatever the source of the infection, the cause is undoubtedly a flurry of Covid appropriate behaviour violations. A second expert added that the surge in infection could be the large gatherings of people. “Infections are rife in large gatherings because concentration of people in an area of 100-200 square metres simulate the same conditions as indoor spaces,” the expert said. He pointed out that people not wearing mask properly faced the risk of infection in under 15 minutes by the Delta variant - a rate of infectivity that is higher under Omicron. “If one person is wearing a cloth mask and the other is not: the infection sets in between 15-20 minutes. Even if two people are wearing an N95 mask there is still a 5% chance of infection,” he added. One driver of the spike could be the faster incubation period of the Omicron variant which medical personnel at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) told DH can manifest symptoms on the same day of infection.  However, Dr Niranjan said that genomic sequencing for many of the new cases is still pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ramanagara-witnesses-sudden-covid-surge-1070635.html
12-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Speak Out: January 12, 2022||"Congress cannot implement the project at all. Only BJP can implement the project. We are men and will complete the project in a manly manner," he said, addressing a news conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/speak-out-january-12-2022-1070356.html
12-01-2022||National||How wings of the 'birds of farmland' stir of Kerala got clipped||As the protests against the semi-high-speed rail project in Kerala is considered to be emerging as a 'Nandigram' model stir, a similar mass movement in Kerala a few years back against filling paddy fields for highway development has miserably failed despite the much popularity it gained. A movement by a farmers' collective named 'Vayal Kilikal' (birds of farmlands) against filling of paddy fields for NH by-pass construction at Kannur district in Kerala in 2017-2018 had then received national attention and was even projected as a 'Nandigram' model movement. But three years down the line the by-pass construction is progressing on the paddy fields unobstructed. "Support of the political parties to mass movements of affected parties is just a farce," says 'Vayal Kilikal' leader Suresh Keezhattoor. Even as the BJP leaders backed the agitations, the BJP government at the centre did not show any concern tp the plight of the farmers. After one point the Congress also backtracked, which could be due to fear of facing criticism of being anti-development, he added. It was in 2017 that farmers of Keezhattor near Thalassery in Kannur district started the stir against the construction of the bypass of NH 66 by filling around 20 hectares of paddy field. The stir gathered momentum through social media campaigns and many organisations offered support. It received national attention. Many of the active participants in the stir were even local leaders and activists of the ruling CPM in the state. As the stir started causing damage to the CPM government in Kerala, the many CPM activists backtracked from it and the makeshift shed set up by the agitators was also set on fire, allegedly by CPM workers. But even then the farmers remained firm on their protest against filling the paddy field and even approached the court and the centre but failed to receive any favourable outcome. Suresh said that the Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari assured them that a team of officials would be deputed to look into out grievances of the farmers and environmentalists. But the farmers were kept in the dark about the arrival of the official delegation. As the government took over ownership of the land by using its powers the farmers finally had no other options other than accepting the compensations and settling down. "From our experience, I can tell that the ongoing support by the Congress and BJP to the stir against the semi-high-speed rail was only a political gimmick," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-wings-of-the-birds-of-farmland-stir-of-kerala-got-clipped-1070327.html
12-01-2022||National||All eligible in 15-18 age group in Lakshadweep vaccinated against Covid: Aministration||Lakshadweep has become first among the Union Territories and the states to have achieved the feat of vaccinating all those eligible in the age group of 15 to 18 years in a short span of time. In a statement, the administration said all those eligible in the 15-18 age group in the islands were vaccinated within a week after the launch of the vaccination drive. Administrator Praful K Patel had launched the vaccination drive on January 3 in Kavaratti as part of the nationwide campaign. "It is remarkable that the target of 3,492 children was achieved within a week after the launch of vaccination drives through various awareness campaigns conducted in schools and mobilisation drives in all the 10 inhabited islands of Lakshadweep," the administration said. Earlier, Lakshadweep became the first among Union Territories and states to have achieved 100 per cent vaccination in other categories such as healthcare workers, frontline workers and age group above 18 years. It said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has provided an adequate quantity of Covaxin doses for facilitating the vaccination of children and for administering the booster doses. The administration said it has also started providing booster doses to frontline workers, healthcare workers and citizens above 60 years of age from January 10 as per the guidelines of ICMR. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-eligible-in-15-18-age-group-in-lakshadweep-vaccinated-against-covid-aministration-1070332.html
12-01-2022||National||Mihir Das' creative performances won many hearts: PM Modi||Condoling the death of Odia actor Mihir Das, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that his creative performances won many hearts in his long film career. Veteran Odia actor Das died at a hospital in Cuttack on Tuesday, his family said. He was 63. Das is survived by his son and daughter-in-law. His wife, singer and actor Sangeeta Das, died in 2010 due to heart attack. The PMO quoting Modi tweeted, "Saddened by the demise of noted Odia actor Shri Mihir Das Ji. During his long film career, he won many hearts thanks to his creative performances. My thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti.” Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mihir-das-creative-performances-won-many-hearts-pm-modi-1070348.html
12-01-2022||National||With 1.94 lakh new cases, 442 fatalities, Covid-19 infections soar in India||India added 1,94,720  new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,60,70,510 which includes 4,868 cases of Omicron variant, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The  active cases increased to 9,55,319, the highest in 211 days, while the death toll climbed to 4,84,655 with 442 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. Of the total 4,868 cases of Omicron variant, 1,805 people have recovered or migrated so far. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 1,281 cases followed by Rajasthan at 645,Delhi 546, Karnataka  479 and Kerala 350. The  active cases comprise 2.65 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate decreased to 96.01 per cent, the ministry said. A total 2,11,298 coronavirus infections were reported in a single day on May 26.  An increase of 1,33,873 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-194-lakh-new-cases-442-fatalities-covid-19-infections-soar-in-india-1070366.html
12-01-2022||National||Centre aims to file LIC IPO prospectus in last week of January 31||By Vrishti Beniwal, Baiju Kalesh and Suvashree Ghosh Life Insurance Corporation of India could file a prospectus in the final week of January for what would be the nation’s biggest initial public offering, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The state-run insurer plans to file the draft IPO prospectus in the week starting January 31, which will provide the embedded value of LIC as well as the number of shares on offer, the people said, asking not to be identified as the deliberations are private. The ongoing virus wave may disrupt schedules, they added. A finance ministry official wasn’t immediately available for comment. A representative for LIC didn’t immediately reply to an email seeking comment.  The planned deadline would set Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on track to list LIC by the end of March, providing a much-needed boost to revenue. His administration had sought to sell a 5 per cent to 10 per cent stake in the insurer, fetching as much as Rs 10 lakh crore, Bloomberg News had reported in September. The government is still awaiting the completed valuation report, the people said, and projected valuations may change based on that. They added that LIC could be valued at as high as five times the so-called embedded value -- higher than 3-4 times for most insurers. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-aims-to-file-lic-ipo-prospectus-in-last-week-of-january-31-1070370.html
12-01-2022||National||'Sorry about joke that didn't land': Siddharth apologises to Saina Nehwal for 'rude' joke, says 'can't justify my words'||Actor Siddharth has issued an apology to Saina Nehwal over his "inappropriate" tweet against the badminton player and said he never intended to attack her as a woman with his "joke". On Monday, the actor received widespread backlash on Twitter for his reply to the Olympic bronze medallist’s tweet on the alleged lapse in the security of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Punjab visit. In an open letter published on Twitter late Tuesday evening, the Rang De Basanti star said even though he may disagree with Nehwal's views, his tone of the tweet cannot be justified. "Dear Saina, I want to apologise to you for my rude joke that I wrote as a response to a tweet of yours, a few days ago. I may disagree with you on many things but even my disappointment or anger when I read your tweet, cannot justify my tone and words. I know I have more grace in me than that. "As for the joke... If a joke needs to be explained, then it wasn't a very good joke to begin with. Sorry about a joke that didn't land," he said. The 42-year-old actor wrote he is a "staunch feminist" and would never say anything to a woman with a "malicious intent". Siddharth hoped that the badminton star would accept his apology.  "I, however, must insist my word play and humour had none of the malicious intent that so many people from all quarters have attributed to it. I am a staunch feminist ally and I assure you there was no gender implied in my tweet and certainly no intent to attack you as a woman. "I hope we can put this behind us and that you will accept my letter. You will always be my Champion. Honestly, Siddharth," he added. Earlier, Nehwal had said she was not sure what the actor meant by his comment but expressed her displeasure over his tweet. "I used to like him as an actor but this was not nice. He can express himself with better words but I guess it's Twitter and you remain noticed with such words and comments. If the security of the PM of India is an issue then I'm not sure what is secure in the country," she had said. The National Commission for Women (NCW) had asked Twitter India to “immediately” block the actor’s account as it claimed the comment was misogynistic, outraged the modesty of a woman, amounted to disrespect and insulted the dignity of women. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma had also written to the Maharashtra DGP to investigate the matter and register an FIR against Siddharth. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sorry-about-joke-that-didnt-land-siddharth-apologises-to-saina-nehwal-for-rude-joke-says-cant-justify-my-words-1070372.html
12-01-2022||National||I&B Ministry's Twitter account compromised, now restored||The Twitter account of the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting was compromised on Wednesday. The account, however, was restored later on. The hacker renamed the account as Elon Musk and tweeted several posts. The account was restored and posts made by hackers were deleted. "The account @Mib_india has been restored. This is for the information of all the followers," the ministry tweeted. Last month Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Twitter account was compromised for a brief period and a post claiming that India had officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender was tweeted from it. "The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised. The matter was escalated to Twitter and the account has been immediately secured. In the brief period that the account was compromised, any tweet shared must be ignored," PMO India had said in a tweet. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ib-ministrys-twitter-account-compromised-now-restored-1070374.html
12-01-2022||National||Ensure adequate buffer stock of medical oxygen: Centre to states||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday asked the states to ensure a buffer stock of oxygen for 48 hours in every health facility offering in-patient care as India keeps on adding more than 100,000 new Covid-19 cases in every seven days along with a slow but steady rise in Covid hospitalisation. The hospitals have also been asked to keep the liquid medical oxygen tanks filled up and make arrangements for their uninterrupted supply and refilling, whereas the facilities having PSA plants are to check whether such plants installed in are functional and producing oxygen. The oxygen alert from the Centre comes at a time when a new modeling study suggests that the third wave of Covid-19 epidemic in India would peak between January 20 and February 10 when the number of fresh cases would vary between six lakhs and nine lakhs daily. Scientists at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru and Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata also predict a nationwide requirement of 8,000-24,000 ICU beds during the peak period. The scientists, however, clarified that the predictions were based on certain assumptions and any change in those conditions would alter the figures. But anticipating a rise in the number of hospitalisations due to the Covid-19, the ministry asked the states to be ready with oxygen and medical supplies. The ministry also suggested reviving the oxygen control rooms for prompt resolution of oxygen related issues as a surge in cases in most of the states and big cities, and rising test positivity rate has emerged as areas of concerns. According to the Union Health Ministry, the weekly positivity rate rose to over 11 per cent from just about 1 per cent on December 30. Even more worryingly, the positivity rate shot up to more than 60 per cent in Kolkata, 31 per cent in Thane and 27 per cent in Mumbai. Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat are the states witnessing a Covid surge. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-adequate-buffer-stock-of-medical-oxygen-centre-to-states-1070398.html
12-01-2022||National||Military commanders of India, China discuss hot Springs, Kongka La||The military commanders of India and China restarted negotiation on Wednesday, with mutual withdrawal of front-line troops from the Hot Springs and Kongka La areas in eastern Ladakh being high on the agenda. The commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army met on China’s side of its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India at Chushul-Moldo point in eastern Ladakh for the 14th round of negotiations to resolve the 21-month-long stand-off. The meeting marked the resumption of the negotiation at the level of the military commanders after a hiatus of three months. The 13th round of negotiations on October 10 last year had ended in a stalemate. The outcome of the 14th round of negotiations was not officially made public by the two sides till the latest report came in. But a deal on mutual withdrawal of the front-line troops from Hot Springs was being perceived as a “low-hanging fruit” for the negotiators to yield. A proposed deal on disengagement of troops from another face-off point – Kongka La – was also on the agenda, according to the sources in New Delhi. Lt Gen. Anindya Sengupta, who recently took over as the commander of the Indian Army’s XIV Corps, led the delegation of India. His predecessors Lt Gen. Harinder Singh and Lt Gen. P G K Menon had led the Indian Army’s delegations in the earlier rounds of negotiations with China. Lt Gen. Sengupta’s counterpart in the South Xinjiang Military District of China, Maj Gen Liu Lin, led the delegation of the PLA. He has been leading the negotiation on behalf of the Chinese Army ever since the stand-off started in April-May 2020. The Indian Army officials reiterated during the talks that the stand-off had been caused by unilateral attempts by the Chinese PLA to alter the status quo along the LAC in violation of the bilateral agreements. They also stressed that it was necessary for the Chinese PLA to take appropriate steps in the remaining face-off points in order to restore peace and tranquility along the entire stretch of the LAC in the western sector of the disputed boundary, sources in New Delhi said. India has been emphasizing that end of the stand-off along the LAC would facilitate progress in its bilateral relations with China. The military commanders of India and China had discussed disengagement in Gogra Post and Hot Springs when they had held the 12th round of talks on July 31 last year. But they had not been able to reach an agreement on disengagement in Hot Springs and had only agreed on disengagement from Gogra Post, where the two sides had later withdrawn troops from. The 13th round of talks on October 10 last year had ended without any result. Beijing had accused New Delhi of insisting on “unreasonable and unrealistic demands”. India too had accused China of failing to make any forward looking proposal. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had earlier mutually withdrawn troops from both the banks of Pangong Tso (lake) in February 2021. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/military-commanders-of-india-china-discuss-hot-springs-kongka-la-1070399.html
12-01-2022||National||Wishes pour in as Priyanka Gandhi Vadra turns 50||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra turned 50 on Wednesday with wishes pouring in from her family and party leaders. Taking to Twitter, her husband Robert Vadra wrote: "Happy Birthday P...Here's to your big day, and with all the years of experience, you're more amazing than ever. Your contagious laughter, enthusiasm, kindness and strength gives me, the kids and all around you a reason to live each day, and makes us proud to be part of your life. Wishing you best of health, all affection and more strength in the better days, and years to come ahead. Keep smiling and shining as you always do." Congress state President DK Shivakumar tweeted: "Smt. @PriyankaGandhi has always been at forefront, speaking about the issues of common people especially women. On her birthday, wishing her more power and strength to continue being the strong willed, empathetic leader that she is!" Party in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, which is going to polls next month, Priyanka Gandhi stepped into politics formally in 2019. But she had been active in Amethi when Sonia Gandhi contested first elections. But her entry into politics has not been easy as she made her political debut when the strength of Congress had reduced. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has pinned high hopes for the fairer sex with her slogan larki hun lar sakti hun (am a girl, I can fight). She says if women become aware of their rights and unite, the day is not far when they would have a sizeable presence in Parliament. Her campaign has cased jitters in the opposition camp and she has earned praises in the party but yet the outcome of Assembly results is awaited. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wishes-pour-in-as-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-turns-50-1070401.html
12-01-2022||National||Happy in my space, god bless him: Saina accepts actor Siddharth's apology||Ace Indian shuttler Saina Nehwal on Wednesday said she is happy that actor Siddharth issued a public apology for his unsavoury remarks on her after she raised concerns about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security breach recently. Siddharth's reply to the Olympic bronze medallist's tweet on PM Modi's security breach in Punjab attracted much flak a few days ago, with the National Commission for Women (NCW) asking Twitter India to "immediately" block the actor's account. He issued an apology on Wednesday, calling his comment a "rude joke" and admitted that he could not "justify my tone and words." Saina said she is glad that he acknowledged that. "He only said it and he is now apologising. I was surprised to see myself trending on Twitter that day. I haven't spoken to him but I am happy that he apologised," she said on the sidelines of the ongoing India Open here. "See, it is about women, he shouldn't target a woman like that but it's okay, I am not bothered about it, I am happy in my space and god bless him," she added. After Saina posted her tweet on PM's security breach, Siddharth had tweeted, "Subtle cock champion of the world…Thank God we have protectors of India (sic)."   Following strong criticism on social media for his comment, Siddharth said that "nothing disrespectful was intended". On Wednesday, Siddharth outrightly apologised. "Dear Saina, I want to apologise to you for my rude joke that I wrote as a response to a tweet of yours, a few days ago. I may disagree with you on many things but even my disappointment or anger when I read your tweet, cannot justify my tone and words. I know I have more grace in me than that. "As for the joke... If a joke needs to be explained, then it wasn't a very good joke to begin with. Sorry about a joke that didn't land," he said. "I hope we can put this behind us and that you will accept my letter. You will always be my Champion. Honestly, Siddharth," he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/happy-in-my-space-god-bless-him-saina-accepts-actor-siddharths-apology-1070402.html
12-01-2022||National||Satyendra Jain hints at lifting curbs in Delhi as Covid-19 cases stabilise||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Wednesday said the number of hospital admissions in the national capital due to Covid-19 has stabilised over the last five days, which is an indication that the current wave of the pandemic may have peaked and cases may decline in two-three days. While sharing that Delhi is expected to report 25,000 cases on Wednesday, he said it is difficult to conclude if a wave has peaked by looking at the positivity rate or the number of cases. Hospital admission rate is the major indicator, he said in response to a question. “We have observed that the number of hospital admissions has stabilised in the last four to five days and only 2,200 beds are occupied and 85 per cent of the beds are vacant,” the minister told reporters. “Plateauing of hospital admissions is an indication that the wave may have peaked. We may see a decline in cases in two to three days,” he said. Cases have started declining in Mumbai and Delhi is likely to follow the same trend, Jain added. He also assured that if cases come down in the next couple of days, restrictions will be lifted. The minister added that most of those who have died in the ongoing surge of infections had comorbidities and very few deaths have taken place due to coronavirus. "People with comorbidities are facing more problems, not many people are coming to hospital for treatment of coronavirus," he said. The national capital had reported 23 fatalities on Tuesday. It has already recorded 93 fatalities in the first 11 days of the month. It had logged 54 fatalities in the last five months -- nine in December, seven in November, four in October, five in September and 29 in August. In July, the virus had claimed 76 lives in the national capital. The health minister also welcomed the Centre's new guidelines for Covid-19 testing, saying asymptomatic cases do not need to get tested. “The presence of virus in the human body is not a matter of concern until symptoms emerge,” he said. He added that “very few” children are contracting the infection, and only those having pre-existing problems may need hospitalisation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/satyendra-jain-hints-at-lifting-curbs-in-delhi-as-covid-19-cases-stabilise-1070403.html
12-01-2022||National||UP polls: Another BJP MLA to go with Maurya, despite family drama||After a 12-hour drama where allegations flung from one corner to another, BJP MLA Vinay Shakya has said that he would go with Swami Prasad Maurya, who resigned from the council of ministers. Shortly after Maurya quit the cabinet, a list of legislators who would go with him started doing the rounds on Tuesday and Vinay Shakya's name started doing the rounds. Later in the night, Shakya's daughter, Riya Shakya put out a video message in which she claimed that her uncle Devesh Shakya had kidnapped her father and had taken him to Lucknow. She said that her father had suffered a brain stroke some time back and could not speak or think clearly. She also thanked Yogi Adityanath for helping in her father's treatment and urged him to ensure the security of her father. Hours later, Superintendent of Police Aurraiya, Abhishek Varma released a statement saying that the legislator was in his mother's house in Etawah and other reports were a result of a family dispute. Meanwhile, Vinay Shakya, on Wednesday issued yet another statement saying that he would go with Swami Prasad Maurya. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-polls-another-bjp-mla-to-go-with-maurya-despite-family-drama-1070436.html
12-01-2022||National||Labs pull out all stops to cope with Omicron rush of tests||Hiring more staff, expanding capacity and opening walk-in centres are some of the steps laboratories are taking to cope with the twin imperatives of increased tests and timely results as Covid cases spike sharply in the country. As India copes with an Omicron driven explosion in numbers, the spotlight is on laboratories that are pulling out all the stops to ensure they are able to conduct the maximum number of tests, deliver results on time and also keep their own staff safe from the contagion. The pressure has been building by the day with increasing numbers of people showing Covid symptoms booking tests to rule out or confirm the infection and many others needing a negative test to travel, attend office or enter restricted venues. There is also the added pressure of those needing non-Covid tests. "The surge has been sudden. The graph has been too vertical and we weren't expecting such a severe surge," Dr Dangs Lab CEO Arjun Dang said in the national capital. He said the company has invested a lot in the last six months in its molecular biology lab. "We have participated in vaccine trials, and in September, October and November, we were processing as many samples as much as we are processing currently. During such trials, samples need to be processed quickly like within 24 hours. We have increased our infrastructure and manpower," he said. The lab has been testing around 1,000 samples every day, Dang said. On Wednesday, India added 1,94,720 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,60,70,510 (36 million/3.6 crore). Active cases increased to 9,55,319, the highest in 211 days, according to data from the Union Health Ministry. Cases in Delhi, too, have been spiralling high with the city on Tuesday recording 21,259 fresh Covid cases, the highest since May 1, and a positivity rate of 25.65 per cent. “We have made a testing capacity of 7,000 samples a day in Delhi, which can be ramped up to 10,000-15,000 a day. Besides this, we have also expanded our capacity for sample collection," executive chairperson of Dr Lal Path Labs, Arvind Lal, told PTI. "So far, we are placed well in Delhi and across India, but the burden is increasing," he said, adding that Dr Lal Path Labs has about 21 laboratories in the country. Besides regular testing, he added, a lot of people planning to go abroad need their reports within 24 hours. This has put an additional burden on the staff and labs are practically working round-the-clock now, he said. Industry insiders said several laboratories are hiring more staff, ramping up infrastructure, opening walk-in centres, making plans plan to expand the capacity of their central testing labs and also collection capacity. They also have to ensure that strict safety protocols are followed to protect their staff. Dr Lal Path Labs, for instance, has opened about 50 walk-in centres across India, including in Delhi. In Maharashtra, Thane-based Alpine Diagnostic LLP, which receives samples from all over the Mumbai metropolitan region barring greater Mumbai, has also added necessary infrastructure and manpower but the resources are definitely under pressure, officials said. It has witnessed a three-times surge in the amount of RT-PCR tests it is conducting. The average of 800-1,000 tests per day on December 28 has rapidly climbed to up to 3,000 per day, co-founder Dr Sandip Jadhav said. “This is very different from the first or the second waves, where there was a gradual surge in cases. Now, we are in the midst of a rapid rise,” Dr Hrishikesh Chevle, another co-founder, said. Inevitably, he said, the turnaround time for delivering test reports has doubled to 16 hours. Maharashtra and its state capital have been particular cases of concern for their high numbers. On Tuesday, Maharashtra recorded 34,424 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, 954 more than the previous day. Mumbai reported 11,647 new Covid-19 cases, the fourth day in a row of a dipping graph. Experts and citizens have their fingers crossed that the slide continues. As cases go up, the Karnataka government on Tuesday decided to increase tests in Bengaluru to 1.3 lakh daily in view of the rising cases. Officials said the state conducts about 1.5 lakh daily tests in the state but Bengaluru alone contributes about 80 to 90 per cent of cases daily, compelling the government to come out with Bengaluru specific rules. There are about 265 test labs in the state, including 97 government ones. The labs, with a capacity to perform 2,19,980 tests a day, are presently conducting 1,27,194 tests on a daily basis, the data shows. "There is no stress on labs at present because the infections are well within capacity. Our daily tests are also satisfactory in number," the official told PTI requesting anonymity. The Metropolis Healthcare lab in the Tamil Nadu capital Chennai said it is doing its best to cope with the pressure and also to comply with the government’s rules and regulations. "We have planned well in advance to manage the incremental volumes expected due to surge in Covid cases," said Managing Director Ameera Shah. However, the biggest challenge is to ensure the safety of their employees, she said. "Starting from hiring additional workforce, making existing teams work much more, stocking extra inventory, buying more equipment and all this within a very stringent price cap. Healthcare institutions like ours are going over and beyond to take care of patients and support in this crisis", she added. Neuberg Diagnostics in the state has also geared up to meet the challenge of another Covid wave. It has increased its staffing, right from registration to the result entry process, said Technical Director and Chief Microbiologist Dr Saranya Narayan. If the need arises, it will take on additionally trained technologists. Besides, positive reports are released only six hours after they have been uploaded into the ICMR portal to facilitate tracking and tracing of patients by the Greater Chennai Corporation, Narayan told PTI. West Bengal capital Kolkata is also feeling the pressure with diagnostic laboratories saying they are struggling to handle the huge number of requests pouring from different corners of the city, officials said. While most have started facing a scarcity of testing kits, a growing number of laboratories are witnessing a shortage of staff members after they tested positive, an official of a leading pathological/ diagnostic centre in the city an official told PTI. "We cannot take online requests anymore. Actually, it's the system that is not accepting any further requests. We have the capacity of taking at least 400 people. The portal is flooded with requests… three times our capacity and that is why we are unable to take more requests. “… we are facing a shortage of manpower as eight of our staff engaged in collecting the samples have tested positive for coronavirus," said an Apollo Diagnostic official in Tollygunge. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labs-pull-out-all-stops-to-cope-with-omicron-rush-of-tests-1070437.html
12-01-2022||National||By no means has threat reduced: Army chief Naravane on Ladakh row||Indian Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Wednesday said though the threats along the disputed Sino-Indian boundary have not reduced, the force is in a better position to deal with such threats due to additional manpower, improved border infrastructure, connectivity as well as better availability of military hardware. “While there has been partial disengagement (on the Line of Actual Control), the threat (from the People’s Liberation Army) has by no means reduced. Force levels, in areas where disengagement is yet to take place, have been adequately enhanced," he said. "We have inducted 25,000 additional troops in that area. We are building roads, tunnels and bridges. We have built a facility for the storage of ammunition and FOL (fuel, oil and lubricants) dumps. Lots of efforts have been made in the last one year because of which we are in a better position to meet any challenge in future,” General Naravane said at a press conference ahead of Army Day. Referring to the 14th round of Corps Commander level talks being held between the PLA and Indian Army, he said mutual dis-engagement took place at several locations at the LAC due to joint efforts and more such developments might happen in future. But upgradation and development of infrastructure along the northern border continues. This includes roads and tunnels for all weather connectivity, strategic railway lines, additional bridges across the Brahmaputra, upgradation of bridges on critical Indo-China Border Roads, and storage for supplies, fuel and ammunition. A major effort has been undertaken to identify dual use infrastructure that can be exploited by the civil administration as well as the armed forces. Asserting that Indian troops continue to keep a close eye on the PLA developments, he said, “Threat assessment and internal deliberations, have resulted in re-organisation and re-alignment of forces, in keeping with the Army’s mandate, of ensuring territorial integrity, and to cater for the major augmentation of PLA forces, and military infrastructure.” Gen Naravane admitted that force augmentation along the northern border earlier happened on a smaller scale but there has been a major rebalancing in the last few years. On the December 4 incident of soldiers opening fire on Indian citizens in Nagaland's Mon, the Chief said the Army panel investigating the incident would submit its report in a day or two. The guilty would be punished and the SOP would be modified based on the report. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/by-no-means-has-threat-reduced-army-chief-naravane-on-ladakh-row-1070447.html
12-01-2022||National||Scam alert: Fraudsters now target senior citizens with booster shots||As elderly citizens and healthcare workers line up to get their booster or precautionary Covid-19 vaccine dose amid the Omicron-driven third wave, scammers have yet again sniffed an opportunity to trick gullible people into unknowingly transferring their money. According to multiple reports, citizens particularly in the 60-plus age group — who were eligible for booster vaccinations from January 10 — received calls from cyber criminals impersonating government/health department officals looking to help them book a slot for their booster dose. They then either seek out personal details such as the victim's name, address, date of birth, bank details and vaccination status and also read out their vaccination dates to sound genuine. Most of the time, the callers already have the personal information and bank account details of the victims.  A couple of days later, the victim receives another call – from a fraudster – who then confirms the details and asks them if they wish to get a booster dose. Upon confirming the preferred date and time, they convince the victim to share the one time password (OTP) of an SMS they will receive. The SMS, however, is actually a money transfer request sent from a digital payments/UPI app like Google Pay or PhonePe and by sharing the OTP, the victims' money is sent to the caller. To avoid such scams, one must know that vaccination slots can only be booked through the Co-WIN website or the Aarogya Setu app. Government officials do not call citizens for booking vaccination slots. Additionally, it is always important to read the content of SMSes with OTPs as it shows what the code would be used for. OTPs are supposed to be secret – kept to oneself and not shared with anyone else. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scam-alert-fraudsters-now-target-senior-citizens-with-booster-shots-1070460.html
12-01-2022||National||Covid vaccination pace in children shows youth's sense of responsibility, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday lauded the "sense of responsibility" of the country's youth and said it manifested in the pace of Covid-19 vaccination in the 15-18 years age group that has covered over two crore children since its rollout this month. Virtually inaugurating the 25th edition of the National Youth Festival here, Modi also said his government's recent decision to increase the legal marriage age of women to 21 years was for the betterment of "our daughters" and ensure that they had a career and also the time. Hailing the pace of vaccination of the 15-18 years age group, he said this showed the "sense of responsibility" of the youngsters, especially witnessed during the pandemic period. "The role of the youth in the success of our covid vaccination programme is being witnessed altogether at a different level. We are seeing that the youth in the 15-18 years age group are getting themselves vaccinated at a quick pace. In such a short time, over two crore children have been vaccinated. This exemplifies the sense of responsibility in today's youth and my confidence in a bright future of the country is further strengthened," he said. The vaccination for the children of this age group was launched on January 3. On increasing women's legal marriage age to 21 years, the PM said it was based on the principle of equality. "We know sons and daughters are equal. With this thought, the government, for the betterment of daughters, decided to increase their marriage age to 21 years. Let daughters too make their career, let them get more time. This is a very significant step in this direction," he asserted. Dwelling on the youth population of India, Modi said the world has accepted India's demography and democracy as its powers. "India's youth along with demographic dividend has democratic values. India sees youth as development driver besides demographic dividend. They are leading the democratic values. In the Indian youth, there is democratic awareness and they have a clarity about the future." "Therefore, what India says today the world sees as tomorrow's voice," he said. He hailed Sri Aurobindo, Swami Vivekananda, Bhagat Singh, Chandrasekhar Azad, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and national poet Subramania Bharathy as youth icons and recalled their contribution in the respective spheres. The youth during freedom struggle had sacrificed everything but today's youth has to live for the country and fulfill the dreams of the freedom fighters, he said. "Today as country with biggest population of youth and their new dreams, their skill will take the country to new heights," Modi said. Quoting from Sri Aurobindo, Modi exhorted the young to be the builder of the new world. "Today's youth has a can-do spirit which is a source of inspiration for every generation. Due to the youth, in digital payment we are far ahead. India's youth is writing code for global prosperity. The Indian youth is a force to be reckoned with in the unicorn ecosystem all over the world," he said. "India today has a strong ecosystem of over 50,000 startups. Out of which, more than 10,000 startups came up amidst the challenge of the pandemic," he added. The unprecedented haul of medals in the latest Paralympics and the good show in the Olympics last year were proof of the youth power. "Compete and conquer should be India's new mantra," he added. He said the modern youth's ability is not to be burdened by old stereotypes and that he knows how to shake them. Modi also stressed on the 'Vocal for Local' concept, saying Atmanirbharta (self-sufficiency) will solve many issues including employment and economic growth and urged that buying a local artisan's product should be high on one's shopping list. Extending his festival wishes for Pongal, Makar Sankranthi, Bihu, Lohri, Modi urged that they be celebrated in compliance with Covid precautions. On the occasion, Modi inaugurated a Technology Centre of the MSME Ministry, established here with an investment of about Rs 122 crore. He also inaugurated the Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Manimandapam - an auditorium with an open-air theatre, constructed by the Government of Puducherry at a cost of about Rs 23 crore to commemorate the visionary former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, a Congressman respected across political lines. It will have various other facilities as well. In his address, Puducherry Chief Minister N Rangasamy said there were several ways through which one could contribute to the country. "Wealth, science and commerce are some examples. But education without character, wealth without charity, commerce without morality and science without humanity are not only useless but also dangerous", he said. It was the duty to protect the youth from the pandemic and that was the reason to hold the event through virtual mode, he explained. The youth event was initially planned to be an offline event, involving Modi's physical presence. Union Ministers Anurag Singh Thakur and Lt Governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan were among those present on the occasion. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccination-pace-in-children-shows-youths-sense-of-responsibility-says-pm-modi-1070464.html
12-01-2022||National||Counter-terrorism Committee Chair Ambassador Tirumurti discusses priorities for 2022||India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti, who is also the Chair of the UNSC Counter-terrorism Committee for 2022, discussed its priorities for the year and shared India's focus and perspective on counter-terrorism. The Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC) was established in 2001 in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. UNSC Resolution 1373 (2001) had established the CTC as a subsidiary body of the United Nations Security Council. “As Chair of Counter Terrorism Committee (CTC) of UN #SecurityCouncil, it was a pleasure to interact with Acting Executive Director of #UN_CTED and his team today to discuss CTC's priorities for 2022 and share India's focus and perspective on #counterterrorism," Tirumurti tweeted on Tuesday. The United Nations Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate (CTED), which supports the Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC), said in a tweet that Tirumurti highlighted the work priorities for 2022 in addressing emerging threats and challenges. Tirumurti is the new Chair of the Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee for 2022. India is currently a non-permanent member of the 15-nation Security Council and its two-year term will end December 31, 2022. On the eve of assuming Chair of the CTC, India had in December voted in favour of a resolution to renew the mandate of the CTED. The UN Security Council, through its written silence procedure, renewed the mandate of the Executive Directorate until December 31, 2025. “As the Chair of CTC for 2022, India will make determined efforts to further enhance the role of CTC in strengthening the multilateral response to counter terrorism, and more importantly, ensuring that global response to the threat of terrorism remains unambiguous, undivided and effective,” India had said in its explanation of vote to renew the CTED mandate.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/counter-terrorism-committee-chair-ambassador-tirumurti-discusses-priorities-for-2022-1070465.html
12-01-2022||National||Sri Lanka to return Indian prisoners under SAARC prisoner exchange agreement||Sri Lanka will hand over two Indian prisoners, who have been serving life imprisonment in the island nation, to India on Wednesday and Thursday under the SAARC prisoners exchange agreement, a senior prison official said here. Prison Spokesman Chandana Ekanayake told PTI that the additional Secretary to the ministry of justice has informed the commissioner general of prisons to release the two Indian nationals. “They will be handed over to the Indian police officials at the Colombo international airport today (Wednesday) and tomorrow (Thursday),” he said without identifying the two Indians to protect their privacy. One of the convicts serving life imprisonment has been in jail for over 12 years for possession and Import of narcotics and charged under the Poisons, Opium And Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act, Ekanayake said. The second, charged under the Dangerous Drugs Act, is serving in a jail here over the last 6 years. The India-Sri Lanka bilateral agreement on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons was signed in June 2010, paving the way for the transfer of prisoners to jails in their home country. The agreement provides for the conditions under which such transfers can take place and the various obligations of the transferring State and the receiving State. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-to-return-indian-prisoners-under-saarc-prisoner-exchange-agreement-1070494.html
12-01-2022||National||Don't treat Omicron as common cold: Centre||Top government officials on Wednesday advised people not to treat the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 as common cold while asking doctors to follow a rational approach in their prescriptions instead of prescribing unnecessary medicines that have been proven useless in Covid-19 treatment. The officials also warned against “rampant and irrational” use of Molnupiravir, which they say has a narrow window of clinical application. "Omicron is not common cold. It should not be taken lightly. The current pandemic is driven by Omicron because of which, the transmission of the virus from the western part of India to the east was very rapid,” VK Paul, NITI Ayog member and government’s principal advisor on Covid-19 said. “We need to be vigilant, get vaccinated and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Vaccination is an important pillar in our Covid response programme,” he said, observing that nearly 1.5 crore senior citizens are yet to take their first dose of the vaccine. According to the government estimate, there are nearly 13.75 crore people aged over 60 years, of which 12.25 crore received the first shot. Paul appealed to the medical community to prescribe medicines rationally following the national treatment protocol as there are concerns on overuse and misuse of drugs in Covid treatment during the second wave. One such example was misuse of steroids that led to a spread in mucormycosis infections last year. "The repertoire of medicines for Covid treatment is limited. There is a set of rational medicines in the mainstream protocol. Covid treatments should be limited to such protocols,” said Paul. Asked about Molnupiravir, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said the drug carried certain risks that warranted caution in its use. “There is rampant and irrational use of Molnupiravir. Efforts should be made to restrict its use because the known and unknown harms (of the medicine) far outweigh the claimed benefits,” he said. The Central Drug Standards Control Organisation on December 28 approved the drug for manufacturing by 13 Indian companies on the basis of a recommendation by an expert panel, which cleared it for treating Covid-19 in adults who have high risk of progression of the disease including hospitalisation or death, subject to certain conditions. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya too welcomed the approval. The US FDA recognised the risks associated with the medicine but still went ahead to clear the medicine observing that its benefits outweighed the risks. The medicine also received regulatory approval in the UK, Australia and New Zealand. Bhargava said the current evidence suggests Molnupiravir’s relevance to the elderly and the unvaccinated people with comorbidities. There is no evidence of its benefit in people having diabetes and in those who were previously infected with Covid-19 or vaccinated. “The current clinical window of its application appears to be extremely narrow,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-treat-omicron-as-common-cold-centre-1070513.html
12-01-2022||National||SC allows plea to exclude lands from acquisition for Shivaram Karanth layout ||The Supreme Court has allowed a proposal by the Justice A V Chandrashekar Committee to exclude lands occupied by a group of educational institutions and health centres and others from the acquisition of Dr K Shivaram Karanth layout in Bengaluru. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna directed the Bangalore Development Authority not to acquire eight items of land as mentioned in the seventh status report by the committee. The court noted that these institutions have been in existence in the notified land and that they have been rendering valuable service to the general public and in particular, to the local population. It directed the BDA to issue regularisation certificates in respect of the lands, buildings to the concerned person, or entity within a period of eight weeks from subject to the condition that the said land and the buildings should be used for the same purpose for which regularisation has been recommended. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-plea-to-exclude-lands-from-acquisition-for-shivaram-karanth-layout-1070528.html
12-01-2022||National||Railways will operate trains for migrant labourers if states ask for it: Vaishnaw||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has asked the zonal railways to be ready to operate special trains to help migrant workers to return to their home towns if such a demand comes from states as more restrictions are being imposed in different parts of the country to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The Minister held a meeting with top railway officials and discussed the railways' preparedness to handle the pandemic situation. The Minister reviewed the running of special trains in case of emergency or sudden surge in number of passengers or migrants at railway stations, a statement from the railways said. In the meeting, the minister also reviewed railway hospital infrastructure, paediatric ward functioning, vaccination of children and staff of Railways, including provisioning of booster dose to frontline workers of railways. Availability of medicines, oxygen supply, and other necessary medical support and functioning of ventilators, liquid medical oxygen tanks, and availability of other equipment were also reviewed, the statement read. Of the total sanctioned oxygen plants, 78 have already been commissioned at different railway hospitals and 17 were yet to be commissioned, said the statement. The Minister also asked officials to ensure that the frequency of announcements at railway stations about masking up, sanitisation of hands and other precautionary measures is increased. He also instructed officials to discourage entry of people without mask at railway stations. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-will-operate-trains-for-migrant-labourers-if-states-ask-for-it-vaishnaw-1070531.html
12-01-2022||National||Portal to facilitate business between Bangladesh, NE India launched||A trade portal to facilitate business between Bangladeshi and Indian traders, especially of the North East region, was launched on Wednesday here. The trade portal, which contains a database of exporters and importers of North East India and Bangladesh, would enable B2B collaboration between buyers and sellers of both countries and also allow business dealings and negotiations between the two sides, an official statement said. The Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), with assistance from the Bangladesh Assistant High Commission in Guwahati, has developed the portal. The ICC will also maintain it.\ Launching the portal, Bangladesh Assistant High Commissioner Dr Shah Mohammad Tanvir Monsur said the bilateral trade between India and his country is worth $10 billion US per annum, but the North-East region contributes only one per cent to it. The items traded include coal, vegetables, limestone and tea. Monsur said there is much potential for other items such as handloom and handicrafts and Muga (mulberry) silk in Bangladesh. Speaking on the occasion, ICC's regional director Ishantor Sobhapandit said this is the first website or mobile application which would give a unique experience to the exporters and importers of the two countries. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/portal-to-facilitate-business-between-bangladesh-ne-india-launched-1070555.html
12-01-2022||National||Atmakur violence: SDPI-PFI activities under probe in Andhra Pradesh||The arrest of seven Social Democratic Party of India activists for the attack on a police station in Kurnool district has put focus on the organisation's activities in Andhra Pradesh. SDPI is the political outfit of Popular Front of India — an Islamist organisation linked to political murders, extremist activities in the country — more so in Kerala and Karnataka. The National Investigation Agency had earlier arrested several leaders and members of SDPI-PFI for their involvement in the August 2020 communal riots in Bengaluru and the arson at the Kadugondanahalli police station in the city. The attack on the Atmakur police station by a mob of which the SDPI members were part of took place on Saturday. Trouble began in the town after a group of Muslims began construction of a mosque — “a shed-like structure, without any permissions from the civic body.” BJP leaders, including Nandyal parliament in-charge Budda Srikanth Reddy, arrived at the spot opposing the structure which led to a clash and stone-pelting between two groups. Several people, including a few policemen, were injured in the violence. A car was damaged by the mob which also resorted to vandalism at the Atmakur police station. While five FIRs were registered and 60 persons arrested from both sides for the violence, police officials said that seven of them are “outsiders, associated with SDPI/PFI activities.” Their role in inciting the crowd is being probed. SDPI is found to be conducting its sessions in several towns of Rayalaseema, which has a sizable population of Muslims. According to Sudheer Kumar Reddy, superintendent of police, Kurnool, the seven people, who came from nearby Velugodu, had attended the Islamist outfits' orientation sessions recently. “We are probing if there is any objectionable, instigating content propagated in these meetings. There were some attempts earlier to obstruct the police from entering their premises,” Reddy told DH. Holding protests over the Atmakur incident, AP BJP unit leaders have accused the ruling YSRCP leaders of attempts to shield the perpetrators of violence. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atmakur-violence-sdpi-pfi-activities-under-probe-in-andhra-pradesh-1070568.html
12-01-2022||National||Eminent rocket scientist S Somanath appointed as ISRO chief||Eminent rocket scientist S Somanath has been appointed as the chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) as well as the Space Secretary, a Personnel Ministry order issued on Wednesday said. Somanath, who is at present Director of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), will succeed K Sivan who completes his extended tenure on Friday. Sivan was in January 2018 appointed as the ISRO chief, Secretary of the Department of Space and Chairman Space Commission. He was in December 2020 given a one-year extension till January 14, 2022. Somanath’s appointment as the Space Secretary and the Space Commission Chairman is for a combined tenure of three years from the date of joining of the post, inclusive of an extension in tenure beyond the age of superannuation in the public interest, the order said. The post of the ISRO chairman, the Space Secretary and the Space Commission chief is usually held by one person only. Somanath, who will be the 10th chairman of the premier space organisation, took charge as the VSSC’s head on January 22, 2018, after a two and a half years stint as the Director of Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC), Valiamala, Thiruvananathapuram. Previously, he served as the Associate Director (Projects) of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre and also as the Project Director of GSLV Mk-III launch vehicle, according to his official biodata. Under his leadership, the first experimental flight of the LVM3-X/CARE mission was successfully accomplished on December 18, 2014, it said. Somanath did his B Tech in Mechanical Engineering from TKM college of engineering, Kollam, and Masters in Aerospace Engineering from Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, with specialisation in structures, dynamics and control. He was a gold medalist. Somanath joined VSSC in 1985 and was a team leader for the integration of PSLV during the early phases. He is an expert in the area of system engineering of launch vehicles, as per his official biodata. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eminent-rocket-scientist-s-somanath-appointed-as-isro-chief-1070573.html
12-01-2022||National||Hyderabad police book actor Siddharth for tweet against Saina Nehwal||A case was registered against actor Siddharth by the Cybercrime wing of Hyderabad Police over his controversial tweet against ace Indian shuttler Saina Nehwal, police said on Wednesday. Based on a complaint lodged by a woman here against Siddharth over his remarks online against the badminton player, the case was registered against the actor under IPC Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of women) and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act, a senior police official told PTI. Saina Nehwal on Wednesday said she is happy that Siddharth issued a public apology for his unsavoury remarks on her after she raised concerns about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security breach recently. Siddharth's reply to the Olympic bronze medallist's tweet on PM Modi's security breach in Punjab attracted much flak a few days ago, with the National Commission for Women (NCW) asking Twitter India to "immediately" block the actor's account. He issued an apology, calling his comment a "rude joke" and admitted that he could not "justify my tone and words." Saina said she is glad he acknowledged that.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyderabad-police-book-actor-siddharth-for-tweet-against-saina-nehwal-1070579.html
12-01-2022||National||25 years before US heart transplant with pig's organ, Assam doc had experimented with tragic outcome||As news about doctors in the US transplanting a genetically modified pig's heart into a human makes headlines around the world, one man remains unmoved. 74-year-old surgeon, Dr Dhaniram Baruah — who can no longer talk after having suffered a stroke — claims to have performed a similar surgery 24 year ago. "You can't understand what he speaks now. But he told us that he is not really moved by what the US doctors have done. You all know that Baruah had transplanted a pig's heart into a human in 1997. He has repeatedly said that a pig's heart can be transplanted into a human but nobody believed what he has said all these years," Dalimi Baruah, who claims to be Dhaniram's long time research associate, told DH on Thursday.  Baruah, along with his assistant surgeon from Hong Kong, Dr Jonathan Ho Kei-Shing, had stirred controversy in 1997 when he claimed that he had transplanted a pig's heart and a liver on a 32-year-old man at the Dr Dhani Ram Baruah Heart Institute & Research Centre at Sonapur in the outskirts of Guwahati The patient survived for a week but died due to multiple infections. The two doctors were arrested as xenotransplantation (transplanting organs from one species to another) was not allowed under the Transplantation of Human Organs Act, 1994. The duo was held guilty of unethical procedure and culpable homicide under the act and was imprisoned for 40 days.  As the news spread about Maryland doctors' claim that their transplantation was the first such feat in medical history, many took to social media and recalled about Baruah's surgery from 24 years ago. "He did not get the kind of respect he deserved then. Now that the US doctors have done it, many have started praising him," a trader in Guwahati posted on Facebook. A doctor in Guwahati said Baruah's work was not accepted by the scientific community as he did not get his findings scientifically peer-reviewed. He said there was also a significant difference between Baruah's act and that of the US doctors' feat. "The heart which the US doctors transplanted is that of a genetically modified pig," he said.  "Transplantation is the past for him. He is now researching on genetic engineering," Dalimi said talking about Baruah. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-years-before-us-heart-transplant-with-pigs-organ-assam-doc-had-experimented-with-tragic-outcome-1070596.html
12-01-2022||National||PM to hold meeting with CMs on Covid situation on January 13||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers over the Covid-19 situation on Thursday amid the surge in coronavirus cases due to its Omicron variant, according to sources. Fresh curbs have been imposed in various parts of the country to check the spread of the highly transmissible virus. The prime minister will interact with the chief ministers on the Covid-related situation on Thursday at 4:30 pm via video conferencing, official sources said. Reviewing the Covid situation at a high-level meeting on Sunday, Modi had called for ensuring adequate health infrastructure at the district level and accelerating the vaccination drive for adolescents in mission mode. The precaution vaccination drive for healthcare and frontline workers besides those over 60 years of age with comorbidities has also started.  Vaccination remains among the most effective means to fight Covid, Modi had said.  The PM had said that a meeting with the CMs is convened to discuss state-specific scenarios, best practices and the public health response. The prime minister has held numerous meetings with chief ministers to spearhead India's response to the disease since its outbreak in 2020. India added 1,94,720 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,60,70,510 which includes 4,868 cases of the Omicron variant, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The active cases have increased to 9,55,319, the highest in 211 days, while the death toll has climbed to 4,84,655 with 442 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am Wednesday stated. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-hold-meeting-with-cms-on-covid-situation-on-january-13-1070601.html
12-01-2022||National||Several staff members in BJP's national HQ test Covid-positive||Several members of the staff manning the Bharatiya Janata Party’s headquarters at New Delhi's Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg have tested positive for Covid-19. Most of these members are part of the maintenance staff.  “Apart from national media co-head Sanjay Mayukh, some guards, some peons and members of the maintenance and sanitation staff have been tested positive,” said a party functionary.  Reports claim that as many as 45 people have tested positive. However, another party functionary told DH that the number was below 15. “We keep on conducting routine tests, and during the last round we found several of them have been affected by the virus,” the member said. The party’s office is now closed to outsiders, exept party members and mediapersons.  Offices on all floors were sanitised after the cases were found, said the second functionary. The Covid positive cases come as key BJP leaders, part of the party’s core committee for Uttar Pradesh, have been conducting meetings to decide and deliberate on the party’s seat-sharing and digital strategies for the upcoming assembly elections in the state. BJP president JP Nadda, as well as senior leaders, defence minister Rajnath Singh, and transport minister Nitin Gadkari have tested positive. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, too, tested positive. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/several-staff-members-in-bjps-national-hq-test-covid-positive-1070608.html
12-01-2022||National Politics||'Who in Congress sought to benefit from breach to PM Modi's security?' BJP asks||The BJP on Wednesday accused the Congress government in Punjab of deliberately ignoring the security threat to Prime Minister Narendra Modi despite being informed of it by state police personnel, and asked who in the opposition party sought to benefit from the breach. Union minister and BJP leader Smriti Irani cited a 'sting' done by a new channel which purportedly showed some Punjab Police officials saying that they informed their superiors about protestors blocking the route of Modi's carcade but no action was allegedly taken. Addressing a press conference, she said, "What is extremely disconcerting is that Punjab Police officials have highlighted how they continuously engaged with the Congress government and administration in Punjab to bring to light the threat to the security of PM and his route. The question this expose begets who in the Congress-led government in Punjab continued to deliberately ignore these threats to the PM's security?" Who sought to benefit in the Congress from the breach to Modi's security, she asked. Irani said the then Punjab DGP had given an all-clear message to Modi's security team and wondered as to why he did so. She also hit out at the Congress over Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's statement that he had also briefed party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra about the development and questioned his doing so as the Congress general secretary is a private citizen. Why is that private citizen an "interested party" in the matter of the prime minister's security, Irani asked. With Channi often taking aim at the BJP over its concerted campaign against him over the alleged security threat to the prime minister, she accused Congress leaders of trivialising such a serious matter. Modi's Punjab visit on January 5 was cut short as he was stranded on a flyover for 20 minutes due to a blockade by protesters. After the lapse in security, Modi's convoy decided to return without attending an event at a martyrs' memorial at Hussainiwala. The prime minister also could not attend a rally in Ferozepur. Channi has insisted that there was no threat to Modi.The Congress has suggested that the decision to cut short the prime minister's trip was caused by the alleged thin attendance at his rally. The Supreme Court has constituted a panel to probe the entire incident. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/who-in-congress-sought-to-benefit-from-breach-to-pm-modis-security-bjp-asks-1070469.html
12-01-2022||National Politics||Congress high command, Punjab CM conspired to kill PM Modi: Assam CM Himanta||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday alleged that the Congress high command and his Punjab counterpart had conspired to assassinate the prime minister through the ‘security breach’ on January 5 while Narendra Modi was visiting the northern state. He demanded that Charanjit Singh Channi, the chief minister of Punjab, should be arrested for his role in the alleged conspiracy. Addressing a press conference here, Sarma said, “All evidence makes it clear that Congress high command and Punjab CM conspired to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” He was referring to a purported sting operation by a television channel in Punjab which claimed that the police there had intelligence report on January two regarding an attempt to kill the prime minister. Sarma also claimed that statements by Congress leaders following the incident indicated that they knew of the "conspiracy". Modi, who landed in Bathinda in Punjab on January 5 and had to take the road route to Hussainiwala in Ferozepur because of inclement weather on Wednesday, was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes due to a blockade by some farmers, an incident the Union Home Ministry described as a “major lapse” in his security. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-high-command-punjab-cm-conspired-to-kill-pm-modi-assam-cm-himanta-1070541.html
12-01-2022||National Politics||Telangana CM accuses Modi of failing farm sector, warns of nationwide agitations||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to maintain the fertiliser costs at the present level, while asking the central government to absorb any additional costs in order to "unburden crores of farmers." On Wednesday, Rao shot off a letter to Modi pointing that the BJP led government had in February 2016 promised to double farmers' income in six years i.e. by 2022. “(But) no specific or structured programme has been initiated towards that direction. Contrary and to the dismay of one and all, input costs have doubled in the last five years, while the farming income has declined causing distress,” Rao said in the missive. The missive was sent a day after Rao met with RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav at his residence in Hyderabad. Last week, the CM had separate meetings with the CPI and CPM leaders, who were in the city for their party-related activities. Rao had also met Tamil Nadu CM and DMK chief MK Stalin last month, when he visited Srirangam.  The parleys, details of which were not revealed, are believed to have centred on the political situation in the country. The meetings are being seen by analysts as Rao's attempts at lending credence to his random talk of forming a federal front. In a separate statement issued on Wednesday, Rao asked the people in the state and across the country “to root out the BJP government which is weakening the rural economy, hereditary trades, and playing havoc with farming to hand over the agriculture sector to the corporates.” He warned the Modi government of public agitations. The warning and letter to Modi also come in the backdrop of the ongoing tussle between the TRS and BJP over the procurement of Telangana paddy. Rao went on to accuse the Modi government of turning a blind eye to the ever-increasing fertiliser prices. “It is sad to note that the prices of two most consumed fertilisers 28.28.0 and Muriate of Potash have increased by more than 50% and 100% respectively in the last 90 days.” He pointed out that the Centre's claims of pegging the MSP at 150 per cent of production costs is misleading. “The Government of India has no reliable mechanism of ensuring price guarantee to the farmers for their crops.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/telangana-cm-accuses-modi-of-failing-farm-sector-warns-of-nationwide-agitations-1070624.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||'Punjab needs serious people': Manish Tewari attacks Channi, Sidhu||Congress MP from Punjab's Anandpur Sahib has once again attacked Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state party president Navjot Singh Sidhu on reports that both are pushing to be named as the Chief Ministerial candidates. Tewari on Wednesday said, "Punjab needs serious people", and took potshots on both Channi and Sidhu and dubbed them as non serious persons who are entertaining people. Tewari tweeted, "Punjab requires a CM who has solutions to Punjab's challenges, capacity to take tough decisions. Punjab Needs serious people whose politics is Not Social Engineering, Entertainment, Freebies and NOT regime favourites rejected by people in successive elections." The Congress, so far, has not named any one as the Chief Ministerial face for the upcoming Assembly elections as the party considers that this leads to infighting and internal rift. But state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said it is the people who will choose the next Chief Minister of the state and not the high command. Unveiling the first set of plans in his Punjab Model with focus on resurrection of Punjab, Sidhu, in the absence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his Cabinet colleagues, told the media here: "Punjab Model is people's model, an effort to give a roadmap to return power to people." To counter the powerful 'mafia model', which has power to even stop the notification of Cabinet passed resolution, he said a model is needed to redistribute state resources and give power back to the rightful beneficiaries. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-needs-serious-people-manish-tewari-attacks-channi-sidhu-1070368.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||In poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Yogi's diktat to sugar mills officials to pay farmers||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to recover the dues of cane growers by immediately liquidating "other assets of these mills that have failed to clear the arrears". As many as 20 sugar mills, all in the private sector, still owe over Rs 1,600 crore in dues from the previous crushing season to farmers across 50 Assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh. The move is aimed at ensuring that non-payment of dues does not adversely affect the BJP in the Assembly elections. Most of these mills are based in west UP, the sugar bowl of the state, spanning Lakhimpur Kheri, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Pilibhit, Saharanpur, Baghpat, Meerut, Hapur and Bulandshahr, among other districts. Sugar, in this region, remains the focal point of politics. According to an official of the cane department, there are 119 sugar mills in the state to which around 45 lakh sugarcane growers supply their produce. On an average, at least 40,000 farmers are associated with each mill. The defaulter mills are owned by four groups. They not only owe a total of Rs 1,600 crore from last year's crushing season to cane growers in their respective areas but have not paid a penny for the current season either, he added. As expected, opposition parties are ready to cash in on the mood among these cane growers, many of whom participated in the agitation against farm laws. RLD's senior leader Praveen Deshwal said, "These farmers will give a fitting reply in the upcoming polls." However, Uttar Pradesh minister and senior BJP leader Bhupendra Singh said, "It is only the BJP government which ensured cane payments in time and launched several schemes to double farmers' income." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-yogis-diktat-to-sugar-mills-officials-to-pay-farmers-1070371.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Retd Justice Indu Malhotra to head panel probing PM Modi's security breach in Punjab||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed former top court judge, Justice Indu Malhotra as head of an enquiry panel to probe Prime Minister Modi's security breach in Punjab last week. The top court explained the object is "to avoid any human error, negligence or any willful omission or commission which may hamper and/or expose the safety and security of the Executive Head of the nation while he is traveling in a particular state. Any lapse in this regard can lead to devastating and serious consequences."  A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli ordered for keeping the inquiry committees set up by the Centre and the Punjab government in abeyance. The court said questions related to sensitive issues on security breach of the PM cannot be left to one-sided inquiry. "A judicially trained independent mind, duly assisted by officers who are well acquainted with the security considerations and the Registrar General of the High Court who has seized the record pursuant to our earlier order, would be best placed to effectively visit all issues and submit a comprehensive report for the consideration of this court," the bench said. The bench said it is not necessary for us to elucidate more on facts as the lapse regarding the breach of security of the Prime Minister during his visit to Firozpur on January 5 is not seriously disputed by either party.  "There is, however, a blame game between the State and central government as to who is responsible for such lapses. War of words between them is no solution. It may rather impair the need of a robust mechanism to respond at such a critical juncture," the bench added. The court passed its order on a writ petition filed by NGO 'Lawyers Voice'.   It nominated Justice Malhotra as chairperson of the enquiry committee. Other members of the inquiry panel would include the Director General of the NIA or his nominee, not below the rank of IG, DGP of Chandigarh UT, ADGP (Security), Punjab and Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana HC. The court said the inquiry panel would look into the cause of breach, who was responsible for it and suggest remedial measures and safeguards required for such safety of the Prime Minister or such other protectees. The bench asked the panel to give its report at the earliest. On January 5, on a visit to Hussainiwala, district Firozpur, the convoy of the Prime Minister was stuck on a flyover for around 20 minutes, constituting a "very grave security breach that could have had significant repercussions on the safety of the constitutional functionary". The court agreed with a contention of senior advocate Maninder Singh, counsel for the petitioner that not only are those responsible for the lapse liable to be identified, but there is also a greater urgency to evolve new measures that may ensure there is no recurrence for such lapses in future. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Punjab Advocate General D S Patwalia agreed for independent probe into the matter.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/retd-justice-indu-malhotra-to-head-panel-probing-pm-modis-security-breach-in-punjab-1070377.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Suspected drone spotted near international border in J&K||A suspected drone was spotted by villagers in Sandhawan of Kanachak area near the International Border in Jammu. A search is going on, according to J&K Police. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-drone-spotted-near-international-border-in-jk-1070385.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre, Uttarakhand govt over Haridwar hate speeches||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre and the Uttarakhand government on a plea for taking action in connection with the alleged hate speeches made in Haridwar Dharam Sansad against the Muslim community. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli said the court would consider the matter after 10 days. The court allowed the petitioners, former Patna High Court judge Anjana Prakash and journalist Qurban Ali to bring it to the notice of authorities against permission for 'Dharm Sansad' to be held at other places where they feared that inflammatory speeches may be made again. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that the matter was related to hate speech where the court has to lay down guidelines. During the hearing, the bench pointed out there were other cases pending too and if the instant matter was connected, it would be tagged. Senior advocate Indira Jaising, representing an intervenor, Tushar Gandhi, submitted that there was a judgement by the top court but it had not been implemented by the authorities. Former Patna High Court judge, and senior advocate Anjana Prakash and a journalist, Qurban Ali approached the top court seeking urgent intervention in the matter pertaining to the "hate speeches" delivered last year, in two events organised by Hindu Yuva Vahini in Delhi and Haridwar respectively on December 17 and 19. "The said speeches are not mere hate speeches but amount to an open call for murder of an entire community," their plea said. It was reported that several Hindu religious leaders, who addressed the gathering, called upon the community to take up arms against Muslims. The petitioners alleged not only the "inaction" of the police allowed delivery of hate speeches with impunity but also showed that they are, in fact, hand in glove with the perpetrators of communal hate. Earlier, former Union Minister Salman Khurshid, Dushyant Dave, Prashant Bhushan, senior advocate Basava P Patil and others, including the petitioner-former judge asked the CJI to direct action against those who made hate speeches in two events. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-uttarakhand-govt-over-haridwar-hate-speeches-1070392.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Severe cold conditions in Rajasthan; Fatehpur freezes at 2.5 degrees Celsius||Severe cold conditions gripped parts of Rajasthan on Wednesday, with Fatehpur in Sikar recorded as the coldest place in the state after recording a minimum of 2.5 degrees Celsius. Weather officials said night temperatures dipped at several places in the state. “Fatehpur in Sikar was recorded as the coldest place with a minimum of 2.5 degrees Celsius followed by Churu where the night temperature was 3.4 degrees Celsius Tuesday night,” they said. According to the MeT department, the night temperature was 3.8 degrees Celsius in Karauli, 4.1 degrees in Bhilwara, 4.6 degrees in Chittorgarh and Anta (Baran), 5.1 degrees in Nagaur, 5.5 degrees in Sikar, Vanasthali (Tonk) and Alwar, 5.8 degrees in Dabok, and 5.9 degrees Celsius in Tonk. The state capital Jaipur and Pilani recorded a minimum temperature of 6.5 degrees Celsius. The MeT added that the cold conditions will remain unchanged during the next 24 hours. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/severe-cold-conditions-in-rajasthan-fatehpur-freezes-at-25-degrees-celsius-1070400.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Gangster who supplied arms for Rohini Court shootout held||Rakesh Tajpuriya, a close-aide of dreaded gangster Tillu Tajpuriya, was arrested after a brief encounter in the national capital, an official said on Wednesday. Rakesh Tajpuriya was involved in supplying arms and ammunition to the assailants in the Rohini Court shootout case. The shootout which seemed like a Bollywood potboiler, took place on September 24, 2021 in which Delhi's most wanted gangster Jitender Singh Mann alias Gogi was shot dead inside a courtroom by two gangsters from the rival 'Tilu' gang, dressed in lawyers' garb. Sources said the encounter between the Special Cell of Delhi police and accused Rakesh took place on Tuesday night in the Narela area of the city. "There was a brief exchange of fire when the policemen tried to apprehend Rakesh," the sources said, adding that two rounds of fire were opened during the encounter. However, no one was injured in the encounter. Sources further said that Rakesh is considered the right-hand man of Tillu Tajpuriya and carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. More details awaited. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gangster-who-supplied-arms-for-rohini-court-shootout-held-1070404.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Amarinder Singh tests positive for Covid-19 ahead of polls||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he has tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. "I have tested positive for #Covid with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself and request all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested," he said in a tweet. The 79-year-old leader had recently formed the Punjab Lok Congress. A few days ago, Singh's wife and Congress MP from Patiala, Preneet Kaur had tested positive for the infection. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-ahead-of-polls-1070409.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Deaf, mute minor gang-raped, left abandoned on road in Rajasthan's Alwar||A deaf and mute girl was gang-raped in Rajasthan's Alwar and thrown on near a culvert on the road, bleeding profusely. The incident happened on Tuesday night and the girls' condition is critical. The girl was lying in pain for around an hour when she was spotted by passers-by who informed the police. The police then rushed the girl to a local hospital where she was admitted to the ICU. Since her condition was serious, she was shifted to Jaipur hospital late at night. The gaccused are yet to be identified. "The kid is presently at JK Lon in Jaipur. Our primary concern is her health and hence she was shifted there and our deputy SP Anjali is there with her. We have formed an SIT team, including six SHOs who are searching for technical and scientific evidence to arrest the accused," Superintendent of Police Tejaswini Gautam told IANS, . The minor was thrown near the culvert, Gautam said. "We came to know that the minor was missing from nearby village Malakheda around 4 p.m. on Tuesday. We informed her parents and they identified the kid." The police are on the lookout for the accused. CCTV footage is being checked, officials said. Superintendent of JK Lon Hospital, Dr Arvind Shukla said that a team of seven doctors is treating the girl. It also includes gynecologists and plastic surgeons. The girl has been badly injured by a sharp object, said the doctor. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deaf-mute-minor-gang-raped-left-abandoned-on-road-in-rajasthans-alwar-1070442.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi Assembly Speaker Goel tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel on Wednesday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms and has isolated himself at home.  The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator also appealed to those who have come in contact with him to get tested.  “My Covid test is positive. There are mild symptoms. I have isolated myself at home. I request all those who came in contact with me in the last few days to get their test done. Please exercise caution,” Goel tweeted in Hindi. मेरा Covid-test पॉजिटिव आया है।हल्के लक्षण है। मैंने खुद को घर मे आइसोलेट कर लिया है, पिछले दिनों में जो भी लोग मेरे सम्पर्क में आये है उन सभी लोगो से अनुरोध है कि वो अपना Covid-test अवश्य करवाएं।कृपया सावधानी बरतें। Goel's family is also isolated, they said. Officials said that a few staff members in Goel's office have also tested positive and are in isolation. Prior to Goel, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had also tested positive for the virus earlier this month. Kejriwal had tested negative on January 9.  In the last Covid-19 wave in 2021, most of the ministers of the Delhi government including deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot and Environment Minister Gopal Rai had tested Covid positive. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-assembly-speaker-goel-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1070443.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Four nabbed in Jodhpur for preparing forged documents for Pakistan immigrants||Four persons have been arrested here for allegedly preparing forged documents for Pakistan citizens in order to get them Indian visas, police said. Two accused are relatives while two others include a student and an employee of an NGO. A case was registered on the directions of a CID inspector, who had conducted an inquiry into a complaint against them by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs last month. “In the investigation, Narendra alias Nemaram Tak, Sohel Rohani, Chiranjit alias Ashok Meghwal and Shital Bheel were found guilty of preparing forged documents. We have arrested them on Tuesday evening," a senior police official said. Investigation revealed that the accused colluded to get the documents like sponsor certificate,  identity card and residential certificate for the visas for Pakistan citizens willing to come to India, police said. For the attestation, they fabricated the signature of a teacher Gautam Puri, the police said. "During investigation, we found that Puri had no idea about this attestation in his name and he was not aware of his name being used in fabrication of documents for this purpose”, said the officer associated with the investigation adding that a third class teacher does not fall into the category of a gazetted officer, thus ineligible for such attestations. Of the four accused, Sohel and Chiranjiv worked as a typist in the High Court premises here and had charged Rs 500 for preparing forged documents for 11 Pak citizens so far, the officer said. Sohle and Chirinjiv are relatives and were working as agents to prepare Visas for willing Pakistani citizens. As per the procedure, a Pakistan citizen has to submit his documents to the Indian High commission in Pakistan for a visa for India. For this, there is the requirement of a sponsor or guarantor from India. This sponsor certificate has to be attested by a gazetted officer. This certificate is then annexed with the visa documents to obtain a visa for India Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-nabbed-in-jodhpur-for-preparing-forged-documents-for-pakistan-immigrants-1070452.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Kashmir apple growers incur losses due to ‘illegal’ Iranian imports||Kashmiri apple growers are up in arms against the import of ‘illegal’ apples from Iran, which have been selling at cheaper rates than local apples in markets outside the Valley. The growers appealed to the government of India to ban the import of Iranian apples in the Indian market. The illegal import of Iranian apples in India has severely damaged the rates of Kashmir produce in the market. “Supply of Iranian apples in India has severely damaged the rates of Kashmir produce apples in the market,” President, Kashmir Valley Fruit Growers cum Dealers Association Bashir Ahmad Bashir told reporters, here. He said the rates of Kashmiri apples have declined from Rs 1200 per box to Rs 600 in the past few days in the outside markets. “The production cost of one apple box is Rs 600, moreover the transport and other charges costs Rs 300 per box,” Bashir said. “The GST has increased from 12 per cent to 18 per cent. Now, how can a grower sell his production at such low rates?” he asked. Bashir while seeking the intervention of the Center to help them tide over the losses suffered due to the import of untaxed Iranian apples into the country, said, “Despite repeated requests, the Center has not paid any heed to the matter, leaving the apple growers in the lurch.” “We met the Union Agriculture Minister but he didn't take any action to stop the supply. Then we wrote to the Prime Minister, LG office, but to no avail,” he rued. “If (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi cries for Make in India, then why are we importing goods from outside when we have our own production.” Bashir said that untaxed Iranian apples this year are being imported in bulk into the Indian markets, taking away the profits from Kashmir apple growers and traders. “Iranian apples are being imported from the Dubai and Wagah border and are being sold at cheaper rates. Due to this, our apple business is losing out. Our produce is confined to cold stores and godowns in Kashmir, which may spoil soon if the situation doesn’t get better,” he said. Bashir demanded that if Iranian apples are still imported, there should be a 100 per cent import duty on these apples so that they do not dent our market share. With the contribution of Rs 10,000 crore to Rs 12,000 crore to the fragile Kashmiri economy, the local horticulture sector provides livelihood to lakhs of people in the Valley. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-apple-growers-incur-losses-due-to-illegal-iranian-imports-1070471.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Big jolt to BJP as another minister quits UP cabinet||Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/big-jolt-to-bjp-as-another-minister-quits-up-cabinet-1070490.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Surge in J&K Covid-19 cases due to Omicron: Authorities||As Omicron-led third wave of Covid-19 has already strengthened its grip on Jammu and Kashmir, the Union Territory has recorded more infections in the first 11-days of January than in the whole month of December 2021. In December 2021, 4,315 positive Covid-19 cases were reported in J&K. As of January 11, 2022 evening, the number stands at 5,339. On Tuesday 1,148 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the UT while the number was 199 a week before on January 4. According to health authorities, the fast pace of case rise is Omicron-led in J&K. Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Health and Medical Education, Vivek Bhardwaj said that Omicron has been confirmed in both Kashmir and Jammu divisions. “Even if we did not have lab confirmation of Omicron, the speed at which the cases are increasing makes it evident that Omicron is responsible for the wave,” he said and called the current wave in J&K, “Omicron wave.” With ‘Omicron wave’ sweeping the UT, administration is on an alert mode with 6,000-bedded quarantine facilities being made operational across the Valley. Till Tuesday evening, 15 Omicron cases were detected in J&K out of which ten were reported yesterday only. “The highest number of daily cases in the second wave of Covid in Kashmir was 3,500. Now it may be five times more than that, because of Omicron’s super-spreading nature and can stay until the last week of February,” said Dr Rouf Hassan Rather, in charge of data analysis at Covid Command and Control Centre in Kashmir. Global health experts have opined that Omicron can be the beginning of the end to the pandemic that began in Wuhan in China two years ago. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/surge-in-jk-covid-19-cases-due-to-omicron-authorities-1070497.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||NCW seeks to censor Marathi movie trailer for 'sexually explicit' content||The National Commission for Women has written to the secretary of the ministry of information and broadcasting to censor the trailer and some scenes of the Marathi movie “Nay Varan Bhat Loncha Kon Nay Koncha” with sexually explicit content involving minors.  The Commission was acting on a complaint by Bharatiya Stree Shakti filed on January 10.  “The trailer is being circulated on social media platforms like Facebook, Youtube, Twitter, etc without any age restrictions for viewers and hence is available even for minors to watch,” a statement from the Commission read.  The Commission has asked the I&B ministry to replay at the earliest. A copy of the letter has also been sent to Central Board of Film Certification chairperson Prasoon Joshi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncw-seeks-to-censor-marathi-movie-trailer-for-sexually-explicit-content-1070517.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Arrest warrant issued against ex-UP Minister Swami Prasad Maurya||A local court on Wednesday here issued an arrest warrant against BJP MLA Swami Prasad Maurya, who recently resigned as cabinet minister, in a seven year old case. The case was lodged against Maurya in 2014 for allegedly making objectionable comments against Hindu gods. The MP-MLA court Judge Yogesh Kumar Yadav issued the warrant against him after he did not attend the court hearing on Wednesday. In 2016, an arrest warrant was issued against him in the same case which was stayed by the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court. Issuing the warrant, the Judge fixed January 24 as the next date of hearing. The court had on January 6 directed Maurya to appear before it on January 12 but he did not appear, lawyer Anil Tiwari said. Maurya, an influential OBC leader, had resigned from the Yogi Adityanath cabinet on Tuesday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrest-warrant-issued-against-ex-up-minister-swami-prasad-maurya-1070537.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh minister, BJP MLA among 74 acquitted in 2014-Kanth violence case||A special court here has acquitted all 74 accused, including UP Cabinet minister Bhupendra Singh Chaudhary and local BJP MLA Ritesh Kumar Gupta, for allegedly attacking policemen during the protest in the Kanth area of the district in 2014. The protest was called by the then opposition party BJP against the Moradabad administration for removing a loudspeaker from a Dalit temple in the Kanth police station area. On Tuesday, Additional District and Session Judge Punit Kumar Gupta of MLA-MP court here acquitted all the accused, who were on bail, for want of proof. Additional District Government Counsel (ADGC) Maneesh Bhatnagar said the prosecution will move to the upper court if required after studying the court order. The incident took place on July 4, 2014, when the BJP had called a maha panchayat, in defiance of state orders banning it, against the removal of a loudspeaker from the Dalit temple in Muslim-dominated-Akbarpur village in Kanth area of Moradabad in June by the police. The clashes began after the police lathi-charged and fired bullets in the air to disperse the crowd. The stone-pelting by the BJP workers had allegedly left the then district magistrate with severe head injuries. The police, however, succeeded in pushing back the mob from the railway tracks, where hundreds had obstructed the way for hours, affecting train schedules. The prosecution produced 24 witnesses, including the District Magistrate, before the special court during the hearing but couldn't prove the fault of the accused. Bhupendra Singh Chaudhary later became the cabinet minister when in 2017, the BJP formed the government in the state. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-minister-bjp-mla-among-74-acquitted-in-2014-kanth-violence-case-1070545.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||SC pulls up Supertech, says its directors will be sent to jail for 'playing truant' with the court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday pulled up realty major Supertech Ltd for not complying with its orders to demolish the twin 40-story towers in Noida and warned that “its directors will be sent to jail for playing truant with the court". The apex court also took note of the deduction in payments to be made to the homebuyers as directed by it last year and asked the realty firm to put its “house in order” or “face serious consequences”. The top court will not tolerate it if it finds that the company is finding all kinds of ruses to avoid complying with the orders, it said. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna asked the Noida authority to file additional documents and an affidavit giving the steps taken as on date for the demolition of the twin-towers in Emerald Court project of the Supertech Ltd. The bench noted the submission of advocate Ravindra Kumar, appearing on behalf of Noida, that initially Supertech Ltd had proposed an agency for carrying out the work of the demolition and a reference was made to CBRI for its approval but at that stage, Supertech proposed another agency to carry out the work. “In this backdrop, Advocate Ravindra Kumar seeks to place an additional affidavit, placing the developments on the record as on date. Parag Tripathi, senior counsel appearing for the developer, states that there is no objection to the work of demolition being carried out by either of the two agencies proposed in terms of the order of this court. List on Monday (January 17). The affidavit/additional document of Noida be circulated”, the bench said. At the outset, the bench told Tripathi, “What has happened, we are going to send your directors to jail now because they are playing truant with the Supreme Court”. Tripathi said, "My lord, with respect, there were two parties who have come up with the proposal for demolition and now a call has to be taken by Noida and the lordship may have this matter on Monday and it will proceed”. The bench then asked Kumar as to what he has to say on the submission of Tripathi that there are two parties and NOIDA has to take a call. Kumar said that the two parties include Edifice Engineering, which has made a presentation and thereafter CBRI made certain suggestions that were sent to the demolition agency. They have decided to incorporate them, and for final approval NOIDA has sent it to Central Building Research Institute (CBRI) Roorkee. He added, “Now on January 9, 2022, Supertech has come forward with another agency saying they also have an action plan. So on January 9, we again approached the CBRI to say that Supertech has given the name of another agency. Please examine that also. We were at the stage of finalization of the first agency that is Edifice Engineering but at this stage Supertech brings in another agency. This is what I want to put on record by means of additional affidavit and documents”. Kumar said he would file the affidavit and additional documents by Wednesday itself. Senior advocate Jayant Bhushan, appearing for Residents Welfare Association (RWA) of the project, said Edifice Engineering has made a very detailed presentation, which seems to be all right but between Noida and Supertech they just keep on telling the other to decide and place the order for demolition but nobody is doing so. Tripathi then requested the court to hold the matter on January 17 and direct the CBRI to be present to avoid any further adjournment and the decision could be taken then and there. The bench refused to make CBRI party to the dispute and said that it has already approved the first agency. A counsel for home buyers said that what Supertech Ltd is doing is that they are calling flat buyers to collect the money and when they go they say that company would pay the amount in installments and after deductions. The bench told counsel for the Supertech, “You cannot charge interest on ROI (Return on Investment) because we have not given you that relief that you will charge interest on ROI. You have to comply with orders as it stands. You have to pay them principal with interest”. It added: “If, we find that you are finding all kinds of ruses to avoid complying with the orders of this court. We will not tolerate this. We want the money to be paid by Monday. Don’t do deductions which are not authorized by the orders of the court". On August 31 last year, the top court had ordered the demolition of Supertech Ltd's twin 40-storey towers under construction within three months for violation of building norms in "collusion” with NOIDA officials, holding that illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law. The Noida authority had received a rap on its knuckles as the top court pointed out multiple incidents of collusion of its officials with the Supertech Ltd in the Emerald Court project and violations of norms by the realty major in construction of the twin towers. The top court had directed that the entire amount of home buyers be refunded with 12 percent interest from the time of the booking and the RWA of Emerald Court project be paid Rs 2 crore for the harassment caused due to the construction of the twin towers, which would have blocked sunlight and fresh air to the existing residents of the housing project adjoining the national capital. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-pulls-up-supertech-says-its-directors-will-be-sent-to-jail-for-playing-truant-with-the-court-1070562.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi logs 27,561 Covid cases, second-highest daily rise so far, 40 deaths; positivity rate 26.22%||Delhi reported 27,561 fresh Covid cases, the second-highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic, and 40 deaths on Wednesday while the positivity rate rose to 26.22 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. The deaths recorded are the highest since June 10 last year, when the national capital recorded 44 fatalities. According to the data, the positivity rate is the highest since May 4, when it was at 26.7 per cent. Wednesday's single-day count of 27,561 cases is the highest since April 20, when the city saw 28,395 infections. Of the 133 Covid deaths recorded in the first 12 days of January, most were comorbid patients. Keeping in view the situation, the government on Tuesday issued an advisory asking all hospitals to ensure that patients with comorbidities are duly attended by specialists. The city currently has 87,445 active Covid cases of which 56,991 are in home isolation. Delhi reported 23 deaths due to Covid on Tuesday and 17 fatalities each on Sunday and Monday. It saw 54 fatalities in the last five months -- nine in December, seven in November, four in October, five in September and 29 in August. In July, Covid had claimed 76 lives in the national capital.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-logs-27561-covid-cases-second-highest-daily-rise-so-far-40-deaths-positivity-rate-2622-1070571.html
12-01-2022||North and Central||Smriti Irani questions Congress over PM’s security lapse in Punjab||On Wednesday, Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani once again questioned Congress on the lapse. “Who sought to benefit in the Congress party from the breach of the prime minister’s security? Who in the Punjab government continued to deliberately ignore the threats to the prime minister’s security,” Smriti questioned Congress during a press conference at the BJP headquarters.  Smriti’s conference followed the appointment of an inquiry committee, headed by judge Indu Malhotra, to investigate the lapse. Smriti had earlier questioned the Congress’s role in the lapse on January 5 in another conference.  She also said that in an interview, Congress general secretary and the party’s UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had said that Punjab CM Charanjit Channi briefed her about the lapse. “Why did the Punjab CM brief a private citizen (Priyanka Gandhi Vadra) on the PM’s security protocol and the breach? Why is the private citizen, who is a part of the Gandhi family, an interested party,” Smriti said.  She also said that an expose by a news channel has revealed that the DGP of Punjab Police cleared safety norms on the route to be taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  “What is extremely disconcerting is that Punjab Police officials have highlighted how they continuously engaged with the Congress government and administration in Punjab to bring to light the threat to the security of the PM and his route,” she said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/smriti-irani-questions-congress-over-pm-s-security-lapse-in-punjab-1070582.html
12-01-2022||Oasis||The healing process||“We are healed from suffering only by experiencing it to the full,” says Marcel Proust, the French novelist. Suffering is so intrinsically a part of the human predicament, that each one of us experiences it in some form or the other. Yet, suffering is necessary to understand the value of life with its mix of joys and sorrows. Suffering takes you beyond yourself and allows you to understand yourself and others better. It is a cleansing process, an introspection that makes you recognise the beautiful ordinariness of everyday things and the abundance of simple pleasures which we fail to acknowledge during happier times. When suffering ensues from the loss of a dear one, it can be excruciating and admittedly genuine grief has no closure. The pain of loss is intense and heartbreaking because in loving deeply, we connect with another human being and grief is the reflection of the connection that has been lost. But it is also important to stay connected to grief, to accept it as important in your life. Nigerian writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie says on the loss of her father, “How is it the world keeps going, breathing in and out, unchanged, while in my soul there is a permanent scattering?” And then is the understanding that "Grief was the celebration of love. Those who could feel real grief were lucky to have loved.” It is a way of honouring the dead and accepting the inevitability and ultimate disposition of destiny. All of life’s beauty belongs to death. At any moment it may come to an end. This recognition that suffering is integral to your life and you are not alone in suffering is emancipation. It is like the Sun breaking through masses of clouds painting the horizon red with rays of hope. Stephen Hawking, the wheelchair-bound genius who in spite of his condition, has achieved so much, has this to say: "One, remember to look up at the stars, not at your feet. Two, never give up work. Work gives you meaning and purpose, and life is empty without it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-healing-process-1070475.html
12-01-2022||Oasis||Coping when one is made to feel left out||A few days ago, a young child in the family felt upset that his friend did not pass the ball to him during a football game. He naturally felt left out and perhaps ignored. Some reassurance from the parents and a few cuddles later, he felt better equipped to take on these “slights”. When I heard about this, I felt that for a child his age, peer approval is all-important. At the same time, I realised that this was a great opportunity to help him learn some life lessons. That his self-worth is not defined by the actions of his schoolmate. That it is okay to not be part of a group at times. You don’t really have to belong all the time. That we were glad he realised the importance of functioning in a cohesive manner when one is part of a team. That you may not like or get along famously with every member of the team but you can and should be civil and cooperative during activity and achieve a harmonious, working relationship. Today corporates talk about diversity and inclusion. We are taught team spirit in sports – and cautioned that a team can fail and flounder if one link in the chain is weak or does not respect the teammates. We only have to observe a colony of ants to draw some lessons. Ants are disciplined and supportive of each other while sharing the load or the spoils. No five fingers are the same, yet they each have a purpose. Likewise, we come from different backgrounds, different milieus, holding different beliefs, value systems and carrying different emotional baggage. This gets reflected in our actions. We need to remind ourselves that we are all fellow human beings who are sometimes mutually dependent. There will always be people who play foul or discriminate. While it helps to be forgiving and not cross swords, one can always stand one’s ground and speak up when being roughshod. By continuing to play well, the child will be noticed and rewarded with opportunities to prove himself. Since children learn by example and model their behaviours, parents too have a key role in the kind of messages being subconsciously sent out. A thoughtless act on the part of one child thus triggered important lessons for life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/coping-when-one-is-made-to-feel-left-out-1070613.html
12-01-2022||Opinion||The lost mother: Exploring maternal ambivalence||"Children are a crushing responsibility," says Olivia Colman in Maggie Gyllenhaal's disturbing psychodrama, The Lost Daughter, now streaming on Netflix. The sentence encapsulates the white-hot core of the film and turns its gaze on what is often felt but rarely uttered — that mother love is not always unalloyed and unstinted, that it is often mixed up with agony, frustration and resentment at the Sisyphean task of rearing a child. There are dazzling performances in this film, led by none other than Colman, now known the world over for her bravura turn as Queen Elizabeth in the Netflix series, The Crown. And it is strewn with mysteries and ambiguities, with cinematic cuts and thrusts between alternating timelines. But more than anything else, the film is a cultural knock-out punch, exploring as it does the unspeakable emotion of maternal ambivalence and the searing guilt that a woman wrestles with as a result, largely because society conditions us to think of such mothers as 'bad'. Adapted from Elena Ferrante's novel of the same name (Ferrante's works dwell on mother-daughter relationships in visceral detail), The Lost Daughter tells the story of Leda (Colman), a 48-year-old professor of literature based in Boston, who comes to a Greek island for a holiday. Here, she makes the acquaintance of a large American-Greek family, also on vacation. She watches two of them with particular interest, a young mother called Nina and her little daughter, who is quite a handful. It's clear that Nina finds her boisterous child stressful and chafes at her role as a mother. And watching them, Leda telescopes back to her own past, when she was a graduate student trying to realise her academic ambition while bringing up two small daughters. As the film unspools and jump-cuts between the past and the present, we see a young Leda, frazzled and irritated by the demands of motherhood, which, to her, seem entirely at odds with her own personhood. There is a husband in the picture, also a student, yet as is often the case, it is the wife who ends up minding the kids. Eventually, Leda walks away from both her marriage and her daughters, so she can follow her desires — intellectual as well as sexual. She does not see her children for the next three years. Her daughters are long grown up now — she breezily refers to them in conversation — but in the dark recesses of Leda's mind, her past act of abandonment continues to be a ragged claw, drawing blood and taking her to the very edge of her reason. Motherhood is, of course, a hallowed cultural construct, universally glorified and universally regarded as a state of grace that a woman should aspire to. Whether it is Mary, the mother of Jesus, in Christian iconography (supremely idealised as "Virgin Mary"), or in almost any other religious and cultural context, the mother figure is identified with transcendent love, patience, service, sacrifice, self-abnegation, and so on. The burden of this ideology is not easy to bear and live up to, especially for the modern woman, whose vision of herself is rarely limited to her identity as a mother. And it's a double whammy for women in a country like India, where the mother figure is elevated to the level of a goddess. Religion idolises her as divinity, an expression of superhuman shakti (energy), and popular culture, represented by films like Mother India, Karan Arjun and countless others, idealises her as superhuman in her ability to offer a stream of unconditional love and sufferance.  Feminist studies have analysed the glorified construct of motherhood (often used to compensate for the powerlessness of real women and mothers in society) and argued for the need to create a space for maternal ambivalence, especially among new mothers. Post-partem depression is also accepted as a serious malady now, and medical science recognises that the joy that a new baby brings to the mother may be tempered with an overpowering sense of loss, a debilitating sense of the erasure of the self. Western literature, too, has, albeit sparingly, dwelt on the storm of mixed emotions that motherhood often brings in its wake. Doris Lessing's 1988 novel, The Fifth Child, and Rachel Cusk's 2001 book, A Life's Work, come to mind. Incidentally, in the 1940s, Lessing abandoned two of her children (and her husband) in Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) and moved to London, an act for which she was vilified for years. Yet maternal ambivalence continues to be a bad word. And such is the cultural opprobrium against it that it is largely denied by mothers themselves — even if they feel overwhelmed by the responsibility of nurturing a child.  The pandemic, which threw thousands of moms into the exhausting task of working from home while they struggled to manage their children who were also stuck in the house, has sparked a great deal of conversation about the unequal load borne by women when it comes to housework and childcare. The Lost Daughter, too, comes at an important cultural moment, when it is perhaps time to recognise that women need not necessarily be demonised if they fall short of impossible ideals, and they need not necessarily beat themselves up about it if they do. (Shuma Raha is a journalist and author)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-lost-mother-exploring-maternal-ambivalence-1070376.html
12-01-2022||Opinion||Why Abhishek Banerjee is going against his party||In politics, a leader's image is everything, best exemplified in India in recent times by the meteoric rise of Narendra Modi. Abhishek Banerjee, the young and rising leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), is busy shaping a different image for himself, having taken to projecting himself as a responsible man for whom peoples' lives are more important than political gains. Last week, a fortnight before the municipal polls for four civic bodies in West Bengal — Bidhannagar, Chandannagar, Asansol and Siliguri — he favoured postponing the elections because of the third wave of the pandemic. "I believe all religious events and political campaigns should be halted for the next two months," Abhishek Banerjee said. He said it was his "personal opinion." He demanded postponement of all the upcoming Assembly elections too. On Bengal municipal polls, he said the matter was sub-judice and for the high court to decide. Abhishek Banerjee, quite evidently, has gone against the voice of his party. A couple of days before he voiced his opinion, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had demanded halting of the municipal polls in the time of the third wave. The TMC retorted that the BJP knew it would lose, so it wanted the postponement. After all, the TMC-led state government had recommended phased elections in 111 municipal bodies that are long overdue. But Abhishek Banerjee publicly disagreed with his party. "Elections have a meaning only when people are alive," he said, and added, "We all know what the condition of Bengal was during the second wave when the eight-phase (assembly) polls were conducted." In Bengal, little was done to contain the danger during the last week of December when the threat of the third wave loomed. Lakhs spread out to various destinations of Bengal to celebrate 'baro din' (Christmas) and New Year. Eco Park, a famous amusement park on the outskirts of Kolkata, and the city's Alipur zoo recorded more than 50,000 footfalls on some of the days during this period. The ongoing Gangasagar Mela, too, has attracted huge crowds. The number of cases immediately spiked, and doctors blamed it on this uncontrolled crowding of many such places. The TMC, as the party running the government, has not come out as a particularly responsible entity during the pandemic. During Durga Puja, one of its leaders made a desperate attempt to attract pandal hoppers by having a pandal replica of Dubai's Burj Khalifa. Eventually, roads leading to that pandal were closed for traffic. In such a context, Abhishek Banerjee's views are a laudable exception and hailed by doctors and common people alike. However, this isn't a first for the 34-year-old third-term Lok Sabha MP to have raised his voice against the party's mainstream. The TMC has been accused of intimidating, attacking and even killing political opponents. The Calcutta High Court ordered a CBI investigation to handle the post-poll violence cases in the state. But in the run-up to last month's Kolkata civic polls (the first in the planned municipal elections), Abhishek Banerjee warned that the party would not carry the baggage of "high-handedness and coercion". It was an attempt to force the party to follow democratic political norms.  Days after the Bengal Assembly elections, when the CBI arrested three top TMC leaders, including two ministers — the late Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim — Mamata Banerjee sat on a dharna in the CBI office itself. Thousands of TMC workers gheraoed the office and hurled stones and bricks at the paramilitary forces guarding it. A crisis was averted after Abhishek Banerjee told the party in unambiguous terms that law should take its course without hindrance. All these incidents show a clear trend in the TMC. There is an attempt to change the party's image from one often accused of being a coercive force to one in step with India's mature democracy. It is also an attempt to shatter the four-decades-old perception of Bengal as a politically violent state, particularly before, during, and after elections. But the perception can change if only the ruling party leads the effort, and at long last, Abhishek Banerjee has taken up the cudgels. It would seem he has come to understand the need of the times and has taken the initiative to change things. Opponents have stamped the next-generation leader's attempts as political stunts. The jury is out, and only time will decide whether Abhishek Banerjee succeeds in shaping his image as a responsible and able leader, a new face of the new TMC. (The writer is a journalist and author based in Kolkata.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-abhishek-banerjee-is-going-against-his-party-1070456.html
12-01-2022||Opinion||UP polls: Why Swami and friends exited BJP||Just as the second wave of Covid-19 had started to recede in June 2021, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) dispatched its top party general secretary, in-charge of organisation, BL Santhosh, to Uttar Pradesh to assess and gauge the mood of the cadres. Santhosh, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) nominated pracharak on deputation to the BJP camped in Lucknow for three days to prepare a report card on the Yogi Adityanath government. In a meeting with top state functionaries also attended by Chief Minister Adityanath, Swami Prasad Maurya was asked to weigh in with his thoughts on the current political scenario in the state. Swami Prasad Maurya, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) turncoat who had joined the BJP ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls, was a tad reluctant to speak. After repeated requests, Swami Prasad Maurya unequivocally laid bare his assessment of the ground situation, so much so that a senior party leader in the meeting had to intervene to ask Maurya to cut short his speech. The possible hiccup in Swami Prasad Maurya's defection was possibly his daughter's political future as she won her election in 2019, defeating Mulayam Singh Yadav's nephew Dharmendra Yadav. That issue perhaps would have been resolved before Maurya decided to cross over. In terms of the socio-political churn, the development is symptomatic of how numerically small caste groups have leveraged their numbers to seek a larger share in the power pie. Koeris, Kushwahas, Mauryas, Sainis and Shakyas all belong to the same sub-castes within the OBCs who have traditionally been associated with agriculture and market-gardening. Spread thin over north India, they, like other smaller backward blocks, have patiently waited for their turn in the natural progression and decentralisation of power in the Mandal hierarchy. Post-1989, these communities have experimented with many champions of social justice. Mulayam Singh Yadav was once the undisputed leader and torchbearer of the backward classes. The BSP then systematically weaned away from the SP a section, especially the MBCs (Most Backward Classes). Swami Prasad Maurya became a minister for the first time in the 1997 Mayawati government. Babu Singh Kushwaha remained a close confidante of the BSP chief till his name got embroiled in a corruption case. But unlike the Kurmis and Rajbhars of eastern UP, mobilised by caste leaders like Sone Lal Patel and Om Prakash Rajbhar, similar experiments within the Mauryas and Kushwahas of UP have not taken root. Keshav Deo Maurya's Mahan Dal has been in existence for nearly a decade now without having made as much of an impression on the ground. With the appointment of its Phulpur MP Keshav Prasad Maurya as UP state president in 2016, the BJP sought to give a strong message to the community in particular, and MBCs in general, that it was willing not just to accommodate their interests but could go a step further in the devolution of power from haves to have-nots.  The message got well absorbed in the political discourse in the run-up to the 2017 elections when other MBC leaders like Swami Prasad Maurya and Dara Singh Chauhan quit the BSP and joined the BJP. The result was that Keshav Prasad Maurya became the deputy chief minister in the Adityanath government, and Om Prakash Rajbhar, Swami Prasad Maurya and Dara Chauhan were sworn in as cabinet ministers. But every election, communities and individual leaders make their assessments and choice for the next five years. In the run-up to the 2022 elections, smaller caste groups like Mauryas, Rajbhars, Chauhans - both at the level of party and individuals - are driving a hard bargain with key stakeholders. Some may call it un-abashed political opportunism. But for numerically small communities, nimble tactical manoeuvres could be the only way to survive a shiver of sharks and make the best of it. The Samajwadi Party (SP) has been forced to concede more to the non-Yadav OBCs. The BJP will have to make a matching or a better offer.  The UP elections from here onwards may crystallise around two competing narratives. The BJP and SP will offer larger stakes to the non-aligned backward communities. The second week of the new year was marked by two noticeable defections in poll-bound UP—one from the east and the second from its western frontiers. Imran Masood of the Congress joined the SP. He has influence in pockets of western UP. Masood's migration would have also sent a message to the minorities at large but was underplayed by the SP, so much so that Imran announced his own joining at a press conference at his Ambala Road residence in Saharanpur. On the other hand, the SP amplified Swami Prasad Maurya's defection, with party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeting a picture with the latest entrant to the party. (The author is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-why-swami-and-friends-exited-bjp-1070473.html
12-01-2022||Opinion||Mask up India, Omicron is far from benign||The pandemic isn't over yet. Yes, we hear that Omicron is supposedly "mild", and most of us are fully vaccinated. "It's just a fever for a few days", "they've reduced the quarantine period", so it is not severe, are comments being heard everywhere. But, it is not so simple, please be careful. Even this supposedly "mild" version of Covid isn't like the usual flu.  In medical language, mild merely means you may not need supplemental oxygen, treatment in an ICU, or put on a ventilator. For those infected, the fever, tiredness and body ache can all be quite severe in the first few days. Also, the problem is, even if the fraction of serious cases are small since the overall number of cases in this wave is exceptionally high, it will still put a lot of pressure on an already stressed medical system. For those who are elderly, unvaccinated, and have other diseases, even the Omicron virus can lead to severe illness and even death. And this has repercussions, not just for Covid care, but access to all other kinds of medical care for those who may need it. In several hospitals, many health care workers are Covid positive, and if they have to be away from work for even a week, that makes it very difficult for our healthcare system. We may now know a little bit about the SARS-CoV-2 virus, but we don't know a lot about this virus and especially about the new variants. More importantly, we have honestly almost no clue about this virus's potential long-term impacts.  However, what we do know for sure is that masks work, and vaccines work. Masks are perhaps the easiest and most effective way to reduce the impact of the pandemic. But for masks to help, they must be used properly. Looking around train stations, in city buses, in the streets, etc., unfortunately, many do not wear masks correctly. Remember, even the best N95 mask is useless if it does not cover the nose and mouth and seal tightly against the face. So the mask must be one that fits properly.  At the risk of repeating this message, we cannot emphasise enough that a properly-fitting mask should cover one's nose, mouth and chin at all times and leave no gaps over the nose, on the sides of the face, or around the chin. The mask should be tight enough to stay in place even when talking or moving around. And yes, there is no need to remove the mask while talking on the phone. Please do not keep lowering your mask from your nose and readjusting it every so often. It is best to minimise touching the outside of your mask. What mask does one use, and the easiest way to ensure safe reuse There are cloth masks (which must have at least three layers), the typical blue pleated surgical masks, and the 'N95' or similar masks, which are the most efficient in filtering small particles. The N95 mask filters 95 per cent of tiny 0.3-micrometre sized particles and is usually tied behind the head. The KN95 mask is similar and usually has ear-loops (N95 was originally a US specification, with KN95 being the Chinese one, Korea has KF94, and the equivalent in Europe is FFP2). A high-quality "surgical mask usually has the same filter layer as the N95 but is not designed to seal tightly against the face. Cloth masks are convenient and can, of course, easily be washed every day and dried and reused. However, they are not as efficient as N95 filtering out the tiniest particles. We now know that Covid is an airborne disease where the viral particles can be carried by very small droplets that remain in the air for a long time. Hence, masks with better filtration efficiency for small particles, if worn correctly, could offer better protection. If one can afford N95 masks (they are now not that expensive), they are pretty easy to reuse. Else, "double masking" with a surgical mask inside and a cloth mask outside that can seal down the edges of the surgical mask provides much better protection than either cloth or surgical masks by itself. Remember, the virus does not survive on any surface for more than 96 hours. Hence, if there is a five-day gap between using the same mask again, it is safe to be reused. If one has a set of five masks (label them) and uses mask one on Day 1, mask five on Day 5, the first mask can be safely reused on Day 6, and so on. Alternately, you can have one mask for each day of the week – a Monday mask, a Tuesday mask, and so on. Just keep the mask in an open, airy place, maybe in a paper bag. Of course, given the overall pollution and dust load in our environment, one can't do this forever since the dust particles will slowly clog up the pores of the mask. But a set of masks can easily be cycled 5-10 times before they need to be replaced. Most likely, the mask will need to be replaced because the straps get loose or come off rather than for a decrease in the ability to filter. Given a choice, a mask that can be tied tightly around the head, than just being fixed by an elastic band around the ears provides a much better fit and protection. By using masks correctly and getting vaccinated, we can significantly reduce the probability of us coming down with the virus or having severe disease. It is up to each of us to do our bit in lessening the impact of the pandemic. We fervently appeal to you to please be cautious and use common sense. (Dr Arnab Bhattacharya is the Centre Director, Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai and Dr CS Pramesh is the Director, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mask-up-india-omicron-is-far-from-benign-1070524.html
12-01-2022||Opinion||Religion as a unifying force||The unveiling of Divya Kashi-Bhavya Kashi recently by the Prime Minister was a grand spectacle. The plan to transform one of the most ancient cities of the world from a dirty and congested urban space into a modern city while retaining its essential traditional features is noteworthy. The Kashi Vishwanath Dham project, costing Rs 900 crore, includes a corridor to ease the traffic movement across the city, cleaning up of the temple surroundings, restoration of ghats and creating a link between the temple and the ghats, an emporium, a museum, mural paintings and more. While questions can be raised about mixing religion and politics and the propriety of a Prime Minister participating in religious ceremonies under public gaze, the fact remains that the renewed look of ancient Varanasi has thrilled the hearts of many Hindus, who believe that a visit to Kashi would lead them to moksha. It has also evoked a grudging admiration from people of other religions. This is not surprising as an overwhelming majority of the people in India are religious by nature. A survey of religion and attitudes towards religion, conducted by the US-based Pew Research between late 2019 and 2020, found that irrespective of faiths, Indians are a deeply conservative people — from food habits to marriage and religious beliefs. Only 3% of the general population does not believe in God, and interestingly, while only 2% of Hindus are non-believers, among Muslims, this figure is 6%. This brings me to the question, why not use religion as a unifying force to foster values common to all religions, such as love, compassion, charity and a spirit of service? This may sound impractical at a time when we are witnessing increasing intolerance, hate speech and polarising tendencies. Actually, those who indulge in these divisive tactics -- a section of self-seeking politicians, religious leaders and some mischievous elements, are a small minority, while the vast majority of all communities desire peace and harmony. Another interesting finding of the Pew Research survey is that 91% of those surveyed felt that they are free to practise their religion and over 80% said that respecting all religions is important to being truly Indian and an important part of their religious identity. So, it is the tiny, vocal minority we need to counter, and religion in its true spirit offers the best antidote against religion or politics aimed at fostering conflicts. Not an easy task, but here are my suggestions. Government must replicate the idea of the Kashi project in other parts of India, for two reasons. First, it is a well-conceived project and efficiently executed within the scheduled time, acting as a trend-setter for the renewal of other cities, particularly the temple towns. Secondly, it can restore confidence among people who regard Modi and the ruling party as biased towards northern India and in promoting only Hindutva. The State’s role must, however, be restricted to creating infrastructure and tourist facilities, leaving the task of temple improvement to temple authorities. And there would be nothing better than starting from the South, and making Hampi in Karnataka the “Kashi of the South”. Hampi houses the temple of Virupaksha, a form of Lord Shiva, and was the capital of the magnificent Vijayanagar Empire which reached the pinnacle of its glory under the renowned king Krishnadevaraya in the 16th century. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, spread over a vast area with several pretty structures reflecting the grandeur of the Vijayanagar empire and attracting a large number of visitors, but it lacks infrastructure and tourist facilities. Hampi is waiting for a makeover on the lines of Varanasi, but with its own unique features. There are several other temples in the South and other regions crying for attention. Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu, home to the temple of Ramanathaswamy where Rama is said to have worshipped on his way back from Sri Lanka. The temple has the longest set of corridors in the world and is  a sight to behold; the Jagannath temple in Puri, with its unique wooden idols of the trio of deities -- Krishna in the form of Lord Jagannatha, and his brother Balabhadra and sister Subhadra, attracting huge crowds, especially during the annual Rath Yatra. It is also home to the Govardhan Peetha, established by Sankaracharya; Tirumala, the abode of Lord Venkateswara atop a hill in Andhra Pradesh at the foothills of Tirupati, the richest temple in India, drawing the largest number of pilgrims almost every day. All such temple towns need a complete makeover not only because of their religious significance but in view of their contribution to the economy and society. The full potential of the temple economy in India is yet to be exploited.  The Prime Minister, who swears by the ideal of sabka sath sabka vikas, must translate it into practice by including shrines of all faiths in his revival plan. To begin with, on the lines of Char Dham, create a ‘Panch Dham’, an inter-religious pentagon, connecting the Catholic church of Velankanni in Tamil Nadu in the South, the shrine of Sai Baba at Shirdi near Pune in the West, the Sharif Dargah, a tomb of Sufi saint Moinuddin Chisti at Ajmer in Rajasthan, the Sikh holy place of Amritsar in the North and the Buddhist sacred town of Sarnath in the East. All of them attract people of different faiths and stand as models of inter-religious unity. Finally, organisations engaged in the promotion of moral and spiritual values as well as in service to society and which carry credibilities, such as the Ramakrishna Mission, Chinmaya Mission, Siddaganga Math, Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity and similar organisations of different denominations, must be involved in curbing communalism and casteism, and promoting inter-faith unity and social harmony. People in India have greater faith in religious leaders than in politicians or any other tribe, and are likely to be influenced by what they say. As Swami Vivekananda eloquently said, “Holiness, purity and charity are not the exclusive possession of any church in the world, and every system has produced men and women of the most exalted character”. More than an anti-conversion law, what we need today is a conversion of hearts to following one’s own beliefs while respecting those of others, be they believers, atheists or agnostics. (The writer is a former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/religion-as-a-unifying-force-1070614.html
12-01-2022||Panorama||Mekedatu: A rift among Karnataka’s parties where there was unity before||With the Congress holding a 'padayatra’ demanding early implementation of the Mekedatu project, the water dispute between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu (TN) has come to the fore once again. The long-pending demand from Karnataka to set up a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu across the Cauvery river costing Rs 9,000 crore, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district, has now turned into a political slugfest between the Congress and the BJP. Karnataka says that it has the right to take up the project as the decision of the Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal (CWDT) in 2007, modified by the Supreme Court in 2018, didn’t prohibit the state from constructing any project within its territory as long as Karnataka ensured the release of 177.25 tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) of water in a normal water year at the inter-state border Biligundlu. The state also cited Clause XXI of the CWDT award which recommended taking up hydro projects on the common reach of the river through the National Hydro Power Corporation. But this clause doesn’t apply since Mekedatu is above the common reach of the river. However, the right to construct or operate is subject to the granting of Environmental clearances and the decision of the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA). CWMA consists of all riparian states. Karnataka has been pressing the central government for early approval of its Detailed Project Report (DPR), submitted in 2019, which aims to provide drinking water to Ramanagara and Kanakapura regions besides setting up a 400-MW hydropower plant. Though the CWMA, in its agenda for meetings, mentioned the Mekedatu project thrice in the last eight months, the discussion could not be taken up due to the lack of consensus between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Indeed, Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Shekhawat, in his written reply in Parliament, said the project required approval from the CWMA. Since the project was proposed across an inter-state river, it required approval of lower riparian states too (Kerala and Puducherry), as per the inter-state Water Dispute Act. "The same has been told to Karnataka”, the Union minister had said. He had pointed out that as per the CWDT and the final award (modified by the Supreme Court), acceptance of CWMA would be a pre-requisite for consideration of the DPR by the Ministry. Karnataka had submitted a Feasibility Report (FR) for the Mekedatu project in 2018 to the Central Water Commission (CWC) seeking "in-principle" clearance for preparation of DPR. The Screening Committee of CWC accorded clearance for the same, with certain conditions, in October 2018. Subsequently, Karnataka submitted the DPR to the CWC in January 2019; it was then referred to the CWMA for consideration. The Union Ministry of Environment and Forests has declined to frame the terms of reference for clearance of the project on the ground that the inter-state issue has not been sorted out. Getting consensus is not an easy task in the CWMA. Normally, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry stand together in opposing the project; Kerala's stand remains uncertain. When it comes to voting in the CWMA meetings, getting a majority on the Karnataka side is a tough task, says an official in the Jal Shakti Ministry. TN’s apprehension Tamil Nadu apprehends that Karnataka, by building the Mekedatu project, may deny to it its share of water. At present, there are three petitions pending before the Supreme Court — one filed by Karnataka seeking rights on 91 tmc surplus water generated on its side of the river basin; second, a petition filed by TN opposing Mekedatu project; and, third by TN against the order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) Principal Bench which stayed the NGT's Southern Bench's order to send an expert committee to Mekedatu to find and inspect construction activities started by Karnataka. Officials at the Jal Shakti Ministry say the Centre has a limited role at this juncture as the matter is pending before the Supreme Court. Though the Centre did place Karnataka's DPR in the CWMA, it faced opposition from TN and Puducherry, said one official. Even if the Supreme Court and the Centre approved the project, getting environmental clearances is another challenge as it is estimated that around 5,051 hectares of forest land, mostly falling under the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary, will be submerged. Another option before Karnataka is to file an original suit in the Supreme Court seeking a declaration that the state has the right to build the Mekedatu project — it will not cause any harm to TN. Since the original suit will give an opportunity to Karnataka to argue in length and put forth expert evidence, the state can explore this after getting a consensus among all political parties. If the SC rejects this plea, the state can again approach the Apex Court seeking to set up another Tribunal as it did in the Krishna water dispute to decide the status of the surplus water, says a legal expert. Interestingly, though there is a long history of all political parties presenting a united picture to protect the interest of Karnataka when it came to land and water issue, for the first time perhaps, the political parties are talking in different voices on the inter-state water dispute. Political consensus is always important on issues like water as it is an emotional matter for every state. Opposition parties say the BJP government did not convene any all-party meeting to discuss Mekedatu so far, unlike the other Cauvery matters. In a way, the Karnataka politics is showing signs of going the Tamil Nadu way in the manner politics was played out until recently, where bitter rivals DMK and AIADMK never agreed with each other on the Cauvery (or for that matter, on any other issue). The Congress’ march to Bengaluru might help generate awareness to claim the state's rights over the Cauvery water to some extent, but it has definitely and unfortunately created a division among the political parties as well as the public on an important issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/mekedatu-a-rift-among-karnataka-s-parties-where-there-was-unity-before-1070610.html
12-01-2022||Panorama||Eliminating dowry menace||Recently, the gruesome murder of a young woman by her husband in Delhi for dowry sent shock waves throughout the country. The 38-year-old husband, an assistant professor at Delhi University, felt “cheated” after a cheque of ₹5 lakh, given to him by his wife’s family as a “wedding gift”, bounced. The fact that a teacher, who is supposed to be a role model for his students, chose to go for dowry should be a wake-up call for all of us. The pathology of greed has infected our society. Some time ago in Kerala, a man killed his wife with a cobra — for dowry, again. During his marriage, he got a spanking new car, property, Rs 10 lakh of cash and 100 sovereigns of gold. But that was not enough. He and his family craved for more. Little wonder, sons and daughters-in-law are treated as investments for financial gain. The law may catch up with the perpetrators of these crimes; but can we bring those two innocent women back to life? The very institution of marriage seems to be on shaky ground. We may ask, why, despite so much technological and scientific advancement, our society continues to indulge in such barbaric and regressive practices like dowry that kill helpless and vulnerable women every year? Women in our society deserve dignity and self-respect just like men. Despite the introduction of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, nothing much seems to have changed on the ground over the past few decades. There have been only a few instances of women opting for divorce because of dowry. The most shocking aspect is that many parents, in order to avoid social embarrassment and save the marriage of their daughters from falling apart, give in to the groom’s dowry demands. They fail to muster the courage to seek legal assistance for their daughters for the fear of antagonising the groom. It may not be an exaggeration to say that at the heart of this deep-rooted social malaise lies a disrespectful attitude towards women. No marriage can survive if it is predicated on greed and self-interest. Women continue to remain at the receiving end of a toxic culture that promotes violence and misogyny. This can be attributed to the excessive importance our society puts on the birth of a boy. The birth of a girl is rarely a matter of celebration in the family. A husband does not have the right or authority to physically or mentally harass his wife for dowry or to treat her with contempt and condescension. Mahatma Gandhi believed that the male will to power was driven by a fantasy of the female other as a regressive being — someone to be controlled and dominated. The Napoleonic Code that women ought to stay at home and procreate finds resonance even in our society beneath its veneer of modernity. Simone de Beauvoir once said, “One is not born, but rather becomes a woman.” By this, she meant that a woman is shaped by her upbringing. A woman is not born passive, but all the forces in the external world have conspired to make her so. Parents must stop telling their daughters that marriage is their ultimate destiny. Whenever during a marriage negotiation, the groom’s parents demand dowry, the girl must immediately refuse to marry into that family. This is real women’s empowerment. A groom who respects a woman can also make a difference by refusing to marry when his parents demand dowry. So, the male mindset needs to change now. As long as the greedy, shameless and selfish grooms use marriage as their passport to wealth, and the malleable parents of brides keep succumbing to the dictates of the grooms' families, the dowry issue will keep rearing its ugly head from time to time. (The writer is a senior journalist based in Delhi) Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/eliminating-dowry-menace-1070627.html
12-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Ambassador memories||Our neighbour, Raj, was a proud owner of the iconic Hindustan Ambassador. Bought at a company auction for a jaw-dropping Rs 20,000, it was his first wagon. A tried and trusted family companion over the years, the clan often used the automobile for going on long drives or just for taking a spin. Despite its advancing age, the car remained in great shape. The original made-in-India motorcar was a status symbol. Flaunted by government ministers and the well-heeled, it earned the moniker, ‘the maharaja of Indian roads’. But the ageing car forced Raj to put it up for sale and seek a new set of wheels. Word got around on the car’s sale. Soon prospective buyers lined up to check the ‘vintage beauty’. One odd gentleman not only showed extraordinary interest but pleaded with the owner to gift the heavy-duty waterproof cover that shielded the vehicle once the transaction concluded. The oyster-blue car and its hood of the same colour complemented each other well and bowled the buyer over. The car provided huge boot space and luxurious comfort for a medium-sized family. Much-prized, it also had excellent resale value. The deal was sealed with the buyer agreeing to a Rs 20,000 price tag — the same as the cost price! But he sought some time to raise the amount and take possession. Raj also decided to gift the cover and asked the buyer to pay soon. A week passed, but alas, one morning, the canopy disappeared without a trace. A petty thief had whisked it away the previous night when it poured! Days sped by, but the thought of the stolen hood bothered Raj. He wondered how he could keep up his promise to the would-be owner. Meanwhile, the burglar’s antics continued, and he stole trivial things such as buckets, mugs, pots and pans from neighbouring houses. One day, there was a knock on the door. Raj opened it to be greeted by a cop in uniform accompanied by another lad. The policemen had stumbled upon the wrongdoer on their late-night rounds when the latter was busy with his robbery routine. They forced the arrested burglar to spill the beans and he consented to lead the cops to the burgled homes. With the stolen canopy retrieved, Raj couldn’t conceal his glee. He heaped lavish praise on the cop and was generous in tipping him, but made some uncharitable remarks on the miscreant, though he also gave him good counsel. Thus, the car hood and its companion became united again. It was a happy ending for Raj, as he could keep intact his promise to the purchaser. Later, a spanking new machine replaced the vintage automobile, but the family still recalls the thrills of riding in the magnificent Ambassador.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/ambassador-memories-1070478.html
12-01-2022||Right in the Middle||A miraculous injection||My health was fairly fine when I was a young boy. Except for occasional bouts of fever and certain epidemics like measles and chickenpox, there was nothing unusual that needed extra care. However, things changed once I became a student of the Pre-University course in 1969 (PUC was a one year course at that time) — considered to be a turning point in one’s life. For me,  it was so for a different reason. I was for some unknown reason afflicted by asthma. Most of the time, I was consuming various capsules and cough syrups. I always had wheezing, cough and phlegm, which disturbed the sleep of mine and others. I had a rickety body structure and my ribs showed their presence on the chest. I had to face snide remarks that birds could build nests in my chest. To my advantage, I was exempted from joining NCC which was compulsory those days. The visiting doctor, after quizzing me on the medicines I was taking, asked me to take deep breaths. When he was convinced of my asthma, he declared me unfit to join NCC. The problem of asthma continued even after I joined BSc in 1970. During my examination season in 1971, one night at around 10 pm, I had a severe attack of asthma. My father called a doctor who lived in the neighbourhood. He came home with his kit, and after examining me, advised that I should be administered with an injection. I was reluctant, but the doctor was insistent and I had no option but to accede. The disposable syringes were not in the market yet. Injections were administered with syringes made of thick glasses and long needles which were cleaned with hot water after every use. The doctor administered the injection after drawing the medicine from a vial. It was an antibiotic — possibly penicillin which was commonly used those days. After the injection was administered, I developed giddiness and fell down unconscious. A few minutes later, much to the relief of the doctor and my family, I regained consciousness and became normal. But this is what happened later: I do not know what chemical reaction took place in my body after the injection. I became totally free of the problem of asthma and the disease never bothered me again. However, my rib-caged chest and rickety structure continued to bother me for a long time. When I appeared for the UPSC exams in 1976, the medical board that examined me declared me unfit for the Indian Police Service (IPS) as my chest measurements were less than the minimum prescribed. Much later, my body condition improved. I was perfectly normal in the eighties and nineties. It later went to the other extreme. Now I find it difficult to get ready-made garments for my size. I make a perfect figure for advertisements by slimming centres on how a person would appear before he undertakes slimming procedures. Amid all this, I can never forget that mid-summer night about five decades ago when an ordinary injection made me bid adieu to the problem of asthma. It was certainly a medical miracle for me.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-miraculous-injection-1070604.html
12-01-2022||Second Edit||Politicians can’t be given a free pass||At a time when Covid-19 cases are surging in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru, it is highly irresponsible of the Congress to have gone ahead with its padayatra demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project, ignoring appeals from Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and others. The Congress and BJP are blaming each other for the delay in taking up the project, which involves the construction of a balancing reservoir at the confluence of Cauvery and Arkavathi rivers in Kanakapura to supply drinking water to Bengaluru and surrounding areas and to generate 400 MW of electricity. Politically, this may be an opportune issue for the Congress to galvanise party workers in the run-up to the 2023 Assembly elections, but its timing is wrong. There is nothing so urgent about taking out a protest for a project that has languished for years, including through Congress rule, that it should break Covid restrictions for it. The Congress has accused the Bommai government of dishonestly boosting Covid infection numbers merely to stop its padayatra. This is not borne out by the facts on the ground. Covid infections are rising not just in Karnataka but across the country. The padayatra, which began on Sunday when the weekend curfew was in place, will cover 15 Assembly constituencies, before culminating in Bengaluru on January 19. The Congress obviously hopes to consolidate its voter base in the Old Mysuru region, but the march, which covers 100 km, could turn out to be a super-spreader event, given that no precautions, such as wearing masks and physical distancing, are being followed. Curiously, the government seems to be taking a soft stand on the violation of Covid restrictions and has done little to stop the march besides registering an FIR. Perhaps the BJP is in a quandary as stringent action against the Congress leaders could give them extra political mileage. Also, the BJP’s own MLAs such as M P Renukacharya have violated the restrictions. It appears, therefore, that Bommai does not have support from his own party to act decisively on violators of Covid restrictions. Yet, those are political considerations. An elected government must act as per the law and extant rules at the time rather than on political considerations. It is therefore unacceptable that while the police act against the common people at the slightest violation of Covid restrictions, politicians, irrespective of the party they belong to, are being given a free pass. The law should be equally applicable to all. While the Congress is at fault for taking out the march at a time like this, the government is at fault for not acting against the violators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/politicians-can-t-be-given-a-free-pass-1070484.html
12-01-2022||Second Edit||Champa: Rebellion and laughter||All through his eventful life, a youthful rebelliousness characterised the Kannada writer Chandrashekar Patil, or Champa, who died at 83 in Bengaluru on Tuesday. Perhaps no other writer was as consistently critical of the establishment as Champa. His biting wit and sarcasm spared none, and it had the power to wound those in power. During the Emergency, he wrote a street play satirising Indira Gandhi and her yes-men. It landed him in jail, where he spent close to a month. Champa wrote lyrical poetry, absurd plays, and literary criticism, and was closely associated with the Navya (modernist) and Bandaya (protest) movements in Kannada literature. Born in 1939 in Hattimattur, near Dharwad, he went to school in Haveri and college in Dharwad, where he switched from science to economics, and finally veered towards language and literature. Back in Dharwad after studying in Hyderabad and Leeds, armed with an MA in linguistics, he found his true calling in teaching. He became a popular professor, teaching not just English literature but also the art of irreverence and laughter. Indeed, Champa could direct the humour inwards and laugh as much at himself as he could at vain writers whose works he would rip apart in his magazine. He would tell people who came visiting, “Look there, that’s Dharwad jail. And on this side is the mental hospital. What you see in the middle is my house.” As an activist championing the cause of Kannada, he took to the streets often, and made his point forcefully, getting governments to pay heed to the challenges of school education in the language. As president of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat, Karnataka’s biggest literary organisation, he stood up admirably to political pressures that could have stifled voices of dissent. The literary magazine Champa edited, Sankramana, had an unbroken run for 50 years, no mean achievement for a little magazine with a niche readership. Champa was the recipient of many awards, including the Pampa Prashasti, Karnataka’s highest literary honour. He returned it in protest when his scholar-friend M M Kalburgi was shot dead in 2015 by assailants yet to be brought to book. For about six decades, Champa shared the limelight with such other greats from the region as Girish Karnad and Chandrashekhar Kambar. He was a voice that neither the literary world nor the government could ignore. He often spoke about the inspiration he derived from Shalmala, the mythical river believed to flow under the hills in the Dharwad region. His voice will similarly remain a subterranean inspiration to all those who rebel against authoritarianism and literary hogwash. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/champa-rebellion-and-laughter-1070603.html
12-01-2022||South||Job denial forces transwoman to seek mercy killing; Kerala minister assures support||As denial of jobs due to transwoman identify compelled 34-year-old Aneera Kabeer from Palakkad district of Kerala to seek mercy killing, a Kerala minister came to her rescue and offered her a job. Despite having two master degrees, and clearing the MEd and State Eligibility Test, Kabeer was unable to find a suitable job so far. Though she had worked in many schools and earned the respect of many students, the transwoman identity often remained as a hindrance as she could not continue long in each job. She was even denied appointment to temporary vacancies in some government schools owing to her identity. Fed up with the discrimination and hindrances in getting suitable placements, Kabeer finally approached the District Legal Services Authority of her home district Palakkad for moving a petition seeking nod for mercy killing. 'I am from a financially weak family. My brother died recently and I have to support his family too. It is impossible to survive without a job. Hence, as an extreme measure, I approached the DLSA with the plea to file application for mercy killing," Kabeer told DH. Kerala General Education Minister V Sivankutty came across her plight and intervened. After speaking to Kabeer, he directed the officials concerned to take steps to give suitable posting to Kabeer. Kabeer said that following the minister's intervention, she would get a job at a block resource centre as cluster coordinator and would be later considered for appointment as teacher. She said that the present generation students were not showing any sort of discrimination towards her as they were well aware of the identity of the transgender persons and respect it. Many of her old students were still keeping in touch with her and give her due respect. The discrimination towards transgender community seems to be mainly coming from vested interest groups, she said. Kabeer who is a native of Ottapalam in Palakkad will also appear for Kerala Public Service Commission recruitment tests. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/job-denial-forces-transwoman-to-seek-mercy-killing-kerala-minister-assures-support-1070432.html
12-01-2022||South||Desist from meeting me on Pongal, Tamil Nadu CM Stalin tells party members||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday urged the DMK functionaries to desist from greeting him in person on Pongal, and said the pandemic situation called for extreme restraint and strict compliance with government’s Covid-19 safety precautions. Though he will be immensely delighted in meeting the party members to exchange greetings, in the present context, particularly amidst increasing Coronavirus cases, it will be prudent to avoid crowding. “I kindly request you to avoid the congregation. It is absolutely mandatory to follow the government guidelines on Covid-19 precautions,” the DMK president, who piloted his party to a spectacular win after being in the opposition for a decade, said. In a letter to party members, Stalin recalled that he made a similar appeal for the New Year’s Day for the same reason and was “amazed at the sense of control of the cadres who accepted and adhered to it.” “So, I request you to observe it on this Pongal (mid-January) festival. Be resolute in preventing the spread of Coronavirus. This will be an unparalleled Pongal gift you will be giving me,” the DMK president said. Extending his Pongal greetings to the party functionaries he said “let there be a surfeit of love in hearts and joy in homes.” Pongal festival is a unique symbol of Tamil culture, a festival dedicated to peasants and a festival of thanksgiving to nature. He recalled that it was the DMK that identified Pongal as a Tamil festival. Party legislators and officials should ensure the government Pongal gift hampers reaches the beneficiaries. “May your hearts and minds be filled with everlasting joy. Adhere to government guidelines on Covid-19 safety. Maintain social distancing and wear masks to prevent the spread of Coronavirus,” Stalin urged. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/desist-from-meeting-me-on-pongal-tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-tells-party-members-1070433.html
12-01-2022||South||Andhra CID summons rebel YSRCP MP in sedition case||The Andhra Pradesh CID on Wednesday served notice on rebel MP of ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) K. Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, directing him to appear before it on January 17 in a case of sedition booked against him last year. A team of CID officers served the notice on the Narasapuram MP at his residence in Hyderabad. He has been directed to appear in person before the investigation officer at CID regional office, Guntur. The notice issued in the name of investigation officer says that MP's presence is necessary for investigation and interrogation in a case registered against him at CID police station under Indian Penal Code sections 153 A, 505, 124-A read with 120-B. The case was booked against Raju after he made some remarks against Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and YSRCP government. The police had arrested him from his residence in Hyderabad on May 14 and taken him to Guntur. The MP, who had undergone heart bypass surgery, alleged that he was tortured in state police custody. The Supreme Court had later granted him bail, observing that the report of his medical examination indicated that he may possibly have been ill-treated in custody. The court had also asked him to cooperate with the investigation. Meanwhile, Raju slammed the state government for asking him to appear for questioning on Sankranti. He alleged that the case was booked against him out of personal vendetta. Talking to reporters, the Lok Sabha member asked how a case of sedition can be booked against him for speaking out against the misrule and corruption of the government. He pointed out that the Supreme Court has already observed that the section relating to sedition is useless and it should be scrapped. The YSRCP MP alleged that the government was scared as the notice was issued to him after he announced that he will visit Narsapuram on Thursday and stay there for two days to celebrate Sankranti. Raju reiterated that he will soon resign as MP as YSRCP has failed to get him disqualified. He has already announced that he will contest the by-election. Alleging that there is 'devil's rule' in Andhra Pradesh, the MP said all political parties and people irrespective of religion, caste and community should work unitedly to throw YSRCP out of power.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-cid-summons-rebel-ysrcp-mp-in-sedition-case-1070444.html
12-01-2022||South||Kerala actress assault case turning murkier for Dileep||The actress assault case of Kerala seems to be turning murkier for the accused actor Dileep as many popular actors are backing the actress in her fight for justice, and the alleged attempts of the accused to sabotage the probe by influencing witnesses is likely to come under probe. With around 20 witnesses, including prominent personalities in the Malayalam film industry, turning hostile during the course of the trial in the 2017 abduction and sexual assault on the actress in Kochi, the survivor was fearing that she would be denied justice. Even two prosecutors of the case resigned. It was at such a juncture that a filmmaker, Balachandra Kumar, came out with the stunning revelations of the attempts by the accused to sabotage the probe and attack the investigation officers. Kumar was learnt to have confided to the police about how the Dileep influenced many key witnesses. Based on this, the police would be probing whether the witnesses were influenced by the accused with money or threat. The police already registered a fresh case against Dileep and his close relatives on the basis of the revelations of filmmaker Balachandra Kumar as well as some audio footages purportedly of the actor hatching a conspiracy to attack the police officers who investigated the case. Dileep already moved an anticipatory bail plea in the case. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-actress-assault-case-turning-murkier-for-dileep-1070521.html
12-01-2022||South||PM Modi inaugurates 11 new medical colleges in Tamil Nadu||With the inauguration of 11 new government medical colleges by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, almost every district in Tamil Nadu now has a medical college that will take tertiary healthcare further close to the people.  The 11 medical colleges which were constructed at a cost of Rs 4,000 crore – 60 per cent funded by the Union Government and the remaining 40 per cent by the state government – have come up at Ariyalur, Dindigul, Nagapattinam, Krishnagiri, Virudhunagar, Kallakurichi, Udhagamandalam, Namakkal, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur and Ramanathapuram. This takes the number of government medical colleges to 36, and the total number of medical colleges in the state to 69, the highest in the country. With this, almost every district in Tamil Nadu barring Kanchipuram, Perambalur and the newly carved out districts of Ranipet, Tirupattur, and Tenkasi in the state has a government medical college.  All the 11 medical colleges were sanctioned during the 2017-2021 tenure of the then Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and a major part of the construction was completed before the DMK assumed office in May 2021. However, DMK maintains a couple of the medical colleges were proposed by the state government led by it in the first half of 2011 before AIADMK came to power.   “It is important to address regional imbalances. In that light, it is good to see two of the medical colleges inaugurated are in the aspirational districts of Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar. These are districts where development needs require special attention. One college is in the remote hilly district of Nilgiris,” Modi said in his address via video conferencing.   Modi also said the Centre would provide Rs 3,000 crore to Tamil Nadu in the next five years for establishing Urban Health & Wellness Centres, District Public Health labs and Critical Care Blocks across the state.  It was the then Chief Minister M Karunanidhi during 2006-2011 tenure who formulated the idea of setting up a medical college in every district in Tamil Nadu in a bid to take tertiary healthcare further close to the people.  The 11 new colleges will admit 1,450 students in MBBS from the current academic year and the number of government school students who get into medical colleges after clearing NEET is expected to increase owing to legislation passed by the erstwhile AIADMK government providing 7.5 per cent reservation to them in admission.  Public health experts say tertiary healthcare is very important as hospitals under this category will have super-speciality departments and high-end diagnostic facilities which will help people get treated in their areas without having to travel to big cities.  “Almost every district in Tamil Nadu getting tertiary healthcare facility is a major development. These medical college hospitals will have dedicated departments for cardiology and other streams, while super speciality care will also be available for people who come there,” Dr J Amalorpavanathan, member of the State Planning Commission, told DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-inaugurates-11-new-medical-colleges-in-tamil-nadu-1070522.html
12-01-2022||South||Scrap NEET for Tamil Nadu: Stalin tells PM Modi at medical colleges’ inauguration||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider “favourably” the state’s request seeking exemption from NEET, which he said, comes in the way of the state’s admission policy that has played a major role in the robust health infrastructure. Stalin made the demand at the inauguration of 11 medical colleges in the state by Modi through video-conferencing. The colleges were built by the Tamil Nadu government with 60 per cent of funds from the Union Government under its scheme known as ’Establishing of New Medical Colleges attached with existing district/referral hospital’. The Chief Minister’s assertion on NEET comes close on the heels of the DMK’s attack against Governor R N Ravi for “sitting on” legislation passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly seeking exemption from NEET for students from the state. “…the admission policy of Tamil Nadu plays a very important role in our health infrastructure. It is to protect this, we have been continuously demanding NEET exemption for Tamil Nadu. I appeal to the Union Government to consider our request favourably,” Stalin told the Prime Minister. Though Stalin made the request at the event, Modi did not broach the NEET topic in his speech. While other states have been facing a shortage of doctors, it is the admission policy of the state that allowed students who pursue medicine in Tamil Nadu to work in government hospitals and in rural areas, Stalin said. “Our motto is to provide opportunities to poor people and those from the hinterland. This policy is the reason for Tamil Nadu’s success in the health sector,” the Chief Minister said. In a memorandum submitted to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Stalin said Tamil Nadu may be allowed to fill all professional seats including MBBS / BDS/ AYUSH courses on basis of Class XII marks alone. Doing away with NEET is one of the major poll promises of the DMK and it is part of its efforts to revert to admitting students into medical colleges on the basis of marks scored in plus-two exams that the legislation was passed in the Assembly in September last year. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/scrap-neet-for-tamil-nadu-stalin-tells-pm-modi-at-medical-colleges-inauguration-1070552.html
12-01-2022||South||PM Modi launches new building of CICT in Chennai||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated the new building of the Central Institute of Classical Tamil in Perumbakkam on the outskirts of the city, and said the development will give a wider canvas to students and researchers. CICT was formerly known as the Centre of Excellence for Classical Tamil (CECT) and was functioning at the campus of the Central Institute of Indian Languages, Mysore from 2006 to 2008. In 2008, the CECT was moved to Chennai and renamed CICT. Talking about the richness of the Tamil language, Modi said one of the happiest moments of his life was when he got a chance to speak a few words in the world's oldest language, Tamil, at the United Nations. “The Sangam classics are our window to the rich society and culture of the ancient times. Our Government also had the honour of setting up the 'Subramania Bharati Chair' on Tamil Studies at Banaras Hindu University. Located in my Parliamentary constituency, this will drive greater curiosity about Tamil,” Modi said in his speech. Contending that the Centre has given great emphasis on the promotion of Indian languages and Indian Knowledge Systems in the National Education Policy 2020, he said Tamil can now be studied as a classical language in school education at the secondary level or middle level. “Tamil is one of the languages in the Bhasha-Sangam where school students get familiar with 100 sentences in various Indian languages in audio, videos. The largest e-content of Tamil has been digitised under the Bharatavani project,” he said. He also called upon this talented Tamil diaspora to help develop Tamil language content in STEM courses. “We are also developing an Artificial intelligence-based language-translation tool to translate English language online courses into twelve different Indian languages including Tamil,” he added. The new campus is fully funded by the Union Government and is built at a cost of Rs 24 Crore. CICT, which was operating from a rented building so far. Officials said the new campus is equipped with a spacious library, an e-library, seminar halls and a multimedia hall. An autonomous organisation under the Union Ministry of Education, CICT is contributing to the promotion of classical Tamil by doing research activities so as to establish the ancientness and uniqueness of the Tamil language. The institute library has a rich collection of over 45,000 ancient Tamil Books. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-launches-new-building-of-cict-in-chennai-1070553.html
12-01-2022||South||Mega dance event amid Covid surge in Kerala draws flak||Amidst the Covid surge and repeated calls by the government to avoid crowding, a mega dance event of around 500 women performing in a ground organised by the ruling CPM in Kerala has invited widespread criticism. The event — a mega 'Thiruvathira' traditional dance performance  — was a part of the upcoming district conference of the CPM conducted at Parassala on the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. Around 500 women performed in the event without wearing masks. Top leaders of the party were also seen at the event – some of them maskless. Pictures of the event were being widely circulated on social media flaying the CPM for the blatant violation of social distancing norms. Meanwhile, the Covid surge in Kerala continued with 12,742 fresh Covid cases on Wednesday pushing the test positivity rate to 17.5 per cent. 76 more Omicron cases were also confirmed taking the total Omicron cases found in the state so far to 421. A Covid Omicron cluster was also identified at a private nursing college in Pathanamthitta district. The total Covid active cases in the state sood at 54,430. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mega-dance-event-amid-covid-surge-in-kerala-draws-flak-1070572.html
12-01-2022||State||30 years after being outlawed, Devadasi system still haunts victims||In a stark example of how the shackles of the Devadasi system have been haunting its victims for generations, a woman from a Devadasi family asked officials and experts on Tuesday about the rule that mandates her to provide the name of the father to get government benefits.  At an event organised by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority and the Children of India Foundation for consultation on a bill for comprehensive development of Devadasi women and their children, victims of the system raised some of the pertinent issues.  A woman from Koppal sought changes in the rules to save them from the perpetuation of suffering. “I come from a family, generations of which were caught in the Devadasi system. I struggled against that system and got an education. I do not know the name of my father. However, the name of the father is mandatory in applications to get any government benefit. Officials look at me and advise that I write any name. It is a humiliating experience. It is also one of the reasons why many Devadasi women quit education and are reluctant to avail themselves of benefits,” she said.  A woman from Davangere said though the state brought law for the prohibition of Devadasi system in 1982, the practice continued. “I have not received the monthly pension because my name was not included in the survey conducted by the government in the 90s,” she added.  Devadasis and their family members from Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Raichur, Koppal, Ballari and other districts shared their stories.  KSLSA Secretary H Shashidhara Shetty said the authority would help the women get justice. “There is a need to bring pressure on the government to set right such injustice. If the government doesn’t listen, we will give the necessary support to fight against the system,” he said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/30-years-after-being-outlawed-devadasi-system-still-haunts-victims-1070340.html
12-01-2022||State||Covid-19: Cases soar across Karnataka||Elected representatives, politicians, doctors, employees of various organisations and students tested positive for Covid-19 in different parts of the state on Wednesday. Hubballi-Dharwad East MLA Prasad Abbayya and Gauribidanur MLA in Chikkaballapur district N H Shivashankar Reddy, both from the Congress, have contracted the virus. While Reddy participated in the Mekedatu foot march on Day One on January 9, Abbayya recently attended a series of events. Chikkaballapur district unit Congress president K N Keshav Reddy, who also attended the padayatra, tested positive. About 18 persons, including two doctors of Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML) Medical Centre in KGF in Kolar district tested positive. Barring the outpatient department, all other departments have been shut. The BEML’s 30 staffers also tested positive. Five students and a teacher of the Government High School at Chinniga in Mudigere taluk in Chikkamagaluru district were found to be suffering from Covid-19. The school was shut following the development. During the routine check-up of 181 students, five students and a teacher were found to have contracted with the infection.  About 73 students from 22 schools, 56 students of Pre-University colleges and 30 teachers tested positive in Hassan district. These educational institutions were closed as a precautionary measure.  Transport Minister B Sriramulu, Bellary MLA Somashekhar Reddy, both from the BJP and former minister G Janardhan Reddy and their large number of supporters reportedly violated Covid-19 protocol during the birthday celebration of the mining baron. The 55th birthday celebrations were held at Kanaka Durgamma temple on Tuesday. After his release from the prison in an illegal mining case, Reddy appeared in public for the first time in Ballari. Many attended the event without wearing masks. There was no physical distance. The rule of entry of 50 persons at a time was also reportedly violated.  It is alleged that the district administration and the Muzrai Department did not act despite violations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-cases-soar-across-karnataka-1070629.html
12-01-2022||State||Congress march: Education minister concerned over kids’ health||Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh has expressed concern over the health of the schoolchildren due to the ongoing Congress foot march seeking the implementation of the Mekedatu project. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with department officials to discuss the Covid-19 situation at schools and pre-university colleges in the state on Wednesday, Nagesh said, “We are worried about the effect of the foot march on the health of the schoolchildren.” The minister has sought a report from the concerned Block Education Officer (BEO) about the recent involvement of school children in the Congress Mekedaatu March. “We have clearly instructed the officials at the Block level to take measures not to involve school children in any such rallies and also sought a report on the recent incident where schoolchildren were involved in the Congress Foot March,” Nagesh said. As said by the minister, the state government is taking measures to stop the Congress foot march following the High Court direction. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-march-education-minister-concerned-over-kids-health-1070631.html
12-01-2022||State||Congress submitted Mekedatu DPR: M B Patil||In a continued war of words between Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol and Congress leader M B Patil, who was the water resources minister during the Congress regime, Patil lashed out at Karjol on Wednesday on the Mekedatu issue. While Karjol has alleged that the Congress wasted time without working towards the progress of the project, it was the Congress government which prepared a DPR and sent it to the Centre, Patil said, releasing documents to support his claims.  A delegation of Congress leaders met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015 and submitted a memorandum, seeking approval for the Mekedatu project. “Until date, the Prime Minister has not called for a meeting with the chief ministers of the states involved,” Patil said.   In 2018, the Supreme Court awarded an additional 14.75 tmcft water to Karnataka, including 4.75 tmcft water to Bengaluru. “This was because of the Congress government’s efforts. This also boosted our proposal for Mekedatu to provide water to Bengaluru,” he added. The first DPR for Mekedatu was submitted to the CWC, Bengaluru office, in 2017 itself. However, the CWC said as per the new rules, the government should first submit a pre-feasibility report. This report was submitted in October 2017, Patil said.  During the Congress-JD(S) coalition government, a revised DPR was submitted to the Centre when D K Shivakumar was the water resources minister. “When the Congress initiated the DPR and the pre-feasibility report and kept consistently pushing for the project over the years, where is the question of neglecting the project?” Patil asked, further questioning the BJP government as to what it had done for Mekedatu over the last two-and-a-half years.  Meanwhile, Karjol shot back on twitter that Patil had wasted four years on finalising one DPR. “Do you think this is reasonable time for one DPR? No one is asking about what was done but about how much time was spent on it,” he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-submitted-mekedatu-dpr-m-b-patil-1070632.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid positivity rate in Karnataka crosses 10%||Covid test positivity rate in Karnataka crossed 10 per cent to 10.3 per cent as daily cases rose to 14,473 in the state on Tuesday, of which 10,800 were in Bengaluru, Health Minister K Sudhakar said. Meanwhile, 1,356 persons have been discharged from the hospitals across the state. The active cases in the state stood at 73,260 and in Bengaluru, they were 59,000. Five fresh deaths were reported on this day and 1,40,452 tests have been conducted throughout the state, Sudhakar said. As many as 32 children between 0 and 15 years tested positive for Covid in Vijayapura district. District Commissioner P Sunil Kumar stated that they included two kids of 2 to 5 years of age, five kids of 5 to 11 years, and 25 children of 11 to 15 years of age. Meanwhile, a 15-year-old boy, who returned from Om Shakthi yatra in Tamil Nadu, tested positive after death. As many as 22 persons who went to Tamil Nadu for pilgrimage with the boy have tested positive. Chamarajanagar district authorities have taken measures and are monitoring the situation. Delta cases in the state jumped to 2,937 and Omicron cases stood at 479. Dakshina Kannada district reported 583 cases, the most after Bengaluru, followed by Mysuru (562), Mandya (263), Tumakuru (332), Udupi (250), Ramanagar (59) and Dharwad (178). Bagalkot, Haveri, and Koppala districts reported new Covid cases in single digit numbers. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-positivity-rate-in-karnataka-crosses-10-1070333.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||TAC bats for CCCs for medics turning Covid positive in line of duty||The State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended hotel Covid Care Centres (CCCs) to be established and linked to hospitals as healthcare workers (HCWs) are testing positive in large numbers, especially in state-run maternity hospital: Vani Vilas. The cost of the hotel CCCs shall be borne by the institution, the TAC suggested. During the second wave, in many instances, the affected HCWs paid their hotel CCCs' bills and this was dampening the spirit of HCWs. To ensure continuity and prevent disruption of services, it is important that the medical manpower is not affected by this and does not remain absent. The number of days of absence for isolation shall be counted as leave with pay, the TAC recommended. They shall also be accorded due recognition for their meritorious service by the Government and given Covid risk allowance and other privileges, it suggested. Dr Savitha C, Professor and HOD of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Vani Vilas Hospital, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), who is also a member of TAC said, "As many as 15 have tested Covid positive at Vani Vilas out of whom three are our staffers, the rest are postgraduates and seven to eight interns." In all, there are 44 postgraduate students, 20 staffers and 30 interns in Vani Vilas Hospital. They are also posted to another state-run maternity hospital: 150-bed Hajee Sir Ismail Sait (HSIS) Gosha Hospital at Shivajinagar which will soon be re-converted into a Covid hospital in light of rising cases. "They should definitely be provided for as most of the Covid positive staff have chosen to go home currently. Very few are at Bowring hospital. This is the beginning of the third Covid wave so the hotel CCCs have not yet been readied because most of the HCWs have mild symptoms like cold, cough and fever," Dr Savitha said. Explaining that all her colleagues contracted the infection while delivering Covid positive pregnant women, she said, "We currently have 15 Covid positive pregnant women. Those staffers who got infected were all part of teams delivering one or the other Covid positive mothers. Even if one team member is infected, they will infect others as they work together and stay in hostels. Despite wearing PPEs, they still got infected. It is a hospital-acquired infection as they have no time to go out." "We have very less healthcare staff as we have very few junior postgraduates. The NEET counseling hasn't been done yet. They are overworked and because of the weekend curfew too, they haven't been outside anywhere. In a span of two to three days, there's been a surge of staffers testing positive," she said. At Vani Vilas, there are antenatal and postnatal wards, and wards for suspected Covid mothers currently.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tac-bats-for-cccs-for-medics-turning-covid-positive-in-line-of-duty-1070395.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Why are rallies being allowed? Karnataka HC pulls up Bommai government over Congress's Mekedatu padyatra||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the state government to inform in two days as to why the rallies, particularly the rally being held by the Congress, are allowed to continue and why no appropriate action has been taken. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj was hearing a PIL filed challenging the padayatra being held by the Congress demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project. During the hearing, the court was informed that while the state government has restricted all public gatherings in the order issued on January 4, 2022, the next day, the Deputy Commissioner of Ramanagara district issued a notice to the Congress. The notice informed the Congress that no permission has been granted to hold any public gatherings. The court was informed that the number of positive cases, including the Omicron variant of Covid-19, is increasing in the state. The bench orally observed that the state government is not taking any action on the orders passed on January 4, 2022. “What are you waiting for when you have not granted the permission? How is the rally being taken out? Are you waiting for the court to take cognizance and pass orders?” the court orally asked the government advocate. Meanwhile, the court adjourned the hearing to Friday calling upon the state government as well the Congress to submit their stand. The court asked the state government to inform the court as to how and why the rallies are allowed to continue and why no appropriate action has been taken. The court called upon the Congress to inform as to whether any due permission was taken and whether they are taking appropriate steps to ensure the compliance of the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the state government. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/why-are-rallies-being-allowed-karnataka-hc-pulls-up-bommai-government-over-congresss-mekedatu-padyatra-1070406.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Will decide on Congress Mekedatu march, says Karnataka Home Minister Jnanedra after HC rap||“The HC has given us a day’s time. We’re getting details from our advocate-general. The CM will also study this and then we will decide,” Jnanendra said.  Earlier in the day, an HC division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj came down heavily on the Basavaraj Bommai administration on why rallies, especially the Congress’ padayatra, are being allowed.  “I think the Congress will, on their own, stop the march now. Otherwise, we will take a call on what to do anyway,” Jnanendra said. “Being a responsible Opposition, the HC has equally come down hard on the Congress asking them if they have permission to carry out the march and why they chose this time,” he said. The minister maintained that the government is not helpless. “We have filed FIRs and action is being taken. But, the Congress is being adamant saying they don’t care for the FIRs,” he said.  Speaking to reporters, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah initially said the party is ready to face the consequences. Later, he said the Congress will honour the HC order. “Let’s see what the court orders,” he said. “No protest is done after taking permission. It is only informed.”  Day four of the Mekedatu march will take the Congress leaders from Chikkenahalli to Ramanagara, a distance of 15 km.  One more Cong leader tests positive Former minister and Gauribidanur MLA NH Shivashankara Reddy, who took part in the Congress’ Mekedatu foot march, has isolated himself at home after testing positive for Covid-19. In a social media post, Reddy said he tested positive in a rapid antigen test. Congress leaders HM Revanna and CM Ibrahim also tested positive earlier this week.  Third FIR Meanwhile, the police have registered a third FIR naming 64 Congress leaders and supporters for defying Covid-19 curbs during the foot march on Tuesday. The FIR names DK Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah, DK Suresh, S Ravi, R Dhruvanarayana, Tanveer Sait, Anil Chikmadu, HC Mahadevappa, Yathindra Siddaramaiah and others. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-decide-on-congress-mekedatu-march-says-karnataka-home-minister-jnanedra-after-hc-rap-1070511.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka’s credit potential pegged at Rs 3.32 lakh crore||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) on Wednesday projected Karnataka’s credit potential at Rs 3.32 lakh crore in priority sectors for 2022-23, a 12.45 per cent jump from its lending projection for the fiscal ending this March. This credit potential will be used by the state government and banks to prepare the annual credit plan (ACP), which will have lending targets in the priority sectors of agriculture, MSME, export, education, housing, renewable energy and social infrastructure. According to the State Focus Paper 2022-23 released here, the credit potential for the agriculture sector is projected to be Rs 1.61 lakh crore, nearly half of all the priority sector lendings that can happen in the next fiscal. Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Development Commissioner Vandita Sharma, who released the State Focus Paper, said the 12.45 per cent increase in the state’s credit potential was not enough. She called upon banks to come to the aid of farmers. “In the last 10-11 years, we’ve had only one normal year against eight drought years and two years of floods plus Covid-19,” she said. “55 per cent of the state’s land is used for agriculture and 60-65 per cent of the population is engaged in farming. And, 80 per cent of the farmers are small and marginal.” Stressing on the need to help farmers, Sharma said the fragmentation of agricultural land is increasing year on year. “This isn’t good. Large landholdings are coming down,” she said. “Farmers need maximum support from the government and the banks.” According to State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) convener PC Damodaran, the priority sector lending target for the 2021-22 fiscal was Rs 2.92 lakh crore against which banks have achieved Rs 93,438 crore. “Banks will be asked to meet the target by the end of the fiscal,” he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-s-credit-potential-pegged-at-rs-332-lakh-crore-1070515.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt issues order banning Cong's Mekedatu march||Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar signed off on the order late evening following a high-level meeting that Bommai chaired, hours after the High Court pulled up the government for having allowed the padayatra, which entered its fourth day amid spiralling Covid-19 cases.    “...all inter-district (within Karnataka) and intra-district (within Ramanagara) movement of vehicles and persons for participating in ‘Namma Neeru Namma Hakku’ padayatra or whichever name it is called...from Mekedatu to Bengaluru is prohibited with immediate effect and will be in force until further order,” Kumar ordered.  ‘Namma Neeru Namma Hakku’ is the official name of the Congress’ Mekedatu campaign. The government was under tremendous pressure to act. Three FIRs against 134 Congress leaders and supporters have been registered since Sunday when the march began. The march was scheduled to end in Bengaluru on January 19. The government has asked all deputy commissioners, police superintendents, police commissioners and the transport commissioner to ensure “strict implementation” of the order.  “...despite explicit order of banning dharnas and protests...it is observed that certain group of people have organised and mobilised people from various districts to Ramanagara district to participate in padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru named as ‘Namma Neeru Namma Hakku’ defying government orders,” the order stated. “The act of defiance is endangering the lives of a large number of people. The protest/padayatra is likely to aggravate the already worsening Covid-19 situation in the state.” Earlier in the day, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah returned to Bengaluru from the march to hold talks with party colleagues on the way forward in the wake of the HC observation. Speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah initially said the party is ready to face the consequences. Later, he said the Congress will honour the HC order. “Let’s see what the court orders,” he said. Asked if the Congress had taken permission for the march, he said: “No protest is done after taking permission." Both Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar are said to have discussed this with KPCC legal cell chief and former additional advocate-general AS Ponnanna, who is likely to argue in court that protest is a fundamental right. Sources said Congress is even considering a plan where only Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar and a few others will continue walking.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-issues-order-banning-congs-mekedatu-march-1070563.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||With 21,390 new cases, Karnataka's daily infections see massive jump||Reporting yet another spike, Karnataka on Wednesday registered 21,390 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 10 fatalities, taking the tally to 30,99,519 and the death toll to 38,389. The state has been witnessing a steady surge in cases since the last week of December and had reported 14,473 new infections yesterday. Of the new cases on Wednesday, 15,617 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 874 people being discharged and 6 deaths. The total number of active cases across the state is now 93,099. There were 1,541 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,68,002, the health department bulletin said. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 10.96 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.04 per cent. Of the ten deaths, six are from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Ballari, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi and Mysuru. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Tumakuru recorded the second-highest of 594 new cases, Mysuru 524, Dakshina Kannada 519, Hassan 409 and Udupi 361. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 13,34,957 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,82,725 and Tumakuru 1,22,845. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 12,44,869, followed by Mysuru 1,78,018 and Tumakuru 1,20,231. Cumulatively, a total of 5,81,69,653 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,95,047 were on Wednesday alone. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-21390-new-cases-karnatakas-daily-infections-see-massive-jump-1070570.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||New youth policy on the anvil to guide youths to tread on noble path: Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said a new youth policy is on the anvil that would guide youths to tread on a noble path and the government is ready to provide greater support for them. "The state government is set to bring in a new youth policy that would guide the youth to tread in a noble way," Bommai said while virtually participating in the 159th birth anniversary celebrations of Swami Vivekananda. He said the government is ready to provide greater support for the youth. A special programme in this regard would be brought in the next budget. Calling Swami Vivekananda as a Yuga Purush, Bommai said the great monk of India is relevant eternally. According to him, Ramakrishna Paramahamsa has aptly renamed Vivekananda -- Where there is Viveka (Prudence), there is Ananda (happiness). Quoting from Swami Vivekanada's book 'Life after death', Bommai said Vivekananda's imagination about life after death is wonderful. "Death is not an end for an achiever. Achievement lives on even after death. Vivekananda showed it through his life and principles. Vivekananda's principles and way of life need to be reached to the youth. Government and the society should work towards this," he explained. Bommai also said that Vivekananda's was a multifaceted personality. Apart from religion and philosophy, he had shed light on general realistic life too. Vivekananda had immense faith in youth power and strongly believed that one can bring big changes in one's own life or the lives of others only when young, the Chief Minister said. Ministers C N Ashwath Narayan, K C Narayana Gowda, seers of Ramakrishna Mutt and senior officials were present. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-youth-policy-on-the-anvil-to-guide-youths-to-tread-on-noble-path-karnataka-cm-1070581.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to expand e-market for farmers’ produce||Karnataka is considering expanding its pioneering Rashtriya e-Market Services (ReMS) platform to sell agriculture and horticulture products of Farmers Producer Organisations (FPOs), a senior official said on Wednesday. The ReMS electronic trading platform will connect markets with FPOs allowing the farmers’ collectives to sell their produce in bulk.  “As a pilot sale, 37 lots of 4,661 quintals with a total trade value of Rs 1.41 crore of the FPOs have been traded on the platform,” ReMS managing director Manoj Rajan said, adding that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will soon chair a meeting to discuss the expansion of the platform to cover more FPOs.  Karnataka has 700 FPOs with an average membership of 350-400 shareholders.  Speaking at the State Credit Seminar organised by NABARD, Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Development Commissioner Vandita Sharma said FPOs help increase agricultural income in the long run. “The pilot had 4,661 quintals. This isn’t enough. The sale of FPO produce should be brought to the ReMS portal. This will provide ease of doing business to the farming community,” she said.  Sharma pointed out that Karnataka was the first state to start auctions in APMCs using the ReMS. “The National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) came later,” she said.  Rajan said FPO produce like groundnut, maize, paddy, tur, ragi, jaggery, Bengal gram, green gram and soybean will get a market through ReMS.  “The electronic trading platform provides transparent, secured and comprehensive trading features for conducting online trading for FPOs,” he explained. “FPOs update details of lots available for sale, and buyers participate remotely by offering their bids. The platform supports online settlement and payments to bank accounts of FPOs/farmers.”  The platform has 44,000 traders registered across 160 markets in the state. “These traders have access to these FPOs enabling them to get fair returns on their farm produce through a transparent price discovery mechanism,” Rajan said.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-expand-e-market-for-farmers-produce-1070626.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka may see 20-70K daily hospitalisations by February 2: Report||Karnataka will see 20,000 to 70,000 hospitalisations for Covid by the end of January or February 2. These are the new projections made by researchers at the Indian Statistical Institute and Indian Institute of Science on Tuesday  Similarly, projections made by the researchers for ICU bed requirement shows that the state will require 1,000 beds to more than 3,000 beds by February 2. As per projections made by another group INDSCI-SIM (Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19), Karnataka, by January 25, will have 35,000 daily cases and 500 to 5,000 severe cases, based on whether individuals are fully vaccinated or unvaccinated. Prof Gautam Menon, professor of Physics and Biology, Ashoka University, Haryana, who has worked on several Covid models and is a part of INDSCI-SIM, told DH, “Across the country, we expect six lakh to nine lakh new Covid cases to be reported at the peak between January 21 and February 10. By March, the curve will flatten. Another common thing with projections from other models is that the number of cases will be larger than the second wave.” “A subset of the projections we’ve made for severe cases will be ICU patients and the others can be considered those requiring hospitalisation owing to the severity of the disease. Data is based on the number of people getting tested,” he said. “INDSCI-SIM model also looks at people who have recovered from the disease. People susceptible are those who have never been vaccinated and those who have been infected once. We take this fraction to be 20% of the population. Those who have been infected once can be infected again,” he added. Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) president Dr H M Prasanna said, “The state’s private sector does not have 1.4 lakh beds as is being reported. When the second wave started, we checked and there were only 66,000 beds. This is as per the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust portal. We don’t know when it increased. Maybe the government is factoring in medical college hospital beds.” Estimating the number of beds in private hospitals, he said, there are around 6,500 private hospitals in Karnataka, apart from medical colleges. “In all, there are 70,000 beds in private hospitals and medical colleges. In both the government and private sector, there may not be more than one lakh beds,” he said. Health commissioner D Randeep told DH, “The operative number would be the beds deployed for Covid as per government directions, not total beds.” As per figures shared by him, there are 28,283 adult beds (general, O2, HDU, ICU, ventilator) and 3,466 paediatric beds in the state. In all, there are 31,749 beds in the health department-run hospitals (excluding medical education department-run hospitals). Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-may-see-20-70k-daily-hospitalisations-by-february-2-report-1070637.html
12-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||End the march, DKS told by 'mentor' S M Krishna||Former Union Minister S M Krishna on Wednesday urged KPCC president D K Shivakumar, his protege, to drop the Congress' Mekedatu foot march in view of the Covid-19 situation and the BJP government's willingness to implement the project. "The padayatra may come in the way of measures to control Covid," Krishna stated. "The Bommai-led BJP government has agreed to implement the Mekedatu project. So, in the interest of public health, I request you to curtail your padayatra." Krishna, who was with Congress before joining the BJP, is believed to have mentored Shivakumar helping him come to the fore. Shivakumar's daughter is married to Krishna's grandson. In fact, Shivakumar had invited Krishna to join the march. "Implementation of the Mekedatu project has my full support," Krishna wrote, thanking Shivakumar for the invite. Krishna also wrote to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, urging him to end the march. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/end-the-march-dks-told-by-mentor-s-m-krishna-1070662.html
12-01-2022||West||Covid cases going down in Mumbai? This is what Mayor says||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday said the numbers of Covid-19 cases and its fast-spreading variant Omircon were slowing coming down in the city and appealed to citizens to get vaccinated against the viral infection. In a recorded video message issued by the mayor's office, Pednekar said out of those who died due to Covid-19 so far since February 2021, 94 per cent of people were unvaccinated. The Maharashtra capital on Tuesday reported 11,647 new Covid-19 cases, a drop of 2,001 from the previous day and the fourth straight day of a downward trend, taking the tally to 9,39,867, while two more patients succumbed to the infection, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). On Wednesday, Pednekar said the number of Covid-19 and Omicron cases reported daily is going down, but at the same time, it is necessary that everyone should get vaccinated against the disease. "Everyone should get vaccinated. Be vaccinated," Pednekar appealed to people. She also said that even if vaccinated people get infected, they develop mild synonyms. After the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, Mumbai reported its highest-ever 20,971 cases on January 7 this year and since then, the number of daily infections has been declining. Mumbai had reported 20,318 last Saturday, 19,474 on Sunday and 13,648 on Monday. The highest daily case count during the second wave was 11,163, recorded on April 4, 2021. BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday said the daily Covid-19 cases and positivity rate have come down significantly in the last few days. He appealed to citizens not to panic and instead strictly follow Covid-19-related rules like wearing face masks.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-cases-going-down-in-mumbai-this-is-what-mayor-says-1070415.html
12-01-2022||West||Raigad Fort development to be speeded up: Ajit Pawar||The Maha Vikas Aghadi government is set to give a major push to speed up the development of Raigad Fort and the neighbouring areas. Located in Raigad district’s Mahad area, the Raigad Fort has a great significance in India’s history as it is from here that Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj laid the foundation of ‘Hindavi-swaraj’ or self-rule of Hindu people. To discuss the progress of the ongoing works, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar chaired a review meeting.  “Funds will not be a constraint for the project,” he said.  Besides the Raigad Fort, the 21 villages in the vicinity are also being developed.  Top officials of Tourism and Cultural Affairs departments, Archaeological Survey of India, Directorate of Archaeology were present.  Raigad Development Authority (RDA) chairman and Shri Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, the 13th descendent of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj who hails from the royal family of Kolhapur, Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare, cultural affairs minister Amit Deshmukh, tourism, environment and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray, minister of state for tourism Aditi Tatkare, Principal Secretary (Tourism) Valsa Nair-Singh, Konkan divisional commissioner Vilas Patil and Raigad district collector Mahendra Kalyankar were present.  In 1674, Shivaji Maharaj made Raigad Fort his capital. Shivaji was crowned king in a ceremony on 6 June 1674 at Raigad Fort. From here, he laid the foundation of the Hindavi-Swaraj or the self-rule of the Hindu people.  Earlier known as Rairi, Shivaji Maharaj seized the fort from Chandrarao More, the king of Jawli and a descendant of Chandragupta Maurya, in 1656. For over a decade, it was renovated and strengthened. The villages of Pachad and Raigadwadi are located at the base of the fort. After the death of Shivaji and thereafter the killing of his son Sambhajil Maharaj in 1689, the fort was captured by Mughals under Aurangzeb and in 1818, it was the target of an armed expedition of the British East India Company. Located 820 metres (2,700 feet) above sea level in the Sahyadri mountain ranges, the fort can be accessed by a single pathway comprising 1737 steps. Surrounded by deep green valleys, the fort has several gateways that enthral its visitors, namely, the Mena Darwaja, Nagarkhana Darwaja, Palkhi Darwaja, and the majestic Maha Darwaja which is the main entrance to the imperial structure. The Britishers had named it "Gibraltar of the East'' as the well-fortified structure atop the hill was extremely difficult to access, let alone conquer. Various landmarks have lent it the credo of ‘Shiva-teerth'. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raigad-fort-development-to-be-speeded-up-ajit-pawar-1070560.html
12-01-2022||West||Maharashtra registers 46,723 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra recorded 46,723 cases on Wednesday, the highest so far during the Omicron variant-driven third wave of the Covid-19 even as the progressive cases since the outbreak of the pandemic crossed the 70-lakh mark. During the past 24 hours, the state recorded 46,723 cases and 32 deaths taking the progressive total to 70,34,661 and 1,41,701, respectively. The total active cases in the state now have crossed the 2 lakh mark and now stands at 2,40,122. During the day, Mumbai recorded 16,420 cases, while the same for the Mumbai metropolitan region was 30,107. Meanwhile, the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, reviewed the pandemic situation and the restrictions in the state Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-registers-46723-covid-19-cases-1070611.html
12-01-2022||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 curve not flattening despite drop in numbers, cautions Tope; stresses vaccination||Maharashtra Health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday cautioned that the coronavirus curve in the state is not flattening despite a dip in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in the last couple of days. He said there is a silver lining that out of the 2.25 lakh active cases, only 14 per cent are under hospitalisation. Tope said he doesn't expect the situation to stabilise by January end or by early February, and urged those who have not undergone vaccination to take jabs, besides masking up by all. Vaccination and restrictions are key to arresting the spread of the infection, he stressed. Tope also pointed out that the vaccination rate needs to be ramped up. He said he has asked for 50 lakh doses of Covisheild and 40 lakh doses of Covaxin during a meeting with Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. "The cases have seen a decline in the last two days, but this does not mean that the curve is flattening. There are 46,000 cases today. So there is no flattening of the curve," Tope told reporters. The positivity rate of the state stands at 21.04 per cent and Mumbai's positivity rate is 27 per cent, he said, adding that of the 2.25 lakh active cases, only 0.32 per cent - less than a per cent - require a ventilator. On the supply of medical oxygen, he said the current demand is around 400 metric tonnes. Of this, 250 tonnes is for non-Covid patients and the rest for coronavirus patients. He said that if the oxygen demand exceeds 800 metric tonnes, then lockdown will be imposed in the state. On legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar, who has been admitted at the Breach Candy Hospital after testing positive for coronavirus, Tope said the doctors have been instructed to share the real-time information on the Bharat Ratna recipient's health. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-curve-not-flattening-despite-drop-in-numbers-cautions-tope-stresses-vaccination-1070642.html
12-01-2022||West||Wardha police arrest Kalicharan Maharaj for remarks against Mahatma Gandhi||The Wardha police arrested Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj on Wednesday in connection with a case registered against him here in Maharashtra for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi. The seer was brought here around 5 am from Raipur in Chhattisgarh, where he was lodged in a jail in connection with a similar case registered against him there, sub-divisional officer of police Piyush Jagtap said. He was produced before the court of a local magistrate who remanded him in judicial custody. The case against the religious leader was registered at Wardha city police station on December 29, 2021. Earlier, Kalicharan Maharaj had been arrested by the Raipur police for allegedly making derogatory comments about Mahatma Gandhi at an event in the Chhattisgarh capital city on December 26 last year. A similar case was also registered against him by Akola police in Maharashtra. Last week, the Pune police had arrested him for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during the 'Shiv Pratap Din' programme there on December 19, 2021, organised to celebrate the killing of Adilshahi commander Afzal Khan by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in 1659. A court in Pune last Friday granted bail to him in that case following which he was sent to jail in Raipur in the case of his comments against Mahatma Gandhi. The Wardha police arrest him on Wednesday from thereafter submitting a production warrant, an official said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wardha-police-arrest-kalicharan-maharaj-for-remarks-against-mahatma-gandhi-1070663.html
