13-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||11 new Covid cases reported at Central University of Karnataka||Central University of Karnataka (CUK) located at Kadaganchi has emerged a Covid-19 cluster with 11 fresh cases being reported on Thursday. The total case tally rose to 59.  CUK Registrar (administration) Basavaraj Donur said as many as 694 samples have been tested so far. Total positive cases included 31 girls, 22 boys, four faculty members and two family members. The results of 45 samples are awaited, he explained. The infected are being treated at the isolation centre of the varsity. All are doing well. Meanwhile, a total of 250 students who arrived at the campus to attend the offline classes have again left the campus as the varsity has decided to switch over to online classes in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 positive cases, the registrar added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-new-covid-cases-reported-at-central-university-of-karnataka-1070833.html
13-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Covid testing to go up in south Karnataka districts||Karnataka, on an average, has been conducting 1.36 lakh Covid tests over the past 15 days. However, the state set a daily testing target of 2.8 lakh on January 12 for the next three days. Bengaluru alone (BBMP plus Bangalore Urban) is required to test 1.2 lakh samples. However, state nodal officer for Covid testing Dr C N Manjunath has cautioned of practical difficulties on the field. While 1.12 lakh samples will be tested with rapid antigen method, 1.68 lakh samples will be tested with RT-PCR method. “We have set a target of at least two lakh tests per day and we will increase it further. About one lakh tests are being done in Bengaluru. About 265 labs are operational in the state,” said Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. Health commissioner D Randeep said, “The 2.8 lakh target is only for the next three days in view of the Mekedatu padayatra as there were congregations in south Karnataka districts.” The idea is that the congregations could have led to more asymptomatic infections, he said.  “Alternative arrangements will be made only in these districts for the next three days so that the testing infrastructure is not burdened. These districts can take the help of local private diagnostic labs too,” Randeep said. Manjunath said, “Ground realities may not allow us to meet targets. Increasingly, healthcare staff are testing positive and the labs are not uniformly distributed across the state. Sample collection and transportation may take time.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-testing-to-go-up-in-south-karnataka-districts-1070904.html
13-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||7-day isolation mandatory for Kerala students||Students from Kerala who are new to the district should undergo a 72-hour RT-PCR test and mandated seven-day home isolation, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said on Thursday. “This rule is applicable to all of the district’s medical, engineering and paramedical colleges,” the DC said. The number of Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada district is increasing. Kerala has a corona positivity rate of 5.6 per cent. Students from Kerala, who are new to the district, must undergo a 72-hour RT-PCR test as well as mandated seven-day home isolation,” the DC said. Testing and screening will be extended to all educational institutions, housing and shopping centers. “If somebody has Coronavirus symptoms, they must be isolated. International travelers are still being tested. As per the guidelines, random testing in educational institutions will be discontinued,” the DC said. Home isolation cases will be closely monitored. Containment zones must be maintained. All IPC protocols should be followed by anyone working in a hospital. Vaccination of youngsters between the ages of 15 and 18 must be undertaken at the earliest. All must adhere to Coronavirus precautions such as wearing a face mask, hand sanitisation and maintaining social distance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/7-day-isolation-mandatory-for-kerala-students-1070952.html
13-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Congress Mekedatu march to continue: DK Suresh||A defiant and determined Congress wants to go head with its Mekedatu foot march regardless of the government banning the campaign in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. “The padayatra will continue,” Bangalore Rural MP DK Suresh told reporters. “The police are trying to stop people from reaching the march. It’s wrong for the government to stop a protest like this,” he said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said he has convened a meeting of party legislators to decide on the foot march. “Why didn’t the government issue an order all these days,” he asked rhetorically. Meanwhile, the police have registered a fourth FIR naming 30 Congress leaders for defying Covid-19 norms. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-mekedatu-march-to-continue-dk-suresh-1070725.html
13-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||If you don’t, we will stop you: Karnataka HM tells Congress||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra that the police will “act as per law” if Congress goes ahead with day five of its foot march on Thursday.  “What I expect is that the Congress will take a good decision by ending the march. Otherwise, the police and district administrations have instructions to stop them,” Jnanendra told reporters.  Congress leaders have got into a huddle in Ramanagara to discuss the way forward, a day after the Basavaraj Bommai administration specifically ordered a ban on the ‘Namma Neeru Namma Hakku’ campaign for the Mekedatu project, given the rise in Covid-19 cases.  Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily, who took part in the inauguration of the Mekedatu padayatra, has tested positive for Covid-19, Jnanendra said.  “We have information that many leaders are infected. The march has become a Covid march,” Jnanendra said.  As per the Congress’ plan, the foot march is scheduled to move from Ramanagara to Bidadi on the outskirts of Bengaluru today.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/if-you-don-t-we-will-stop-you-karnataka-hm-tells-congress-1070736.html
13-01-2022||National||New ISRO chairman bats for opening up of India's space sector||Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre director S Somanath, who has been appointed as the new chairman of ISRO, said that support needs to be extended to opening up the space sector of the country to private players. Talking to reporters in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday, he said that it was a proud moment for him to be elevated as ISRO chairman at a time when the nation's space programmes require a new direction. Somanath said that it was high time that the country's space sector was opened up to private players. "Our space sector activities are now limited only to ISRO and some government agencies. Instead private players should be also allowed to play roles in developing applications and even launching rockets. Start-ups in the space sector also need to be promoted. The space sector need to be developed into a business economy by making it a space service sector. ISRO has its limitations and hence the role of private sector is important", he said. Somanath, who is a Keralite, joined the VSSC in 1985. He was appointed as VSSC director in 2018. Prior to that he also served as Director of Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre in Thiruvananthapuram. After completing BTech in Mechanical Engineering from TKM College of Engineering in Kollam he did his Masters in Aerospace Engineering from Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore with specialisation in Structures, Dynamics and Control with a gold medal. He played a key role in three successful missions of GSLV with indigenous cryogenic stages and eleven successful missions of PSLV with the liquid stages realized by LPSC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-isro-chairman-bats-for-opening-up-of-indias-space-sector-1070675.html
13-01-2022||National||DH Toon | GoI holds largest stake in Vodafone Idea: 'Share...holding' daily burden, anyone?||"Government will remain an investor only. The companies will be run by the professionals. All the debt liabilities will remain responsibility of the companies. The companies have given us commitment," Vaishnaw told PTI in an interview.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-goi-holds-largest-stake-in-vodafone-idea-shareholding-daily-burden-anyone-1070692.html
13-01-2022||National||India, UK launch FTA negotiations with an aim to double bilateral trade by 2030||In a move that could mean more market access, more jobs to people and better wages, India and the UK Thursday formally launched negotiations for a Free Trade Agreement between the two countries with an aim to double the bilateral trade by 2030. This announcement was made by Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal and UK Trade Secretary, Anne-Marie Trevelyan, who is in New Delhi for FTA Agreement discussions. “A India-UK Free Trade Agreement would be a substantial opportunity for both of our economies and a significant moment in the India-UK bilateral relationship,” an official statement said after the meeting. India and the UK will seek to agree a mutually beneficial agreement supporting jobs, businesses and communities in both countries, it said. Both sides have agreed to double that bilateral trade by 2030, as part of Roadmap 2030 announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Prime Minister Boris Johnson in May 2021. Trade negotiations will be a priority for both countries, as we build upon the Enhanced Trade Partnership launched by our Prime Ministers in May 2021, Goyal said. During negotiations, and on the path to a comprehensive agreement, both governments will consider the option of an “Interim Agreement” that generates early benefits for both countries. In parallel to trade negotiations, the India-UK Joint Economic and Trade Committee will continue to work in improving the India-UK trading relationship and addressing market access barriers outside of a trade agreement. Both parties have agreed that the first round of negotiations will begin on 17 January, and future rounds of negotiations will take place approximately every five weeks. The ambition of both countries is to negotiate a broad agreement that will deliver for businesses and consumers, the statement said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-launch-fta-negotiations-with-an-aim-to-double-bilateral-trade-by-2030-1070701.html
13-01-2022||National||With 2.47 lakh new infections, India sees record surge in Covid-19 cases||India logged 2,47,417 new coronavirus infections, the highest in 236 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,63,17,927  which includes 5,488 cases of the Omicron variant, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The country saw a single day jump of 620 cases of the Omicron variant, the highest so far, taking the total tally of such cases to 5,488, out of which 2,162 people have recovered or migrated so far. The active cases have increased to 11,17,531, the highest in 216  days, while the death toll has climbed to 4,85,035 with 380 fresh fatalities. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 1,367 cases of Omicron variant followed by Rajasthan at 792, Delhi 549, Kerala 486 and Karnataka  479. The  active cases comprise 3.08 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate decreased to 95.59 per cent, the ministry said. A total 2,57,299 coronavirus infections were reported in a single day on May 21. An increase of 1,62,212 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.  Meanwhile, top government officials on Wednesday advised people not to treat the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 as common cold while asking doctors to follow a rational approach in their prescriptions instead of prescribing unnecessary medicines that have been proven useless in Covid-19 treatment. The officials also warned against “rampant and irrational” use of Molnupiravir, which they say has a narrow window of clinical application. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  (With inputs from PTI) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-247-lakh-new-infections-india-sees-record-surge-in-covid-19-cases-1070703.html
13-01-2022||National||Centre mulls live dashboard to monitor availability of Covid-19 drugs: Report ||The move aims to prevent shortage and black marketing of at least nine categories of medicines, which are generally prescribed for Covid-19 treatment. In the second wave, critical medicines were hoarded and sold in the black market, causing a mass shortage and leading to families of critical patients waiting in queues at pharmacies to obtain them.  "The idea is to prevent hoarding and shortage of drugs in the market. Also, the dashboard will prevent leakage from the system leading to black marketing," a government official told the publication.  According to the report, the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA), which works under the Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP), is working on a plan to create a system that can track the availability of stock in hand and sales. The body has reportedly asked all pharmaceutical manufacturers to upload information such as its production, distribution and products in the pipeline on selected Covid-19 drugs on the portal.  The key categories include antipyretics, antihistamines, antitussives (to suppress coughing), antibiotics, anti-inflammatories, vitamins and minerals, monoclonal antibodies and antivirals (such as Molnupiravir). "The categories are indicative. As per the need, we will focus on other Covid-19 drugs too. It will be a dynamic portal," the official said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulls-live-dashboard-to-monitor-availability-of-covid-19-drugs-report-1070718.html
13-01-2022||National||India's frontline workers fear being outpaced by new technology||Six in 10 frontline workers in India worry that they could lose their jobs if they don't adapt to new technology, a new Microsoft report showed on Thursday. Nearly 88 per cent of frontline workers in India are excited about job opportunities tech creates. Higher pay, skill development and better employee benefits are top reasons for frontline workers to consider new jobs, according to Microsoft India's 'Work Trend Index' report. "Even as we continue to endure pandemic uncertainty right now, frontline workers are standing up to the challenge of keeping the wheels of the economy running," said Rajiv Sodhi, COO, Microsoft India. "There are clear signals about the opportunity to align business outcomes with the wellbeing and growth of frontline employees. It's encouraging to see that technology can help at this inflection point," he said in a statement. Covid-19 has also strengthened ties and frontline workers have turned to each other for weathering this storm together. In India, 86 per cent of frontline workers report that they "feel very bonded to co-workers" because of shared stresses brought on by the pandemic. But their connections to leadership and company culture are weak. "Sixty-six per cent of frontline workers say that leadership does not prioritise building workplace culture, and that jumps to 69 per cent for those in management positions on the frontline such as department heads, store managers, and shop-floor supervisors," the findings showed. Sixty-five per cent of frontline workers say messages from leadership don't make it to them. Things are especially trying for frontline managers (67 per cent) who say their higher-ups are not effectively communicating with them either. At the same time, 17 per cent of frontline workers feel their voice is not being heard when communicating workplace issues, said the report. While 23 per cent of frontline workers in non-management positions don't feel valued as employees, many workers (65 per cent) wish more was being done to help with physical exhaustion or to support mental health (64 per cent). "As we embark on year three of the pandemic, 41 per cent of frontline workers believe that work stress will either stay the same or worsen in the coming year," the report mentioned. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-frontline-workers-fear-being-outpaced-by-new-technology-1070720.html
13-01-2022||National||Mallikarjun Kharge tests positive for Covid-19||Mallikarjun Kharge, the opposition leader in the Rajya Sabha, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Along with him, five of the staff members at his office have also tested positive for the viral infection. Kharge had participated in the ongoing Mekedatu padayatra here and had inaugurated it by beating drums. State Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has stated that former Union Minister Veerappa Moily, former minister Shivashankar Reddy, senior Congress leader Mallajamma have also tested positive for Covid. All of them participated in the Mekedatu padayatra. He had also warned that because of the Congress rally there might be a lockdown situation in the state and the Congress will have to take the responsibility for it. He has also warned that the government will not allow the Congress leaders to take padayatra on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Karnataka Congress on Thursday suspended its Mekedatu foot march amid surging Covid-19 cases in the country. “We are temporarily stalling our foot march. Once the third wave subsides, we will resume our March from Ramanagara,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said. The move came after the Karnataka government decided to ban the march over rising Covid-19 cases following a rap from the High Court. (With IANS inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mallikarjun-kharge-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1070723.html
13-01-2022||National||Alwar gang-rape survivor undergoes surgery as organs damaged||Many organs of the minor deaf and mute girl gang-raped in Rajasthan's Alwar have been damaged as a sharp-edged object was inserted in her body, officials confirmed. A team of five doctors performed a surgery for 2.5 hours, Dr Arvind Shukla said. Her rectum was injured and she was bleeding when brought to the hospital. There is a sharp cut in her private part. Doctors have performed plastic surgery and she has been shifted to the ICU in JK Lon hospital. An SIT team was formed on Wednesday to search for the accused. The 14-year-old victim was gang-raped on Tuesday night and thrown on a road. The passers-by reported the matter to the police who rushed her to a hospital. Later, as her condition worsened, she was shifted to the JK Lon hospital. Watch the latest DH Videos here: Several officials and ministers have been visiting the hospital to get her health updates. Police officials said that the incident reminded them of the 2012 Nirbhaya gang-rape case in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alwar-gang-rape-survivor-undergoes-surgery-as-organs-damaged-1070735.html
13-01-2022||National||Dowry should be given expansive meaning to include any demand: SC||The Supreme Court has said in order to eradicate the evil practice of “dowry”, the word ought to be ascribed an expansive meaning so as to encompass any demand made on a woman, whether property or valuable security of any nature.  A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana, and Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli said compelling a woman to bring money for constructing a house would also come within the meaning of dowry demands. The top court said a push in the right direction was required to accomplish the task of eradicating this evil of dowry, which has become deeply entrenched in our society. "When dealing with cases under Section 304-B IPC, a provision legislated to act as a deterrent in the society and curb the heinous crime of dowry demands, the shift in the approach of the courts ought to be from strict to liberal, from constricted to dilated. Any rigid meaning would tend to bring to naught, the real object of the provision, the bench said.  The court allowed an appeal filed by the Madhya Pradesh government against the High Court's order which set aside the conviction of Jogendra, and his father Badri Prasad for forcing his wife to end her life due to persistent dowry demands. The court, however, reduced their sentence from life imprisonment to seven years rigorous imprisonment. The bench said the High Court fell in an error in infering that since the deceased had joined her husband and father-in-law, and asked her mother or uncle to contribute money to construct a house, this cannot be treated as a “dowry demand".  "On the contrary, the evidence brought on record shows that the deceased was pressurised to make such a request for money to her mother and uncle. It was not a case of complicity but a case of sheer helplessness faced by the deceased in such adverse circumstances," the bench said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dowry-should-be-given-expansive-meaning-to-include-any-demand-sc-1070750.html
13-01-2022||National||Exodus from BJP continues as third minister, two more MLAs resign in UP||The exodus of BJP's backward caste leaders in Uttar Pradesh continued as yet another Dalit minister Dharam Singh Saini, the third in three days, resigned from the Yogi Adityanath cabinet and the saffron party on Thursday. Besides Saini, two more legislators of the BJP Mukesh Verma, an OBC, and Bala Prasad Awasthi resigned from the primary membership of the party accusing it of ignoring the interests of the Dalits, backward classes and farmers. As many as three BJP ministers and eight MLAs, most of them hailing from the OBC community, have quit in the past few days triggering panic within the party and altering its electoral scene in the key state. Interestingly, Saini, who held the Ayush portfolio and who was considered to be close to Swami Prasad Maurya whose resignation from the cabinet on Tuesday had triggered this exodus, had refuted reports of leaving the saffron party barely a day ago. Stung by a spate of resignations by senior OBC and Dalit leaders ahead of the polls, the BJP had launched a massive damage control exercise. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior BJP leaders had spoken to Saini and some other defecting MLAs to persuade them to remain in the party but their efforts did not bear fruit. UP BJP leaders admitted that they expected some more resignations in coming days though they sought to make light of the desertions. ''It won't make a difference for us in the forthcoming polls,'' said a senior BJP leader while speaking to DH. Some other party leaders, however, said that they had not expected such large-scale desertions ahead of polls and admitted that it could hurt BJP's electoral prospects. That the desertions had triggered panic among UP BJP was evident when the central leadership on Wednesday indicated that it would retain most of the sitting MLAs. The BJP has also, in a bid to keep its allies in good humor, agreed to give more seats to Apna Dal and Nishad Party. Sources close to Swami Prasad Maurya said that at least five to six BJP MLAs could resign in the next couple of days. Maurya, in a tweet compared himself to a mongoose, who would 'swallow' the RSS and the BJP, who he likened to a snake. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exodus-from-bjp-continues-as-third-minister-two-more-mlas-resign-in-up-1070753.html
13-01-2022||National||Vaccinating adolescents: Mandaviya asks eligible 'young friends' to get vaccinated at earliest||Over three crore youngsters in the 15-18 age group have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine since India opened up vaccination for this category of beneficiaries on January 3, Union Health Minister Mansukh Madaviya said on Thursday. "Great sense of responsibility & enthusiasm among Young India," the minister said. In a tweet, he said, "Over 3 crore youngsters between the 15-18 age group have received 1st dose of the #COVID19 vaccine. I appeal to all my eligible young friends to get vaccinated at the earliest". According to the Union Health Ministry data, over 26,73,385 precaution doses have been administered to healthcare workers, frontline workers and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities. With the administration of over 76 lakh doses (76,32,024) vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 154.61 crore as per provisional reports till 7 am. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2 last year. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1.The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.  The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from January 3 for  adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years.  India began administering precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers, frontline workers including personnel deployed for election duty and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities from January 10  amid a spike in coronavirus infections fuelled by the Omicron variant of the virus. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccinating-adolescents-mandaviya-asks-eligible-young-friends-to-get-vaccinated-at-earliest-1070777.html
13-01-2022||National||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, Delhi likely to peak by next week||New Covid-19 infections in Indian cities such as capital New Delhi and Mumbai could peak next week after rising rapidly, experts said on Thursday, as the country reported the highest number of daily cases since late May. The 247,417 new infections were more than 30 times higher daily cases from a month ago, rising as the more transmissible Omicron variant replaced Delta across the country. Total infections reached 36.32 million, behind only the United States. "Our modelling, and those of others, suggests that the big Indian cities should see their peaks in cases close to Jan. 20, while the overall peak in India may be shifted a bit later, to early February," said Gautam Menon, professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University near the capital. Mumbai recorded a high of 20,971 infections last Friday but cases have been coming down since. City officials said the rate of infection was also coming down, with nearly 80% of Covid-19 hospital beds vacant. Delhi reported more than 27,500 infections on Wednesday, close to its all-time high, and its health minister told local media this week infections could start coming down in a few days. Federal and state health officials say a majority of the infections in the ongoing third wave have been mild, with fewer hospitalisations and deaths than the previous surge in April and May that killed hundreds of thousands of people. The health ministry has said common pain relievers like paracetamol should be enough for people with mild fever due to Covid-19. It has warned, though, against complacency as infections have now started rising in as many as 300 districts from fewer than 80 a week ago. "The experience from other countries informs us that it is more practical to track/monitor hospitalisations rather than new cases," said Rajib Dasgupta, head of the Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University. "Non-pharmaceutical interventions - lockdowns, etc - are increasingly losing their relevance with rapid and inexorable community transmission." Many cities and states, including Delhi, have nevertheless imposed night curfews. Delhi also locks down fully on weekends and has closed private offices, schools and restaurants throughout the week. India has administered two primary vaccine doses to nearly 70% of its 939 million adult population but many still remain unvaccinated. This has worried officials especially as five states hold elections starting on Feb. 10. The country reported 380 Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, more than 46% of the fatalities in the southern state of Kerala not previously recorded. Total deaths have reached 485,035, only behind tolls in the United States and Brazil. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-delhi-likely-to-peak-by-next-week-1070790.html
13-01-2022||National||India’s forest cover growth is half of what was achieved in 2017-19 period||While India has gained over 2,200 sq km of forest and tree cover in the last two years, the increase is significantly lower than what was achieved in the previous two years (2017-19), a comparison of the last two State of the Forest reports reveals. The 2021 report released on Thursday showed an increase of 1,540 sq km of forest cover and 721 sq km of tree cover as against 2019. But the rise between 2017 and 2019 was considerably higher – 3,976 sq km of forest cover and 1,212 sq km of tree cover – as recorded in the previous edition of the report released in December 2019. Between 2017 and 2019, India’s total tree and forest cover grew by 5,188 sq km. But in the subsequent two years, the increase is a modest 2,261 sq km – less than 50 per cent of what was achieved in the previous cycle. Since the data for the latest edition of the biennial report was captured between October and December of 2019, the Covid-19 pandemic can not be ascribed as the reason behind the drop even in routine forestry activities that are generally linked to a hike in tree cover. The report is silent on the reason behind the poor show in the past two years. Union Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav also did not elaborate on the reason for such a drop but maintained that a special drive would be undertaken to increase the tree cover in the second phase of the national green mission. A closer look at the 2021 report reveals a loss of 1,582 sq km of moderately dense forest (canopy cover between 40 to 70 per cent) between 2019 and 2021. There is, however, a gain of 501 sq km of very dense forest (canopy cover of 70 per cent and above) and over 2,600 sq km of open forest (10 to 40 per cent canopy cover). With an addition of 155 sq km of forest cover, Karnataka is one of the top five states where the forest cover has improved along with Andhra Pradesh (647 sq km), Telangana (632 sq km), Odisha (537 sq km) and Jharkhand (110 sq km). The loss is entirely in the North East. Compared to the 2019 assessment, the maximum forest cover enhancement in Karnataka happened in Belagavi (24.06 sq km), Chitradurga (30.39 sq km) and Tumakuru districts (39.03 sq km). The maximum loss occurred in the Udupi district (26.65 sq km). A decadal analysis of forest loss in seven mega-cities shows Bengaluru lost nearly five sq km of forest area – an area equivalent to 700 football fields – between 2011 and 2021. But despite the loss, the southern metropolis has 89 sq km of forests, which is next to Delhi (194 sq km) and Mumbai (111 sq km). Check out the latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-forest-cover-growth-is-half-of-what-was-achieved-in-2017-19-period-1070797.html
13-01-2022||National||Up to 15% rise in number of Indian candidates taking IELTS exam since pre-Covid years||The number of candidates appearing for the IELTS exam in India for studying in or migrating to an English-speaking country has increased by up to 15 per cent since the pre-pandemic years, according to official figures. The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) is a globally standardised test of English language proficiency for non-native English language speakers. The exam is trusted by more than 10,000 organisations around the world as an indicator of English language proficiency. The statistics have been shared by IDP Education Limited, which owns the IELTS in India. "The growth in the current year IELTS numbers versus the pre-pandemic normal year is in the range of 10-15 per cent," said Piyush Kumar, regional director (South Asia and Mauritius), IDP Education. Last week, IDP launched 23 new offices across India, including in Gandhinagar, Anand, Raipur, Shimla, Kurukshetra, Jammu, Trichy, Thrissur, Patna, Guwahati, Calicut and Goa. "Students will now have access to world-class counselling services both via virtual and in-person mode through these new offices to study in prestigious universities and institutions across Australia, USA, UK, Canada, New Zealand, and Ireland," Kumar said. "From course and university selection, application submission, offer acceptance, visa assistance, to finding accommodation, applying for health insurance, opening bank accounts, etc., these new offices have dedicated study abroad experts to help students in their entire study abroad journey," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-to-15-rise-in-number-of-indian-candidates-taking-ielts-exam-since-pre-covid-years-1070812.html
13-01-2022||National||India improves global passport rank, Japan-Singapore top list, Pakistan among worst||The Indian passport now ranks at 83rd position on the Henley Passport Index, climbing seven places from the 90th rank last year, the London-based global citizenship and residence advisory firm, said. It released the rankings for the year 2022, based on exclusive data provided by the International Air Transport Association. As per the report, Japan and Singapore top the list of being the most powerful passports in the world for the year 2022. The visa-free score of both countries is 192. Afghanistan (rank 111) and Iraq (rank 110) continue to be in the 'worst passports to hold' category having a visa-free score of 26 and 28 respectively. Pakistan's passport is fourth among the worst or least powerful passports. The index includes 199 different passports and 227 different destinations. Updated quarterly, the Henley Passport Index is considered the standard reference tool for the global citizen and sovereign states for assessing passport rank on the global mobility spectrum. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-improves-global-passport-rank-japan-singapore-top-list-pakistan-among-worst-1070820.html
13-01-2022||National||Covid-19 meeting with CMs: PM stresses on local containment||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday virtually ruled out any future lockdown in the face of a surging third wave of Covid-19 powered by the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, but asked state administrations not to lower their alertness. "While making any strategy (to counter Covid-19), it is very important to keep in mind that there should be minimum damage to the livelihood of the common people. Economic activities, and momentum of the economy should be maintained," the Prime Minister said at a high-level review meeting attended by the Chief Ministers, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. "So it would be better to focus more on local containment," he asserted. The review happened a day after India recorded more than 2.47 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. On Thursday, the national capital logged its highest ever single day surge with 28,867 cases while the daily Covid count remained very high in every metro city. Modi said the vaccination drive had to be intensified and the home isolation guidelines must be strictly adhered to. Nearly 92% of India’s 94.47 crore adult population received at least one dose of the vaccine whereas 70% are fully vaccinated. Moreover, three crore adolescents between 15 and 18 years received the first shot in the last 10 days. But there is still a section of the vulnerable population that did not receive even a single dose. NITI Ayog member V K Paul on Wednesday said there were 13.75 crore people over 60 years of age of which 12.25 crore received the first shot. "Finding out and helping those 1.5 crore people who have been left out is an unfinished work," he said. The Prime Minister asked the states to intensify the door-to-door (Har Ghar Dastak) campaign for 100% vaccination, while stressing on the need to counter any misinformation about vaccines or the practice of wearing masks. "We have to be alert and careful, but we also have to take care that there is no panic. We have to see that in this festive season, the alertness of people and administration is not lowered anywhere. The more we can limit the corona infection, the less the problem will be," he said. The chief ministers briefed the Prime Minister on the steps taken to limit the spread of the virus. While Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai spoke about the spread of cases in Bengaluru and measures taken to contain spread in apartments, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee demanded a Covid package from the Centre. The chief ministers of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh and Manipur apprised the Prime Minister on the steps that were being taken to improve the vaccination coverage. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-meeting-with-cms-pm-stresses-on-local-containment-1070827.html
13-01-2022||National||9 dead, around 40 injured as Bikaner-Guwahati Express train derails in Bengal||Twelve coaches of Bikaner-Guwahati Express (15633) derailed near New Maynaguri in West Bengal on Thursday evening, leaving at least 9 dead and as many as 40 injured, including critically wounded passengers. The accident occurred around 5 pm when the train was on the run between New Domohani and New Maynaguri station, in north Bengal, under the Alipurduar Division of NF Railway. Railway rescue teams, and officials of state administration were involved in rescue operations. Three persons were brought dead at Maynaguri hospital, four at Jalpaiguri SSH. 31 injured persons were taken to Maynaguri, of whom 4 were admitted and 27 were referred to Jalpaiguri SSH. A total of 33 were admitted at Jalpaiguri. Some passengers were feared trapped, and rescue teams used gas cutters to reach out to them. Around 65 ambulances from Jalpaiguri and 10 from Coochbehar were pressed into service, and senior health officials from state visited the spot. "Blood and all other arrangements were made at Jalpaiguri SSH. Team of surgeons, anaesthetists, and orthopaedic surgeons, along with medicine specialist were formed for emergency response. Rescue operation is going on," said a senior health official. A few senior officials were still at the spot late at night. "Ambulances - 8 from Falakata SSH and 4 from Birpara SGH of Alipurduar, 5 more ambulances from Alipurduar DH and 3 from NGO, Manabik Mukh, were sent to spot. Both hospitals have been kept ready for any casualties who may arrive from the accident site," the official added. Ashwini Vaishnaw, minister for railways, said that he was personally monitoring the situation for swift rescue operations. The minister mentioned that enhanced ex-gratia compensation will be provided to the victims - Rs 5 lakh in case of death, Rs 1 lakh towards grievous injury, and Rs 25,000 for minor injuries. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also spoke to Vaishnaw. “Spoke to Railways Minister Shri @AshwiniVaishnaw and took stock of the situation in the wake of the train accident in West Bengal. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly,” PM Modi tweeted. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern and promised all support from the state administration. “Senior officers of the state government, DM/SP/ IG North Bengal are supervising rescue and relief operations. Those injured will receive medical attention, as early as possible,” the chief minister stated in a tweet, adding that the situation is being closely monitored from the state headquarters. Several other political leaders also tweeted to express their concern about the accident. A high-level railway safety enquiry has been ordered in the accident. A team comprising senior railway officials from New Delhi is expected to reach the accident site. The cause of the accident is still not clear. The railway minister is expected to visit the accident site on Friday. Three trains Guwahati-Howrah Saraighat Express, Sealdah-Agartala Kanchenjungha Express, and Trivandrum Central-Silchar Express, that pass through the region, are being diverted. Around 65 ambulances from Jalpaiguri, ten from Coochbehar were pressed into service, and senior health officials from state visited the spot. "Blood and all other arrangements were made at Jalpaiguri SSH. Team of surgeon , anaesthetists and orthopaedic  surgeons along with medicine specialist were formed for emergency response. Rescue operation is going on," said a senior health official. A few senior officials were still at the spot, late at night. "Ambulances - eight  from Falakata SSH and four from Birpara SGH of Alipurduar, five more ambulances from Alipurduar DH and three from NGO, Manabik Mukh, were sent to spot. Both hospitals have been kept ready for any casualties who may arrive from the accident site," the official added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9-dead-around-40-injured-as-bikaner-guwahati-express-train-derails-in-bengal-1070834.html
13-01-2022||National||US discourages India from acquiring Russian S-400 missile defence systems, says Joe Biden's nominee||The US is "discouraging" India from acquiring S-400 missile defence systems from Russia but Washington will have to weigh "important geostrategic considerations" on growing calls for a presidential CAATSA waiver to New Delhi, President Joe Biden's nominee for Coordinator for Sanctions Policy has told lawmakers. The US has already imposed sanctions on Turkey under the CAATSA for the purchase of a batch of S-400 missile defence systems from Russia. In October 2018, India signed a $5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, despite a warning from the then Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. The Biden administration has not yet clarified whether it will impose sanctions on India under the provisions of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for procuring the S-400 missile systems. CAATSA is a tough US law that was brought in 2017 and authorises the US administration to impose sanctions on countries that purchase major defence hardware from Russia. James O’Brien, President Biden's nominee for the US State Department’s coordinator for sanctions policy was asked at his confirmation hearing on Wednesday if the US experience with Turkey provided any warning or lessons on how to proceed with India. Following the US sanctions on Turkey over the procurement of S-400 missile systems, there were apprehensions that Washington may impose similar punitive measures on India. Russia has been one of India's key major suppliers of arms and ammunition. "I believe they are very different circumstances, and, of course, different security partnerships -- but how do you believe we should think about the possibility of sanctioning our friends and not just threats?" Senator Todd Young asked O'Brien, a former career employee of the State Department. In response, O’Brien said it was difficult to compare the two situations, with a NATO ally that is breaking with legacy defence procurement systems, and then with India, a partner of growing importance, but that has legacy relationships with Russia. "The administration has made clear that it is discouraging India from proceeding with the acquisitions of Russian equipment, and there are important geostrategic considerations, particularly with (unintelligible) relationship to China. So, I think we have to look at what the balance is,” he said. “And, of course, India's got some decisions in front of it, so it would be premature to say more. But this is something I look forward to working with you and other interested members," O’Brien said. India pursues an independent foreign policy and its defence acquisitions are guided by its national security interests, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in November last year, amid apprehensions over the possibility of US sanctions on New Delhi over the procurement of S-400 missile systems from Russia. The S-400 is known as Russia's most advanced long-range surface-to-air missile defence system. Senator Young said India was currently taking delivery of the Russian S-400 system and was also in the process of acquiring new frigate ships from Russia. "Both are important systems for the Indians," he said. "India is a vital ally in our competition against China, and thus, I believe we should resist taking any actions that might drive them away from us and the Quad. I am therefore strongly supportive of waiving CAATSA sanctions against India, given our shared foreign policy interests," he said. "As most here know, the Indians have a lot of legacy systems from previous decades, and they are interoperable with the Russians' systems. And the Indians seek to defend their land border from Chinese incursions and defend the Indian Ocean from an increasingly adventurous and lawless blue ocean navy in the People's Liberation Army," he said. Quad - comprising Japan, India, Australia and the United States - is a grouping of four countries. In November 2017, the four countries gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quad" to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. In the midst of growing global concern over China's expansionist behaviour, the foreign ministers of the Quad member nations met in Tokyo on October 6 and reaffirmed their collective vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said last month that the S-400 missile defence deal between India and Russia has a very important meaning for India's defence capability and it is being implemented despite the US attempting to "undermine" the cooperation. There are growing calls in the US urging the Biden administration to grant the CAATSA waiver to India. In October last year, two powerful US Senators - Mark Warner of the Democratic Party and John Cornyn of the Republican Party - had urged President Biden not to impose provisions of CAATSA against India for buying the S-400 missile system, arguing that it was in America's national security interest. “We strongly encourage you to grant a CAATSA waiver to India for its planned purchase of the S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile system. In cases where granting a waiver would advance the national security interests of the US, this waiver authority, as written into the law by Congress, allows the President additional discretion in applying sanctions,” they wrote in a letter to Biden. Both Warner, Chairman of the Senate Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and Cornyn, Senate Minority Whip for the Grand Old Party (GOP), are co-chairs of the powerful Senate India caucus, the only country-specific caucus in the US Senate. Talking about his visit to India, Senator Tommy Tuberville said, “I was heartened that Prime Minister Modi not only committed the continuing support of our Freedom of Navigation Operations but that India will increase them”. Tuberville is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Visited the Philippines, Guam, Taiwan, and India. Purpose: listen to our allies and see firsthand the threat China poses to its neighbours, free trade, and democracy. We also discussed the region's response to Covid,” he had said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-discourages-india-from-acquiring-russian-s-400-missile-defence-systems-says-joe-bidens-nominee-1070835.html
13-01-2022||National||Mekedatu march: Congress high command ensures Karnataka leaders call off march||Worried over criticism and apprehending Karnataka High Court reprimand for holding massive event amidst of Covid-19 pandemic, Congress high command has asked state leaders to halt the Mekedatu foot march immediately. Congress General Secretary (in-charge Karnataka) Randeep Surjewala telephoned both Leaders of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Thursday morning and asked them to stop the march immediately, a senior leader in Congress told DH. "Taking note of the spread of Covid-19 and Karnataka High Court's intervention, the party top leaders decided to ask state leaders to call off the rally", said a senior leader said. Congress former President Rahul Gandhi, who returned from a foreign tour a few days back, also updated about the rally. He also favoured stopping the rally in the interest of public health, the leader said. The state leaders were keen to continue the march till Friday (January 14) and wait for the outcome of the public interest litigation (PIL) case that would come up in the Karnataka High Court for hearing. However, the Congress high command did not agree to this. "The high command is in the view that instead of waiting for the Court direction and calling off rally, it is better to stop it on our own to avoid further embarrassment," said the leader. "Though the party is supporting the state unit to hold such events to protect the state's interest in the water sharing issue, the timing is not suitable due to pandemic", added the leader. Congress top leaders were also worried over criticisms they faced for holding such a mega event at a time when Covid-19 cases were spreading rapidly and many Congress leaders, who attended the march, tested Covid-19 positive. The Congress also got bad press at the national level for holding the event when Bengaluru already turned into one of the hotspots in the country. With the political parties are gearing up for the campaign in five states assembly elections, Congress leaders in Delhi also worried that if the march continued further, the BJP may intensify its attack and hold Congress responsible for spreading diseases by organising such events amid pandemic, said a Congress leader. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mekedatu-march-congress-high-command-ensures-karnataka-leaders-call-off-march-1070854.html
13-01-2022||National||SC stays HC directions against OLX in a case of impersonation, cheating||The Supreme Court has stayed a direction by the Punjab and Haryana High Court to OLX India to adopt a screening mechanism in connection with sellers, who could post an advertisement on the online platform. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat, and Bela M Trivedi suspended operation of the High Court's order, after hearing senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for OLX India B V in the top court. The counsel questioned the High Court's order passed in December last year. The High Court had passed a slew of directions to OLX, in a case where a person had used another person’s identity to post an advertisement on the online platform. The plea, against the high court order, contended that OLX is an online marketplace, which connects sellers with potential buyers and is nothing more than a passive conduit between a buyer and a seller similar to the classified’s column in a newspaper. The plea added that the platform qualifies as an "intermediary" as defined under Section 2(1)(w) of the Information Technology Act 2000. The matter before the High Court was that a police officer had gone to the petitioner’s house and handed him a notice that a person identified as Umar Ali, had used the petitioner's Aadhaar card to post an advertisement for the sale of a motorcycle. The petitioner was informed that the impersonator had cheated a person in connection with the sale of the motorcycle, and an FIR has been registered against the petitioner. The petitioner then moved the High Court urging it to issue directions for conducting a fair and impartial investigation in the FIR.   “Since this court is dealing with such or similar type of cases every day, wherein by using OLX platform, the accused persons are cheating the innocent people, it would be necessary to issue notice to the Home Secretary, Government of Haryana as well as Director-General of Police, Haryana to inform this court whether any guidelines have been issued with regard to giving an advertisement on a platform like OLX or any other similar agency," the High Court said in its order. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-hc-directions-against-olx-in-a-case-of-impersonation-cheating-1070855.html
13-01-2022||National||No breakthrough in 14th round of India-China border talks||The 14th round of negotiations between military commanders of India and China did not immediately yield any breakthrough in resolving the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The two sides, however, agreed to “stay in close contact and maintain dialogue via military and diplomatic channels and work out a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest”, according to a joint press-release issued simultaneously in New Delhi and Beijing on Thursday. The commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) also agreed that they would hold the next round of talks at the earliest. Though the meeting between the military commanders of the two nations went on for more than 12 hours on Wednesday, they could not reach an agreement. A deal on mutual withdrawal of the frontline troops from Hot Springs was perceived as a “low-hanging fruit” for the negotiators to yield. A proposed deal on disengagement of troops from another face-off point – Kongka La – was also on the agenda. Though the two sides had extensive discussion on both the proposals as well as on disengagement in other face-off points along the LAC, the meeting ended without a deal. The military commanders of the two nations finally agreed that they would need more time to seek guidance from New Delhi and Beijing respectively in order to move forward. “We can expect a breakthrough in the next round of talks,” a source told DH, indicating that negotiation remained on track, despite failure by the two sides to immediately clinch a deal. The two sides had “a frank and in-depth exchange of views” for resolution of 21-month-long standoff along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. “They agreed that both sides should follow the guidance provided by the State Leaders and work for the resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest. It was noted that this would help in restoration of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector and enable progress in bilateral relations,” according to the joint press-release issued in New Delhi and Beijing. They also agreed to consolidate on the previous outcomes and take effective efforts to maintain security and stability on the ground, including during winter, it added. The 14th round of negotiations between the commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA, however, saw both sides returning to the practice of issuing joint press-releases after the talks. The previous round of negotiations on October 10 last year had ended in a stalemate, with no joint press-release being issued. The two governments had issued separate statements in New Delhi and Beijing, blaming each other for failure of talks. It took three months to end the stalemate and restart the negotiation at the level of the military commanders. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-breakthrough-in-14th-round-of-india-china-border-talks-1070857.html
13-01-2022||National||NEET-UG counselling to begin from January 19||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday said NEET-UG counselling will commence from January 19. He extended his best wishes to students. "Dear students, counselling for NEET-UG is being started by the MCC from January 19. You all are the future of the country and I hope that all of you will give a new direction to your career with the mantra 'service is religion'. I extend my best wishes to all," Mandaviya tweeted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-ug-counselling-to-begin-from-january-19-1070860.html
13-01-2022||National||Bharat Biotech seeks full marketing approval from DCGI for Covaxin||Bharat Biotech has sought from the Drugs Controller General of India regular market approval for its Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’, which is currently only authorised for emergency use in the country, official sources said on Thursday. In an application sent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) this week, V Krishna Mohan, Whole-Time Director at the Hyderabad-based company submitted complete information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, along with pre-clinical and clinical data while seeking regular market authorisation for Covaxin. The company, however, is yet to submit the full follow up data of clinical trial of Covaxin to DCGI, a source said. On October 25, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII) had submitted an application to the DCGI seeking regular market authorization for Covishield which is also authorised for emergency use in the country. In response to the application, DCGI had asked for some more information following which Singh last week submitted a response along with all desired data and information to DCGI. In addition to the successful completion of phase 2/3 clinical study in India, till now, more than 100 crore doses of Covishield vaccine have been administered to the people in India and worldwide, Singh is learnt to have stated in the response. Such a large-scale vaccination with Covishield and containment of Covid-19 infection is in itself a testimony of the safety and efficacy of the vaccine, he said. Meanwhile, Covaxin comprises 12 per cent of the total Covid-19 vaccine jabs administered in the country so far and it is the only vaccine that is being given to youngsters in the age-group of 15-18 years, inoculation of whom began from January 3 in the country. Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) took up the challenge to develop, produce and clinically evaluate a Covid-19 vaccine (Covaxin), from the SARS-CoV-2 strains isolated from Covid-19 patients in India, Mohan said in the application. It was granted the permission to manufacture Covaxin for restricted use in emergency situations on January 3. "In the current submission, all the required complete information regarding Chemistry. Manufacturing and Controls, along with the Pre-clinical and Clinical data have been provided in five modules. The information contained in the modules is uploaded on SUGAM portal for your kind perusal. We request you to kindly review the same and grant the marketing authorisation, at the earliest," the application by Mohan read. With the administration of over 76 lakh vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 154.61 crore as per provisional reports till 7 am on Thursday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-seeks-full-marketing-approval-from-dcgi-for-covaxin-1070872.html
13-01-2022||National||French court orders freezing of Indian property on Devas' plea||A French court has ordered the freezing of Indian government property in Paris on a plea by Devas shareholders who are seeking to enforce a $1.3 billion arbitration award over a cancelled satellite contract, according to the court order copy. The court allowed Devas shareholders to register a "Hypotheque Judiciaire" or a judicial mortgage on a Paris apartment in the posh 16th arrondissement. The building previously served as the residence of the Indian Deputy Chief of Mission and is valued at 3.8 million euros. Jay Newman, the senior adviser to Devas shareholders, said, "India has assets like this all over the world. This is just the beginning. We’re planning many more seizures." No immediate comment could be obtained from either ISRO or the government over the latest move by Devas. The property is the same one that Britain's Cairn Energy froze in July last year in an attempt to get New Delhi to pay $1.2 billion that an international arbitration tribunal had awarded, overturning the levy of taxes on the company retrospectively. A month later, the government brought a law to annul all retrospective tax demands and refund all money collected to enforce such demands. Cairn has since withdrawn all cases it brought across the world to collect the arbitration award and is now entitled to a Rs 7,900 crore refund. Devas shareholders moved to the French court on September 24, 2021. According to the French court document, three investors -- CC/Devas Mauritius, Telcom Devas Mauritius and Devas Employees Mauritius Pvt Ltd -- had moved for the seizure of assets of the Indian government to enforce the arbitration award ordering compensation for the cancellation of the Devas-Antrix satellite deal. Canada's Montreal district court had on December 21, 2021, ordered preliminary attachment of half of the funds that the Canada-based International Air Transport Association (IATA) holds on behalf of Air India. The Montreal court ordered the seizure of the fund after preliminarily identifying Air India as an alter ego of the Government of India, which owns ISRO and Antrix. The IATA operates a settlement system for travel agents, meaning that its offices worldwide can handle much of an airline's global revenues. Devas shareholders have also sought registration of the arbitration award in the US, the first step before they can seize Indian assets to recover the award. Devas Multimedia had in 2005 signed an agreement with Antrix -- the commercial arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) -- to provide multimedia services to mobile users using the leased S-band satellite spectrum. The deal was cancelled in 2011 on the ground that the auction of the broadband spectrum was mired in fraud and that the government needed the S-band satellite spectrum for national security and other social purposes. Devas Multimedia initiated arbitration against the annulment at the International Chambers of Commerce (ICC). Two separate arbitrations were also initiated under the bilateral investment treaty (BIT) by Mauritius investors in Devas Multimedia under the India-Mauritius BIT and by Deutsche Telekom -- a German company -- under the India Germany BIT. India lost all three disputes. Devas shareholders include US investment groups Columbia Capital and Telecom Ventures as well as Deutsche Telekom. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/french-court-orders-freezing-of-indian-property-on-devas-plea-1070879.html
13-01-2022||National||Ficci recommends reducing quarantine period to 5 days||Industry body Ficci has suggested the government to reduce the quarantine period to 5 days for coronavirus-infected individuals, at least for those in home isolation, so as to minimise the impact on the economy in terms of manpower shortages. In a letter to Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, the chamber has called for highly localised mobility restrictions on the basis of occupancy of hospital beds, especially critical care beds. "Needless to mention, there should be a coordinated strategy at the national level with a view to  balancing lives and livelihoods as any knee jerk reactions at the state, city and municipal level will not serve much purpose while threatening economic recovery," the letter dated January 12, said. It has also asked for eliminating any distinction between essential and non-essential activities, and an overarching criteria of no hindrance to industrial activity if 75 per cent of a unit's workforce is fully vaccinated. Further it has suggested the government to follow a graded approach in unlocking economic activities. It said that in high risk levels (over 60 per cent Covid bed occupancy of last one week), an isolation bubble must be implemented for export oriented units, and manpower restrictions should be limited to 50 per cent for services firms. Manufacturing units of essential goods, and items that are significant to national security and defence should be allowed to operate in all risk level (minimal, low, medium, high) areas besides all essential services including banking, NBFCs, MFIs, fintech, communication, IT, and exports. Social gatherings in marriages should be restricted to 50 individuals in case of medium risk and 20 in high risk, and for funerals, it should be 20 only.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ficci-recommends-reducing-quarantine-period-to-5-days-1070915.html
13-01-2022||National||UN forecasts India's GDP to grow 6.5% in FY22 over 'solid path' to economic recovery, rapid vaccinations||India is forecast to grow at 6.5 per cent in fiscal year 2022, a decline from the 8.4 per cent GDP estimate in previous financial year, and while the country’s economic recovery is on a "solid path" amid rapid vaccination progress, coal shortages and high oil prices could put the brakes on economic activity in the near term, the UN said on Thursday. The flagship United Nations World Economic Situation and Prospects (WESP) 2022 report, launched here, said that India’s GDP is forecast to grow at 6.5 per cent in fiscal year 2022, a contraction from the estimated growth of 8.4 per cent in fiscal year 2021. Growth is projected to further slow down to 5.9 per cent in the financial year 2023, the report said. On a calendar year basis, the report says that India’s GDP is projected to expand by 6.7 per cent in 2022 after a 9 per cent expansion in calendar year 2021, as base effects wane. GDP growth for the country is forecast to slow down to 6.1 per cent in calendar year 2023, the report said. “India’s economic recovery is on a solid path, amid rapid vaccination progress, less stringent social restrictions and still supportive fiscal and monetary stances,” the report said. The report noted that for India, robust export growth and public investments underpin economic activity, but high oil prices and coal shortages could put the brakes on economic activity in the near term. “It will remain crucial to encourage private investment to support inclusive growth beyond the recovery,” it added. It added that while still vulnerable, India is in a better position to navigate financial turbulence compared to its situation during the “taper tantrum” episode after the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. This is due to a stronger external position and measures to minimise risks to bank balance sheets. In the medium-term, scarring effects from higher public and private debt or permanent impacts on labour markets could reduce potential growth and prospects for poverty reduction. In India, inflation is expected to decelerate throughout 2022, continuing a trend observed since the second half of 2021 when relatively restrained food prices compensated for higher oil prices. A sudden and renewed rise in food inflation, however, due to unpredictable weather, broader supply disruptions and higher agricultural prices, could undermine food security, reduce real incomes and increase hunger across the region. The report said that the global economic recovery is facing significant headwinds amid new waves of Covid-19 infections, persistent labour market challenges, lingering supply-chain challenges and rising inflationary pressures. After expanding by 5.5 per cent in 2021, the global output is projected to grow by only 4.0 per cent in 2022 and 3.5 per cent in 2023. “In this fragile and uneven period of global recovery, the World Economic Situation and Prospects 2022 calls for better targeted and coordinated policy and financial measures at the national and international levels,” UN Secretary-General António Guterres said. “The time is now to close the inequality gaps within and among countries. If we work in solidarity – as one human family – we can make 2022 a true year of recovery for people and economies alike,” he said. With the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Covid-19 unleashing new waves of infections, the human and economic toll of the pandemic are projected to increase again. “Without a coordinated and sustained global approach to contain Covid-19 that includes universal access to vaccines, the pandemic will continue to pose the greatest risk to an inclusive and sustainable recovery of the world economy,” Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs Liu Zhenmin said. In India, a deadly wave of infection with the Delta variant stole 240,000 lives between April and June 2021 and disrupted economic recovery. “Similar episodes could take place in the near term,” the report said. It also noted the “important step” taken by India to commit to 50 per cent of its energy mix coming from renewable sources by 2030 and to reaching net-zero emissions by 2070. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-forecasts-indias-gdp-to-grow-65-in-fy22-over-solid-path-to-economic-recovery-rapid-vaccinations-1070925.html
13-01-2022||National||Third wave peak could play out in Goa by January 20: Expert||The peak of the third wave of the pandemic is expected to play out in Goa by January 20, even as the state is expected to witness 10,000 to 15,000 cases per day around the peak duration, a member of the Goa government's expert committee on Covid management said on Thursday. Speaking to reporters here, Dr Shekhar Salkar also said that in terms of Covid infection trends and patterns, Goa is behind Mumbai by 10 to 15 days, while expressing relief that the commercial was witnessing a plateau in terms of new infections. "Goa has not reached its peak yet vis a vis infections. Positivity is at around 30 per cent. The Omicron wave in Goa is going to be three to four times more than the Delta wave. Infectivity is high. The expectation is that over the next 10 days, maybe by January 20, we will be seeing around 10 to 15000 cases per day. After that new cases will come down," Salkar told reporters on Thursday. "Cases in Mumbai are plateauing over the last three days. The numbers there have not increased. We are around 10 to 15 days after Mumbai. by January 23-24 our cases may also climb down. But we will see a peak around January 20. We may see 10 to 15000 new cases every day," he added. The next few days leading to January 20, were critical in terms of managing the impact of the pandemic, he said. Salkar also said going by the fewer cases of hospitalisation among new Covid-infected patients, the third wave appeared to be less lethal. "Even though it (third wave) is less lethal, there could still be pressure on admissions because doctors and sisters are getting infected. We need to take precautions, wear masks, maintain social distancing, sanitisation, etc," Salkar said. Goa currently has 16,887 active cases, while the state reported 3,728 new cases on Thursday. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-wave-peak-could-play-out-in-goa-by-january-20-expert-1070939.html
13-01-2022||National||'A loud sound, a jerk and everything went blank': Bikaner-Guwahati train accident survivors recount experience||"A heavy jerk followed a loud sound, I fell from my berth and everything went blank," said a survivor of the Bikaner-Guwahati Express train, which derailed in West Bengal's New Jalpaiguri district on Thursday, leading to the death of five people and injury of 45 passengers. Twelve coaches of the train jumped the rails, and some of them overturned near Domohani. The accident occurred at around 5 pm in an area under the Alipurduar division of Northeast Frontier Railway, an NFR spokesperson said in Guwahati. A partially mangled coach got perched atop another under the impact, while a few bogies had hurtled down the slope and overturned. Hundreds of people from nearby villages gathered at the spot and lent a helping hand to passengers who had got trapped inside the collapsed coaches. Some of the bogies had gotten detached from the rest of the train under the impact, while some wheels came off. "It was around 5 pm; I was speaking to my wife over the phone. All of a sudden, I heard a loud sound and there was a heavy jerk. I was thrown away from my berth and went blank. Later, when I regained consciousness, I was being taken inside an ambulance," Sanjoy, a survivor, told a news channel. Some of the survivors were searching for their near and dear ones who were with them inside the train when the accident happened. "My mother and I were having tea, when all of a sudden there was a sound followed by a severe shock and luggage kept on upper berths tumbled all around. The locals later rescued me, but I am yet to locate my mother. I don't know what happened to her," said another injured person. "We recovered three bodies from the accident site while two people died in the hospital," Jalpaiguri District Magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said, adding at least 45 passengers were injured in the accident. Manohar Pal, a local who was one of the first to reach the spot and take part in the rescue operations, said he was with his friends at a tea stall when they heard a loud sound. "We initially thought it was some sort of a blast. But as we rushed towards the source of the sound, we saw train coaches mangled with each other. We heard people screaming from the derailed coaches. We immediately tried to pull them out," he said. The district magistrate said the death toll may go up as some of the injured passengers are in critical condition. Rescuers are thoroughly searching each coach for survivors and bodies through darkness and thick fog, Basu said. The Commissioner, Railway Safety, will conduct an inquiry into the cause of the accident, a railway official said in New Delhi. Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, Railway Board Chairman and Director General (Safety) are also leaving for the accident site. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-loud-sound-a-jerk-and-everything-went-blank-bikaner-guwahati-train-accident-survivors-recount-experience-1070942.html
13-01-2022||National Politics||Congress can't win Goa polls on its own: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena is upset at being given a cold shoulder by the Congress over its proposal to repeat the Maharashtra coalition experiment in the Goa Assembly elections. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the political situation in Goa is such that the Congress cannot go beyond single-digit if it contests the assembly polls in the coastal state on its own. "The Congress has only three MLAs in Goa. The party's MLAs have deserted it enmasse. Key political parties, we (Shiv Sena and NCP) had offered to support the Congress in its difficult times. But I don't know what the Congress is thinking. It cannot cross the single digit mark if it contests alone," Raut told reporters here. Raut, who had held a round of discussions with AICC in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundurao, CLP leader Digambar Kamat and Goa Congress chief Girish Chodankar, said he had placed a proposal that the Congress contest on 30 of the 40 assembly seats and leave the rest for its allies. He said the 10 assembly seats, where Congress has not won elections in the past 50 years, could be allocated to Shiv Sena, NCP and Goa Forward Party. Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was favourable to the idea of an alliance but the local Congress leadership had a different view. Raut said the Shiv Sena was ready to support the candidature of former Goa Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar's son Utpal should he decide to take the political plunge in the assembly polls. "Utpal has to take the courageous decision to contest the elections. You need to be courageous to contest elections. If he takes that decision, the Shiv Sena will support him," Raut said. Raut recalled that the Shiv Sena had supported the family of Lok Sabha member from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mohan Delkar, who was found dead in a Mumbai hotel last year. Delkar's wife Kalaben Delkar won the Lok Sabha bypoll as a Shiv Sena candidate.  Utpal had evinced interest in contesting the assembly polls from Panaji, a constituency represented by his father and four-term Goa Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar. Utpal had also met Home Minister Amit Shah in this regard. Goa goes to polls on February 14. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-cant-win-goa-polls-on-its-own-shiv-sena-1070756.html
13-01-2022||National Politics||DMK spent over Rs 218 crore in FY 2020-21, BSP over Rs 17 crore||The Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party has shown expenditures of over Rs 17 crore in its audited annual report submitted to the Election Commission, while the DMK spent over Rs 218 crore in the financial year 2020-21. The BSP's report, filed on December 30 last year, showed receipts worth Rs 52,46,79,235. The party has shown expenditure of Rs 17,29,72,729 in its audited annual report for the financial year 2020-21 put in the public domain by the EC on Thursday. The BSP has 15 seats in the outgoing Uttar Pradesh Assembly and is making all-out efforts to become a major stakeholder in the 403-member House in this year's election beginning February 10. The seven-phase polls is likely to see a tough fight between the ruling BJP and the opposition Samajwadi Party. The results will be announced on March 10. The Bahujan Samaj Party is a recognised national party. In the recognised state parties category, the poll panel has uploaded audited annual reports for 2020-21 of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Jammu & Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). The JMM, which filed its report on December 31 last year, has shown a total expenditure of Rs 58,43,655 and a total receipt of Rs 90,66,500. The PDP, which filed its report on December 27, has shown a total expenditure of Rs 9,95,450 and a total receipt of Rs 33,289. The principal opposition party in Tamil Nadu, AIADMK, has shown a total expenditure of Rs 42,36,73,610 and a total receipt of Rs 34,07,60,964 in its audited annual report filed on December 22, 2021. Tamil Nadu's ruling DMK has shown a total expenditure of Rs 218,49,22,072 (Rs 218.49 crore) and a total receipt of Rs 149,95,12,635 (Rs 149.95 crore) in its annual report filed on January 3 this year. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dmk-spent-over-rs-218-crore-in-fy-2020-21-bsp-over-rs-17-crore-1070923.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Iranian imports upset Kashmir's apple cart||Kashmiri apple growers are up in arms against the import of "illegal" apples from Iran, which are selling at cheaper rates in markets outside the Valley. They have appealed to the Centre to ban the import of the fruit, especially at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is making a big 'Make-in-India' push. "The supply of Iranian apples in India has severely impacted Kashmiri produce,” Bashir Ahmad Bashir, president of the Kashmir Valley Fruit Growers cum Dealers Association, told reporters. He said the rates of Kashmiri apples have declined from Rs 1,200 per box to Rs 600 in the past few days. "The production cost of one apple box is Rs 600. Transport and other charges come to Rs 300 per box. The GST has also increased from 12% to 18%. How can a grower sell at such low rates," he asked. Bashir alleged that the Union government didn't pay heed to their repeated requests, and again sought the Centre's intervention to help them tide over the losses suffered due to the import of untaxed apples. "We met the Union Agriculture Minister but he didn't take any action to stop the supply. Then we wrote to the prime minister, LG's office... but to no avail. When the PM is promoting Make in India, why are we importing goods," he asked. Bashir said untaxed Iranian apples are being imported from Dubai and the Wagah border, eating into the profits of local traders. "Our produce is confined to cold stores and godowns in Kashmir, which may spoil soon if the situation doesn’t get better,” he said. If the apples are still imported, he demanded that there be a 100% import duty on them so that they don't dent the local market share. The local horticulture sector contributes Rs 10,000-12,000 crore to the fragile Kashmiri economy and provides livelihood to lakhs of people. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iranian-imports-upset-kashmirs-apple-cart-1070673.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||JeM terrorist, cop killed and five injured in encounter in J&K||The Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorist killed in the encounter with security forces in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir has been identified as Babar Bhai of Pakistan who was active since 2018, police said on Thursday. The encounter took place in the Pariwan area of the south Kashmir district on Wednesday after the security forces launched a cordon and search operation following information about the presence of terrorists there. “Killed JeM #terrorist identified as Babar Bhai of #Pakistan, active since 2018 in the areas of Shopian-Kulgam,” Kashmir Zone Police said on Twitter. The police said an AK rifle, a pistol and two grenades were recovered from the site of the encounter. A policeman was also killed and five persons including three soldiers injured in the encounter. "One police personnel SgCt Rohit Chhib attained #martyrdom, 03 Army soldiers got injured. 02 civilians also got minor injuries. 01 #terrorist of #terror outfit JeM killed. #Operation continues," Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Zone, Vijay Kumar, had said on Twitter. An Army spokesman said the operation was launched based on HUMINT (human intelligence) about the presence of terrorists in the area and the security forces had to exercise maximum restraint since the area had civilians even as the terrorist opened fire and lobbed a grenade. “Suspect houses were cordoned as the security forces were carrying out house to house searches. At about 8.45 PM, while searching a house, a terrorist opened fire with AK and lobbed a grenade.  "Since the area and house had civilians, the security forces exercised restraint to first evacuate the civilians. In the process one JKP Constable was mortally wounded, three soldiers and two civilians were injured,” the spokesman said. He said the injured, including the civilians, were evacuated to the Army's 92 base hospital here, including the evacuation of one of the civilians by an Army helicopter. All the injured are stable, he added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jem-terrorist-cop-killed-and-five-injured-in-encounter-in-jk-1070682.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Father kills 9-year-old after boy fails to find his phone||A 9-year-old boy was allegedly strangled by his inebriated father after he failed to locate the latter's mobile phone. The incident took place in Alawalpur Madaiya village and the father has been arrested on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on Wednesday after an FIR was lodged in the case. The police said that Lakhan Singh, the victim's grandfather, lodged the police complaint against his son Mukesh Batham on Wednesday accusing him of killing Mithun in front of his granddaughter Palak, 4, on Tuesday night. According to the police complaint, Batham returned home on Tuesday night in an inebriated state. He forgot where he had kept his mobile phone and asked his son about it. But Mithun failed to find it and an angry Batham allegedly strangled him to death. The brutal murder was witnessed by the victim's little sister Palak, who started crying. After hearing her cries, her grandparents reached there but Mithun was dead by that time and Batham had fled from the house. Lakhan Singh told police that Batham is an alcoholic and due to his habits, his wife Vijay Kumari had left the house and moved to Punjab with four of their six children eight months ago. Mithun and Palak had been staying with their father. Station house officer of Kisni, Dharmendra Kumar, said that an FIR has been registered under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC and the accused has been arrested. The body has been sent for post-mortem and further investigations are under way. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/father-kills-9-year-old-after-boy-fails-to-find-his-phone-1070713.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Vaccination centres for 15-18 age group to be opened in schools with operational health clinics||The Delhi government has directed its officials to open temporary vaccination centres for children in the age group 15-18 years in its 20 schools where health clinics are operational. The vaccination drive for children in the age group began on January 3. "All DDEs (Distts.) and DDEs (Zones) are hereby directed to open temporary vaccination centres for students in the age group of 15-18 years in the 20 schools wherein School Health Clinics are operational," Directorate of Education (DoE) said in official order. "The officers are to coordinate with the district magistrates in order to set up the vaccination centres. Separate sufficient space shall be provided by school principals for the vaccination centres," it added. On Wednesday, the DoE also directed its officials to take various measures to ramp up Covid-19 vaccination of children in the age group of 15-17. "All DDE (Districts) and DDE (Zones) will visit vaccination centres under their jurisdiction and check the vaccination procedures on a daily basis. Further, they will visit schools to check the record that is being maintained with the principals wherein the students are informed about vaccination schedule," the DoE said. "The officer will also randomly call the students and parents to find out whether they were informed about vaccination and whether they have been vaccinated or not. The heads of schools will also have to increase mobilisation efforts to ensure more than 80 per cent of children in each school turn up for vaccination," it added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccination-centres-for-15-18-age-group-to-be-opened-in-schools-with-operational-health-clinics-1070732.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19 cases on the rise in Delhi, but hospitalisation rate now stable: Health Minister Jain||Hospitalisation rate due to coronavirus infection in the city has remained stable but the cases and the positivity rate have seen an increase, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. The minister said the death audit committee, which met on Wednesday, found that the fatalities have mostly occurred among those with comorbid conditions. The national capital has already recorded 133 fatalities in the first 12 days of the month. It had logged 54 fatalities in the last five months with nine in December, seven in November, four in October, five in September and 29 in August. In July, the virus had claimed 76 lives in Delhi. Jain said the cases might start declining soon. "Hospital admissions have stabilised over the last four days. Cases are increasing but the hospital admission rate has not increased in the same proportion.The hospital admission rate when 27,000 cases are being reported is the same as the time when 10,000 cases were logged. The stable hospital admission rate is an indication that the wave has plateaued," he told reporters.  Delhi reported 27,561 Covid cases, the second-highest single-day rise since the pandemic began, and 40 deaths on Wednesday while the positivity rate rose to 26.22 per cent. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-on-the-rise-in-delhi-but-hospitalisation-rate-now-stable-health-minister-jain-1070741.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||'Maagh Mela' to begin at 'Sangam' on Friday amid rising cases of Covid-19||Even as the number of Covid positive cases continues to rise in Uttar Pradesh, the annual 'Maagh Mela' at the 'Sangam' (the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati rivers) in Prayagraj will begin from Friday with the first major bathing day on the occasion of 'Makar Sankranti'. Lakhs of devotees from across the country are likely to take the holy dip in the 'sangam' waters on 'Makar Sankranti' on Friday. The devotees have already started reaching Prayagraj and the 'Mela' area was already bustling with crowds of devotees making their way to the sprawling tents set up to house the seers and saints from different parts of the country. Besides the 'Makar Sankranti', the other important bathing days were 'Paush Purnima' on January 17, 'Mauni Amavasya' on February 1, 'Basant Panchami' on February 5, 'Maaghi Purnima' on February 16 and 'Mahashivratri' on March 1. Although the neighbouring Uttarakhand government banned bathing in the Ganga at Haridwar on the occasion of 'Makar Sankranti' in view of the rising cases of Covid infections, the UP government chose to go ahead with the 'Maagh Mela' despite the Corona scare. According to sources, 38 cases of Covid infections were reported from the 'Mela' area on Wednesday. ''A majority of those who tested positive included the security personnel,'' said an official associated with the 'Mela' administration. The officials said that Covid protocols would be followed strictly within the 'Mela' area. ''There will be no delivering of sermons at the pandals of the seers and saints within the area,'' said an official in Prayagraj on Thursday. He said that people who were not administered double dosage of the vaccine would not be allowed in the 'Mela' area. Besides, those who were planning to stay in the area throughout the 'Mela' period would have to produce a negative RT-PCR report. A few senior seers and saints had however chosen not to take part in the 'Maagh Mela' owing to the Corona scare.  The state government invited flak from different quarters for allowing the 'Mela' amid the rising Corona infection cases and many attributed it to the forthcoming Assembly polls. ''The BJP government does not want to irk the seers and saint community for political reasons,'' remarked a Lucknow-based doctor.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maagh-mela-to-begin-at-sangam-on-friday-amid-rising-cases-of-covid-19-1070745.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Over 300 more Parliament staffers test positive for Covid-19||More than 300 Parliament staffers tested positive for Covid-19 between January 9 and 12, according to sources. Earlier till January 9, more than 400 of them had tested positive during random testing. "Till now, about 718 Parliament staffers have been infected. Of the total, 204 are from the Rajya Sabha secretariat, while the remaining are from the Lok Sabha secretariat and allied services," the sources said. During random testing in the first week of this month, over 400 staff members were found infected. On Tuesday, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inspected the Parliament House Complex (PHC) to take stock of the health safety related measures in light of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the country. Birla visited the Covid-19 testing facility set up in Parliament House Annexe for the Members of Parliament, officers and staff of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Saombha Secretariats and reviewed the preparations there. On Monday, concerned over the surge, Rajya Sabha Chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker directed secretaries generals of both the houses to suggest measures for safe conduct of the upcoming Budget session. "Both the Rajya Sabha chairman and the Lok Sabha speaker have directed the secretary generals to review adequacy of the Covid protocol followed during the last Winter Session in the current situation and submit a proposal in this regard at the earliest," the sources said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-300-more-parliament-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-19-1070749.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir struggles through Covid surge with no genome sequencing facility||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) at an alarming pace, the absence of Genome Sequencing facility in the Union Territory is resulting in limited analysis of positive samples and delay in ascertaining the nature of spread. J&K received Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) reports of samples it had sent to the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) on December 22, three weeks later on January 11. According to health officials, by the time the analysis of the variant infecting the samples sent was received, the people had even recovered from the infection and tested negative. They said Genomic sequencing reports are key to identifying the Omicron variant, but due to several factors, sequencing is taking weeks time and the delay in results is leaving everyone, including patients and hospitals, on the edge. “If Genome Sequencing is carried out in real-time and a representative number of samples are analyzed, it can help in devising better containment strategies. What is the point of knowing now what the spread of Omicron was in Kashmir around December 20? We should have known at that time only,” a senior doctor said on the condition of anonymity. He said irrespective of the variants, the treatment remains the same for Covid patients, but that Omicron cases need to be hospitalised and can be discharged only after they test negative to prevent community spread. Additional Chief Secretary J&K Government, Health and Medical Education Vivek Bhardwaj said that two Genome Sequencing equipment had been ordered after being tendered. “The machines will be delivered very shortly and we will have the facility functional shortly in both the divisions soon,” he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-struggles-through-covid-surge-with-no-genome-sequencing-facility-1070762.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath appeals for protocols as Magh mela begins on January 14||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has appealed to devotees, arriving in Prayagraj for the 47-day-long Magh Mela, to follow Covid-19 protocols strictly. The state government has not restricted the number of devotees at the mela but has made it mandatory to bring a RT-PCR report, not older than 48 hours. The mela area has already reported 39 positive Covid-19 cases as of January 12 which includes 37 policemen and security personnel. However, the officials claim to have made elaborate health arrangements for the devotees, who are arriving here for the first official bathing day which is on Makar Sankranti (January 14) on the banks of Sangam. Chief medical officer (CMO), Prayagraj, Dr Nanak Saran, said: "Latest RT-PCR tests declaring an individual to be free from the Covid-19 virus are a must for all, including the pilgrims, saints and seers as well as visitors. We have removed 51 individuals from the mela area who did not have the RT-PCR reports with them." Magh Mela officer Shesh, Mani Pandey, said: "In view of the pandemic and the necessary precautions to be taken thereof, we have made proper arrangements of sampling centres and ambulances in adequate number for the fair. Each government staff in the mela is being deputed only after proper screening." "For the devotees, we have also constructed 10 major ghats stretching from Nagvasuki to Quila Ghat near Sangam in order divert devotees to avoid overcrowding at one place," he added. Jai Kishan, the health officer in charge of Magh Mela arrangements, said: "We have put up hoardings at many places highlighting precautions like masks. Our screening teams are in place. All those coming to the Mela have to get vaccination certificates or RT-PCR test reports. There are provisions for testing at the venue too." Meanwhile, as devotees started arriving at the Mela township on Thursday, few were actually seen wearing masks. Most of them covered their faces with 'gamcha' at the sight of policemen and then removed it. Uttar Pradesh has reported a massive jump in new cases since January 1 and the Magh Mela has the makings of a super-spreader in the midst of the third wave of Covid, since devotees come here from all parts of the country. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-appeals-for-protocols-as-magh-mela-begins-on-january-14-1070792.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Third UP minister quits cabinet, likely to join SP||OBC leader Dharam Singh Saini on Thursday became the third minister to resign from the Uttar Pradesh cabinet. The resignation letter of Saini, who was the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Ayush, addressed to Governor Anandiben Patel is doing the rounds on social media platforms. OBC leaders Swami Prasad Maurya and Dara Singh Chauhan resigned from the Yogi Adityanath cabinet on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively. As in the case of Maurya and Chauhan, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav tweeted a picture of himself with Saini, indicating that he is also headed to the SP. A four-time MLA from Nakud in Saharanpur district, Saini is considered close to Maurya. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/third-up-minister-quits-cabinet-likely-to-join-sp-1070799.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||I-T dept says all arrangements made to check black money use in UP polls; seeks people's support||The Income Tax department has made elaborate arrangements to curb the use of black money in the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, a top official said on Thursday. A control room with toll-free number 18001807540, which will remain operational round the clock, has been set up in Lucknow. People are encouraged to call this number to furnish specific information relating to cash or other valuables suspected to be used for unduly influencing the election process, Director General of Income Tax (Investigation), Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Mohan Kumar Singhania said here on Thursday. He assured that the identity of the callers will be kept confidential, and that teams of officers and inspectors have been deployed in every district to act on complaints. About 300 officers and inspectors have been deputed for this specific purpose. These teams will be acting in close coordination with the district control room of the district election officer as well as the other agencies at the district level, he said. Close surveillance is being maintained over persons, places and activities likely to be involved in handling of unaccounted cash during the election process, Singhania mentioned. Air Intelligence Units are functional at all airports to keep strict vigil over movement of cash by air. The movement of cash, etc. through railways is also being monitored in coordination with Railways authorities, he said. Information relating to cash withdrawals from bank accounts, exceeding a certain limit, is being received for identifying suspicious transactions, he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-dept-says-all-arrangements-made-to-check-black-money-use-in-up-polls-seeks-peoples-support-1070809.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Haridwar hate speech: After SC notice, police arrest Jitendra Tyagi alias Waseem Rizvi||Within days of issuance of notice by the supreme court to the Uttarakhand government regarding the issue of ''hate speeches'' at a 'dharam sansad' (religious gathering) at Haridwar last month, Jitendra Narain Tyagi alias Waseem Rizvi, the former chairman of Shia Waqf Board, who is one of the key accused in the matter has been arrested on Thursday. A senior police official said in Haridwar that Tyagi was arrested from Haridwar and was taken to the Kotwali police station for interrogation. Sources said that Tyagi was accompanied by Mahant Swami Narsimhanand Giri, who was also an accused in the matter, but he was not arrested.  A case was registered against Tyagi and some others under section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language) following uproar over the alleged hate speeches. The state government had also formed a special investigation team to probe the matter. The three-day 'dharm sansad' was organised between December 17-19 at Ved Niketan Ashram at Haridwar by one Yati Narsmhananda, a local seer. The event was attended by saints and seers and some BJP leaders. Soon after the meet, videos purportedly containing provocative speeches by some seers and others went viral on social media.  In one of the videos, Maa Annapurna, a seer and an office bearer of the Hindu Mahasabha, is heard saying that she will not hesitate to take up arms to protect the Hindu religion. ''I will not think for a minute and take up arms if I feel that Hinduism is in danger even if I am branded a supporter of Nathuram Godse,'' she is heard saying in the video. In another video, a seer, identified as Dharmdas Maharaji, is heard saying that he would have followed Godse and ''pumped six bullets in the chest of Manmohan Singh (former prime minister), when he had said that the minorities had the first right over national resources''. Another seer Anand Swaroopji Maharaj is heard saying in another video that the Hindus will wage a battle more severe than the 1857 war of independence if they are not given 'Hindu Rashtra'. He also purportedly threatened the hotel owners in Haridwar with serious consequences if they allowed Christmas celebrations in their premises. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haridwar-hate-speech-after-sc-notice-police-arrest-jitendra-tyagi-alias-waseem-rizvi-1070867.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Two soldiers killed in 'accidental fire' along LoC in J&K||Two army soldiers were killed in an “accidental fire” in a forward area along the Line of Control in Rajouri district of Jammu on Thursday. “The incident took place at the forward location in the Hanjan Wali area of Rajouri. Both the slain soldiers whose identity was not immediately known, had bullet injuries,” officials said. They said the slain soldiers were deployed at a forward location with preliminary reports suggesting there was accidental discharge from the weapons. A police team from Rajouri city police post has been rushed to the spot and investigation into the matter has been initiated, officials added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-soldiers-killed-in-accidental-fire-along-loc-in-jk-1070869.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||PM security breach: Air Force, SPG Blue Book could be examined, says report||Senior security officials have suggested that the Indian Air Force and the Special Protection Group's (SPG) 'Blue Book' could be examined by a Supreme Court panel tasked to look into PM Modi's January 5 security breach in Punjab. The panel headed by Justice Indu Malhotra will examine if there was any conspiracy behind the security lapse – as is being claimed by the Centre and BJP – while Modi was on the way to a rally in Ferozepur. The main issue to be investigated, the official said, would be to ascertain who took the call to take the Prime Minister to Ferozepur by road. The SPG and Punjab Police could also be investigated over inputs they received from the Intelligence Bureau, they added. A former IB director was of the opinion that those tasked with ensuring the PM's security lacked professionalism and told the publication that the Punjab Police and SPG must be held accountable for their "lackadaisical attitude." A senior official part of the security setup was quoted as having described the presence of BJP supporters on an elevated highway "serious criminal lapse". The report added that the Blue Book – contains an unambiguous and detailed procedure to be observed by the state authorities and the special protection to ensure full safety and security of the prime minister while he is touring a state – could be examined. However, Chief Justice N V Ramana had on Wednesday said that the Special Protection Group Act and contents of the Blue Book are "comprehensive" in ensuring proximate security of the prime minister and other SPG protectees. "We have heard counsel for the parties at considerable length and studied the provisions of the Special Protection Group Act, 1988 along with the relevant contents of the Blue Book. The legislative scheme of the Act is quite comprehensive with respect to ensuring proximate security of the Prime Minister, or a former Prime Minister, or their family members, as the case may be," the bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana noted. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-security-breach-air-force-spg-blue-book-could-be-examined-says-report-1070875.html
13-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi logs record 28,867 Covid cases, positivity rate rises to 29.21%||Delhi on Thursday reported 28,867 Covid-19 cases, the sharpest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic, and 31 deaths, while the positivity rate surged to 29.21 per cent, according to health department data. Delhi's previous biggest daily jump of 28,395 cases was recorded on April 20 last year. According to the data, Thursday's positivity rate is the highest since May 3, when it was 29.6 per cent. On Wednesday, Delhi had logged 40 deaths, the highest since June 10 last year, when 44 fatalities were recorded. Of the 164 Covid deaths recorded in the first 13 days of January, most patients had comorbidities, according to government data. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-logs-record-28867-covid-cases-positivity-rate-rises-to-2921-1070878.html
13-01-2022||Opinion||Not reacting to Yogi's 80-20 rhetoric may make sense||Within less than 48 hours of the announcement of the state assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the state's chief minister Yogi Adityanath claimed that the electoral contest will be "80 per cent vs 20 per cent". This statement was made at an event live-telecast after the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) was already in force. Yet surprisingly, none of the Opposition parties has taken Adityanath to the Election Commission of India (ECI) nor reacted aggressively to his statements. While Congress leader Digvijaya Singh urged the ECI to "wake up and show some spine", Priyanka Gandhi appealed to the youth of UP to ignore the "80 vs 20" remark of Adityanath, which she said was a fraudulent way of diverting attention from issues like youth unemployment and education. The Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Aam Adami Party (AAP) have also remained silent on Adityanath's statement. What does this say about the campaign of the non-BJP parties? One take would be that the non-BJP parties have gone soft in opposing communalism. They also did not object to the stereotyping of Muslims as criminals in election posters released by the BJP, where rioters were depicted wearing the chequered kafiyeh scarf considered synonymous with Islamic identity. No mainstream parties criticised the lynching of a man accused of 'sacrilege' by a crowd of Sikh devotees in Punjab. The Ram Temple at Ayodhya has become something of a test case for authenticating one's Hindu beliefs. Akhilesh Yadav of SP visited the shrine claiming that "Ram belongs to SP as much as anyone else" and pointed out that it was his party's government that had planted Parijat trees (Night Jasmine) along the Ayodhya Parikrama. AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal built a replica of the temple for his government's Diwali celebrations in Delhi, then visited Ayodhya and added it to the itinerary of the Delhi chief minister's Free Pilgrimage Programme. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi of the Congress also hailed Lord Ram in their tweets on the day of the temple's groundbreaking ceremony. Rahul Gandhi's sermons on Hindu versus Hindutva also, in effect, lay claim to Hinduism. However, it may simply be that, like the coronavirus, Hindutva has mutated and is on its way to becoming endemic in India's political discourse. If this is what has happened, then in the medium to the long run, the communal advantage of the BJP might erode. However, right now, Yogi Adityanath seeking reelection in UP needs communal rhetoric to dominate the campaign discourse. UP has been ranked the worst governed big state of India on several indices. Although Adityanath's campaign is projecting UP as Uttam Pradesh, the Public Affairs Index has ranked it the worst big state in terms of equity and rates its performance near the bottom on meeting sustainable development goals (SDGs) on gender equality, good health and well-being, and reducing inequality. The state ranks last in terms of dowry deaths, ten times the national average (2,410 in UP as compared to the national average of 240 per 10 lakh population in 2019), the rate of crime against Scheduled Castes and Tribes is 63.6 per cent, infant mortality is 64 per cent, stunting of children is at 46.3 per cent, wasting in children at 17.9 per cent and nearly 40 per cent children under five years of age are underweight. In addition, UP is in the top 10-most-dangerous states for women, with rape cases doubling in the state from 2009 to 2019 based on official statistics from the National Crime Records Bureau. Reinforcing the appalling images from the second wave of the Covid pandemic, the Niti Aayog's Health Index confirms UP as the worst performing state of India. The communal campaign, however, highlights other 'achievements' such as building the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, inaugurating the Kashi temple corridor, bulldozing properties (mostly) of Muslim mafia dons, and the state police's record of killing criminals (predominantly from the minority community) in 'encounters'. The Opposition parties would gain little by complaining to the ECI, which, if its record is anything to go by, is unlikely to provide any relief to them. They seem to have realised that there is no easy way of campaigning against communalism per se. Perhaps they have decided to tactically side-step the communal propaganda and refuse to campaign on the BJP's terms. Ignoring the communal rhetoric can deny the BJP the advantage it seeks to hijack the election campaign. Perhaps this is what Priyanka Gandhi wants to do by urging the youth to focus on public issues like employment and education instead of the communal divide. It might be an intelligent way of dealing with the UP election. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/not-reacting-to-yogis-80-20-rhetoric-may-make-sense-1070700.html
13-01-2022||Opinion||Philippines' elections: Palace intrigue, theatre and dynasties||The Philippines holds the dubious distinction of having the second most overcrowded prison system in the world, losing the first position by a whisker to Haiti. In the last few years, prisons in the Philippines have become overcrowded by 436 per cent. Quezon City in the Philippines is a case in point – ABC News has reported that the prison was created to imprison 262 but hosts over 3,000 prisoners. The country has also been in the news for its mismanagement of the pandemic over the past two years.  Since President Rodrigo Duterte took office in 2016, the Philippines has slid 51 places to 102 out of 139 countries in the World Justice Project (WJP) Rule of Law index. President Duterte has often been compared with the former US President, Donald Trump, having admired him every step of the way. The respect was mutual, with regular phone calls and praise for each other's work. Duterte, comparing himself to Adolf Hitler, famously said in 2016 that "Hitler massacred 3 million Jews... there's three million drug addicts. There are. I'd be happy to slaughter them." The fact remains that Hitler had killed at least 6 million Jews. The German government was quick to disassociate itself from his statement. Trying every minute to project himself as a strongman, Duterte also asked President Barack Obama to "go to hell" after being criticised for his anti-drug campaigns. He has been known to use derogatory words for the Pope, every possible President in the West, and his opposition. Unfortunately for Duterte, the Philippines constitution allows only one term for its President. After trying to circumvent the law, Duterte announced he would contest the country's vice presidency. The elections in the Philippines for the President and Vice President are held separately, which had opened this option for Duterte. He had wanted his daughter, Sara Duterte, to be elected the President so that he could hold on to dear power. However, his daughter has been vocal against her father's policies and has blamed him publicly for his government's mismanagement of the ongoing vaccination programme. This may be a tactic to win over those opposed to his brand of politics, and by disassociating herself from his breed, she may be trying to play a fast one on the voters. In the upcoming elections, scheduled for May 2022, Sara Duterte seems to be running for the presidency. If she wins the election, Duterte's sway over the Filipino government may continue until 2028. To add to this drama, in yet another calamitous turn of events, the most likely candidate for Vice President seems to be Ferdinand 'BongBong' Marcos Jr., son of the former dictator of the Philippines, Ferdinand Marcos Sr. The latter had to flee the country in the face of citizen protests, using a helicopter to escape from his rooftop to his exile in Hawaii until he died in 1989. One of his legacies was his wife, Imelda Marcos' 3000 pair of shoes that she had to leave behind. BBM, as Marcos Jr. is popularly known, is on a comeback trail and his mother, Imelda Marcos, is eager to occupy the matriarch's role to undo the blemish to her family. It is a sad state of affairs when a country is not able to break away from its tragic past, and the rulers try to rewrite its history to justify their actions or those of their party's. In an age when most young people gather their knowledge of history from WhatsApp forwards, the importance of education must be underscored. In the Philippines, or any other country, which tries to rewrite its history, there must be mechanisms in place which prohibit the change of school curriculum to feed the young minds. In all probability, two dynastic scions will take power this spring in the Philippines. There will be an air of promise typically associated with the young or anything new. But if history is any bit a predictor of the future, Duterte's long shadow will continue to rule the country, still calling the shots. It will be unfortunate for the country that currently faces 10.35 per cent unemployment and is sliding on all indexes. Its inflation is on the rise, and it takes 33 days to start a new business in the country, compared to 18 days in Bangladesh, the new shining star in South/East Asia. Duterte has little to show for his years in power, and he knows that he might be tried in the International Criminal Court for ordering extrajudicial killings under the garb of anti-drug campaigns. This is a scenario many in the Philippines would wait to see the culmination of – his campaigns have killed thousands, ostensibly to cleanse the country of the drug menace and the communist insurgency. It may be the time in the Philippines for a new citizens protest, akin to the one which had ended the two-decade-long rule of a dictator, Ferdinand Marcos Sr., in 1986, and brought Corazon Aquino to power. (The author is the founder of ZEducatr and a former Chief of Communications with the United Nations in New York, where he worked for more than a decade.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/philippines-elections-palace-intrigue-theatre-and-dynasties-1070748.html
13-01-2022||South||TDP leader hacked to death in Andhra Pradesh||A leader of Andhra Pradesh's opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) was hacked to death by unidentified persons in Guntur district on Thursday. Thota Chandraiah (38) was murdered in the Gundlapadu village in Veldurthi mandal when he was going on a two-wheeler. A group of assailants waylaid and attacked him with knives and sticks. The TDP leader died on the spot. The incident led to tension in the village. Police registered a case of murder and launched a hunt for the assailants. Police intensified patrolling to prevent any untoward incident. Chandraiah's family members alleged that his political rivals were behind the killing. TDP national president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu has condemned the murder. He will be visiting the village later in the day to console the family of the slain leader. The leader of opposition said under the "anarchic rule" of YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), several TDP functionaries have lost their lives. He alleged that the YSRCP was resorting to killing the TDP leaders and workers who were raising their voice against the "misrule". Also, TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh condemned Chandraiah's murder. He alleged that the YSRCP faction had killed Chandraiah as he had been raising his voice against the ruling party's "atrocities". Lokesh expressed concern that the general public and the opposition leaders had no safety ever since an heir to 'murder politics' became the chief minister in 2019. The TDP leader said the chief minister and his party leaders had no idea how to impress the people by taking up development activities. "Eventually, they started victimising all those who were questioning their inefficiency. Chandraiah has been serving as the TDP village unit president and his murder is highly condemnable," he said. Lokesh called upon the people to revolt and unitedly fight against the "lawless mobs of the ruling YSRCP" in Macherla segment. He said the TDP would extend all the required support to Chandraiah's family. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-leader-hacked-to-death-in-andhra-pradesh-1070755.html
13-01-2022||South||India should warn Sri Lanka against attacking fishermen: Ramadoss||The Indian government that is providing financial and military assistance to Sri Lanka should warn the latter not to attack fishermen, said PMK founder S Ramadoss. According to Ramadoss, 55 Indian fishermen detained by Sri Lankan authorities in December 2021, are yet to be released. On the other hand, mid-sea attacks on the Indian fishermen are continuing, he added. The Indian government should warn the Sri Lankan government to stop its excesses on the fishermen from India, Ramadoss said. Katchatheevu island is located in the narrow sea dividing the two countries. The sea near the islet is rich in marine life. The island was handed over to Sri Lanka by India several years ago. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/india-should-warn-sri-lanka-against-attacking-fishermen-ramadoss-1070757.html
13-01-2022||South||Kerala High Court grants bail to three accused in SDPI leader's killing at Alappuzha||The Kerala High Court on Thursday granted bail to three of the accused in the murder case of SDPI state secretary K S Shan who was hacked to death on the night of December 18 last year and which had led to the alleged retaliatory killing of a BJP leader the next morning. One of the accused who was granted the relief was an ambulance driver who allegedly helped Shan's killers to escape by ferrying them in his ambulance. This prompted the court to remark that one does not know what is happening in the ambulances here as a large number of them can be seen frequently crisscrossing the state, which is not so in other states of the country. "We see so many ambulances crisscrossing on the roads here. Are there so many sick people in the state," Justice Gopinath asked. The court granted bail to the three accused saying the only offence made out against them was under section 212 (harbouring an offender) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Further details of the order are awaited. The back-to-back killings in Alappuzha on December 18-19 last year had rocked the coastal district and led to the imposition of prohibitory orders there for a couple of days. Shan was brutally attacked while he was on his way back home at night. A car had rammed into his bike and as he fell down, the assailants inflicted around 40 injuries on him leading to his death, police had said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-grants-bail-to-three-accused-in-sdpi-leaders-killing-at-alappuzha-1070773.html
13-01-2022||South||Police conduct searches at Dileep's house and office||Officials of the Crime Branch of the Kerala police on Thursday carried out searches at the house and production firm office of popular actor Dileep in Kochi in connection with the 2017 actress assault case. Crime Branch sources said that the searches were being carried out in connection with a fresh case registered on the basis of the revelations of filmmaker Balachandra Kumar. Kumar had said that Dileep hatched a conspiracy to attack police officials who investigated the actress assault case in which Dileep is an accused. Kumar also alleged that Dileep possessed a copy of video footage of the sexual assault on the actress which took place in February 2017 in Kochi. The officials, upon reaching Dileep's residence, faced a hurdle after the gate was not opened. They later climbed up the gate and opened it from inside. Dileep was learnt to have been at home at the time of the search. Sources said that the Crime Branch was also carrying out further investigation into the actor assault case. Around 20 witnesses in the case, including known film personalities, had turned hostile during the course of trial. It was suspected that many were either threatened or influenced by Dileep. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-conduct-searches-at-dileeps-house-and-office-1070848.html
13-01-2022||South||Sabarimala's Makaravilakku festival to be held on Friday||The Makaravilakku festival of Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala will be held on Friday. Officials of the Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple said that up to 75,000 pilgrims would be able to witness the 'Makaravilakku', a lamp that glows on the mountain ranges, and the 'Makarajyothi' star that appears in the evening. The Thiruvabharanam' (sacred ornaments) to be worn by the deity is being brought from Pandalam Palace where lord Ayyappa was believed to have spent childhood days. The procession will reach the temple by Friday evening and the 'deeparadhana' will follow. Temple sources said that owing to the surge in Covid cases there was a decline in the number of pilgrims over the last few days. Moreover, there were reports of a cluster of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 cluster in Pathanamthitta district where the temple is situated. The Ayyaappa temple that used to get a revenue of up to Rs 200 crore during the two-month-long pilgrimage received only around Rs 15 crore during the last pilgrimage due to the fall in pilgrims. But this time the temple so far got revenue of around Rs 125 crore as the pilgrimage is about to end. Though there are around 12,440 temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board, revenue from Sabarimala is the major source of income for the board. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimalas-makaravilakku-festival-to-be-held-on-friday-1070856.html
13-01-2022||South||Kerala's Covid TPR quadruples to 20% in just 10 days||Kerala's Covid-19 cases are shooting up again with the daily test positivity rate rising from 5 per cent just 10 days back, to 20 per cent on Thursday. As many as 13,468 fresh cases were confirmed in the state, taking the total number of active cases to 64,529. The Omicron tally now stands at 480 after 59 new cases were detected across the state. The actual number of Omicron cases, however, could be much higher as the state is currently sequencing only samples of those from high-risk countries and primary contacts of the infected patients. A review meeting on Friday will take a call on whether educational institutions should be closed or not. The state health authorities have also decided to initiate action against a private nursing college in Pathanamthitta that did not report the emergence of an Omicron cluster. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-tpr-quadruples-to-20-in-just-10-days-1070863.html
13-01-2022||South||Gang defrauding foreign customers with online tech services busted||Cyberabad cops have busted a fake call centre operating from Mohali, Punjab, and arrested a gang of seven members — three from New Delhi and four from Hyderabad — who have been cheating foreign customers under the pretence of providing online technical services. The gang has cheated banking institutions and foreign customers to the tune of Rs 25 crore so far, said Stephen Raveendra, Cyberabad police commissioner. The probe was initiated after a complaint from HDFC Bank's credit intelligence and control unit about suspicious transactions through a swiping machine issued to a merchant 'Healthy Dental Clinic'. Transactions of about Rs 64 lakh were made through 85 different international cards in a short span from 18 to 23 December. The bank approached the police after the dental clinic managers failed to provide information related to these transactions and cardholders. Their investigation revealed that accused 1 (A-1) Naveen Bhutani (41), from New Delhi, has prior experience providing technical service to foreign customers, and had registered “RNTECH Services Private Limited” in 2017. With the assistance of Monu (A-5), he established three call centres – in New Delhi's Janakpuri, Kaushambi of Ghaziabad and Mohali of Punjab. Bhutani ran Google ad campaigns for technical services like resolution of problems related to PayPal, Amazon and technical devices like routers, with his contact numbers in Australia, UK and Singapore. “When customers respond to these ads and contact, tele-callers take remote access to their devices under the pretext of resolving the issue. No such services were provided to the customers, but they collect payments through gateway links provided by Mohit (A-2),” said Raveendra. Mohit collected the payments through Nagaraju (A-3) and Sravan (A-4) offering them 50 per cent commission. Nagaraju developed websites, integrating them with payment gateways linked to the bank accounts of Srinivas Rao (A-6), Pavan Vennelakanti (A-7) and others. The accused also deceived customers by making them respond to phishing emails or SMSes. When they had remote access to the device, they would capture the card credentials, and make transactions later as OTPs or PINs are not required for international transactions, the official said. Bhutani (A-1) and his associates also prepared a mobile number database of Australia, UK and Singapore. Tele-callers identify the customers registered with various e-commerce sites like Amazon. They would log in to various sites (www.amazon.com.au, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.sg) using the customer data and trigger an OTP for the customer. They would then contact the customer and introduce themselves as tech service experts and collect the OTP. While on call with customers, the tele-callers would reveal their transaction history (opened using the OTP) and deceive them by saying that their email accounts were compromised. They suggest the customers take their company services in order to protect accounts. They convince the customers to make some payment as charges for their services and during the process they collect the customer card credentials like expiry date and CVV. “The gang conducts the transactions during night hours in the customers' countries so that they cannot block the card or report fraud.” A police team was deputed to make the arrests and searches at the call centres in NCR, Mohali. Cash of over Rs 1.11 crore, three SUVs, four laptops, mobile phones, rubber stamps, cheque books and debit cards were recovered from the culprits. The Cyberabad police are asking the bankers to obtain proper KYC documents and carry out proper verification of account holders. “Payment Gateways also need to follow KYC guidelines while providing domestic and international transactions,” the commissioner said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gang-defrauding-foreign-customers-with-online-tech-services-busted-1070876.html
13-01-2022||South||Chiranjeevi mediates between Andhra Pradesh government, Tollywood over movie ticket price row||Telugu megastar Chiranjeevi has stepped in to mediate between the YSRCP government and the Telugu film industry. The TFI or Tollywood, the largest in the country after Bollywood, is peeved by Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy’s decision earlier this year to lower the cinema ticket prices in the state. Though the TFI mainly caters to the two Telugu states, revenues-wise coastal Andhra Pradesh brings in the majority of the money. The state government also wants to take over the sale of movie tickets, introducing an online portal. The move was initially seen as Reddy’s attempt to hurt the profits of popular film personalities like Pawan Kalyan, chief of Janasena, who resumed his acting career after his party’s dismal performance in the 2019 elections.  Tollywood, which is elevated to national stature with mega movies like Bahubali to Pushpa now, is dominated by people from the Kamma and Kapu communities. The Kammas in particular are seen as a section favorable to the TDP.  The YSRCP government had brought in a government order capping the cinema ticket prices in cities at Rs 100, Rs 70 in towns, and Rs 20 in villages.  While YSRCP leaders, ministers claimed that the decision was to make entertainment affordable to the common man, heroes like Nani responded saying that with such rates, “kirana kiosks operating adjacent the cinemas make better profits.” Several theaters have reportedly shut in the past few months, unable to operate at the lowered prices. Amid heated exchange of words between TFI and YSRCP, Chiranjeevi, a mega figure in the Telugu industry, appeared on the scene on Thursday. Chiranjeevi, elder brother of Pawan Kalyan, flew to Vijayawada in a chartered flight and met Jagan at his official residence in Tadepalli over lunch.  “The meeting took place in a very amicable environment, where I explained to him our version - problems of producers, distributors, theater owners, etc. The CM responded positively,” Chiranjeevi told reporters, adding that he is expecting a decision acceptable to everyone in a few days. Chiranjeevi appealed to the TFI members not to make any further comments on the issue. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chiranjeevi-mediates-between-andhra-pradesh-government-tollywood-over-movie-ticket-price-row-1070937.html
13-01-2022||State||Task forces to be set up at GP level for Covid control: Eshawarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshawarappa stated that task forces would be set up at gram panchayat level in the state to contain the spread of the pandemic.  Speaking to media persons, here on Wednesday, he said, the number of Covid-19 cases is rising everyday in the state. Tackling the pandemic has become an uphill task for the state government.  So, task forces headed by the gram panchayat president will be formed in six thousand gram panchayats across the state. They will also comprise government officials, and gram panchayat members. They would interact with health department officials and take steps on admitting Covid positive patients to the hospital and directing asymptomatic patients to follow home quarantine rules.   Replying to a query why Congress leaders have not been arrested despite filing FIR against them, he said even the court has given direction in this regard. "We are not keen to arrest the former chief minister and keep him in jail. Congress leaders must understand this and halt the padayatra for the implementation of Mekedatu project." "Thousands of people are part of it. I don't know how many of them are infected by the pandemic. Congress leaders H M Revanna, Shivashankar Reddy, C M Ibrahim are already tested positive for the pandemic. So, Congress leaders must halt it now and it can be resumed later", he suggested. He said as many as 60 students tested positive for the pandemic in the district. But all schools will not be closed in this regard. Health department officials will take a suitable call in this regard.  On lockdown, he said there is no such plan as of now. But if the situation demands, it will be considered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/task-forces-to-be-set-up-at-gp-level-for-covid-control-eshawarappa-1070687.html
13-01-2022||State||PPEC suspends classes after two contract Covid||Poorna Prajna Education Centre in the steel town, on Wednesday, suspended physical classes till January 18 after two students were tested positive for Covid-19.  Students of grade 3rd and grade 9th had tested positive for the virus. As a precautionary measure, the management has suspended physical classes for students studying between class 1st to 10th. The principal has also asked parents to consult doctors if their children have symptoms like fever, cough, cold etc and take all measures to protect themselves from the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ppec-suspends-classes-after-two-contract-covid-1070688.html
13-01-2022||State||11 AEFIs reported in Karnataka teens till January 6||Karnataka reported 67 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) (in adults and children) as per the Co-WIN portal from January 3 -- when paediatric vaccination for the 15-17 years age group was rolled out -- to January 6. At least eleven of these AEFIs were mild to moderate in nature in children aged 15-17 years who suffered chills, dizziness and syncope (brief loss of consciousness). On January 3, a total of 16 AEFIs were reported in the state. "Out of these, six to seven AEFIs that were mild to moderate, were in the 15-17 year age group," said State Health Commissioner D Randeep. On the same day, Ballari DHO Dr HL Janardhan said three minor AEFIs were reported in children in Ballari district: two in Hospet and one in Siruguppa. "The children experienced dizziness, and chills," he said. On January 4, total AEFIs reported were 16, on January 5, 14 were reported, and on January 6, total AEFIs reported were 21. BBMP Reproductive and Child Health Officer Dr Sudarshan said four AEFIs among children have been reported till January 6. "They were all syncopal attacks and minor in nature," he said. At Rainbow Children's Hospital in the city, a 17-year-old girl had a syncope attack on January 3. A hospital representative said, "Her BP was 90/50 but she was dehydrated. She consulted a paediatrician and was fine later." In Haveri district, district immunisation officer Dr Jayanand said four AEFIs have been reported in children till January 6. "Two were reported from Byadgi taluk, one from Hirekerur taluk, and another from Ranebennur. Most of them were girls. While two fainted, another two had muscle cramps. They were kept in the hospital by the paediatrician for observation and later sent home," he said. On being asked about the lack of WHO’s emergency use listing for Covaxin for use in children, a Bharat Biotech representative said, "We never said so (that they do have approval). We got our WHO approval (for adults) on November 3, 2021. Did we start vaccination for adults post-November 3 only? Each country can take their own call with data of safety and efficacy, and Covaxin has data openly put out in 14 peer-reviewed journals."  However, the paediatric trial results for Covaxin are yet to be published in a peer-reviewed journal and are only available in a pre-print server. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/11-aefis-reported-in-karnataka-teens-till-january-6-1070709.html
13-01-2022||State||Congress's Mekedatu padayatra sees third FIR; one more MLA tests Covid-19 positive||It was day four of the Congress’s Mekedatu foot march on Wednesday as party leaders walked from Chikkanahalli to Ramanagara, a distance of 15 km, while the police registered a third FIR naming 63 party leaders for violating Covid-19 curbs. Former minister and Gauribidanur MLA N H Shivashankara Reddy, who took part in the Congress’s Mekedatu foot march, has isolated himself at home after testing positive for Covid-19. In a social media post, Reddy said he tested positive in a rapid antigen test. Congress leaders H M Revanna and C M Ibrahim also tested positive earlier this week.  The third FIR is in connection with defying Covid-19 curbs during the foot march on Tuesday. The FIR names D K Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah, D K Suresh, S Ravi, R Dhruvanarayana, Tanveer Sait, Anil Chikmadu, H C Mahadevappa, Yathindra Siddaramaiah and others. Earlier in the day, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said Covid-19 cases in Ramanagara and Mandya increased because of the Congress’s march. “There are many leaders who have tested positive, but they are not revealing it,” he claimed.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the march has been successful so far. “It will be successful on January 19, the last day, as well,” he said.  On Thursday, the foot march is scheduled to reach Bidadi from Ramanagara. On Friday, the march will enter Kengeri. The police have even prepared an alternative route for motorists on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway.  H D Kumaraswamy mocks march JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy mocked the Congress’s march by calling it “Omicron Jathre” while noting that the High Court had rapped the government, too. “This circus in the name of water should come to an end,” he said, adding that people are being paid to participate in the march. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congresss-mekedatu-padayatra-sees-third-fir-one-more-mla-tests-covid-19-positive-1070730.html
13-01-2022||State||Over 25,000 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka; 18,374 from Bengaluru alone||Continuing to report a spike in numbers, Karnataka on Thursday reported 25,005 new cases of Covid-19, and eight fatalities, taking the tally to 31,24,524 and the death toll to 38,397. The state, which has been witnessing a steady surge in cases since the last week of December, recorded 21,390 fresh infections on Wednesday. Of the new cases on Thursday, 18,374 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 1,132 people being discharged and 3 deaths. The total number of active cases across the state is now 1,15,733. There were 2,363 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,70,365, a health department bulletin said. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 12.39 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.03 per cent. Of the eight deaths, three are from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Vijayapura. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru recorded the second-highest of 695 new cases, Dakshina Kannada 625, Tumakuru 547, Hassan 490, Mandya 406, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 13,53,331 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,83,420 and Tumakuru 1,23,392. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 12,46,001, followed by Mysuru 1,78,168 and Tumakuru 1,20,259. Cumulatively, a total of 5,83,71,357 samples have been tested, of which 2,01,704 were on Thursday alone. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-25000-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-18374-from-bengaluru-alone-1070873.html
13-01-2022||State||Bommai seeks Centre's aid for battling Covid-19 third wave||While Covid-19 cases are expected to peak in the coming weeks, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday sought the Centre's aid to increase oxygenated beds and oxygen plants in the state. Bommai brought this up during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's video conference with chief ministers of various states.  As of January 2022, Karnataka has 28,447 oxygen beds and 3,877 ICU beds, according to data from the health minister's office. The state has 217 functional oxygen plants. Modi has directed states to learn from the experience of the first and the second wave and be fully equipped to face the third wave, which he said is expected to peak in February. He said the Centre had given Rs 32,000 crore to all states for basic health infrastructure after the second wave. However, several states have not made use of it yet. He urged the state governments to make use of the funds to set up basic health infrastructure. About 94 per cent of peopled infected with Covid-19 in the third wave are in home isolation. States must boost their confidence and also ensure adequate medicines for them, Modi advised. 'Modi appreciates Karnataka' Bommai said that Modi appreciated the testing, tracking, tracing, triaging and technology — the 5T formula — adopted by Karnataka. The PM also expressed his appreciation that the state is conducting a high number of tests and the state's vaccination rate is higher than the national average, the Chief Minister's Office said in a statement. Modi also praised the use of technology for monitoring the health of those in home isolation, Bommai said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-seeks-centres-aid-for-battling-covid-19-third-wave-1070897.html
13-01-2022||State||Basavaraj Horatti inspects Council offices||Noting that the staff working in various departments in the Legislative Council do not have adequate space to function, chairperson Basavaraj Horatti on Thursday directed officials to provide sufficient infrastructure. Horatti conducted a surprise inspection of all the Council offices, in presence of PWD additional chief secretary Rajneesh Goel and other officers. He directed officials to ensure adequate space for the reporting department staff and also to keep their files. There is a general space crunch when it comes to seating arrangements, he said and asked officials to ensure that all the infrastructure was available. He further directed all the staff to strictly follow the Covid protocol in their offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/basavaraj-horatti-inspects-council-offices-1070908.html
13-01-2022||State||Foot march was a DKS-Siddaramaiah contest: BJP||BJP general secretary N Ravikumar, on Thursday, said the Congress’ Mekedatu foot march was actually a competition between D K Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, on who should be the party’s chief ministerial face.  “The Congress high command tried to pour water on Shivakumar’s wish of becoming the CM and helped the spread of Covid-19 by allowing the march,” Ravikumar said at a news conference. “And, to ensure that Shivakumar alone does not benefit from the march, Siddaramaiah participated despite ill health.”  This is not the first time the BJP has targeted Congress, especially the no-love-lost relationship between Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah. “Siddaramaiah does not want Shivakumar to become strong and emerge as an alternative leader in the old Mysuru region. That’s why Siddaramaiah is plotting to bring an abrupt end to the (foot march). Beware, Shivakumar, you have an enemy right next to you,” the BJP said in a tweet.  Ravikumar also targeted the high command for not stepping in earlier to end the march. “Whatever the High Court said was something the government had also told the Congress earlier. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah did not care for the CM’s plea, the appeals by ministers, public sentiment and even editorials in the press, and went ahead with the march,” he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/foot-march-was-a-dks-siddaramaiah-contest-bjp-1070916.html
13-01-2022||State||Education dept issues notice to DKS-owned school over padayatra||The department of public instruction (DPI) has served a notice to Vishvodaya High School in Kodihalli of Kanakapura taluk, following the participation of school kids in the Mekedatu padayatra organised by the Congress. The schools, according to department officials, belong to KPCC president D K Shivakumar and runs on government aid. During the padayatra a few days ago, Shivakumar had visited the school along with his supporters. He had reportedly made children raise slogans in support of the padayatra. Shivakumar's action had earned the wrath of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The department of primary and secondary education has sought a report from the block education officer about the incident.  "The school officials have submitted an explanation to the notice and claimed that they have sanitised the entire school premises," officials from the DPI of Ramanagara told DH. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/education-dept-issues-notice-to-dks-owned-school-over-padayatra-1070917.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Ready to implement Mekedatu, end your march: Bommai tells Karnataka Congress||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday made a personal appeal to Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar to end their Mekedatu foot march. “I am ready to take all measures towards implementing the Mekedatu project by taking all of you into confidence,” Bommai said in a statement addressed to Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar. “The third wave of the coronavirus has intensified, which has affected people, especially children,” Bommai said. “This being the situation, it’s not right from a public health point-of-view to get people out together in large numbers for a padayatra and things like that. Even the High Court has taken a strong view on this, which also reflects the sentiment of the public,” he said. “So, drop the padayatra now and let’s face Covid-19 together. In the coming days, let’s unitedly take steps on implementing Mekedatu,” Bommai said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ready-to-implement-mekedatu-end-your-march-bommai-tells-karnataka-congress-1070729.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cong suspends Mekedatu foot march amid rising Covid-19 cases||The Congress called off its Mekedatu foot march on Thursday, which seemed like the only viable option in the face of a fast-spreading coronavirus running amok in the third wave.  “We are temporarily stalling our padayatra,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah announced at a news conference along with Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar, the campaign’s anchor, who looked dejected.  “We’re ending the march not because of cases filed against us or the BJP government’s order, but in the interest of the health of the people. We don’t want people to think that we caused a spurt in cases,” Siddaramaiah said.  This draws curtains on the march that lasted only four days, but not before it became a political flashpoint. The 11-day march, which started from the Sangama on Sunday, reached Ramanagara covering a distance of 60 km. By the time the march was to conclude at the National College grounds in Bengaluru on January 19, the Congress would have covered 154 km.  “Once the third wave subsides and Covid-19 rules are eased, we will restart from Ramanagara and complete the march,” Siddaramaiah said.  On Wednesday, the High Court came down heavily on the Basavaraj Bommai administration and the Congress over the Mekedatu march, which was followed by a government order banning the padayatra citing Covid-19.   The decision to call off the march was taken at a meeting of senior Congress leaders at the party office in Ramanagara. According to sources, the party high command had asked Shivakumar to take a collective decision on the fate of the march keeping in mind what the High Court may say.  “We don't want our rally to make things worse. Although we took all precautions, there was a concern among us that things may go out of hand,” Siddaramaiah said, referring to Covid-19. “Also, cases are more in Bengaluru where we were to reach in two days via Bidadi and Kengeri for the valedictory on January 19 for which lakhs of people would have gathered.”  Siddaramaiah attacked the BJP government for “shedding crocodile tears” on the health of citizens while its own leaders flouted Covid-19 norms. “If cases are rising and there’s a third wave, it’s because of the BJP,” he said. “After the third wave started, the CM, Subhash Guttedar, MP Renukacharya and others flouted norms, but not a single case was filed,” he said, adding that the BJP’s sole intention was to scuttle the padayatra. The Congress, however, considers the 4-day march to be a success. It made enough noise to put the government on the defensive. “People welcomed our march. Women, especially, gave us blessings, greetings, food, bananas...this shows that our march was pro-people,” Siddaramaiah said.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cong-suspends-mekedatu-foot-march-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-1070737.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||No lockdown please, decide on district-wise weekend curfew: KCCI||Raising objection for any plan to impose lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Karnatak Chamber of Commerce & Industry (KCCI) has opined that weekend curfew can be imposed only in those districts where Covid numbers are high. "Businessmen have incurred a lot of loss due to lockdown-like restrictions in last two years, and many lost their jobs also. When there is not much hospitalisation during this wave of Covid, imposing lockdown is not correct, unless inevitable. Precautions to contain the infection like imposing penalties can be taken up intensively," said KCCI President Vinay Javali. He stated on Thursday that the government has been asked why only street vendors are allowed to do business during weekend curfew and not other merchants adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. The KCCI would invite economists to speak on the impact of pandemic on the economy and the future. The KCCI would also continue the legal fight against a hike in property tax rate and would object to the proposed hike in power tariff, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-lockdown-please-decide-on-district-wise-weekend-curfew-kcci-1070823.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Man injured in leopard attack in Karnataka||A man sustained injuries in a leopard attack at Kolagala on Mysuru-Manandavadi Road, in the taluk on Thursday.  Chandraraj Urs is the victim and undergoing treatment in K R Hospital in Mysuru. The leopard attacked Urs around 4:30 am when he ventured out of his house. However, he managed to escape from the animal. Later, his neighbours shifted Urs to a government hospital in H D Kote and then to Mysuru. It has to be noted that two leopards were found at Kapila River between Madapur and Chakkur. The video of the animals had gone viral. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/man-injured-in-leopard-attack-in-karnataka-1070864.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||9 genome sequencing labs in Karnataka, claims Sudhakar||Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said that nine genome sequencing labs, including five set up by the state government, are sequencing 1,875 samples in one batch. However, according to the experts only two labs are functioning.    “Karnataka is the first state in the country to set up five genome sequencing labs. Two labs are in Bengaluru, and one each in Mysuru, Belagavi, and Kalaburagi. The preparations are on to set up a lab each in Hubballi and Ballari. The turnaround time is currently two to three days, we’re trying to bring it down to 24 hours to 36 hours,” said Sudhakar. However, the minister did not say how many of these labs have been made operational. Experts requesting anonymity said as of now, only two are functional: NIMHANS and NCBS labs in Bengaluru. Researchers also said bringing down the turnaround time to 24 hours to 36 hours, seems to be an overambitious target given the technicalities and resource-intensive processes involved. One expert said, “The Indian Institute of Science has the capacity to do genome sequencing. But it is not a part of the INSACOG network. Currently, samples are being sent only to NIMHANS and NCBS.” Explaining the complete time taken for genome sequencing procedure, he said, “The library preparation takes 90 minutes to two days. The DNA library bridge amplification cycles take three hours, depending on the panel, the DNA library sequencing takes six hours to 40 hours, and finally, the alignment and data analysis takes one to two days.” Midnight protocol There is a 24-hour midnight protocol that Oxford Nanopore has come up with. “Only if you have a fully integrated system, you can do a midnight protocol. The main problem that INSACOG faces is with sample collection because they have no tie-ups with any sample collection partners. Sample collected from government labs need many quality checks which is a big struggle. ICMR also does not give the data to INSACOG. Has the government trained the manpower they have got and procured the bioinformatics,” he questioned. “This will easily take a couple of months. We are not aware of any training that has taken place except in BMCRI. During the Delta wave, six new labs were announced. When the Omicron wave started the government was talking about having nine labs. There is no deadline. This will go on till the next wave,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/9-genome-sequencing-labs-in-karnataka-claims-sudhakar-1070907.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to write to Centre on fertiliser prices||Concerned over the rise in various fertiliser prices, the state government will write to the Centre seeking some succour to farmers, Agriculture Minister B C Patil said Thursday. Responding to queries at a news conference, he said that prices of potash have skyrocketed over the past couple of months. Though the use of potash is relatively lower in Karnataka, the government will write to the Centre to provide some assistance, he said, recalling that the Central government had offered assistance when prices of other fertilisers increased in the past. Patil said that Rs 642.26 crore was released from the Centre under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana recently, which will be used to develop irrigation facilities in 57 taluks of the state. Noting that the state government had set a target to set up 250 farmer or fishermen produce organisations, he said that 178 such units have come up in the state. The rest of the units will come up at the end of the fiscal, Patil added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-write-to-centre-on-fertiliser-prices-1070909.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron following epidemiological pattern of second wave: Experts||Omicron represents a new virus evolutionarily different from the Delta or previous variants, but experts said that the third wave is largely following the migratory pattern of the previous two waves. Speaking on Thursday at a panel discussion titled Variants, Vaccines and Us, virologist Dr V Ravi, a member of Karnataka's Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), noted that the outbreak will potentially peak in the city by the end of the month, before moving to other districts. Since the start of the surge on December 29, Bengaluru has been accounting for an average of 79% of all new cases being recorded daily in the state, official data shows. “Cities are crowded and people meet largely in closed spaces, making them highly vulnerable to the epidemic. Again, we will see the same pattern (as before). Omicron is currently in major metros. Three weeks down the line, it will move to districts and then it will move to the periphery,” Dr Ravi said, adding that this is a typical epidemiological pattern. This could mean a slightly more prolonged exit from the current wave than anticipated. If the second wave is a model, Bengaluru peaked on April 30. At that time, the city was accounting for 60% of all new cases in the state. Thereafter, its share began to drop away. The state took another five days to peak, by which time it was accounting for 40% of all new cases. However, the new nature of Omicron provides little conclusive evidence about how the wave will pan out. Speaking at the event, virologist Dr T Jacob John noted that the new variant’s ability to carry out intracellular infections meant that there has been a fundamental shift in the pathology of the virus, which sets it apart from other variants. “Consequently, there is a shift (of the infection) from the lungs to the upper respiratory tract. The second shift is known as incision. This represents a shift in pathogenesis,” he explained. More child cases? However, the high infectivity of the new variant nevertheless has implications for children under the age of 15, given that a larger number of them may contract the virus in the wave.  While Dr John said he believed that children would generally fare better under Omicron, he added that there are risks. Omicron is a watered-down virus (than Delta), less severe. But a recent study by the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) has shown that children infected with  novel coronavirus are 2.66 times more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes than kids who never contracted the novel coronavirus, he said. On Thursday, the Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told a press conference that children under the age of 15 years are vulnerable on the grounds that they are unvaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-following-epidemiological-pattern-of-second-wave-experts-1070910.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Mines dept generates Rs 4,083 crore royalty||The Mines & Geology department has generated Rs 4,083 crore as revenue from royalties till the end of November. This is 160% of the target set for the department by the government, according to a release. The government had set a target of Rs 2,560 crore until November for the department. Under District Mineral Fund, Rs 3,025.22 crore was collected from the 2015-16 fiscal till November 2021. Of the amount, Rs 997.5 crore was utilised under Pradhan Mantri Khanij Kshetra Kalyan Yojana and Rs 183.38 crore to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the release, demand for sand in the state was 45 million metric tonne, while the supply was 37 million metric tonnes. M-sand manufacturing in the state currently stood at 30 million metric tonnes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mines-dept-generates-rs-4083-crore-royalty-1070912.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress leadership overrides Shivakumar's call to march on||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar, the anchor of the Mekedatu march, was keen on going ahead with the padayatra that had managed to make enough noise in just four days.  According to sources, when senior Congress leaders huddled at a closed-door meeting in the party’s Ramanagara office to decide the fate of the march, Shivakumar preferred walking instead of going home.  “Shivakumar said he is ready to continue with the walk,” a legislator who was in the meeting told DH.  “We wanted just two people to walk. That was on our mind,” a visibly dejected Shivakumar said at a presser where the party announced its decision to suspend the foot march. “But even then, people would have gathered and we’d get the blame.”  The risk of public opinion outside Ramanagara, which is Shivakumar’s turf, becoming adverse weighed on him and others. At least six party leaders associated with the march have tested positive for Covid-19 so far - H M Revanna, C M Ibrahim, N H Shivashankara Reddy, Mallikarjun Kharge, M Veerappa Moily and Mallajamma. Also, the police have registered four FIRs against 164 Congressmen.  But according to leaders, the mood in the Congress camp is upbeat despite the abrupt end to the 11-day Mekedatu padayatra. The 4-day march was a success, the party says, as it put the government on the defensive. “People welcomed our march. Women, especially, gave us blessings, greetings, food, bananas...this shows that our march was pro-people,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said. Not only did the padayatra raise awareness among people on the Mekedatu project, it demonstrated the Congress’ cadre strength by mobilising foot soldiers on the ground. This is a brownie point for Shivakumar who wants to make streamline the Congress’ organization by making it cadre-based.  The padayatra was also an opportunity to display unity in an otherwise ‘divided house’. To underline this, Shivakumar raised Sidddaramaiah’s hand during his outro speech to party workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-leadership-overrides-shivakumars-call-to-march-on-1070919.html
13-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid growth rate in RoK higher than Bengaluru: Sudhakar||Even as Bengaluru continues to be the epicenter of the Covid-19, accounting for 75% of the state's active caseload, the average growth rate of cases in the state capital was 32.64% while rest of Karnataka (RoK) recorded 36.44%, over the last two weeks.   Addressing a press conference here at Vikas Soudha on Thursday afternoon, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said, on December 28, there were 356 cases in the state, including 269 in Bengaluru. "On January 5, we had 3,605 cases in Bengaluru and 641 in the rest of the state. On January 11, there were 10,800 cases in Bengaluru and 3,673 in the districts. So, between December 28 and January 11, in 15 days, the cases have increased by 32.64% in Bengaluru Urban district and 36.44% in the state," explained the minister. Also, the doubling rate in the third wave has dropped to 2 to 2.5 days from 8 to 10 days during the second wave. "It is therefore important for everyone to get both the doses of the vaccine," he said. Between January 1-11, there were 62,641 active cases and about 6% of them were in hospitals, 1% in Covid Care Centres and the rest were in home isolation. "We have set a target of at least two lakh tests per day and we will increase it further. About one lakh tests are being done in Bengaluru. About 265 labs are operational in the state. Also, we have a capacity to sequence 1,875 samples in one batch at nine genomic sequencing labs in the state," he added. The state government has added 6,386 oxygen beds and 263 ICU beds to 147 taluk hospitals, at a cost of Rs 243 crore, post-second wave, Sudhakar said. A further 665 oxygen beds and 263 ICU beds have been added to 19 district hospitals at a cost of Rs 25 crore. Out of 266 PSA oxygen plants allotted to Karnataka, 217 are operational. As many as 3,460 ventilators and 8,100 oxygen concentrators are available, he informed. Tests in schools As much as 30% of the beds in district and taluk hospitals have been reserved for children. Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health has been notified as the designated hospital for paediatric care. Tests are being conducted in schools once in two weeks. Around 4.89 crore people in the state have received the first dose and 3.98 crore both the doses. The state has fully vaccinated 81.5% of the eligible population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-growth-rate-in-rok-higher-than-bengaluru-sudhakar-1070920.html
13-01-2022||West||Covid-19 hospitalisations likely to go up in Maharashtra by Jan-end or early Feb: Health dept||Maharashtra is expected to see a spike in hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients this month-end or in the first week of February, according to the state health department. The state cabinet expressed concern after the health department made this projection during a presentation before it on Wednesday, a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. The daily requirement of medical oxygen in the state has witnessed a rise, it said, adding that the present demand is 400 metric tonnes. "If the oxygen demand rises to 700 metric tonnes, then stricter curbs will be required. Considering this fact, the district administrations should expedite vaccination and take necessary steps," Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said during the meeting. Along with the urban centres, rural parts of the state are also affected by Covid-19, he said. "Fully vaccinated Covid-19 patients don't require medical oxygen. But, people need to be vigilant as the UK and the US are witnessing a strain on their health infrastructure," the CM said. The state on Wednesday recorded 46,723 fresh coronavirus cases, a jump of 12,299 infections from a day ago, and 32 fresh fatalities. The new cases included 86 Omicron infections. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday cautioned that the coronavirus curve in the state is not flattening despite a dip in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in the last couple of days. There is a silver lining that out of the 2.25 lakh active cases, only 14 per cent are under hospitalisation, he told reporters. Tope said he doesn't expect the situation to stabilise by January-end or by early February, and urged those who have not undergone vaccination to take jabs, besides masking-up by all.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-hospitalisations-likely-to-go-up-in-maharashtra-by-jan-end-or-early-feb-health-dept-1070716.html
13-01-2022||West||Abortion racket busted in Maharashtra's Wardha, doctor arrested||A big abortion racket has come to light in the Wardha district of Maharashtra with the discovery of skulls and bones of newly-born foetus near a maternity home. A lady doctor, identified as Dr Rekha Kadam, has been arrested in the incident reported from Arvi.  According to reports reaching here, 11 skulls and 54 bones have been found in a biogas plant of the Kadam Hospital. The incident came to light after parents of a 13-year-old girl and 17-year-old boy entered into a fight after the abortion of a minor girl.  Meanwhile, reacting to the development, Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State President Dr Suhas Pingle said, "IMA believes in quality, safety and ethicality in medical profession and practice of medicine. In this matter, law should take its own course." More details are awaited. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/abortion-racket-busted-in-maharashtras-wardha-doctor-arrested-1070739.html
13-01-2022||West||Amit Shah to visit Gujarat for 2 days||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will visit Gujarat for two days during which he would launch a scheme pertaining to organic farming on Saturday, a state BJP leader said on Thursday. Shah is expected to arrive here on Thursday night and there are no public events planned during his visit, state BJP's media coordinator Yagnesh Dave said. Though Shah celebrates 'Uttarayan' festival by flying kites with family members and party workers every year on January 14, the minister will stay away from the celebrations on Friday in the wake of the death of a close relative, he said. "Shah would mostly remain at his residence in the city on Friday. On January 15, he will launch an organic farming scheme at an event to be held at Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel's official residence in Gandhinagar," he said. Shah, who is a Member of Parliament from Gandhinagar, is also likely to review the progress of various developmental works and implementation of government schemes in his constituency, according to sources. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amit-shah-to-visit-gujarat-for-2-days-1070761.html
13-01-2022||West||Eminent publisher Sunil Mehta dead||Eminent publisher Sunil Mehta - who brought the work of top international writers to Marathi readers - passed away in Pune.  Mehta was CEO and MD of Mehta Publishing House and a very prominent figure in literary circles. With more than 150 new titles and 300 reprints being published every year, Mehta Publishing House has made its presence felt in nearly all genres and sub-categories of books with a dynamic backlist of over 4,500 titles.  They have the most prominent Marathi writers and bestselling books under our umbrella.  So much so that with increased demand, the publishing house was induced to print and release translated versions of the same in many other Indian languages too including Hindi, Gujarati, Bengali, Kannada and several others. Mehta took over the reins of the business from his father Anil Mehta in 1986. The Mehta family has been in the business of books since 1964. With sharp business acumen, strong tenacity, commitment and open mind, Mehta has kept his finger on the pulse of readers within and across the country.  Whether it was translating and publishing foreign and regional books in Marathi, publishing the English titles, launching the e-book services or making their presence felt on social networking sites; all the ideas germinated in his farsighted mind. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eminent-publisher-sunil-mehta-dead-1070801.html
13-01-2022||West||Malegaon blast: Witnesses naming BJP-RSS to gain political mileage, alleges Maharashtra Congress||With several witnesses in the Malegaon bomb blast case of 2008 turning hostile and allegedly naming “BJP-RSS people” for gaining political mileage ahead of Uttar Pradesh elections, the Maharashtra Congress on Thursday sought the presence of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) during the court proceedings.  The blast, allegedly engineered by Hindu fundamentalist groups, on September 29, 2008 – one the eve of Navratri -  at the Bhikku Chowk of Malegaon had claimed six lives and injured 101 others.  The Maharashtra-ATS had initially investigated the case, however, it was later taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).  The trial is being conducted before a special court set up under the NIA court in Mumbai.  Maharashtra Congress leader and former minister Naseem Khan met Additional Director General of Police Vineet Agarwal, who heads the ATS. “So far 223 witnesses deposed in which 16 turned hostile and claiming that ATS tortured them to give evidence against accused. The witnesses tarnished the image of the Maharashtra government and the ATS. Hence, the presence of ATS in court is inevitable to save the image of the government and ATS,” Khan said.  It is pertinent to mention here that the accused in the Malegaon case include Dayanand Pandey alias Sudhakar Udaybhan Dhar Diwedi, popularly known as Swami Amritananda Dev Teerth, the Srimad Jagadguru Shankaracharya Sharda Sarvagyapeeth-Kashmir, former  Military Intelligence official Lt Col Prasad Srikant Purohit and Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur alias Purnachetanandagiri, who is now Bhopal MP, is accused in the case.  Khan said that ATS as an investigating agency is being maligned to be “anti-Hindu.” “It seems witnesses are under influence by accused and deliberately taking names of BJP-RSS people to get mileage in Uttar Pradesh elections and defame Maharashtra government and ATS as prosecution witness 220 went beyond what was recorded in his 161 CrPC statements by mentioning the name of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. It is that the Special Public Prosecutor did not take objection to it and after deposition appeared on national news channels and took the name of Yogi Adityanath and others,” Khan pointed out. Last month, witnesses told the court that the ATS tortured and threatened him to take the names of  Yogi Adityanath and four other RSS leaders. “The NIA is not prosecuting all the accused with honesty and sincerity. Till today 16 important witnesses turned hostile out of 223. Around 100 more crucial witnesses are left to be examined. These witnesses are crucial and they need to be protected.  NIA has not challenged any order passed in favour of the accused in the Higher Court which shows their intentions clearly,” Khan said. “Strict supervision by ATS is a must for fair trial and effective prosecution since ATS had recorded the statements of maximum witnesses and conducted most part of the investigation,” he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/malegaon-blast-witnesses-naming-bjp-rss-to-gain-political-mileage-alleges-maharashtra-congress-1070874.html
13-01-2022||West||Gujarat BJP distributes 25 lakh 'Modi kites' for Makar Sankranti||The ruling BJP in Gujarat on Thursday said it has started the exercise of distributing nearly 25 lakh kites bearing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photograph for the occasion of Makar Sankranti to spread awareness about various pro-people schemes. Apart from Modi's photograph, these kites will also carry slogans and names of various initiatives and schemes launched by the prime minister, such as "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav", "Make for The World", and a message thanking him for administering over 150 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine. "We will distribute nearly 25 lakh kites, carrying Modi's messages and slogans, among the masses across the state through our booth-level workers. In Surat alone, we will give away 2 lakh kites. We are doing this to spread the prime minister's message among the people," Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil said in Surat. "Our country has completed 75 years of Independence. Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav was launched by the prime minister last year to celebrate the occasion. To make the young generation aware about our glorious past and how we gained independence, we are distributing kites bearing that message," Paatil told reporters. Kites with a message thanking Modi for administering 150 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine will create awareness among people about the benefits of getting vaccinated to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. Makar Sankranti, the festival of kites, is one of the major festivals in the western state.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-distributes-25-lakh-modi-kites-for-makar-sankranti-1070898.html
13-01-2022||West||174 healthcare workers died of Covid-19 in Gujarat||While the novel coronavirus cases are surging rapidly again in what is said to be the third wave, Gujarat has recorded deaths of 174 health workers, also called "corona warriors', between March 1, 2020 and August 31, 2021. The government has claimed that it distributed Rs 87 crore as compensation to the kin of the deceased. The Gujarat government revealed these figures to an RTI application filed by DH. However, the government hasn't yet responded to a query on the number of people who died due to the virus infection triggered by comorbidity or prior illness. After the first wave, the state government stopped releasing the number of such cases.  The health and family welfare department forwarded the RTI query to Medical Education Research (Health Services), Gandhinagar which said that its epidemic department didn't have the figures. The department also said it didn't have figures with regard to the number of death registrations from March 1, 2020 to August 31, 2021.  The RTI response said that out of a total of 10,081 Covid-19 deaths as on August 31, 2021, 6,506 were males while remaining 3,575 were females. The death toll has increased to 10,142 as of Thursday. Multiple reports have claimed underreporting of Covid-19 related deaths. A recent research paper, published in the international journal, Science, has claimed that all-cause deaths during April-May 2021 was a whopping 230% higher in the state compared to 2018-2019.  The paper estimated that Gujarat registered nearly 39,000 average deaths per month during April-May 2021 compared to a mere 17,000 deaths per month in 2018-2019. The research, carried out by 11 researchers from India, Canada and the US, also found that at all-India level 120% more deaths were found, from 3.75 lakh to 4.5 lakh, during the April-May 2021. The state government has been denying any underreporting of Covid-19 related deaths. Active cases go past 50,000 Meanwhile, the state recorded 11,176 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of active cases to 50,612. On January 1, the state had reported 1,069 cases and the number of active cases was 3,927. The death toll also increased to 10, 142 with the state reporting five fresh deaths. Since January 1, the state has added 23 deaths. The recovery rate has also gone down to 93.23 percent compared to 98.31 percent on January 1. Claiming that the state government is prepared to tackle the rising number of patients, state health minister, Hrushikesh Patel, said that "by and large 2.5% of total positive cases require hospitalization and about 39% oxygen support." He said, addressing a press conference, out of 50,612 active cases, 81% patients are in municipal corporations, such as Ahmedabad, Vadorara, Surat, among others. "We have formed 1,200 teams for door to door surveillance in cities to check the virus spread and act accordingly."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/174-healthcare-workers-died-of-covid-19-in-gujarat-1070935.html
