14-01-2022||Davangere||7 killed in road accident in Davangere's Jagalur||As many as seven persons died on spot when the driver of their car fell asleep at the wheel and hit a road divider near Kanakatte toll in Jagalur taluk of the district in the wee hours of Friday. According to police, Mallanagouda (22), Santosh (21), Sanjeev (20), Jaibhim (18) residents of Yadagir district, Raghu, ( 23), resident of Vijayapura district, Siddesh (20), and Vedamurty (18), residents of Vijayanagar district are the deceased. The incident took place when they were heading towards Hampi on account of Sankranti festival from Bengaluru. They were were serving in a private university in Bengaluru as contract workers. It is said that the driver fell asleep while driving and hit the divider around 4:00 am. All the bodies were shifted to taluk general hospital in Jagalur, and the police have registered a case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/7-killed-in-road-accident-in-davangeres-jagalur-1070998.html
14-01-2022||First Edit||Key cases: Call for action by judiciary||The judiciary is being increasingly moved to intervene in different situations in different ways for different reasons. The Supreme Court had to take an action in a case about a breach of the Prime Minister’s security in Punjab where two governments had got into the act and started investigating the case in their own ways. The two investigations would have yielded different results. But in a case about the hate speeches made at two religious conclaves at Hardwar and in Delhi last month, the court has been called upon to act because the executive did not act or was reluctant to take the right action. In both situations, the conduct of the governments concerned was not guided by public interest but by partisan considerations.  The court has issued notices to the governments of Delhi and Uttarakhand on petitions that sought a credible investigation into the hate speeches made at the two conclaves. Calls had been made in these meetings for the extermination of Muslims and the establishment of a Hindu nation. It has been pointed out that the Uttarakhand government had dragged its feet on the matter and filed weak cases, that too not against persons who made the most provocative speeches. No arrests were made. Like Punjab, Uttarakhand is also going to the polls next month, and the state government may not want to take action against the Hindu leaders who made the call to arms. The leaders at the Centre, including the Prime Minister, have also not made any comment on the speeches. The problem with inadequate actions and silence is that they would be taken as endorsement of the offence. The court has been saddled with the issue because of the failure of the executive and the dominant political leadership to deal with it. It is not just a failure of law and order or an administrative lapse but a failure to meet constitutional obligations. The speeches were a challenge to the state and the Constitution, and no government should evade its responsibility to act on it. It is not known how effective judicial action will be when the court chooses to act, because some intended damage has already been done. Can the court prevent further damage? The question of the limits of judicial intervention and action arises in such cases because the issue brought before it is basically political and administrative. Even then, actions by the court in such cases are welcome because they are assertions of remedial judicial power. But it is ironic that the court, which has proved to be responsive in such cases, has not acted on some issues which are legitimately in its own domain and are pending before it for long.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/key-cases-call-for-action-by-judiciary-1071086.html
14-01-2022||First Edit||Cases that matter to our democracy||It is unfortunate that the Supreme Court has been unable to consider and adjudicate a large number of important cases which are awaiting its attention for months and even years. Many of these are cases that have a bearing on fundamental rights, involve important constitutional issues or have other consequences. The matter has been brought to the court’s attention and figured in public debates. A group of eminent citizens recently wrote an open letter to Chief Justice of India N V Ramana drawing his attention to the pending status of a number of important cases and requesting him to list them for early hearing. The letter noted that early disposal of these cases would “restore the faith that we as citizens repose in the judiciary and the Supreme Court.” The court’s failure in this respect has been glaring and inexplicable.  Some of the cases that call for the court’s attention are those concerning the scrapping of Article 370 and petitions challenging the sedition law, the UAPA, the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the electoral bonds scheme. There are other cases, too. Some of these have been pending for more than two years and it is difficult to imagine what justification can be adduced for the court not taking them up. The shortage of judges, which is usually cited as the reason for judicial delays, should be no reason now because the Supreme Court has a near-full complement of judges after the recent addition of nine judges. In any case, a shortage of judges should not be a ground for not taking up cases of serious import when the court has the time to take up the bail petition of a journalist or to go into complaints about the breach of the Prime Minister’s security. These are also important cases and the court took the right decisions about them. But some cases of equal and even bigger import have so far been ignored by the court.  The constraints imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic cannot also be a reason for not taking up these cases. Some of them involve constitutional issues and are better suited for virtual hearings as elaborate witness examinations are not needed. Some of the cases that are waiting to be heard are those in which government policies are controversially involved. The court’s failure to adjudicate them may lead to irreversible consequences. The court’s decisions may become useless or infructuous if they are delayed, and the wrong and unjust actions, which were challenged, would prevail. Delays often disadvantage one of the parties to a case, and it is usually the one who goes to court with a grievance. The court must ensure that no one gets an unfair benefit from its delays. Justice delayed would truly become justice denied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/cases-that-matter-to-our-democracy-1071253.html
14-01-2022||In Perspective||Making direct sellingconsumer-friendly||For years, the direct selling industry (DSI) has been in the news for all wrong reasons. Instances have surfaced where consumers are taken for a ride by the multi-level marketing companies and pyramid schemes wrongly understood as direct selling by the consumers. The DSI association, apart from having a voluntary code of conduct, has been demanding regulations so that they gain the confidence of the consumers.  The recent Consumer Protection [Direct Selling] Rules framed by the Department of Consumer Affairs, prohibits DSE and direct sellers from promoting pyramid schemes. They cannot enrol any person to such a scheme or participate in such arrangement in the garb of doing direct selling business.  Under the Rules, every direct selling entity [DSE] is under the obligation to get it registered either as a company, partnership or a limited liability partnership under relevant laws. They have to have a physical location and give a declaration that they have complied with all the provisions of the rules like maintenance of records in their registered office. With a view to promoting transparency, the Rules require the DSE to maintain and update a website and provide information to the public. Besides, the information on the website is to be got certified by a Chartered Secretary.  The DSEs are liable for all the actions of the direct sellers, including grievances that may arise out of their omission or commission. It is the responsibility of the DSE to verify the credibility of direct sellers and should have their physical addresses and issue them proper identity cards. On the other hand, the participants in direct selling should be given a ‘cooling-off period’ to cancel the agreement without levying any penalty.  The Rules gives importance to the consumers’ grievance redressal system. The DSEs are required to nominate Grievance Redressal Officers to deal with consumer complaints. Each of the complaints is to be acknowledged within 48 hours of receipt of such a complaint and the grievance or complaint to be resolved within a period of one month from the date of receipt of the complaint. Any delay on this account is to be informed to the consumers. The DSEs should not indulge in any unfair trade practices. The advertisements issued by the DSE should be consistent with the actual characteristics and usage conditions of the goods or services.  Provide details  The DSE is required to provide information on its website full details like address, branches, name and contact coordinates of the grievance redressal officers. A ticket number is to be given for each complaint lodged by the consumers so that they can track the status of the complaint. The website should also provide information about return, refund, exchange, warranty and guarantee, delivery and shipment and modes of payment.  DSE and direct sellers are not allowed to induce consumers to make a purchase based on the representation that they can reduce or recover the price by referring prospective customers to the direct sellers for similar purchases.  The DSEs are required to spell out information about the price of any goods or service in a single figure, along with its break-up price, showing separately charges relating to delivery, postage, handling charges etc. Consumers should be provided with as much information as is required to make informed purchase decisions. The DSEs are required to follow the requirements of the Legal Metrology Act/Rules.  Both the DSE and the direct sellers are liable for any product liability action that may arise. They have to ensure that the terms of the offer are clear and do not contain any product description, claim, illustration that is likely to mislead the consumer. The explanation and demonstration of the goods or services offered should be accurate and complete in all respects. In addition, direct selling is not be represented to the consumer as being a form of market research. If the DSE or direct sellers offer any after-sale services, they have to provide full information and should preferably be stated in the guarantee card or through other means. The rights of the consumers to return the goods should be made clear and it should be in writing.  The state governments have been tasked with the responsibility of monitoring the compliance of the Rules. The Karnataka Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs had, a few years ago, framed rules relating to direct selling.  Nothing is known about its implementation and monitoring. The department has to revisit its rules, amend it in view of the new Rules and ensure its compliance with the DSEs. The department’s activities, restricted to National/World Consumer Rights Day, school consumer clubs and assisting District Consumer Information Centres, need to look beyond and ensure consumers are protected from unfair trade practices in the name of direct selling. (The writer is Founder,Consumer Rights Education and Awareness Trust)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/making-direct-sellingconsumer-friendly-1071087.html
14-01-2022||In Perspective||Nuclear power is getting a fresh look||By Will Wade, Jonathan Tirone and Shoko Oda, The green energy transition is hitting some speed bumps as power shortfalls in Asia and Europe boost global demand for fossil fuels. That’s exposing the pitfalls of relying too much on fickle wind and solar—and focusing more attention on nuclear energy. Although efforts to battle climate change have been largely dominated by renewables, the International Energy Agency says achieving net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 will require doubling nuclear power worldwide. It accounted for just 4% of primary energy consumption in 2020, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy. “Nuclear needs to be part of the broader conversation,” says Joseph Majkut, director of the energy security and climate change programme at the Centre for Strategic & International Studies in Washington, DC. “We’ll need to build quite a lot to get there.” The US is at the forefront of efforts to design smaller nuclear systems. These so-called SMRs— small modular reactors—are expected to be faster, easier, and cheaper to build than the massive conventional nuclear plants that are common now. TerraPower LLC, which has secured $80 million in funding from the US Department of Energy to develop its technology, is planning to install a new type of reactor at a Wyoming coal-fired power plant that’s scheduled to close in 2025. The Bill Gates-backed company says the system could be operational as soon as 2028 and has a projected cost of $4 billion. Contrast that with the $29 billion price tag of the two reactors being added to the 1980s vintage Vogtle nuclear power plant in Georgia, a project that has been plagued by delays and massive cost overruns. NuScale Power LLC expects to complete an SMR plant in Idaho by 2029. The goal is to fabricate the key components at a factory and ship them to the project site to be assembled. The company is also chasing opportunities abroad, including in Romania, where it may be able to build a plant even sooner, by 2028. European countries have announced some of the world’s most ambitious climate goals, which is why many are looking to add more emission-free nuclear power. Skyrocketing electricity prices and concern that the European Union relies too much on Russian natural gas are aiding the case for nuclear. There’s a market realignment underway on the continent, with former Soviet republics looking for alternatives to Russian-made reactors. Poland, the EU’s most coal-dependent nation, is working with NuScale and talking to Electricité de France SA (EDF) about supplying multiple conventional nuclear plants. France already gets about 70% of its power from nuclear, more than any other country. The government is funding efforts by EDF to develop SMR technologies and also considering building more big facilities, in part because some of its reactors are nearing the end of their life spans. Germany, where aversion to nuclear power helped birth a national political party, is bucking the trend: It’s set to decommission its three remaining reactors this year and has no plans to build new ones. No country is ploughing more money into new nuclear plants than China, whose fleet is on track to surpass that of the US, the world’s largest, by the middle of this decade. The country plans to build at least 150 reactors over the next 15 years at a cost of as much as $440 billion. China is also pushing to export its expertise to developing nations, including Pakistan. Other Asian countries are being more cautious. Japan is evaluating SMRs but has been wary of restarting any of its reactors since the 2011 Fukushima disaster. Its most recent national energy plan sets a goal of getting 20% to 22% of its power from nuclear by fiscal 2030, up from about 5% in 2020, but doesn’t spell out whether new plants would get built. Edwin Lyman, director of nuclear power safety for the Union of Concerned Scientists, says that while the world needs more carbon-free electricity, nuclear reactors need to make economic sense to earn a bigger share of the global power mix. Hefty government subsidies may not be a sustainable strategy for building and operating power plants. “Nuclear has a huge disadvantage,” Lyman says. “It’s expensive.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/nuclear-power-is-getting-a-fresh-look-1071250.html
14-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Merchant organisations demand scientific curfew in Dakshina Kannada||Members of various merchant organisations in Dakshina Kannada have urged the state government and district administration to implement scientific weekly curfew instead of the present weekend curfew which is totally unscientific. The traders urged the district administration to allow traders including textiles, readymade garment, footwear dealers, mobile repair and recharging shops, beauty parlours, saloons to conduct business during weekends. The traders said shops may be closed for two days on the first two days of a week instead of weekends. This will reduce their financial burden as most of the textiles, ready made garments, and fancy showrooms see maximum business during weekends, they told mediapersons. Social activist M G Hegde said “we have demanded that the expert committees that suggest covid restrictions at the state and district level should also comprise representatives from traders organisations and economists who have studied problems the businessmen face due to lockdowns at the grassroots level.” When the experts claimed that the world has to live with the Covid-19 as it is never ending, he sought to know what purpose weekend lockdown serves now. The weekend curfew has not reduced the Covid-19 cases in the country and in the state. Neither the state government nor the Centre have any information on the number of shops and beauty parlours that were closed following the lockdown in the last two years. “The traders are also tax payers to the government. The lockdown and weekend curfew has affected their livelihood. The immunity power is boosted not only with food but also with wealth. If people have money, then only they can live without stress. Without money for livelihood, people will suffer from stress, which in turn will affect their health conditions.” Stating that elected representatives of the district and the officials have failed to address the problems faced by the traders, he said the elected representatives should address our problems. Karavali Textiles, Readymade and Footwear Dealers Association president K Santhosh Kamath said “we are not against lockdown. Instead of partial lockdown, let them go for full lockdown, in case the Covid-19 cases can be reduced through lockdown. The DC along with the elected representatives should hold a consultation with the traders organizations.” Beauty Parlours Association President Babitha said several parlours have been closed down following lockdown. Many women who had opened parlour to supplement the income of the family by availing loans are unable to repay the loans borrowed. “We get customers during weekends at the beauty parlours,” she said. DK and Udupi Mobile Retailers Association President Gurudatt Kamath said several mobile repair shops have been closed down. Mobile phones are also an essential service these days. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/merchant-organisations-demand-scientific-curfew-in-dakshina-kannada-1071074.html
14-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Notorious rowdy sheeter, associates arrested in Mangaluru||CCB sleuths in Mangaluru have been successful in arresting five persons including notorious rowdy sheeter Akash Bhavan Sharan alias Rohidas in a robbery case reported at Chelaru in Surathkal police station limits on December 8. Akash Bhavan Sharan (38), who is involved in murder, attempt to murder, sexual assault and other cases was released from prison on bail two months ago, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. The other arrested are Anil Kumar Salian alias Anil Pumpwell (40) from Kankanady, Sainal D’Souza (22) from Bajpe, Prasad (39) from Farangipet and Chethan Kottari (35) from Jeppinamogaru. The arrested had waylaid a two-wheeler rider who is a resident of Haleyangadi on December 8 and had decamped with a mobile phone, Rs 3,000 in cash and the two-wheeler, after threatening the rider. During the course of the investigation, the arrested had revealed that they were conspiring to murder a member of another gang. As a prelude to it, they had robbed the vehicle and mobile phone of the rider, so that they could use it for the offence later. Akash Bhavan Sharan had used the stolen mobile phone to call and threaten a rowdy sheeter from the opposite gang, said the commissioner. Akash Bhavan Sharan is the prime accused in the robbery case. The police have also seized a car and three mobile phones from the arrested. A few more accomplices of Akash Bhavan Sharan are absconding and efforts are on to trace them. There are 22 cases including six murders, two sexual assaults and one case under Pocso Act against Akash Bhavan Sharan in various police stations coming under City Police Commissionerate, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi police jurisdictions. He was involved in an auto driver's murder in Mangaluru South Police Station limits in 2003, a murder in Kavoor station in 2012, murder of KVG administrator Ramakrishna in Sullia in 2011, murder at Valencia in 2013, murder of Madoor Yusuf inside district jail in 2015 and murder of one Surendra Bantwal in Bantwal town station in 2020. A rowdy sheet has already been opened against him in Kankanady Town Police Station. Sainal too has five cases against him in various police stations. Chethan Kottari has an attempt to murder case registered against him in Kankanady town police. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/notorious-rowdy-sheeter-associates-arrested-in-mangaluru-1071177.html
14-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||28 antique silver coins recovered from man in Karnataka||The police have recovered 28 antique silver coins from a man at Vatigadde village in the taluk. Harish, the suspect, traced the coins while digging a piece of land at a coffee estate owned by Shyam at Halebeluru village on December 27. He had allegedly stored them at his house, said the police. When asked about the coins, Harish told Shyam that he did not find any coins on the farm. However, Harish gave Shyam nine coins after the latter threatened to approach the police. Shyam handed over the coins to rural police and suspected that Harish could be having more coins. Upon searching Harish’s house, the police recovered 19 more coins. The police detained Harish and registered a case against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/28-antique-silver-coins-recovered-from-man-in-karnataka-1071209.html
14-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Poet Kanavi tests Covid positive, more students contract virus||Kannada poet Channaveer Kanavi tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday in Dharwad. He was hospitalised on Thursday following complaints of cold and fever. He is undergoing treatment at a hospital. A total of 12 students of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) at Kamalapur in Hosapete taluk tested positive. The school was sealed following the development. In Davanagere, 187 students of 14 schools and colleges have contracted the virus. Some of these students are aged between 6 and 18 years. The number of cases is likely to go up as the results of many other educational institutions are pending. Deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi ordered the closure of these institutions for seven days.  About 15 students of the government junior college at Malebennur too tested positive for the virus. The college has been closed for a week. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poet-kanavi-tests-covid-positive-more-students-contract-virus-1071220.html
14-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||PSI, 12 others violate Covid protocol, booked in Hosapete||A police sub-inspector and 12 others have been booked for violating Covid-19 guidelines at Kottur town in the district. "Nagappa, the PSI attached to the Kottur police station, was imprisoned in a corruption case. He was released on bail. Nagappa and his supporters burst crackers and celebrated the release on Thursday night, violating the norms. None had worn masks. There was no physical distance. The Kottur police registered cases against 13 persons, including the PSI," SP Dr Arun K told reporters on Friday. The Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths caught six cops including Nagappa, the CPI and four others while they were allegedly receiving Rs 2.5 lakh from former Kudligi taluk panchayat president B Venkatesh Naik to ensure that case was not registered against him for illegal transportation of sand on December 13. Nagappa was suspended after his imprisonment. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/psi-12-others-violate-covid-protocol-booked-in-hosapete-1071222.html
14-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Forest dept resumes combing operation to trap elusive tiger||The Forest Department, which had suspended the combing operation as the tiger remained elusive tiger, resumed combing after a tiger was spotted near Antharasanthe and Nooralakuppe village in the taluk on Friday. Range Forest Officer Siddaraju visited the spot after Sharat and Lakshman residents of Antharasanthe informed him about the tiger. “The pug marks of the tiger have been spotted. The department personnel have been directed to patrol around the area where the tiger was spotted. Cameras have been installed around the field to capture the images”, he said. The tiger had killed two cattle near Antharasanthe range a week ago creating panic among the villagers. The combing operation with the help of jumbos did not help as the tiger remained elusive and was suspended. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-dept-resumes-combing-operation-to-trap-elusive-tiger-1071226.html
14-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Behaviour of some ministers denting Karnataka govt's image: Renukacharya||Expressing dissatisfaction over some ministers demanding plum berths in anticipation of a Cabinet reshuffle, chief minister's political secretary M P Renukacharya said on Friday that such behaviour is denting the government's image. "Some ministers have sought 2-3 portfolios, while others insist that they be allotted portfolios of their choice. Do they need key berths just for business?" Renukacharya asked at a news conference.  "While leaders like me work for the party to grow in the state, others are reaping its benefits," he said, taking a dig at Congress-JD(S) rebels who are now ministers in the Cabinet. "We worked as a unit to bring the BJP to power in the state. However, others are enjoying the power today." Responding to a meeting by BJP legislators, Renukacharya said that like-minded MLAs had met. "All the MLAs who do not want the party or the CM to be embarrassed have met and discussed. We want a stable government until the term ends (in 2023)," he said. On MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal's comments that there will be a change in state politics, he said that save CM all ministers will be changed. "The change in the Cabinet should be along the Gujarat model," he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/behaviour-of-some-ministers-denting-karnataka-govts-image-renukacharya-1071214.html
14-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Will not get justice by padayatra, says Deve Gowda||Rajya Sabha Member and JD(S) national president H D Deve Gowda on Friday said that interstate river water sharing issues cannot be resolved by agitations and taking out padayatras. After inaugurating the taluk office at Saligrama, he said, “Mekedatu issue is in the court. The Congress leaders are trying to gain political mileage from the issue. Will padayatra help to get a favourable verdict?” “The Congress leaders have announced of resuming the foot march from Ramanagar later. This will not have any impact on our party,” he said. “The BJP government in the Centre has been claiming that it will make India a Hindu nation. A leader in the state has been chanting ‘Ahinda’. Then, where will Christians and Muslims in the country go?” he asked. Political leaders should try to resolve issues with the help of law. As the BJP government in the state has failed to stop the foot march, the court had to intervene. Whether to take out padayatra or not is not important. Getting justice for the people is important, he said. K R Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh, MLC Manjegowda and Tahsildar Santosh were present. Meanwhile, speaking to reporters in Mysuru, MLC A H Vishwanath said, “There was no need for a padayatra for the implementation of the Mekedatu project. It should be resolved through law. What is the need for the foot march, spending crores of rupees?” Siddaramaiah was the chief minister for five years and he is a law expert. It is not right for him to be adamant on the foot march. Finally, the court had to intervene and stop it, he said. Commenting on the rise in Covid-19 cases, Vishwanath said that there is a spurt and is mostly affecting children. Hence, physical classes up to 7th standard should be suspended, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-not-get-justice-by-padayatra-says-deve-gowda-1071228.html
14-01-2022||Main Article||Amit Shah or Yogi Adityanath? The race for 'Number 2' in BJP||It is no news that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is firmly in the saddle and that there is no threat to his authority and influence from anyone within the ruling dispensation. The Opposition remains a pale story. But with 2022 setting in, the race to become his ‘No 2’ has intensified in right earnest, going by the buzz in political circles. Any keen observer of the Delhi durbar could sense the churning. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, undoubtedly the ‘No 2’ in the party and the government for the past seven and a half years, is facing competition from a party leader whom he had helped to become a Chief Minister. Yogi Adityanath is virtually declaring from the rooftop that he is no pushover. The huge posters at various places in the national capital, especially Delhi’s toilets, let everyone know that there are only two leaders in the BJP who matter. The first and foremost is the Prime Minister, while the other is Yogi. Never in the history of independent India has the Chief Minister of a state, albeit the most populous state in the country, made such a splash in the national capital.  If the number of advertisements in the print and electronic media, as also the space being occupied by the UP Chief Minister in news, including the sponsored category, is taken into consideration, there should not be any doubt in the mind of anyone that Yogi wants a second term, and more. At least, this is the belief of the bhakts, who feel that the saffron-robed CM is the perfect man to succeed the Prime Minister whenever the latter calls it a day.  In the eyes of the loyalist, Yogi’s hardline Hindutva is making him the natural successor to Modi, a thing that is a worry for the Home Minister, who has been Modi’s ‘Man Friday’ since their Gujarat days. It is a journey that started two decades back. Since then, Shah has risen by his hard work. From Minister of State for Home in Gujarat to Union Home Minister is a long journey. Shah had worked hard as BJP general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh that facilitated Modi’s sweep to power at the Centre in May 2014. Shah headed the BJP when Modi secured a spectacular second term. A high point of his career was the way the Home Minister scrapped Article 370 which granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir. It is another story how matters have unfolded since then.  But politics has its own dynamics. Yogi is from Uttar Pradesh. He may be a native of Uttarakhand but for most of his adult life, he has been in Gorakhpur. Besides Modi, he has made a mark on the core constituency of Hindutva across the length and breadth of the country. It is not just a coincidence that he is the only BJP CM who has been drafted for campaigning in almost all parts of the country.  Another thing is that Yogi is too ambitious and he does not hide it. Besides, like a true Thakur, he does not shy away from a fight. When plans were made last year in New Delhi to foist Modi loyalist A K Sharma, a bureaucrat-turned-politician, as Deputy CM in Uttar Pradesh, Yogi put his foot down. Sharma had to remain content with being made vice president of the state BJP, after becoming an MLC last year. Yogi has also ensured that he remained the tallest Thakur leader in the state. Rajnath Singh might be the Defence Minister and former UP Chief Minister, but he has been systematically marginalised in state politics by Yogi. So, even if the BJP does not do all that good in UP as it did in 2017, Yogi still will barely lose his stature in the Hindutva hierarchy.    Shah, by his actions, statements, and work, has shown that he sees himself as undoubtedly the ‘No 2’ and that he enjoys the Prime Minister’s trust and confidence, unlike any other BJP leader. Besides, he has got elected from Gandhinagar, the constituency of party veteran and former Deputy PM L K Advani. Shah has moved to the Krishna Menon Road bungalow, previously occupied by the late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee during his last years. Shah hails from Gujarat and, unlike Modi, has not been elected from UP, a move that has made a huge impact politically since May 2014. Soon after becoming Prime Minister in 2014, Modi had made it known in a lighter vein that he would like to be at the helm for 10 years. At a Teachers’ Day function, a young boy from Imphal had provoked a hearty Modi laugh when he asked, "How can I become the PM?" "Start preparing for 2024 elections," Modi had responded, adding after a beat, "It also means till then I do not have any threat.” Unlike the US, where one can be President only for two terms, there is no such term limit for the Prime Minister of India. The results of the seven Assembly polls, including in UP and Gujarat, this year will show how the race for the ‘No 2’ slot pans out as the BJP appears to have become desperate for victory. 2022 will also show whether the likes of Nitin Gadkari, who is considered the most competent and amiable minister in the Modi dispensation, are looked upon by party cadres for greater glory and whether another sidelined minister Rajnath Singh gains more traction. Interestingly, in no talk on ‘No 2’ in the BJP does the name of party president J P Nadda figure. A telling commentary on how the world’s largest political party is being run. (The writers are senior journalists and political commentators)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/amit-shah-or-yogi-adityanath-the-race-for-number-2-in-bjp-1071248.html
14-01-2022||National||Indian Army chief's remarks trigger reaction from China, Pakistan ||Beijing on Thursday objected to Indian Army chief Gen M M Naravane’s statement that the level of threat posed by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army with its build-up along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India had not yet come down despite disengagement of troops at some points. Islamabad too reacted to the Indian Army chief’s comment about the existence of terrorist camps across the Line of Control (LoC) between India and Pakistan. “At present, China and India are in dialogue and communication through diplomatic and military channels to ease the situation at the border,” Wang Wenbin, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. “We hope that certain individual on the Indian side would refrain from making unconstructive remarks,” he said, when a journalist asked for the Chinese Government’s response to the statement made by the Indian Army chief. Gen Naravane on Wednesday told journalists that the threat posed to India by the Chinese PLA’s massive build-up along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – had not come down even after the two sides had mutually withdrawn troops from both banks of Pangong Tso (lake) and Gogra Post in February and August 2021. He made the comment during a news-conference in New Delhi, when the commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA were meeting at the Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC and holding the 14th round of negotiations to resolve the 21-month-long stand-off in eastern Ladakh. The meeting, however, failed to yield an immediate breakthrough, despite extensive discussion between the two sides for disengagement of troops at the Hot Springs area on the LAC. The Indian Army chief also said on Wednesday that Pakistan still had camps harbouring 350-400 terrorists at training camps and “launch-pads” in territories under its control across the LoC. He said that increase in concentration of terrorists in “launch-pads” and repeated infiltration attempts exposed Pakistan’s “nefarious intents” against India. “There is nothing new about the Indian General’s unfounded allegations, as these are a part of the malicious anti-Pakistan propaganda being pedalled by the BJP-RSS combine at the helm in India,” Asim Iftikhar Ahmad, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the neighbouring country’s government, said in Islamabad. “The Indian Government is driven by its belligerent and expansionist agenda embedded in the delusional notion of ‘Akhand Bharat’, which poses a grave threat to regional peace." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-chiefs-remarks-trigger-reaction-from-china-pakistan-1070974.html
14-01-2022||National||With 2.64 lakh new cases, India's Covid-19 surge continues||India's Covid-19 cases surged further on Friday as the nation reported 2,64,202 new Covid-19 infections, 6.7 per cent higher than yesterday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. With today's spike, the nation's total tally of Covid-19 cases jumped to 3,65,82,129 which includes 5,753 cases of the Omicron variant, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. There has been a 4.83 per cent increase in Omicron cases since Thursday. The  active cases have increased to 12,72,073, the highest in 220 days, while the death toll has climbed to 4,85,350 with 315 fresh fatalities. The  active cases comprises 3.48 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 95.20 per cent, the ministry said. A total 2,76,110 coronavirus infections were reported in a single day on May 19. An increase of 1,54,542 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 14.78 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 11.83 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,48,24,706, while the case fatality rate  was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 155.39 crore. Speaking on Thursday at a panel discussion titled Variants, Vaccines and Us, virologist Dr V Ravi, a member of Karnataka's Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), noted that the outbreak will potentially peak in the city by the end of the month, before moving to other districts. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-264-lakh-new-cases-indias-covid-19-surge-continues-1071003.html
14-01-2022||National||Different festivals being celebrated today signify India's vibrant cultural diversity: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted people on the occasion of various festivals associated with the harvest and sun's northward journey, being celebrated in different parts of the country. People are marking different festivals across India which signify the country's vibrant cultural diversity, he said, extending his greetings.  "Pongal is synonymous with the vibrant culture of Tamil Nadu. On this special occasion, my greetings to everyone and especially the Tamil people spread all over the world. I pray that our bond with nature and the spirit of brotherhood in our society are deepened," Modi said on Twitter. "Magh Bihu greetings to you all. I pray that this festival enhances happiness and prosperity in everyone's lives. Bhogi greetings to everyone. May this special festival enrich the spirit of happiness in our society. I pray for the good health and well-being of our fellow citizens," he added. The prime minister also wished people on Makar Sankranti and Uttarayan. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/different-festivals-being-celebrated-today-signify-indias-vibrant-cultural-diversity-pm-modi-1071012.html
14-01-2022||National||Bishop Franco Mulakkal acquitted in Kerala nun rape case||Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal was acquitted in a rape case against him by a court in Kottayam district of Kerala on Friday. A nun of a convent at Kuravilangad in Kottayam district alleged that Mulakkal sexually assaulted her 13 times between 2014 and 2016 at the convent.  The Kottayam additional sessions court acquitted Mulakkal in the case. Mulakkal who was present in the court room hugged his lawyers emotionally. Mulakkal's supporters distributed sweets near the court premises, saying that they were certain that he would be acquitted as he was innocent. It was a cooked-up case and there was no evidence, they said. The nun made the complaint in 2018. The police initiated a probe into the nun's petition after a group of nuns staged a demonstration that received a lot of attention. Mulakkal was arrested on Sept. 21, 2018, and was later released on bail. He was charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for rape, unnatural sex, illegal detention and criminal intimidation. The Supreme Court then rejected Mulakkal's discharge petition. Superintendent of Police S Harishankar, who led the investigations in the case, said that the investigative team was expecting a conviction. There was sufficient evidence against the accused and none of the witnesses had turned hostile, Harishankar said. An appeal will be filed against the order, he said.  Mulakkal had been kept away from his responsibilities as a bishop after his arrest. Watch the latest videos from DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bishop-franco-mulakkal-acquitted-in-kerala-nun-rape-case-1071014.html
14-01-2022||National||Odisha activates telemedicine service for non-Covid patients||Keeping in view the risk to non-Covid patients in accessing medical facilities in hospitals amid a surge in coronavirus cases, the Odisha government has allowed the activation of telemedicine service for them. The state government on Thursday issued an order asking telemedicine platforms to provide distance medical assistance to the needy. "The present Covid-19 situation has raised a big challenge to the accessibility of patients to hospitals for general healthcare. Taking the situation into account, it has been decided to use telemedicine centres effectively and proactively established in medical colleges and other hospitals," the notification said. The telemedicine service will be available in SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur, VIMSAR, Burla, Acharya Harihar Post Graduate Institute of Cancer and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Post Graduate Institute of Paediatrics in Cuttack round the clock and staff arrangement be made accordingly, it said. The service will also be available at four new medical colleges and hospitals in Balasore, Baripada, Bolangir and Koraput, along with Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar and Rourkela General Hospital (RGH) from 8 AM to 5 PM. In PHCs, the telemedicine service will be available as per OPD timings from 8 AM to 12 PM, and 4 PM to 6 PM, it said. In another directive, the Health Department asked the hospital authorities to ensure social distancing, prevention of infection among healthcare personnel, avoiding non-essential admission, and conducting of only emergency surgeries with universal precautions. In Inpatient Department (IPD), only one attendant be allowed for serious patients and no attendant for ambulatory patients. In Outpatient Department (OPD), medical officers should not advise frequent revisits of patients if not required, it said. Media must not be allowed to enter either OPD or IPD, and dedicated fever clinic, isolation ward and testing facilities must be established, the order issued by the Directorate of Health Services to the superintendents of all medical colleges and hospitals, Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar, RGH and chief district medical officers and public health officers said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-activates-telemedicine-service-for-non-covid-patients-1071026.html
14-01-2022||National||Madhya Pradesh schools for classes 1-12 shut till January 31 amid Covid-19 surge||Amid a spike in coronavirus cases, the Madhya Pradesh government on Friday issued fresh guidelines, as part of which all schools and hostels for Classes 1 to 12 will remain shut in the state till January 31, an official said. The guidelines were issued after Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reviewed the coronavirus situation in the state with the crisis management committee, he said. "Besides the closure of schools, the state government also banned all religious and commercial fairs and rallies," additional chief secretary Dr Rajesh Rajora said. Only 250 people will be allowed to attend political, cultural, religious, social, educational, entertainment and other such events, he said. Programmes can be held with only up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity in closed spaces. Also, sports events can be organised with 50 per cent of the capacity of stadiums, the official said. People need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing, he said, adding the fresh guidelines are in addition to the restrictions that are already in force. The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 8,14,473 on Thursday with detection of 4,031 new cases, while the death toll increased to 10,543 after three more patients succumbed to the infection, a health department official said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-schools-for-classes-1-12-shut-till-january-31-amid-covid-19-surge-1071035.html
14-01-2022||National||Symptomatic child Covid cases on the rise in third wave, doctors warn||Medical experts have warned about a rising number of symptomatic Covid-infected children across India with those aged below two years showing signs of acute infection, as the third wave of the virus grips the nation. A senior paediatrician in Delhi told the publication that he had 40 young patients come in with Covid in one day, against single-digit cases he tended to in the earlier wave. “The number of children infected is much higher. Many more children are coming to us with mild symptoms like fever and gastrointestinal disorders. Acute symptoms last for two to three days. But very few hospitalisations so far,” he said. “Children need special care. They need paediatric nurses and doctors. Adult ICUs cannot be blocked. It will be a logistical nightmare. Even in ICUs, you need a parent/guardian/attendant on call. That causes another group of people to be masked,” Rahul Nagpal, director-paediatrics and neonatology, Fortis Hospital, Delhi, said, adding that while the disease among adolescents settles down in two to three days, all respiratory diseases can be severe in babies less than two years old. Data showed that India has more than 24,000 paediatric ICU beds, compared to the recommendation of fewer than 10,000 beds from a federal task force. Similarly, there are 64,796 non-ICU beds for children, much higher than the suggested 27,682. Medicos are not panicking just yet, saying that intensive therapy and/or critical care infrastructure for children are not stressed at this point. However, they admit that Covid cases among children are being under-reported. “According to rough official estimates, around 2 per cent of total Covid cases reported in Maharashtra are of children. The numbers in the 11-20 age bracket are threefold higher than the 1-10 age group since these children are more social and have higher exposure. The numbers on the ground are way higher,” a Mumbai-based doctor said. He says nearly 80 per cent of his paediatric patients in the past fortnight have had influenza-like symptoms but eventually tested positive for Covid. India has some 1,39,000 Covid-19 ICU beds in total against the 1,95,390 recommended. Oxygen-supported beds, which ran short during the second wave last year, have increased to nearly 4,95,000, still lower than over 5,19,000 suggested by experts. More than 10 lakh basic isolation beds are available. Nitin Verma with Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital, Delhi, stressed the importance of children's vaccination. “It is the post-Covid impact that is worrying, especially MIS-C, which comes four to six weeks after recovery,” he is quoted as saying. “Child infection in the US was 2.5 per 1,00,000 in the last wave; now it is 4 per 1,00,000.” (With agency inputs) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/symptomatic-child-covid-cases-on-the-rise-in-third-wave-doctors-warn-1071037.html
14-01-2022||National||Problem with locomotive's equipment: Railway minister Vaishnaw after inspecting Bikaner-Guwahati train accident site||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Friday inspected the Bikaner-Guwahati Express train accident site in West Bengal's Jalpaiguri district and said that there was some issue with the equipment of the locomotive. Nine people were killed and 36 injured after 12 coaches of the Bikaner-Guwahati Express train derailed, and some of them capsized near Domohani in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday. Vaishnaw said that the actual reason behind the accident could be ascertained only after dismantling the engine's equipment. He also met injured passengers at the hospital. "The issue was with the locomotive's equipment, not with speed restrictions or tracks. There will be marks on the equipment. Only after dismantling it and studying those marks, the reason behind the accident can be ascertained," he told reporters after inspecting the accident site. "The root cause (behind the accident) will soon come out. An inquiry into the unfortunate incident is underway. We pray for the departed souls and wish for a speedy recovery of the injured. Talks are on with the families regarding the distribution of ex-gratia," he added. Earlier in the day, Vaishnaw arrived at Domohani railway station at 9.38 AM and proceeded to the derailment site within two minutes on a motor trolley, NFR's Chief Public Relations Officer Guneet Kaur said in Guwahati. "The minister conducted a trolley inspection to ascertain the condition of the track and fittings. At the accident site, he conducted a thorough inspection of the underframe of the locomotive and its braking system," she said. She said that the death toll has risen to nine, with three of the deceased yet to be identified. The number of injured currently stands at 36. While 23 passengers are undergoing treatment at a super specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri, six are admitted to the North Bengal Medical College and seven at Maynaguri Rural Hospital, the CPRO said. The accident took place at 5 pm on Thursday near Domohani in Alipurduar division of the Northeast Frontier Railway, she said. "An inquiry committee has been formed to find out what caused the derailment," Kaur told PTI. NFR General Manager Anshul Gupta reached the spot at 12.08 AM on Friday, and is supervising the restoration work of tracks for normalisation of train movement. He visited various hospitals on Thursday night and early on Friday to check the condition of the injured patients, Kaur said. The CPRO said that a special train had left the accident site at 9.50 PM with 290 stranded passengers for Guwahati. The special train has reached Guwahati railway station around 8.30 AM on Friday, Assam's Special DGP (Law and Order) G P Singh said in a Twitter post. There were 1,053 passengers onboard the train at the time of the derailment, an NFR statement had said on Thursday. The Railways has announced ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of those killed in the accident, Rs 1 lakh to the grievously injured, and Rs 25,000 for passengers with simple injury. "Now that the passenger relief operation at the site is complete, restoration work will start in full swing for normalisation of train movement under the supervision of the NFR general manager," she said. At least 10 trains, mostly intercity and DEMU trains, have been cancelled on the affected route on Friday, while a couple are being short-terminated or short-originated. Another 10 long-distance trains are being diverted through alternative routes, the CPRO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/problem-with-locomotives-equipment-railway-minister-vaishnaw-after-inspecting-bikaner-guwahati-train-accident-site-1071054.html
14-01-2022||National||IED found in Srinagar||Security forces on Friday detected and defused an improvised explosive device (IED) in Nowhatta area of the city, police said.  "Police and CRPF detected a suspicious bag lying at Khawaja Bazar Chowk in Nowhatta area of Srinagar," a police official said. He said a team of bomb disposal squad was called to the spot, which "found a four to five litre pressure cooker (suspicious IED) in the bag". The bomb squad later destroyed the IED on the spot, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ied-found-in-srinagar-1071058.html
14-01-2022||National||Taking custody of bride's jewellery for safety not cruelty under Section 498A of IPC: SC||The Supreme Court has said taking custody of daughter-in-law’s jewellery for safety cannot constitute cruelty under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code. Similarly, failure to control an adult brother, living independently, or giving advice to adjust to sister-in-law to avoid retaliation cannot come within the definition of cruelty to the bride, a bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and J K Maheshwari said. Section 498 A refers to husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty.  A case was lodged by a woman against her husband and in-laws for subjecting her to cruelty. The apex court’s observations came while hearing an appeal against an order passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana dismissing a plea by a man seeking permission to return to the US, where he is employed. The high court had rejected the man’s prayer to leave the country as he was arrayed as an accused along with his elder brother and parents under sections Sections 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 34 (common intention), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) 498A and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Going through factual matrix, the court pointed out the complainant (daughter-in-law) has not given any particulars of the jewellery that had allegedly been taken by her mother-in-law and brother-in- law. There is not a whisper of whether any jewellery is lying with the petitioner, it said. There is only a general omnibus allegation that all the accused ruined the life of the complainant by misrepresentation, concealment, etc. The appellant is not liable for the acts of cruelty, or any other wrongful and/or criminal acts on the part of his parents or brother, the court said. The top court said considering the nature of the allegations, it is not understood how and why the petitioner should have been detained in India.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taking-custody-of-brides-jewellery-for-safety-not-cruelty-under-section-498a-of-ipc-sc-1071064.html
14-01-2022||National||Adityanath eats at Dalit household, targets SP||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had a meal at a Dalit household here on Friday and said during the Samajwadi Party rule it was "social exploitation" and not "social justice", whereas the BJP government was working for the development of every section of society without any discrimination. Adityanath's visit to the Dalit family in Gorakhpur came a little before Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan and Dharam Singh Saini, who resigned from the government accusing it of being anti-Dalit, gathered at the Samajwadi Party office in Lucknow to take up its membership in the run-up to the assembly polls beginning February 10. Several BJP and Apna Dal legislators have also quit their respective parties to join the SP. After having meal at Amritlal Bharti's home on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, Adityanath told reporters, "Only 18,000 houses were given to people under PM Awas Yojna in full five-year term of the Akhilesh Yadav government in UP, whereas the present BJP government has given 45 lakh houses to the poor and the deprived under the scheme." "It was 'samajik shoshan' (social exploitation) and not 'samajik nyay' (social justice) during the SP rule in UP," he said, taking a swipe at his predecessor and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. He said 2.61 crore households got toilets and 1.36 crore families benefitted from the Ujjwala Yojana under the "double engine" government, referring to the BJP rule at the Centre and in the state. "Those in the grip of dynastic politics cannot give justice to any section of society," he added. "The SP government had committed dacoity on the rights of Dalits and the poor," he said. Yadav was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh from 2012 to 2017. Maurya, Chauhan and Saini as well as almost all rebel MLAs had cited the state government of not caring for the welfare of Dalits and the backward classes as prime reasons for leaving the saffron camp. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases beginning February 10 and the results will be announced on March 10. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adityanath-eats-at-dalit-household-targets-sp-1071081.html
14-01-2022||National||EC holds meeting with election observers of 5 poll-bound states||With an aim to conduct free, fair and safe Assembly elections in five states, Election Commission of India is holding a meeting with the poll observers here on Friday. According to the officials, this is the first briefing of the commission to the senior officers, who have been deployed in the forthcoming elections. Around 900 officers designated as 'poll observers' in different categories, such as General, Police and Expenditure, are attending the meeting wherein the Commission is discussing the core issues of the electioneering process, the sources said. Sources added that they have been asked to implement the Covid-19 protocol strictly during the election process. On January 8, the Election Commission of India announced the dates of the upcoming Assembly elections in five poll-bound states, namely, Punjab, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, and Uttarakhand. Uttar Pradesh will go to the polls in seven phases, Manipur in two, the rest in a single phase, the ECI said. The Uttar Pradesh elections will begin from February 10; Goa, Uttarakhand and Punjab on February 14; and Manipur in 2 phases on February 27 and March 3. The poll process will end on March 7 and the counting of votes will be done for all the five states on March 10. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-holds-meeting-with-election-observers-of-5-poll-bound-states-1071105.html
14-01-2022||National||Six airbags compulsory for vehicle carrying up to 8 passengers: Nitin Gadkari||Aimed at enhancing the safety of the occupants in motor vehicles carrying up to 8 passengers, the government has decided that such vehicles must have minimum of 6 airbags. Announcing this, Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said that the government has approved a draft GSR (General Statutory Rules) notification to make a minimum of 6 airbags compulsory for vehicles carrying up to 8 passengers. "This will ultimately ensure the safety of passengers across all segments, irrespective of the cost or variant of the vehicle," Gadkari Tweeted. The government had made the fitment of two airbags across all new models of cars from last year and this mandatory norm for all existing models came into force from January 1, 2022. He said four additional airbags will be mandated in the M1 vehicle category (vehicles having not more than 8 seats) to minimise the impact of “frontal and lateral collisions" to the occupants seated in both front and rear compartments. "Airbags will be made mandatory for two side or side torso airbags and two side curtain or tube airbags, covering all outboard passengers. This is a crucial step to make motor vehicles in India safer than ever," the Minister said. As per the National Crime Record Bureau report on road accidents in the country, 17,538 car occupants died in road crashes in 2020, which was around 13% of the total road fatalities. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-airbags-compulsory-for-vehicle-carrying-up-to-8-passengers-nitin-gadkari-1071142.html
14-01-2022||National||Centre refutes reports of Covid-19 vaccine shortage in Maharashtra||Refuting media reports on Covid-19 vaccine shortage in Maharashtra, the Health Ministry said the state had over 24 lakh unutilised doses of Covaxin and received an additional 6.35 lakh doses on Friday. According to the media reports, the state government is unable to increase the pace of vaccination due to a shortage in vaccine availability. "As per their weekly consumption data available on Co-WIN, the average consumption by Maharashtra for Covaxin to cover the eligible beneficiaries for 15-17 years and for precaution dose is almost 2.94 lakh doses per day. Therefore, the state has adequate vaccine doses for about 10 days to cover the eligible beneficiaries with Covaxin," the ministry said in a statement. "Furthermore, for Covishield, the state has 1.24 crore unutilised and balance doses available as on date. With an average consumption of 3.57 lakhs per day, this will sustain for more than 30 days for the beneficiaries to be vaccinated using the vaccine," it said. Hence, the media reports are not factually correct and do not reflect the correct picture of the available stock of balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses with Maharashtra, the ministry said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-refutes-reports-of-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-in-maharashtra-1071154.html
14-01-2022||National||Helicopter carrying CDS Bipin Rawat crashed due to entry into clouds: Inquiry report||The Mi-17 V5 chopper carrying Chief of the Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and others crashed because of its “entry into clouds due to unexpected change in weather conditions in the valley leading to spatial disorientation of the pilot”, the Indian Air Force reported on Friday, releasing a brief summary of the Court of Inquiry report. Such an entry into the cloud led to “spatial disorientation of the pilot resulting in Controlled Flight into Terrain (CFIT)”, said the IAF. In aviation terms, CFIT means an unintentional collision of an aircraft with the ground while still in active control. A CFIT scenario does not generally give the pilot and the co-pilot an opportunity to send out a distress call to the Air Traffic Controllers, because they remain unaware of the impending disaster till it is too late. Hence, the ill-fated Mi-17 V5 – one of the most reliable helicopters used by the IAF for VIP flights - did not send any distress signal. The tri-service inquiry, headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Training Command, ruled out mechanical failure, sabotage or negligence as a cause of the accident. In one of India’s most tragic military aviation accidents, the chopper ferrying Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 12 others took off from Sulur Air base in Tamil Nadu on December 8 morning for Defence Services Staff College, Wellington where the CDS was to give a lecture. But the chopper crashed minutes before the touchdown killing all but one. The lone survivor Group Captain Varun Singh succumbed to his injuries at a hospital in Bengaluru after a few days. The tri-services inquiry team analysed the Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder besides questioning all available witnesses to determine the most probable cause of the accident. “The accident was a result of entry into clouds due to unexpected change in weather conditions in the valley. This led to spatial disorientation of the pilot resulting in Controlled Flight into Terrain,” it had said in an earlier report submitted on January 5. “Based on its findings, the Court of Inquiry has made certain recommendations which are being reviewed,” the IAF said in a statement. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/helicopter-carrying-cds-bipin-rawat-crashed-due-to-entry-into-clouds-inquiry-report-1071160.html
14-01-2022||National||'Not offered RS seat': Actor Chiranjeevi rules out return to politics||Tollywood megastar Chiranjeevi on Friday clarified that he is staying away from politics. He termed as speculative some media reports that Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy offered him a Rajya Sabha seat. Chiranjeevi, who had called on the Chief Minister in Amaravati on Thursday to discuss the controversy over the pricing of cinema tickets, denied that he was offered a Rajya Sabha seat. The popular actor tweeted that the reports in a section of the media that he is being sent to Rajya Sabha are totally baseless. He requested the media not to publish such speculative stories and put a full stop to this discussion. Chiranjeevi reiterated that he met the Chief Minister to discuss the issues related to the film industry. The actor had met the Chief Minister at his official residence at the latter's invitation, and the luncheon meeting lasted for one and half hours. After the meeting, Chiranjeevi had told the media that Jaganmohan Reddy responded positively to the issues raised by him on behalf of the film industry, exhibitors and theatre owners. Terming the meeting fruitful, Chiranjeevi hoped that all the problems will be solved soon in a manner acceptable to all. Chiranjeevi said the Chief Minister assured him that a mutually acceptable decision will be taken. The popular actor had entered politics in 2009 by floating Praja Rajyam Party (PRP) a few months before the elections in the undivided Andhra Pradesh. However, his party could win just 18 seats in the 294-member Assembly. He later merged PRP with the Congress. In 2012, he was elected to Rajya Sabha and was made a Minister in the then Congress-led UPA government at the Centre. After bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh in 2014, Chiranjeevi became inactive in politics and made a comeback to films. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-offered-rs-seat-actor-chiranjeevi-rules-out-return-to-politics-1071172.html
14-01-2022||National||Omicron community transmission detected early in December in Delhi||Much before the official admission, the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 was transmitting through the community in Delhi causing breakthrough infections besides sending a few to the hospitals, scientists reported on Friday Examining 264 genome sequences of Covid positive patients collected between Nov 25 and Dec 23, a team of Delhi researchers detected 82 Omicron samples of which 50 had no travel links whereas 19 were international travelers and 13 were their contacts. The remaining 182 are Delta cases. “The majority of Omicron patients (61 per cent) had no documented international travel history or contact. Hence they undoubtedly acquired the infection locally, thus signifying the community spread and imposing further challenges in epidemic control,” the team from the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences reported. The study is yet to be peer-reviewed, but was posted in an online archive on Friday. Delhi reported its first and India’s fifth Omicron case on Dec 5 from a traveler returning from Tanzania. Among a total of 82 Omicron cases, 46.3 per cent (38 persons) belonged to 14 families. Out of these 14 family clusters, only four families (five individuals) had documented travel history from different countries. Out of the remaining 10 families with no international travel history, three families contracted Omicron following contact with a non-family member with international travel history. Rest of the 20 individuals from 7 families contracted Omicron infection possible due to community transmission. Nearly 61 per cent of the 82 Omicron cases were asymptomatic individuals whereas 3.6 per cent (three persons having diabetes and hypertension) required hospital stay. Nearly 88 per cent (72 Omicron positive patients) were fully vaccinated, signifying the variant’s ability to cause breakthrough infections. “We observed a definite shift from Delta predominance7 to Omicron along with its community spread. Similar findings were observed from various parts of the world including South Africa and Denmark where the new variant simultaneously emerged at the end of November 2021,” the team reported. The findings came on a day when Delhi reported more than 24,000 new Covid cases with a positivity rate of nearly 31 per cent - in other words every third individual, if tested, will turn out to be Covid positive. "There is no need to panic. Cases are rising fast and there is no two ways about it. The Omicron variant is quite transmissible and infectious. But there is no reason to worry as hospitalisation and death rates are quite low," Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said earlier in the day. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-community-transmission-detected-early-in-december-in-delhi-1071187.html
14-01-2022||National||Collision between India-bound planes averted in Dubai, DGCA asks UAE to share probe report||Indian aviation regulator DGCA has asked its UAE counterpart to share the report of the probe into the near collision of two India-bound Emirates passenger jets on January 9 at the Dubai airport. The planes had come on the same runway during take-off from the airport. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has asked UAE’s General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) to share its investigation report on this incident. DGCA chief Arun Kumar told PTI on Friday: "Both are their registered aircraft and the place of occurrence is their airport and so, as per ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation), it will be investigated by them." "However, we have asked them to share the investigation report as and when available," he mentioned. The two Emirates jets that had a close shave on January 9 were the Dubai-Hyderabad flight (EK-524) and the Dubai-Bengaluru flight (EK-568), sources said. The EK-524 was accelerating to take off just when EK-568 came on the same runway, they noted. Therefore, EK-524's take off was rejected by the air traffic controller, the sources mentioned. EK-524 was scheduled to depart at 9.45 PM while EK-568 was scheduled to take off at 9.50 PM, they said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/collision-between-india-bound-planes-averted-in-dubai-dgca-asks-uae-to-share-probe-report-1071194.html
14-01-2022||National||Delhi court dismisses bail plea of 'Bulli Bai' app creator||A Delhi court on Friday dismissed the bail application of 'Bulli Bai' app creator Neeraj Bishnoi, noting that a vilification campaign against Muslim women containing derogatory content and offending material having communal overtones was run on this app. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma refused the relief saying Bishnoi's act was an affront to the dignity of the women of particular community and communal harmony of the society. "The facts disclose that accused created the app 'Bulli Bai' where women journalists and celebrities of a particular community who are famous on social media are targeted and they are projected in a bad light with an objective to insult and humiliate them by objectification," the court noted. A vilification campaign against these women containing derogatory content and offending material having communal overtones was run on this app being made by the accused, it noted. "The act of the accused is apparently an affront to the dignity of the women of particular community and communal harmony of the society," the judge said. Twenty-year-old Bisnoi told the court that he was falsely accused nothing to do with the offence.  The counsel for the complainant opposed the bail application, saying the photographs of some prominent Muslim women were picked for the purpose of insulting and outraging their modesty by making sexually coloured remarks. The app put out details of more than 100 prominent Muslim women allowing users to participate in an 'auction' of those women. Bishnoi is a resident of the Digambar area of Jorhat district in Assam and is a B Tech student at the Vellore Institute of Technology, Bhopal. Bishnoi was arrested earlier this month by Delhi Police Special Cell's Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations unit team from Assam for the alleged involvement in the Bulli Bai case. An engineering student from Bengaluru, a young girl from Uttarakhand, and one of her friends have also been arrested by Mumbai Police in connection with the case.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-bulli-bai-app-creator-1071243.html
14-01-2022||National||Bikaner Express accident: Railways distrubute ex-gratia amount in record time||A day after the derailment of the Guwahati-bound Bikaner Express in West Bengal’s Jalpaiguri district, the Indian Railways claimes to have disbursed ex gratia to most of the victims of the accident. In the accident that occurred on Thursday, nine passengers died and 36 were injured. “Of the nine deceased, five have been identified and their families have been given Rs 5 lakh each. We’ve also given Rs 1 lakh each to the 10 grievously injured people and Rs 25,000 each given to 26 minor injured,” Rajiv Jain, Additional Director General (PR), Indian Railways, told media here. The railway team made arrangements overnight and ensured payments in the least possible time, he said. The railway board has ordered a high-level investigation by the commissioner of railway safety about the accident. Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Railway Board Chairman V K Thripati visited the spot. This was the first incident of passenger deaths in an accident after a gap of nearly 34 months. The last time, passenger deaths were reported in an accident on March 22, 2019. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bikaner-express-accident-railways-distrubute-ex-gratia-amount-in-record-time-1071245.html
14-01-2022||National Politics||Faith prevails over fear as Magh Mela in UP begins||Faith prevailed over fear and lakhs of devotees, throwing caution to the winds, took a holy dip at Sangam on Friday to mark the auspicious occasion of 'Makar Sankranti'. Devotees abandoned masks and social distancing was nowhere to be seen as people rubbed shoulders with each other to take the holy dip and offer prayers. Magh Mela, the 47-day annual religious fair began officially on Friday morning -- the first official bathing festival of Makar Sankranti on the banks of Sangam. Pilgrims, saints and seers began to arrive for the occasion in large numbers on the eve of Makar Sankranti from Thursday and the fear of the third Corona wave was nowhere to be seen. Officials had a tough time controlling crowds and ensuring the implementation of Covid protocols. Mela official Shesh Mani Pandey said that efforts were continuously being made to prevent crowding either in the rivers or on the banks. "Ten main bathing ghats have been set up for the pilgrims this time around. These would be stretching from Nagvasuki to Quila Ghat near Sangam in order to divert devotees to avoid overcrowding at one place," he said. Officials expect around five lakh pilgrims to take the holy dip on Friday. There are 13 police stations and 38 police outposts in various sectors of the mela area. Apart from these, there are 13 fire stations and the entire mela area is being watched from 13 watchtowers. CCTV cameras have been installed in these towers. Entry of heavy vehicles has been restricted for January 14-15. Besides, entry of two and four-wheelers will also be restricted inside the mela area on the major bathing days. However, the increased level of water in river Ganga is one area of concern for the authorities. The level of water, which used to remain around 74-75 meters, is 77 meters this year because of which the strong currents are eroding its bank at few points, even as authorities are doing their best in checking it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/faith-prevails-over-fear-as-magh-mela-in-up-begins-1071027.html
14-01-2022||National Politics||BJP spotlights Rajasthan rape amid Priyanka's women pitch in Uttar Pradesh||With Priyanka Gandhi spotlighting her 'ladki hun lad sakti hoon' pitch in Uttar Pradesh and giving tickets to 40 per cent women candidates, including the mother of a rape victim, the BJP on Friday went a in campaign mode targeting her about a rape case in Congress-ruled Rajasthan. Launching a direct attack on Priyanka, who was on a personal visit Rajasthan days back, BJP leaders said while she "comes for Jungle Safari to Rajasthan but says nothing about "Jungle Raj" in the party-ruled state. The BJP's all-out attack on Priyanka came a day after she released the first list of 125 candidates of Congress for UP that included 50 candidates including Asha Devi, the mother of Unnao gang rape victim, in which a senior BJP leader was convicted. The list had also included Sadaf Zafar, who was in the forefront of anti-CAA protests in Lucknow. Priyanka projected it as a move towards "new politics" and a "historical initiative" while Rahul Gandhi called it the start of a "big change". The former Congress President said "the list also incorporates those people who have been meted out injustice by the BJP." Tearing into the Congress over its leaders' claims, BJP fielded its national spokesperson Sambit Patra in the national capital to raise the issue of the brutal rape of a 15-year-old mentally challenged girl in Congress-ruled Rajasthan. Patra drew parallels between the incident with the 2012 Nirbhaya gangrape-murder case in Delhi during the UPA regime. "Priyanka Gandhi goes to UP and says 'ladkh hun lad sakti hoon' but in Rajasthan where there is a Congress government, her tone changes to "ladki ho to ladna mana hai or chup rahna hi padega". Priyanka can go to Unnao but cannot go to Rajasthan. Did Priyanka go to meet the Nirbhaya of Rajasthan? Poeple are watching this selective politics of Congress," Patra said. The BJP leader alleged that Priyanka Vadra was celebrating her birthday at Ranthambhore in Rajasthan and declined to meet a BJP delegation. The issue had kicked up a big row and evoked strong outrage. While the Rajasthan State Human Rights Commission has asked for a report by January 18, the state BJP formed a committee to seek justice for the victim. Leaders of both parties have met the victim's family members. A delegation of BJP leaders also went to Ranthambore to meet Priyanka. BJP also strongly objected to a statement of Women and Child development minister of Rajasthan Mamata Bhupesh regarding the difficulty in identifying the accused in such cases and calling for the society to come forward to fight the menace. "Such a statement shows the state government is trying to evade responsibility," Patra said. "Priyanka Gandhi should tell if she sought a report from Rajasthan Chief Minister regarding the incident. Did she go to the house of the victim. She should tell why the crimes against women are rising in Rajasthan," Patra asked. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-spotlights-rajasthan-rape-amid-priyankas-women-pitch-in-uttar-pradesh-1071075.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab CM Channi recites verse to wish PM Modi long life||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday expressed regret to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the breach in his security during a visit to the state and recited a verse to extend his wishes for a long life to him, sources said. Channi used the occasion of Modi's video interaction with chief ministers over the Covid-19 situation to convey the message to him. He regrets whatever happened during his visit to Punjab, Channi told Modi. The prime minister is respected to him, he added. "Tum salamat raho qayamat tak, aur khuda kare qayamat na ho," he said in Hindi, reciting the verse to express his wishes for a long life to him. It was Channi's first interaction with the prime minister since the incident on January 5. The BJP has been attacking the Punjab government and the Congress over the breach in Modi's security during his visit last week, which had to be cut short, with its leaders alleging an attempt to physically harm the prime minister. Channi had expressed his regret earlier as well but has insisted that there was no threat to Modi. He has in fact mocked Modi over the issue at times. A group of protesters had blocked Modi's route in what the Home Ministry had described a serious lapse in security as the prime minister remained stranded on the road for 15-20 minutes before returning. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-channi-recites-verse-to-wish-pm-modi-long-life-1070982.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Sero survey shows 90% in Rajasthan have developed Covid antibodies: CM Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said sero surveillance in Rajasthan has found that 90 percent of people have developed antibodies for coronavirus. He said it indicates that 'herd immunity' has developed due to the community spread of the infection in the state. "I am satisfied to share that sero surveillance was done in Rajasthan, in which antibodies have been found in 90 percent of the people," Gehlot said in a statement. Still, vaccination is necessary so that the antibodies become stronger, the chief minister said. Gehlot said due to the lack of an opportunity to express his views during a discussion with the prime minister to review the Covid situation in the country, he is sharing those suggestions regarding coronavirus management on social media. Gehlot's said his suggestions included making the precautionary or booster dose of Covid vaccine available to all age groups, administering vaccine to children on the lines of foreign countries and reducing the interval for booster doses from nine months to six or three months. Gehlot also said that the work of establishing the 'Institute of Tropical Medicine and Virology' at a cost of Rs 130 crore has been started in the state. Incorporating the expertise and state-of-the-art facilities from both the National Institute of Virology, Pune, and the School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata, will make it easier to study and tackle the challenges of viral diseases in the future and benefit the entire country, he added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sero-survey-shows-90-in-rajasthan-have-developed-covid-antibodies-cm-gehlot-1070990.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Order of 'forced' Surya namaskar in J&K stokes controversy||The Jammu and Kashmir administration's order directing college heads in the union territory to organise large-scale virtual 'surya namaskar' on Makar Sankranthi drew sharp criticism from mainstream political parties on Thursday. “Why should Muslim students be forced to do anything, including yoga, to celebrate Makar Sankranti? Makar Sankranti is a festival & to celebrate it or not must be a personal choice. Would the BJP be happy if a similar order was issued to order non-Muslim students to celebrate Eid?” former chief minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah wrote on Twitter. Another former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said the Centre's “misadventures” aim to collectively “humiliate” the people of Kashmir. “GOIs PR misadventures aim to demean & collectively humiliate Kashmiris. Forcing students & staff to perform suryanamaskars by issuing orders despite their obvious discomfort with imposition of something laden with religious connotations gives an insight into their communal mindset,” Mehbooba said in a tweet. NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar demanded the order be rolled back. “The fact that heads of colleges in Kashmir have been directed to 'ensure' participation of faculty, students and the fact that these Heads are now forced to force Muslims to perform 'Surya Namaskar' is a proof of religious interference. Roll the order back,” he tweeted. Criticising the order, PDP leader and former minister Naeem Akhtar said he would not permit his children to participate in any such activity and nor force anyone else to do it his way. “There is no God but God and He alone is worthy of Worship. To you your faith to me mine (Qur'an) No compulsion in Faith (Qur'an). I would not permit my child participate in any such activity. Nor force anyone else to do it my way,” Akhtar said. NC's former MLA and influential Shia leader Ruhullah Mehdi said if an individual can sign an order which is against his or her faith and freedom of religion, “it is more worrisome than the oppression itself”. “The oppression does not reflect in this order or “desire” as much as the slavery reflects in the pen of the undersigned. They told them to bend, the so called “leadership” of Kashmir crawled. But what about the society as a whole? What does the signature in this case reflect? “If an individual can sign an order which is against his/her faith and freedom of religion, it's more worrisome than the oppression itself. If the people asked to attend, give in to this order and participate, it's us (the society) to be blamed for the consequences, not them,” Ruhullah said on Twitter.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/order-of-forced-surya-namaskar-in-jk-stokes-controversy-1071007.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi expected to record less than 25,000 Covid-19 cases on Friday: Minister Satyendra Jain||Delhi is expected to record less than 25,000 coronavirus cases on Friday, Health Minister Satyendra Jain said, while stating that almost 75 per cent of those who have succumbed to the infection were unvaccinated. "Delhi is expected to record less than 25,000 cases today," Jain told reporters. The city had on Thursday reported 28,867 Covid-19 cases, the sharpest single-day spike since the pandemic began, and 31 deaths, while the positivity rate surged to 29.21 per cent, according to the health department data. Delhi’s previous biggest daily jump of 28,395 cases was recorded on April 20 last year. According to official data, of the 97 people who died here due to Covid, between January 9 to January 12, 70 people were unvaccinated, while 19 had taken the first jab and eight were fully vaccinated. "Nearly 75 per cent of the people who died due to coronavirus had not even taken a single dose of the vaccine. It is important to get vaccinated. There have also been instances where people had severe illnesses before they contracted Covid-19," Jain noted. The minister added that more than 13,000 hospital beds are lying vacant in the city. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-expected-to-record-less-than-25000-covid-19-cases-on-friday-minister-satyendra-jain-1071030.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Bomb squad detonate IED found in abandoned bag in Delhi||A bomb explosion was averted in the national capital after the detection of an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) inside an unattended bag in a flower market in east Delhi on Friday. It was diffused through a controlled explosion. The detection of the IED, weighing around 3 kg, in the Ghazipur market, which borders Uttar Pradesh, came days ahead of Republic Day celebrations and Assembly elections in the neighbouring state. Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana said the IED was kept inside a metal box, which was left by an unidentified man who came to buy flowers. Officials said the man had come to the market in a scooter and bought flowers. While leaving, he kept the bag which was on his scooter on the side. "The bomb disposal squad of the NSG, prima facie, has found chemical compounds like RDX and Ammonium Nitrate in the manufacture of the IED recovered from Ghazipur," NSG Director General MA Ganapathy was quoted by ANI as saying. Upon discovering the unattended bag, alert sellers immediately informed police at 10:19 AM, following which a team of Special Cell of Delhi Police and bomb disposal squad rushed to the spot. The National Security Guards (NSG) with its bomb disposal team also rushed to the spot. "A fire tender was sent to the spot and police officials also arrived. The NSG team was also subsequently called," a senior police official said. The area was cordoned off and the experts in the bomb disposal teams identified that the IED was indeed a crude bomb and decided to conduct a controlled explosion for which an eight-feet deep pit was dug. Officials said the bag with bomb was placed in such a way that it would cause maximum damage. The NSG has taken samples of the explosive and will be conducting a detailed forensic analysis.  With elections and Republic Day celebrations round the corner, security agencies are on high alert to ensure that there is no untoward incident. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bomb-squad-detonate-ied-found-in-abandoned-bag-in-delhi-1071041.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi Covid cases rising fast but hospitalisation and deaths low, says Arvind Kejriwal||Covid cases are rising fast but there no reason to worry, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday while emphasising that hospitalisation and death rates are low. He asked people to be responsible and assured them that the government has made all preparations and there are enough hospital beds.  "There is no need to panic. Cases have risen but hospitalisation and deaths are low.  We have made all the preparations and there is no shortage of beds," Kejriwal told reporters.  Delhi on Thursday reported 28,867 Covid-19 cases, the sharpest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic, and 31 deaths while the positivity rate went up to 29.21 per cent. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-cases-rising-fast-but-hospitalisation-and-deaths-low-says-arvind-kejriwal-1071045.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt to bring in law to regulate online gaming||Taking note of the rising incidents of children getting addicted to online games and taking extreme steps, Madhya Pradesh Minister Narottam Mishra has said that the state government will bring in an act to regulate gaming applications on mobile phones. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Mishra referred to the alleged suicide by an 11-year-old boy here while playing Free Fire game. “The Free Fire game that caused the tragic incident is a very serious issue. We will bring an act in Madhya Pradesh to regulate online gaming. The draft is almost ready for it. We will soon give it a concrete shape,” the state home minister said. According to the police, Suryansh Ojha allegedly committed suicide, while playing Free Fire game with his cousin in a room on the terrace of their house in Bhopal’s Shankracharya Nagar. When his cousin stepped out, Suryansh allegedly hanged himself using a rope used for setting up a punching bag in the room. The boy's family immediately rushed him to a hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival, it was stated. The post-mortem report has confirmed that the boy had died of hanging, an official said on Friday. Prima facie, it appears that the boy took the extreme step, because he was too involved in online games, he said. The boy was hyperactive and addicted to online gaming, additional deputy commissioner of police Ankit Jaiswal said. Suryansh had even stolen money from his home to pay for a gaming application and his parents scolded him for that, the official said. “The cause behind the extreme step is being ascertained. However, it looks like that it just happened while playing the online game or practicing some acts shown in it,” Jaiswal added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-to-bring-in-law-to-regulate-online-gaming-1071051.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi to get 50 e-buses in Feb, 300 by April: Kailash Gahlot||Fifty electric buses will be inducted into the DTC's fleet by the second week of February, and the target to admit 300 more is likely to be achieved by April, Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said on Friday. "The first prototype of the electric bus has already reached Delhi and will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday (January 17). Fifty e-buses will be inducted into DTC's fleet by the second week of February and the target to admit 300 e-buses is likely to be achieved till April," Gahlot said while inaugurating 100 new AC CNG buses in the presence of the Chief Minister at Rajghat on Friday afternoon. The buses will run on the rural route, Kejriwal said after the inauguration ceremony. Besides being disabled-friendly, these new low-floor CNG AC buses are fully compliant with BS-VI emission standards and are equipped with state-of-the-art facilities like a real-time passenger information system, CCTVs, panic buttons and GPS, among others, according to the Delhi government. "With the induction of these 100 buses, Delhi now has nearly 6,900 buses -- a figure that has never been obtained before," Kejriwal said, adding that during the 2010 CommonWealth Games, there were nearly 6,000 buses in the national capital. In November 2021, the Delhi Cabinet had approved the induction of 190 low-floor AC CNG buses under its cluster scheme. With the induction of these buses, (the) total number of cluster buses has reached 3,383 and the total bus fleet in natonal capital has reached an all-time high of 7,140. Under the cluster scheme, total 3,033 non-AC and AC buses have been operated by the state government. The Cabinet had also said that 300 electric buses will also be inducted into the DTC fleet by the start of 2022 -- a target which is yet to be completed. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-get-50-e-buses-in-feb-300-by-april-kailash-gahlot-1071061.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||UP health department not properly geared up for management of Covid-19 waste: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has said that the Uttar Pradesh health department and the state pollution control board (SPCB)are not properly geared up for management of biomedical waste of Covid-19 patients. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that there is only one vehicle for Covid-19 waste collection from 876 Health Care Facilities in five districts of the state -- Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Badaun, Pilibhit and Rampur. “Their monitoring mechanism is inadequate. The maintenance of record is not as per norms. The collection and treatment of Bio-medical waste is deficient. “There are no adequate safeguards for the workers involved in collection and treatment of the waste,” the bench said. Referring to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the NGT said there is need for improvement in coordination process of the SPCB with Urban Local Bodies/Municipalities and generators of bio-medical waste. “The deep burial pits used by the Facilities are also not adequate. Segregation of bio-medical waste from general waste and scientific treatment thereof needs to be improved,” the bench said in a recent order. Since there are huge gaps in compliance of environmental norms in handling and disposal of bio-medical waste, including Covid-19 waste, causing health hazard to the citizens, the NGT said emergent and effective measures are inevitable to remedy the situation. The tribunal formed two committees at state and district level for proper monitoring of the issue. “The State and District Level Monitoring Committees will be free to co-opt any other experts/ agency for its assistance. “The said Committees may also meet within two weeks in the first instance and thereafter the State Committee may once in a month and the District Committee once in a fortnight initially till the situation improves,” the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea seeking remedial action against non compliance of Bio-Medical Waste (BMW) Rules, 2016 and for handling and treatment and disposal of waste generated during treatment/ diagnosis/ quarantine of Covid-19 patients. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-health-department-not-properly-geared-up-for-management-of-covid-19-waste-ngt-1071062.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||More than 75% of those who died in current Covid-19 wave in Delhi were unvaccinated, says Satyender Jain||More than 75 per cent of those who succumbed to the novel coronavirus infection in the current wave in Delhi were unvaccinated, Health Minister Satyendra Jain said on Friday. He also said that the city is expected to record less than 25,000 coronavirus cases on Friday. Delhi had on Thursday reported 28,867 Covid-19 cases, the sharpest single-day spike since the pandemic began, and 31 deaths, while the positivity rate surged to 29.21 per cent, according to the health department data. Delhi's previous biggest daily jump of 28,395 cases was recorded on April 20 last year. According to official data, of the 97 people who died here due to Covid, between January 9 to January 12, 70 people were unvaccinated, while 19 had taken the first jab and eight were fully vaccinated. Besides seven were minors. "More than 75 per cent of the people who died due to coronavirus had not even taken a single dose of the vaccine. Ninety per cent of the people had severe comorbidities like cancer and kidney ailments. Even the seven patients below 18 years had chronic issues," Jain noted. He said one of the persons who died had allegedly attempted suicide and was hospitalised for it. "He tested positive and died three days later," said the minister. The minister added that more than 13,000 hospital beds are lying vacant in the city. "The hospitalisation rate has become stagnant and the daily admissions have reduced. It is a matter of great relief," he said. Out of 15,433 Covid beds in hospitals, 2,424 were occupied on Thursday, according to official data. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-than-75-of-those-who-died-in-current-covid-19-wave-in-delhi-were-unvaccinated-says-satyender-jain-1071071.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||1,74,000 students being mentored under Delhi government's 'Desh ka Mentor' programme||A total 1,74,000 students of Delhi government-run schools called mentees, are being mentored by 44,000 teachers under the state government's 'Desh ke Mentor' programme, Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday. "We had received a total of 2,20,000 applications from Delhi government students. Of these 1,74,000 are currently being mentored. Of the 44,000 mentors, nearly 500 of them are from IIT and IIM, 15,600 are either doing their graduation or PhD from a well-known education institute and 7,500 have completed their studies and are currently working at a good post," Sisodia said during a press conference on Friday afternoon. Launched in October 2021, the programme aims to provide voluntary mentors to students from class IX to XII. Those aged between 18 and 35 can sign up to become mentors through an app developed by the Delhi Technological University. "Those who volunteered to be mentors are made to undergo a psychometric test, their educational background is taken care of and they are trained accordingly, only after which they are assigned a mentee. We have also ensured that a male mentor is assigned to a male mentee and female mentor to a female mentee," Sisodia said. Under the programme, the mentor is required to give 10 minutes every week for a minimum period of two months, which can be extended up to four months. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/174000-students-being-mentored-under-delhi-governments-desh-ka-mentor-programme-1071082.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Political, religious groups criticise J&K administration's order on 'surya namaskar'||Various political and religious groups on Friday criticised the Jammu and Kashmir administration's order directing college heads in the union territory to organise large-scale 'surya namaskar' on the occasion of Makar Sankranti. The event was to be held online on Friday as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations and officials of the Higher Education department did not respond to queries about it. The Muttahida Majlis-e-Ulema (MMU), an amalgam of several religious organisations, took strong exception to the order and said the authorities were well aware that Jammu and Kashmir is Muslim-majority and like people from other religions, Muslims will not participate in religious practices of other religions. "To deliberately force them to do so by issuing directives is mischievous," it said. "The Muslims of J&K are respectful of all religions and believe in harmonious coexistence, but will never yield to any pressure, if and when there is any interference in matters related to their faith,” it said in a statement. "The recent open call to genocide of Muslims of India at a religious conference in Haridwar and the silence of the state in this regard is a shocking case of bigotedness and discrimination against Muslims, which has become the order of the day,” it alleged. The amalgam asked the administration to desist from issuing such orders in the future. Former chief ministers -- Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti -- and various political parties also criticised the order. "Why should Muslim students be forced to do anything, including yoga, to celebrate Makar Sankranti? Makar Sankranti is a festival & to celebrate it or not must be a personal choice. Would the BJP be happy if a similar order was issued to order non-Muslim students to celebrate Eid?" Abdullah, the National Conference vice president, wrote on Twitter. Mehbooba, who is also the PDP president, said the Centre's “misadventures” aim to collectively “humiliate” Kashmiris. “GOIs PR misadventures aim to demean & collectively humiliate Kashmiris. Forcing students & staff to perform surya namaskars by issuing orders despite their obvious discomfort with imposition of something laden with religious connotations gives an insight into their communal mindset,” Mehbooba said in a tweet. Peoples Conference (PC) president Sajad Gani Lone also criticised the directive, saying the administration was undoing what liberal Muslims had earned. In a series of tweets, Lone said the government will not succeed and the will of the people will eventually prevail. “Why is the govt so insensitive. Now comes the surya namaskar episode. I wish the govt of the day understands that along many bloody battles fought in Kashmir -- of immense importance was the war between liberal and radicals,” Lone wrote on Twitter. "And these were not verbose battles. The blood of the Kashmir liberal Muslim was spilled on the streets. The liberals fought to keep the secular liberal traditions of Kashmir alive.  They fought the violence. They fought the bullets. The liberals rendered sacrifices,” he said. Lone said with the 'surya namaskar' directive, the government was “emulating the radicals”. “We have seen the brute power of the radicals all through nineties. U will not succeed. The will of the people will eventually prevail,” he said. Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari also took strong exception to the order and said the educational institutions must be kept aloof from “political maneuvering” and emphasis should be laid on providing quality education to the students. “Celebrating festivals is an individual choice and the state has no right to interfere in it. However, this recent edict for observing Surya Namaskar in colleges across J-K is undoubtedly a dangerous enterprise that carries serious implications. The administration must stop communalising the academic atmosphere and should rather focus on the upgradation of these educational facilities,” he said. He asked the government to withdraw the controversial order and desist from issuing such arbitrary diktats in the future.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/political-religious-groups-criticise-jk-administrations-order-on-surya-namaskar-1071127.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Extreme weather claimed 1,750 lives in India in 2021||India saw 1,750 deaths due to extreme weather events in 2021, with Maharashtra being the worst-affected state with 350 fatalities, followed by Odisha and Madhya Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday. Thunderstorms and lightning reportedly claimed 787 lives in India last year, while 759 people died in heavy rainfall and flood-related incidents, it said.  Cyclonic storms claimed 172 lives and 32 others died due to other extreme weather events, according to the IMD's annual climate statement. Heavy rainfall and flood related-incidents claimed 215 lives in Maharashtra, 143 in Uttarakhand, 55 in Himachal Pradesh, 53 in Kerala and 46 in Andhra Pradesh, according to the report.  Thunderstorms and lightning claimed 213 lives in Odisha, 156 in Madhya Pradesh, 89 in Bihar, 76 in Maharashtra, 58 in West Bengal, 54 in Jharkhand, 49 in Uttar Pradesh and 48 in Rajasthan. The Met Department said 223 people died due to extreme weather events in Odisha, 191 in Madhya Pradesh, 147 in Uttarakhand, 102 in Bihar, 98 in Uttar Pradesh, 92 in Gujarat and 86 in West Bengal.     Sixty-seven died in Kerala, 62 in Rajasthan, 59 in Himachal Pradesh, 57 in Jharkhand, 50 in Andhra Pradesh, 45 in Karnataka, 34 in Tamil Nadu, 32 in Jammu and Kashmir, 25 in Telangana and 14 in Assam. Of the seven deaths recorded in Delhi due to extreme weather events, four occurred because of heavy rainfall and flooding, the IMD data showed.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/extreme-weather-claimed-1750-lives-in-india-in-2021-1071153.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi records 24,383 Covid-19 cases, 34 deaths||Delhi on Friday reported 24,383 Covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities while the positivity rate surged to 30.64 per cent, according to health department data. Though the number of new cases was less than that of Thursday, the positivity rate increased. On Thursday, Delhi had reported 28,867 Covid-19 cases, the sharpest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic, and 31 deaths, while the positivity rate stood at 29.21 per cent. Delhi's previous biggest daily jump of 28,395 cases was recorded on April 20 last year. According to the data, Friday's positivity rate is the highest since May 1, when it was 31.61 per cent. On Wednesday, Delhi had logged 40 deaths, the highest since June 10 last year, when 44 fatalities were recorded. According to the government data, 2,529 patients are in hospitals. As many as 815 patients are on oxygen support, including 99 who are on ventilator. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-24383-covid-19-cases-34-deaths-1071159.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||5-kg IED recovered near India-Pakistan border in Punjab||Just a month ahead of the Assembly polls in Punjab, a special task force (STF) of Punjab Police on Friday recovered a 5-kg improvised explosive device (IED) and Rs 1 lakh in cash near the India-Pakistan border. The seizure from the outskirts of Dhanoa village in Ajnala subdivision close to the Attari border was made on a tip-off about the smuggling of arms and ammunition from across the border. STF Assistant Inspector General Rashpal Singh told the media: "On a specific alert our teams started a search operation and found a suspected packet in fields." Initially, the packet seemed to be carrying a consignment of drugs. "Sensing explosives, a bomb disposal squad was summoned. The 5-kg IED along with Rs 1 lakh was found in the packet. A day earlier, Punjab Police recovered 2.5 kg RDX, one detonator, codex wire, five explosive fuses along with wires, 12 cartridges of AK 47 Assault Rifle. Director General of Police (DGP) V.K. Bhawra said the recovery of RDX was made on the interrogation of Amandeep Kumar, the prime accused in the two recent incidents of grenade attacks in Pathankot. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-kg-ied-recovered-near-india-pakistan-border-in-punjab-1071161.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||J&K temple fire: Kashmiri Pandits demand 'speedy justice', police deny foul play||As the news of a minor fire at an ancient temple in Kashmir broke out, Kashmiri Pandits lodged a protest alleging foul play and demanded the arrest of those who 'engineered' the act. The police on the other hand said its preliminary investigation suggested that it was an accidental fire that may have been caused by the burning diyas at the Mata Lalita Tripura Sundari temple in Devsar area of South Kashmir's Kulgam on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. "The minor fire incident in Mata Tripur Sundari (Devsar) temple is being investigated by Police. Pre Enquiry reveals #Fire happend accidentally by the DIYAs/ARTI being kept in Temple for daily routine.... No signs of Miscreant act. Public are requested not to pay heed to rumors (sic), Kulgam district police tweeted. Kulgam Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) G V Sundeep Chakravarthy and Deputy Commissioner Bilal Mohi-ud-din Bhat rushed to the temple to investigate.  The Kashmiri Pandits, however, alleged the police of a cover up. They questioned how the fire broke out at midnight in such extreme cold conditions and how the tree, considered to the seat of the deity, was burnt while curtains and threads offered by devotees were not. "It's not possible that diyas could cause such fire, that too, when no one enters the temple these days.....how can a diya cause fire at 1 am," Sunita Dhar, a resident of Devsar asked. "This is unacceptable and the local authorities rushing to conclusions without investigating is even more tormenting," former BJP lawmaker Surinder Ambardar said. Demanding an unbiased investigation, Vishwa Kashmiri Samaj convenor Kiran Watal said, "It is the duty of the Lieutenant Governor administration and police to protect centuries-old religious heritage temples and shrines in Kashmir." Functionaries of the Youth All India Kashmiri Samaj and global Kashmiri Pandits Diaspora, too, demanded a speedy investigation into the case. Locals said 'arti' is not performed at the temple off late as it remains closed. Police, for their part, said an Army team had cleaned and sanitized the temple in the midnight and the fire may have triggered during the cleanup. The Army, however, did not responded to queries. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-temple-fire-kashmiri-pandits-demand-speedy-justice-police-deny-foul-play-1071180.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||People perform 'Surya Namaskar' in parts of J&K; political, religious groups criticise govt move||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday said that people performed 'Surya Namaskar' exercise in some areas of the union territory under a government initiative, which drew criticism from several political and religious groups who termed it an interference in religious matters. An official spokesman said the Youth Services and Sports Office in Anantnag organised a large-scale virtual and physical performance of 'Surya Namaskar' by students and staff members on the occasion of Makar Sankranti. The exercise was performed at the district headquarters and some other areas of the district following Covid-19 guidelines, the spokesman said. The participants showed a lot of interest in the exercise as they all believe that such events improve physical fitness, particularly when they are in home isolation due to Covid restrictions, he claimed and added that the initiative was taken as part of the 'Azaadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav'. Various political and religious groups criticised the Jammu and Kashmir administration's order directing college heads in the union territory to organise the exercise on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, saying it was interference in religious affairs. The widespread criticism prompted Farooq Khan, the advisor to Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, to say that the participation in the event was not compulsory. "Those who want to do it can do it and those who don't want to do, are free not to do. Nowhere in the order it is mentioned that there will be repercussions if anybody refuses to do it. It is just a part of yoga, it is named namaskar which might have given rise to religious connotation to it. So there is no need to give a twist," Khan said. In a related development, a terror group, The Resistance Front, has issued threat to the officer who had signed the order. This terror group was responsible for killing of civilians, including minorities, late last year in Kashmir. The Muttahida Majlis-e-Ulema (MMU), an amalgam of several religious organisations, took strong exception to the order and said the authorities were well aware that Jammu and Kashmir is Muslim-majority and like people from other religions, Muslims will not participate in religious practices of other religions. "To deliberately force them to do so by issuing directives is mischievous," it said. "The Muslims of J&K are respectful of all religions and believe in harmonious coexistence, but will never yield to any pressure, if and when there is any interference in matters related to their faith," it said in a statement. "The recent open call to genocide of Muslims of India at a religious conference in Haridwar and the silence of the state in this regard is a shocking case of bigotedness and discrimination against Muslims, which has become the order of the day," it alleged. The amalgam asked the administration to desist from issuing such orders in the future. Former chief ministers -- Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti -- and various political parties also criticised the order. "Why should Muslim students be forced to do anything, including yoga, to celebrate Makar Sankranti? Makar Sankranti is a festival & to celebrate it or not must be a personal choice. Would the BJP be happy if a similar order was issued to order non-Muslim students to celebrate Eid?" Abdullah, the National Conference vice president, wrote on Twitter. Mehbooba, who is also the PDP president, said the Centre's "misadventures" aim to collectively "humiliate" Kashmiris. "GOIs PR misadventures aim to demean and collectively humiliate Kashmiris. Forcing students and staff to perform surya namaskars by issuing orders despite their obvious discomfort with imposition of something laden with religious connotations gives an insight into their communal mindset," Mehbooba said in a tweet. Peoples Conference (PC) president Sajad Gani Lone also criticised the directive, saying the administration was undoing what liberal Muslims had earned. In a series of tweets, Lone said the government will not succeed and the will of the people will eventually prevail. "Why is the govt so insensitive. Now comes the surya namaskar episode. I wish the govt of the day understands that along many bloody battles fought in Kashmir -- of immense importance was the war between liberal and radicals," Lone wrote on Twitter. "And these were not verbose battles. The blood of the Kashmir liberal Muslim was spilled on the streets. The liberals fought to keep the secular liberal traditions of Kashmir alive.  They fought the violence. They fought the bullets. The liberals rendered sacrifices," he said. Lone said with the 'surya namaskar' directive, the government was "emulating the radicals". "We have seen the brute power of the radicals all through nineties. U will not succeed. The will of the people will eventually prevail," he said. Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari also took strong exception to the order and said educational institutions must be kept aloof from "political maneuvering" and emphasis should be laid on providing quality education to students. "Celebrating festivals is an individual choice and the state has no right to interfere in it. However, this recent edict for observing Surya Namaskar in colleges across J&K is undoubtedly a dangerous enterprise that carries serious implications. "The administration must stop communalising the academic atmosphere and should rather focus on upgrading these educational facilities," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-perform-surya-namaskar-in-parts-of-jk-political-religious-groups-criticise-govt-move-1071196.html
14-01-2022||North and Central||Manjhi criticises Yogi for eating food at house of Dalit family||The Bharatiya Janata Party may be part of the government in Bihar but its alliance partners are not letting go of any issue to criticise its leaders and policies. On Friday, HAM leader Jitan Ram Manjhi slammed Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath after the latter uploaded a photograph on social media of eating food in the house of a Dalit family in Gorakhpur. Manjhi without taking the name of Yogi Adityanath, said people eating food in the house of a Dalit family are snatching our morsel of food. "When elections come, many leaders of different political parties will go to the houses of Dalits and tribal families to eat food. They are responsible for taking away the development share of Dalits and tribal people of the country," Manjhi said. Manjhi also attacked the BJP over comparing Samrat Ashoka with Aurangzeb. He said that the BJP leaders reckoned that Samrat Ashoka belonged to the backward class community and that is why they are humiliating a great ruler just because of his caste. Manjhi announced to hold demonstrations at Jantar Mantar in Delhi from January 17. Jitan Ram Manjhi is a leader who claims that the Ramayan is not based on the truth. It is an imaginary book. The character of Lord Rama is also imaginary, he says. Manjhi is president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha in Bihar having 4 seats in the assembly and trying to play the role of a kingmaker in the state.This comes ahead of the spate of resignations that began with Swami Prasad Maurya, a prominent leader from the OBC community, quitting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manjhi-criticises-yogi-for-eating-food-at-house-of-dalit-family-1071241.html
14-01-2022||Oasis||Being alert about a Trojan horse||In Virgil’s Aeneid, the legendary Trojan hero Aeneas narrates the story of the fall of Troy. For ten years the Greeks had besieged Troy, unable to penetrate its battlements. Eventually, they adopted a cunning stratagem. A few select warriors hid inside a hollow wooden horse while the rest of the army sailed away. The huge horse statue was left outside the city. The Trojans, believing that the decade-long crisis was past, joyfully admitted the horse within their walls. At night, the concealed soldiers emerged and opened the gates to their compatriots who had stealthily returned. The Trojans were slaughtered and their glorious kingdom was destroyed. From this episode in Virgil’s epic, we get the idiom ‘Trojan horse’, which refers to something that appears harmless but is actually hostile and hazardous. So it is with Covid. We may not be faced with armed invasion, but Covid in its different forms continues to pose a threat. It is no less an enemy than nations have often been to one another through the centuries. Many have conveniently consigned Covid to the backburner but, as in the case of the Greeks, it only seems to have departed. Since it is not loudly proclaiming its presence, we (like the Trojans who were fooled by deceit) are lulled into a false sense of security.  Covid was terrible earlier, when it carried off people in large numbers, and things could get bad again. At the onset of the pandemic, and for months thereafter, Covid was so obviously in evidence that we fought it vigorously, using the various means at our disposal. Now, we see a general lack of vigilance. People go around unmasked, labouring under the delusion that vaccination makes them invincible. Besides, there is the mistaken notion that the booster will defeat Covid once for all. Let us remember that Covid, a Trojan horse, remains a deadly danger. In 2022, it is important for us to be acutely alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/being-alert-about-a-trojan-horse-1071090.html
14-01-2022||Opinion||Manipur elections 2022: The advantage of 'double engine'||Manipur faces a complex election this year where the Congress has to strive hard to remain significant. No one is asking who will win. Most say the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has the advantage since it is in power in the state and the Centre.  The more pertinent question is how much the BJP can limit the anti-incumbency votes against its government, which it had formed for the first time in the state in 2017. In northeastern states, like Manipur, the electorate usually votes for the party in the Assembly polls that is in power at the Centre. Ticket seekers have started knocking on the doors of party bosses. A BJP ticket is on top of the wish list. The second is the National People's Party (NPP), a BJP ally in Meghalaya, with the Congress the third choice. "The Congress has to work harder," concedes a Congress leader. The Congress ruled the state for a long time, but party loyalties are weak in Manipur, and it's common for leaders and legislators to switch political allegiance and affiliation.  In the 2017 Assembly polls, the Congress won as many as 28 seats in the 60-member legislature. However, it failed to form the government due to the machinations of the BJP, which could win only 21 seats. The NPP and Naga People's Front (NPF) backed the BJP to form the government. Now in 2022, the BJP is comfortable with 30 seats in the current assembly and the Congress strength is reduced to 20 from 28 MLAs. The Congress stands marginalised in some of the other northeastern states too. The Congress has been out of power for two decades in neighbouring Nagaland. It is the principal opposition force, but it could not field candidates in all the 60 segments in the 2018 Assembly polls in that state. In Meghalaya, Garo leader Mukul Sangma and his fellow travellers recently quit the Congress to join the Trinamool Congress. In Assam, the Congress is still a force but failed to stop the BJP from returning to power in the 2021 Assembly polls. In Tripura, the Congress is now a 'zero MLA' party. But in Manipur, the Congress continues to have hope under the leadership of former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh, who remains popular and can put up a strong fight against the ruling BJP. He was the chief minister from 2002 to 2017, winning three successive elections. But some think that at 73, he is past his prime. Apart from the fact that voters in Manipur prefer a party ruling at the Centre, N Biren Singh, the current chief minister of the state, a former Congressman who joined the BJP in 2016, has earned the reputation of being accessible. The Meitei factor The 'Meitei interest' will play a pivotal role in Manipur polls. In October 2019, Biren Singh had approached Union Home Minister Amit Shah and convinced him to 'delay' the final announcement on the Naga Peace Agreement. The Nationalist Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah), or NSCN (IM), with its organisational presence among the Tangkhul Nagas tribe, has pockets of influence in Manipur. Hence, the Meitei leaders are often cautious about the Centre's 'give it all' approach towards that outfit. Talks are in the final stage, they say, since the last two years. But for Meiteis in Manipur, there can be no compromise on the state boundary. The BJP central leadership ostensibly has agreed to be with Meiteis on this issue. In 2010, the then union home minister P Chidambaram had reportedly agreed to allow Naga rebel leader Thuingaleng Muivah to visit his native village, Somdal, in Manipur. Accordingly, Ibobi Singh was asked to handle the matter cautiously, specifically the 'Meitei sentiment' as the community views the Naga movement as a significant move to alter the state's geography.  In Delhi, Ibobi Singh agreed and said he would facilitate Muivah's visit. But back in Manipur, Ibobi Singh played the Meitei card to the hilt and sabotaged Muivah's visit to his native village in the Ukhrul district, which of course, strengthened his grip on the state politics.  Probably some Congress leaders are yet to forget and forgive Ibobi Singh for this. Nevertheless, much depends for the Congress on the Ibobi Singh factor in the forthcoming polls. It remains to be seen whether the Congress high command will oblige him by giving tickets to Ibobi Singh's chosen leaders. The final working relations between Ibobi Singh and Jairam Ramesh, the Congress in-charge of Manipur elections, would settle things. Advantage N Biren Singh On the other hand, locals say Biren Singh and the BJP are ahead in their perception. "The prime minister's concept of "double engine government" may not appeal to all in Manipur. But to be in power both in Imphal and in New Delhi gives enough mechanism to garner votes to the BJP. It also used to be the Congress party's advantage. Now that pattern is definitely at play, and it will help our party," says SK Sema, a BJP leader from Manipur's Naga areas.  In the chief minister's constituency, Heingang, a 50-year old woman says, "The BJP's move to appoint a woman state unit president in Sharda Devi would be another advantage in its favour". Of course, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's charisma will also play.  While rival parties will have to remain content with local candidates and low profile campaigners, the BJP has on its hands a problem of plenty and possible dissent after the final ticket distribution. The BJP won 21 seats in 2017 but has set a target of 40 in this election and will be fielding candidates in all 60 seats, which has strained its ties with the NPP of Conrad Sangma, the chief minister of Meghalaya. Another regional party, the NPF, draws strength among the Naga population in the hilly region of the state and had won four seats five years back. It is now eyeing at least 8 to 10. Manipur' politics has another peculiarity. Local MLAs' performance and who rules Delhi are election issues. Still, when voters queue up to press the button on the election day, contentious issues, like the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA), seldom become a game-changer.  (Nirendra Dev is a journalist based in New Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/manipur-elections-2022-the-advantage-of-double-engine-1071070.html
14-01-2022||Opinion||Joint and bone health in young athletes||Sports activities provide many health benefits to young athletes. However, a subset of athletes may suffer from unrecognised low bone density and impaired skeletal health, predisposing them to an increased risk of fracture. To add to this, delayed diagnosis and inappropriate treatment of low bone density among young athletes may have severe consequences in future longevity in sport as well as long-term bone health. Therefore, athletes need to pay more attention to their bone health, in the short term, to reduce the risk of injury, and in the long term when they have retired from the sport. Bone health and athletes Bone health relates to two main factors, with the primary factor in the minds of athletes and/or coaches being the avoidance of a bone injury, largely because this is the immediate danger to performance outcomes. Stress fractures are the most common bone injuries suffered by athletes, occurring relatively regularly in many sports, especially in terms of high-volume high-intensity training that increases the risk of developing a stress fracture.  In addition to the risk of injury, there is, at least for some sports, a longer-term risk to bone health and the avoidance of Osteopenia and Osteoporosis becomes necessary, particularly when the bone mass is already recorded as being low in some athletes during early adulthood. This is particularly pertinent given that around 90% of peak bone mass is attained during the athlete’s early 20s. In fact, the amount of bone mass attained by the time an athlete is 30yrs of age is about the highest they will have across the lifespan. Having said that, it is not only bone mass that is important but also the strength of the bone, including its geometry and microarchitectural structure. The consequences of poor bone health in later life are significant. Osteoporosis which is characterised by low bone mass accompanied by the slow deterioration of bone tissues leads to enhanced bone fragility and thus increases a person’s susceptibility to fractures. In India, around 50 million people are estimated to be either osteoporotic with less than T-score 2.5 or have a low bone mass with T-Score ranging between 1 to 2.5.This makes bone health the most important aspect for athletes. Maintaining bone health Exercise benefits bone health at every age and is a critical factor in Osteoporosis prevention and treatment. Vitamin D, Calcium, and hormones play vital roles in ensuring optimal bone health. When there is an imbalance between exercise and nutrition, bone health is compromised and can lead to bone stress injuries and early Osteoporosis. Both can lead to morbidity and lost time from training and competition. Thus, early recognition and appropriate treatment of the ‘female athlete triad’ and other stress fracture risk factors are vital to preventing long-term bone health problems. To optimise bone health, adequate nutrition, appropriate weight-bearing exercise, strength training, adequate Calcium and Vitamin D are necessary throughout life. Most importantly, athletes must properly protect their joints by wearing the right equipment and exercising in a way that promotes joint health. They should also care for their joints by maintaining a healthy weight, eating a healthy diet, taking time for recovery, and consulting a physical therapist. By choosing joint-healthy activities and working to maintain a healthy lifestyle, they can maintain better bone health||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/joint-and-bone-health-in-young-athletes-1071083.html
14-01-2022||Opinion||Winning elections its priority||The year 2021 was certainly not a happy one for the Narendra Modi government. The first half of the year saw the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic leading to a heavy caseload and deaths. The government, obsessed as it was with the West Bengal assembly election, the result of which was a big disappointment to the Modi-Amit Shah duo, ignored the forecasts of the health experts about the imploding second wave. The government’s unpreparedness to deal with the pandemic manifested itself in the shortage of vaccines, hospital beds, oxygen supplies etc. It was only by the middle of 2021, pressured by the Opposition and media criticism, that the government initiated corrective measures. By the end of November, it managed to give the first dose of vaccine to about 100 crore people. Its latest claim is that 150 crore people have received the first dose. Thanks to the belated initiatives, the health infrastructure seems to have improved to some extent. The pandemic is far from being over thanks to the outbreak of the Omicron variant in the country. The third wave which has hit in a big way is predicted to peak by next month. With the virus known to be mutating in different forms, it is realistic to assume that the pandemic will remain one of the major challenges to the Modi regime in 2022. The government will have to gear itself to give the second dose of vaccination to the needy, vaccinate children below 15 years as children too have been the victims of the ongoing third wave, besides ensuring booster dose to citizens needing it on a priority basis. The government will have to make the requisite financial allocation in the Union Budget 2022-23.  Managing the economy will be the second most critical challenge. No doubt, the economy has improved after the devastating second wave. But the recovery has been, as many experts have pointed out, marginal. The GDP growth rate seems to have reached the pre-pandemic level, implying thereby that there has been no real growth since early 2020, compared to the average 6% growth per year before the pandemic and the UPA era. The projected GDP of 9.2% is lower than the RBI figure which stands at 9.5%. The tourism and hotel industries are likely to be hit again. With our global overall export figures remaining low (at around 1.8%), the recovery rate will also be slow. The International Monetary Fund has reduced its forecast to 8.5% for 2022.  Bringing down retail inflation, which stood as per official sources at 4.48% in October 2021, to give relief to the poor and middle-income groups will be an essential task to be performed by the government. The RBI itself has projected the retail inflation for April-June 2022-23 to be at 5.2%. Major challenge  Handling unemployment is going to be another major challenge to the Modi government. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) figures dated December 6, 2021, though the unemployment rate declined from 7.8% in October 2021 to 7% in November of the year, the actual employment rate rose marginally from 37.28% to 37.34% by November. A poor show compared to the one crore jobs per year promised by Modi seven years ago.  Internal security is another serious challenge. The killing of 14 innocent civilians by soldiers in Nagaland recently led to widespread anger and public protests. The Nagaland Assembly passed a resolution for the repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA). But sadly, the Modi government has extended it by six months. The AFSPA gives sweeping powers to the soldiers to arrest people without warrants and even shoot at them if need be. This sensitive humanitarian issue needs to be handled by the Union government empathetically. The State government has asked the Centre to seek its opinion before notifying the state again as a “disturbed area”.  Additionally, the worsening security situation in the Kashmir Valley resulting in the killing of civilians and the dissatisfaction among the local leaders about the politically motivated delimitation of constituencies being carried out, require careful handling by involving the mainstream leaders of J&K while adhering to the dialogue process to arrive at consensus-based solutions.  In the field of foreign policy, the Modi government will be up against the military-strategic hegemony of China. As admitted by the foreign minister himself in several forums, managing the asymmetrical relationship with China, its intransigence on the border issue and its hegemonic ambitions for the region is a challenge before Modi. It remains to be seen how useful our involvement with the US-driven QUAD is going to be. The practice of strategic autonomy in managing India’s bilateral relations with China, Russia and Iran, rather than getting entangled in US-initiated moves in the Asia-Pacific and the Middle East, should be a critical component of Indian diplomacy. Also, dealing with Pakistan and the Taliban regime in Afghanistan calls for an imaginative approach.  While the issues mentioned above point to the need for sustained attention by the government, it looks like Modi and his ministerial colleagues will spend the better part of their time and energy during the year campaigning for the assembly elections scheduled in UP, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa in February-March 2022, in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh in December 2022 and the biennial elections to 75 Rajya Sabha seats due in June-July. In all probability, governance will take a back seat in the race for retaining and capturing political power. (The writer is former Professor of Political Science, Bangalore University and former Senior Fellow, ICSSR,New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/winning-elections-its-priority-1071091.html
14-01-2022||Panorama||To boost carbon footprint, focus on dryzone afforestation||At the Conference of the Parties (CoP-26) meeting in Glasgow, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the decision to cut one gigatonne of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent annually from now till 2030 from our projected greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. By 2030, half of our power requirement is also announced to be met from renewable sources. The GHG emission is nearly 3 gigatonnes (GT) of CO2 equivalent annually and it would be almost impossible to reduce it to two-third at least in the initial few years when we are adding coal-fired power plants to meet our energy requirement.  When all the emerging economies are facing the challenge of recovery after the pandemic, the demands for coal in power plants have gone up. Many plants across the globe faced a shortage of coal on account of soaring prices owing to several disruptions in supply. Incessant rains during October and November, last year in coal-bearing areas was one reason for a low generation. Coal power plants are projected to expand at least till 2030 when we peak our GHG emission and thereafter we steadily cut to become net-zero by 2070. We need to increase our storage of CO2. In addition to protecting our natural and plantation tree covers, we must grow more trees and make all our barren areas green. Based on our commitment in Paris climate accord in 2015, we are to grow trees on 26 million hectares of degraded land by 2030, which will have the potential to sequester 2.5 to 3 GT of CO2 equivalent. The PM has also been repeating this commitment on many national and international forums, yet the programme has not received the necessary impetus. The existing forest in the country has a growing stock of 80 million cubic metres, which has sequestered 7 GT of CO2 equivalent. We hold on to this by preventing encroachments and forest fires. Growing trees over 26 million ha degraded lands, our total carbon storage would be 10 GT of CO2 equivalent. Successive biannual reports of the Forest Survey of India indicate that tree cover in notified forests is decreasing, while it is increasing on private lands. In other words, agroforestry and farm forestry have been picking up quite well. We have not signed the pact on the sidelines of the Glasgow summit along with countries owning 85% of forests on the globe to end deforestation by 2030. It becomes quite critical when our own assessment suggests that we are consistently losing notified forests. In other words, the carbon sequestration potential of our natural forests goes on decreasing. Who knows, by 2030, it may come down from 7 to 6.5 GT. The state forest departments across the country focus on managing notified forests only by identifying degraded patches and growing trees there. The departments must aggressively move out of forests to grow trees on wastelands held by communities and revenue departments to supplement the efforts of private landholders who are already growing trees successfully. Growing trees Taking examples from Karnataka, the investments on growing trees in notified forest areas especially in the Western Ghats region are disproportionately more than investments in dry zone afforestation. Every head of the department allots substantial money for afforestation in Uttar Kannada district and the barest minimum for similar work in the Vijayapura district. The success and the rate of growth of plantations in the Malnad region are more than that in dry areas is generally the argument for justification. Uttar Kannada is a heavily forested district where forests in the past were subjected for timber extraction followed by planting the areas with the monoculture of teak and Acacia auriculiformis. The diversion of forests for development projects and anthropogenic pressures like illicit felling of trees, livestock grazing, encroachments, forest fires etc have caused fragmentation and degradation of natural forests. The present trend in the district is to plant up tree species in the gaps. Planting in narrow gaps is meaningless; the trees would not put up any growth. There is a limit to the amount of biomass any land can produce, so planting more trees beyond the capacity of the land should be avoided. It would also not add to the carbon sequestration potential of the forests.  As against this, although the rate of growth of trees in completely barren and dry areas may be several times slower, its greening would offer greater carbon sequestration potential. I had an occasion to visit Vijayapura recently, where Deputy Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry) Sareena Sikkaligar has raised a number of plantations of native species like neem, ficus, bauhinia etc on roadsides, community lands and revenue wastelands. The district has quite an insignificant extent of notified forests and P K M Prashanth who recently joined as territorial Deputy Conservator of Forests, Vijayapura is also engaged in growing trees outside notified forests. Both forest divisions in Vijayapura have grown 3,600 ha of successful block plantations on revenue lands in the past three years besides many stretches of plantations along roads and canals. The Deputy Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer of Zilla Panchayat are reluctant to hand over the lands to the forest department on the plea that the same may be required later for developmental projects. If the areas are not handed over, forest laws would not apply and no culprit damaging the plantation can be brought to justice. The approach of district administration is incorrect as we face the threat of global warming and we must generate enough carbon storage potential. Likewise, there is a vast potential of growing trees in blocks as well as in strips along roads and canals in other non-Malnad districts as well, which can be properly focused on. We often sacrifice a large number of well-grown trees in road widening projects. The Divisional Forest Officer of Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh has stated that he lost more than 40,000 well-grown trees in the widening of two National Highways and Delhi-Dehradun Expressway through the district and that he received money from the National Highway Authority to plant up 10 times the trees sacrificed. Sadly, there is no land available for planting. Land for afforestation must be identified, sometimes in the adjoining districts, before cutting the trees. (The writer is former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/to-boost-carbon-footprint-focus-on-dryzone-afforestation-1071089.html
14-01-2022||Right in the Middle||A life-changing phone call||Thirty years ago, I could not console my ego when I failed an exam for a job in a major corporation. I didn't have social media to update my status with a quote on failure or destiny. Today there is a quote at our fingertips for any circumstance we face; sometimes used falsely, to justify the situation that hurt our emotions or ego. It could draw someone’s attention for us to vent out our feelings or no one would give a damn, but it is widely practised to get solace. I was passionately upgrading my skills and preparing for written exams, hoping to move out of a mediocre job that I got as a fresh graduate, and get a job in the corporate world in a breakthrough. I received a written communication via post calling for a written exam which lifted my spirits. I felt like I was on a road to the luxuries of money, home, wife, family and travels. I put in a lot of effort to prepare; consulted experts and spent long hours solving peculiar logical problems. I readied solutions to problems where I had to find the time taken to fill a tank when it simultaneously leaked and to find when two trains would meet when they travelled in opposite directions with different speeds. My confidence was sky-high. The exam seemed like a cakewalk; there was no possibility of me not passing that one. Or so I thought. We were all ushered into a hall where they were to call out the successful names selected for the subsequent rounds. Having the first letter of my name towards the end of the English alphabet, I am not new to being called at the end. I waited patiently, still with a smile on my face, anticipating easy transit to the next round and pitying those who were dejected that it was not their day. But alas! The list was over and there were no more names to be called out! The rest of the day was restless for me. Unable to digest my failure to pass the test, I decided to challenge my results. I made a phone call to the company’s HR and miraculously got connected to someone. They were kind enough to agree to check the results after I spoke about it and my desire to know what went wrong so I could improve. “Tell me your name again?” the person asked as he was checking the list. Upon giving my name the second time, the ensuing conversation was about an apology, concerning them missing out on calling my name and immediately fixing a time for subsequent successful rounds of interviews as a special case.  A single phone call made with optimism from a coin-operated PCO was indeed my life-changing event. It becomes easy to manage self-confidence once we know and accept our strengths and weaknesses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-life-changing-phone-call-1071084.html
14-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Notes on Ooty Club||One day, as the shades of night began to fall, I received a phone call. The gentleman at the other end was a recent Facebook acquaintance who happened to have a stint in the Nilgiris during our time there. Every sentence punctuated by sporadic guffaws, he recalled the UPASI events, evocative of nostalgia to us, but to him, more laughs!  Every memory he yanked, be it a fun episode or austere, followed by with thumping laughter, accompanied by an “I have actually not had my sun-downer yet!” His edifying posts on Facebook, nature-oriented or activistic in nature on current issues, left me stupefied as to whether this truly was the man! As he remembered Baacha, the bar-tender at the Ooty Club, or rather Khiccha as my spouse called him, the lines mercifully blanked out to monsoon squall and bluster, leaving the gentleman to his sundowners and me to my reveries of the place. Ootacamund Club has the archives filled with black and white photographs stamping the patent of immortality on the lives and loves during British Raj, the passion for sport et al in its stark reality. On the walls, musty relics of Ooty’s sport-loving past blazoned on mounted trophies; archival snippets of hunts mentioning “Noisy” who consumed almost half a bottle of beer and could not be roused for the evening feed, Major Bob Jago’s “mighty bellow” which sent every Sambar and pig scuttling out of the coverts; hounds with names like Speedy, Pardon, Stormy, Pilgrim and Daffodil; the sad end of Guardian which vanished over a waterfall and Bonny, the able hound ending up chewed by a panther! There is also a mention of Captain Ricardo of the 14th Hussars who arrived for his honeymoon in 1879, his luggage of things for himself and his bride consisting of 18 pairs of riding boots. This historic club which exudes an air of exclusiveness and resuscitates a bygone era served as an eclectic hotel before becoming the residence of Sir William Bentinck. Macaulay stayed here, between June and September when the monsoon got on his nerves, and he missed the intellectual palaver of his friends back home. Nature did not fascinate Macaulay as much as the dry bones of history did. However, he made local tradition proud by drafting from here, the notes of what eventually shaped into the Indian Penal Code. Sir Richard Burton, the writer who recorded his globe-trotting experiences admirably, summed it up this way! “The gay and gallant bachelors of Ootacamund entertained all the beauty and fashion of the station in the magnificent ballroom of the Club. The scene was a perfect galaxy of light and loveliness.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/notes-on-ooty-club-1071254.html
14-01-2022||Second Edit||Outdated medicine? For BBMP, it’s fine||It is shocking that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is issuing outdated medicines in kits being supplied to Covid-infected patients under home isolation. While this indicates that the authorities have learnt nothing from the bitter experience of the first two waves, they seem to be woefully unprepared to handle the third even as the cases are surging across the state, particularly in Bengaluru. The kit issued by the BBMP has a bottle of sanitiser, a triple-layer mask, Vitamin C, Zinc, paracetamol, Ivermectin and Doxycycline tablets. Based on the recommendation of Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), the Union Health Ministry had revised the guidelines for treating Covid patients, dropping Ivermectin and Doxycycline from the protocol. The government had retained only antipyretic drugs for fever and antitussive for cold symptoms, while discouraging medical practitioners from prescribing unnecessary tests such as CT scan. While in some districts, doctors continue to prescribe these medicines in the absence of proper guidance and support from the state government, BBMP is distributing leftover kits from the second wave, during which time Ivermectin and Doxycycline were part of the recommended drugs. BBMP’s Chief Health Officer A S Balasundar acknowledges that outdated kits were distributed among patients and assures that appropriate instructions will be issued to zonal officials.  Instead, he should have identified those responsible for the lapse and initiated action against them.  Unfortunately, such callousness and lackadaisical attitude have come to be accepted as the norm in the civic body where accountability is virtually unknown.  These are issues over which the Covid Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) should exercise regular oversight to ensure that strict protocols are maintained in the treatment of patients. Instead of monitoring the situation at the ground level and tying up all loose ends to ensure that the situation does not go out of control, the TAC appears to believe that the solution lies in imposing night curfews and weekend lockdowns, which WHO’s Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan says have no scientific basis. While at this point in time, both the severity of the disease and hospitalisation rate are low, Karnataka has also made good progress in vaccinating a large number of the target population. But the state cannot remain complacent.  Curfews only give a false sense of security and the government should, as the WHO says, adopt evidence-based methods to strike a balance between controlling transmission and reducing the impact on the people while at the same time keeping economies open.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/outdated-medicine-for-bbmp-it-s-fine-1071085.html
14-01-2022||Second Edit||Take a realistic view of economy||The National Statistical Office’s advance estimate for the current year gives a positive picture of the economy, though it also contains data and assumptions that should cause concern. It says the economy is set to grow at 9.2% in 2021-22. The economy made a big jump of about 14% in the first half of the year. The overall growth for the year would be moderated to 9.2% because growth in the second half would be about 5.6%. This is slightly less than the RBI’s projection of 9.5%, but India will still be among the fastest growing major economies of the world. This will also take the economy back to a cut above the pre-pandemic level. There are some positive takeaways. One is the more than expected growth in tax collections. Tax collections may be up by about 16.2%, and the nominal growth rate is projected to be about 17.6%. The farm sector, which has done well through the pandemic period, is expected to register a robust 3.9% growth. Manufacturing is expected to register double-digit growth. Fixed investment is likely to be about 2.5% more than the pre-pandemic level. There are other performances also that stand out. But all this still do not mean that the economy is now better placed than in 2019-20.  While these are good auguries, there are several areas of concern. The growth has been uneven, with some important sectors lagging way behind others. The trade, transport and communications segment has not touched the levels it had two years ago. These and related sectors shrank in the past many months and the recovery is very slow. Consumer spending is the main driver of the economy but it is expected to grow only 6.9% this year, 2.9% less than in 2019-20. The biggest concern is over the impact of the Omicron wave on the economy. The NSO’s assumption that economic activity in the second half would be better than in the first half is unlikely to be correct. Though the new wave may not lead to lockdowns and closures it is likely to cause disruptions in economic activity. States have started imposing curfews and other restrictions and these will affect the recovery which is still fragile. Yet another matter of concern is the NSO’s expectation of inflation at 8.64%. The advance estimates are important because they provide the base data for the government in its budget process. But the government should factor in the negatives and uncertainties also when it formulates policies and proposals for the next fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/take-a-realistic-view-of-economy-1071252.html
14-01-2022||South||We will continue the fight against Franco Mulakkal until death, say nuns||The nuns fighting for the nun who raised rape allegation against Jalandhar Bishop Franco Mulakkal said that they would continue their fight for justice until death. "The verdict was unbelievable. We will not give up the fight for justice for our fellow nun until our death," said Sister Anupama representing four nuns who had staged a stir in front of the Kerala High Court in 2018 demanding action on the complaint filed by the nun of a convent in Kottayam district of Kerala. The stir by the nuns had received support from various quarters, following which the police had registered a case against Mulakkal and initiated further actions. Another nun Lucy Kalappurakkal of the Mananthavady diocese who supported the stir also faced punitive measures from the church. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/we-will-continue-the-fight-against-franco-mulakkal-until-death-say-nuns-1071047.html
14-01-2022||South||Jallikattu turns the spotlight on Madurai||Bulls aggressively stormed into the arena at Avaniyapuram here on Friday, signalling the commencement of the Jallikattu competitions during the Pongal (harvest) festival in the district. As the bulls rushed from the 'vaadivasal' (entry point), a number of youth swarmed around them hoping to clasp their arms around the animal's hump and ride to victory in the bull-taming competition. Many participants made unsuccessful attempts to get a firm grip of the hump but the bulls shrugged them off and darted forward. Few men pounced from the side of the animal and clung to the bull's hump till the finishing point. This district would witness this traditional sport at Palamedu on Saturday and culminate with the grand finale at Alanganallur on January 17. The event at Alanganallur, a world famous one, is being held on Monday instead of January 16 as a lockdown has been imposed in view of the rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Though the events are held in other parts of Tamil Nadu, the three successive Jallikattu events in the district are major attractions every year. The event at Avaniyapuram commenced at around 7.30 AM on Friday and would see about 700 bulls take part by evening. Nearly 300 bull tamers are participating in the event being held with stringent Covid-19 safety precautions and a strong security arrangement by the police. The number of spectators was restricted to 150 owing to the coronavirus pandemic. At the end of the second round about 14 tamers sustained minor injuries, said police. A medical team present at the venue attended to them. Earlier, a medical team from the Animal Husbandry department examined the bulls to ascertain if they are fit to participate in the event. Several sponsors offered attractive prizes including gold coins, mixer, grinder and cooking vessels to encourage the participants. Commercial Taxes Minister P Moorthy and Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan, flagged off the Jallikattu in the presence of Madurai district collector S Aneesh Sekhar. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jallikattu-turns-the-spotlight-on-madurai-1071068.html
14-01-2022||South||8 arrested for TDP leader Thota Chandraiah's murder in Andhra Pradesh||Police in Andhra Pradesh's Guntur district have arrested eight persons in connection with the murder of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Thota Chandraiah. Guntur district Superintendent of Police Vishal Guni announced the arrests of the accused on Friday. The TDP leader was riding a two-wheeler when he was waylaid by the assailants, who attacked him with knives, sticks and stones. The incident between 7 am and 7.30 am and the TDP leader died on the spot. The SP said a case was registered on a complaint lodged by the victim's son. Police had gathered clues from the spot and formed four teams to track down the culprits. Within 24 hours of the incident, police arrested eight accused. According to SP, the main accused is Chinta Shivaramaia. The other accused are E Kotaiah, S Raghurama Rao, S Ramakoteswara Rao, Chinta Srinivas Rao, Thota Anjaneyulu, Thota Shivanarayana and Chinta Adinarayana. The main accused is a mandal level public representative and reportedly belongs to the ruling YSR Congress Party. According to police, there was a dispute between Shivaramaiah and Chandraiah over laying of cement road. The investigations also revealed that before Thursday's incident, Shivaramaiah had gone to a function where some villagers told him that Chandraiah was hatching a plot to murder him. Shivaramaiah took help of seven others and murdered Chandraiah before the latter could execute his alleged plan. According to police, all the accused belong to the same caste. The murder had triggered tension in the village on Thursday. TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had visited the village and participated in the slain leader's funeral. Naidu had called it a political murder. He alleged that under the anarchic rule of YSRCP several TDP functionaries lost their lives. He said YSRCP was resorting to killing the TDP leaders and workers who were raising their voice against the misrule. He said in the Palnadu region of Guntur district alone tens of TDP leaders and workers were killed. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/8-arrested-for-tdp-leader-thota-chandraiahs-murder-in-andhra-pradesh-1071092.html
14-01-2022||South||Mulakkal verdict: Supporters of survivor express shock; 'Praise the Lord', says Bishop||A group of nuns of Kuravilangad Convent here, who have been standing with the survivor in her fight, were on the verge of tears when they said they were yet to believe such a verdict came out from the court and they did not know what has happened. In a broken voice, she also said the verdict gives them a message that ordinary mortals like them should never break their silence against any injustice and fight a case whatever happened to them in the life. "Those who are wealthy and influential can do anything in this society. That is what we see around us now. We have never felt anything strange till the time of argument of the case. We believe it was sabotaged after that," she said. When asked whether they would be safe in the convent and they expect any ill-treatment from the church authorities in the wake of the verdict, she said they had never been safe there and they could not reveal many things happening inside the institution. Sister Anupama also made it clear that they were even ready to die to get justice for the survivor. Meanwhile, a visibly relieved and emotional Mulakkal, who arrived in the court to hear the verdict, burst into tears, hugged his followers and lawyers, sharing his joy over the verdict. "Only the trees that bear fruits are stoned. I am just proud of that. Praise the Lord," an elated bishop told reporters outside the court. When asked what he has to say to his followers and faithful, the priest urged them to praise the lord and be happy. Some of his followers were even seen crying out of joy knowing the acquittal of the bishop. Investigators, lawyers and social activists who stood with the nun in her fight against Mulakkal expressed shock over the verdict, saying it was totally unexpected. Terming the verdict as "very very unfortunate" and "unnatural'', senior IPS officer S Harishankar, who had led the special investigation team in the rape case, said 100 per cent conviction was expected in the case and the verdict would be an "astonishment" for the entire legal system of the country. In the case, the survivor was a nun and the assailant was a person who was powerful enough to decide whether she should continue to live or die. "The argument that the woman should have reacted at the time of molestation is unacceptable. An appeal will be filed in the higher court challenging this verdict. The state police chief already gave instructions in this regard and an appeal will be filed as soon as we get a copy of the verdict," he told reporters. Even the Supreme Court made it clear multiple times that the victim's statement, if it is consistent and not having massive contradictions, is a satisfactory piece of evidence for conviction, he said, adding that it would give a wrong message to society and those suffering similar assaults silently. Public prosecutor, Jithesh J Babu, said it was a single-line judgment and could avail the details only after getting the copy of the verdict. "We do not know what has happened. Thirty-nine witnesses have given their statements supporting the prosecution. No one has turned hostile. As many as 122 documents had been submitted and there was ample evidence. There was no lapse in anything," he said. He also said the verdict would be challenged in the higher court and the decision would be taken after consulting with the government and the investigators. Activist-nun Sister Lucy Kalappura, who took part in the survivor's fight for justice and was expelled from her congregation recently, said the verdict was regrettable and expressed hope that justice would be prevail at any cost in the higher court. In a brief Malayalam statement issued soon after the verdict, the Jalandhar diocese thanked those who believed in the innocence of the Bishop till date and provided him with the necessary legal assistance. "The prosecution has failed miserably in proving the charges against the Bishop", said a lawyer in the Bishop's legal team. Mulakkal, 57, was accused of raping the nun multiple times during his visit to a convent in this district when he was the Bishop of the Jalandhar diocese of the Roman Catholic church. As the prosecution failed to produce evidence against the accused, the Additional District and Sessions Court I, Kottayam, acquitted the Bishop. The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district in June, 2018. In her complaint to the police, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by Franco between 2014 and 2016. The Special Investigation Team which probed the case, arrested the Bishop in September 2018 and charged him with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation. Trial in the case, started in November 2019, had concluded on January 10. The court had restrained the print and electronic media from publishing any matter relating to the trial in the case without its permission. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mulakkal-verdict-supporters-of-survivor-express-shock-praise-the-lord-says-bishop-1071093.html
14-01-2022||South||Kerala HC to hear anticipatory bail plea of Dileep on Tuesday||The Kerala High Court will on Tuesday hear the anticipatory bail plea of actor Dileep in the actress abduction case. The court deferred the case saying that it needs to study the details of the fresh revelations against the actor. The state informed the court that until then Dileep will not be arrested. On Thursday, the crime branch probing the case had raided the residences of the actor, his brother and a few others in the wake of the fresh disclosures made by Malayalam movie director Balachandra Kumar, a close friend of Dileep. Last week, the police had registered a fresh case under non-bailable clauses against Dileep, his brother Anoop, his brother-in-law Sooraj and other family members. Dileep had moved the court seeking anticipatory bail. Kumar, who recently fell out with Dileep, had told the police that the actor is in possession of a few clips of the female actor who was sexually assaulted and also pointed out that the actor had threatened to take his 'own' action against a few police officials who was probing the actress abduction case. The actor presented himself before the police probe team and gave his detailed statement and on Wednesday he testified the same before a local magistrate. Incidentally, the visuals which according to Kumar has been seen by Dileep, till now has only been seen by the trial court and hence the fresh revelation by Kumar has landed the actor in deep trouble. In his plea, Dileep said all the revelations are "baseless" and that he has done no wrong. Dileep was arrested in 2017 and lodged in a prison in a case related to a gang sexually assaulting a frontline heroine of South Indian movies and filming the scenes. After two months in jail, he was released on bail and the trial in the case is on when the fresh revelation has come. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-to-hear-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-dileep-on-tuesday-1071098.html
14-01-2022||South||NCW, women's right activists extend support to nun after rape case verdict||The National Commission for Women (NCW) as well as women activists came out in support of the nun who accused Bishop Franco Mulakkal of raping her, on a day he was acquitted.  NCW chief Rekha Sharma tweeted offering her support. “Shocked at the judgment of Kerala additional district and session court. The victim nun must go to the high court. NCW, India is with her in this fight for justice (sic),” Sharma tweeted. The nun from Kerala’s Missionaries of Jesus had accused Mulakkal of raping her 13 times in two years, between 2014 and 2016. Women’s rights activist and noted lawyer Vrinda Grover said that it took the nun a lot of courage to take on the whole system, and the price she has had to pay is high.  The accuser nun and those who have come in support of her were ostracised. Some nuns who sat on a protest outside Kerala High Court led to Mulakkal’s arrest in 2018, the first such arrest of a bishop in India.  “This is a case where repeated rape as per the complainant had been committed within the Church by a man senior to her institutionally; the case has to be understood in the context of the authority the accused yields. Religious systems like the church and convents ensure that a nun takes vows, and there is a regularised hierarchy. One would have hoped that these aspects were in the mind of the court,” said Grover. The nun had to lead a lonely battle, and she has not received any institutional support, Grover said. “In fact, the church has supported the accused. These are precisely the very factors that an accused relies upon to ensure that a woman never complains; they bank on the woman’s silence,” Grover said. While feminists and Christian women’s associations stood by the nun, the Church in 2021 printed a calendar showing Mulakkal as an ideal religious leader, leading to a lot of outrage. Women’s rights activist Ranjana Kumari, Director of Centre for Social Research as well as Chairperson of Women Power Connect, said that patriarchy comes in the way of investigations. “Cases are investigated and presented to court by the police, and given the patriarchal nature of our system, women are always considered to be on the wrong side. There are two reasons to silence her. First, to accept that these things happen; it is remarkable that she voiced out. Secondly, the system is simply not geared towards not delivering justice,” said Kumari. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ncw-womens-right-activists-extend-support-to-nun-after-rape-case-verdict-1071104.html
14-01-2022||South||God's verdict pronounced on Earth, says Bishop Franco Mulakkal||After being acquitted in a rape case, Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal, reacted that God's verdict was delivered on Earth. After hearing the verdict Mulakkal went to a retreat centre in Kottayam district and conducted a mass. Later he told reporters that his prayers as well as that of his supporters and others who believed in the truth became fruitful. Stones are thrown only at fruit bearing trees, he said and hence was happy about the allegations he faced. Mulakkal was present in the court room during the verdict announcement. He wept in happiness over the verdict and hugged his lawyers as he came out of the court room. 'Praise the lord' was his brief comment to the media at the court premises. His supporters distributed sweets near the court premises stating that they were certain that Mulakkal would be acquitted as he was innocent. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gods-verdict-pronounced-on-earth-says-bishop-franco-mulakkal-1071108.html
14-01-2022||South||72% of Andhra Pradesh households see adequate iodine intake: Survey||About 72 per cent households in Andhra Pradesh have adequate consumption of iodised salt, up from 64 per cent reported in 2019, a survey of state health and family welfare department and Nutrition International, an NGO, has found. Iodine is a micronutrient required in very small quantities in daily diet, for optimal mental and physical development. Iodised salt is the primary source of iodine. The survey, conducted from October 2020 to January 2021, indicated that the iodine nutrition status of school age children (6-12 years), taken as a proxy for the population, was adequate. 71.9 per cent of the households were consuming sufficient iodised salt or uppu as it is called in south India. The prevalence of goitre was found to be 1.8 per cent amongst the school-aged children, an indicator for long-term deficiency of iodine in diet. Goitre is a condition of neck swelling caused by thyroid gland enlargement due to iodine deficiency. “With 71.9 per cent coverage, Andhra Pradesh is close to winning the battle against iodine Deficiency Disorders. Districts like Vizianagaram, Kurnool and Chittoor have reported a high coverage of 82.4 per cent, 78.5 per cent and 78.1 per cent respectively. But universal salt iodisation requires integrated efforts across the state and one of the efforts should be iodisation of locally produced salt consumed in the crystal form,” said Ranjan Kumar Jha, Senior Program Officer – USI and Food Fortification, India, Nutrition International. “Goitre prevalence in the populations consuming crystal salt is 3.1 per cent against the state average of 1.8 per cent.” Of late, there is an increased consumer preference for “traditional salt” under the impression that it contains multiple micronutrients and trace minerals and is beneficial for people with high blood pressure and other heart ailments. This is pushing the sale of organic salt / rock salt / Himalayan salt which is mostly non-iodised and makes the population vulnerable to iodine deficiency disorders, the Canada-based nutrition organisation stated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/72-of-andhra-pradesh-households-see-adequate-iodine-intake-survey-1071170.html
14-01-2022||South||Sabarimala Makaravilakku festival celebrated despite Covid-19 surge||Amidst the worsening Covid situation, around 75,000 people thronged to the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala on Friday to witness the 'Makaravilakku'. The highlights of the the day were wearing of the 'Tiruvabharanam' (sacred ornaments) on the Ayyappa idol and Makaravilakku, a lamp lit on the forest areas at Ponnambalamedu on the mountains adjacent to the temple. Owing to Covid only 75,000 pilgrims were allowed and that too with either Covid vaccination certificate or RTPCR test reports. Usually more than one lakh pilgrims would turn up to witness the Makaravilakku. Last year only 5,000 pilgrims were allowed due to the pandemic. The 'Thiruvabharanam' was brought by a procession from Pandalam Palace, where Ayyappa was believed to have spent his childhood. It reached the temple by evening and the 'deeparadhana' performed after wearing the ornaments of the idol. The 'Makaravilakku' appeared trice by around 6.45 pm and the region was filled with Ayyappa chants by pilgrims. Police and state road transport corporation made elaborate arrangements for the return of pilgrims. The two month long pilgrimage that began in November will end by January 20.  However, owing to Covid surge those booked online for darshan from Monday were requested by government to postpone the darshan. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-makaravilakku-festival-celebrated-despite-covid-19-surge-1071189.html
14-01-2022||South||Offline classes suspended for class 1-9, Covid-19 restrictions intensified in Kerala||In view of the skyrocketing Covid-19 cases in Kerala, offline classes for classes 1-9 will be suspended for two weeks from January 21. Restrictions will be also imposed on the number of devotees at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple during the remaining days of the two-month-long pilgrimage. With 16,338 fresh Covid-19 cases being confirmed in the state on Friday, the daily test positivity rate further increased to 23.7 per cent from 20 per cent on Thursday. According to government sources, offline classes for class tenth to twelfth were not being suspended now as vaccination to children above the age of 15 was being provided through schools. School authorities were directed to shut schools for two weeks in case of Covid-19 cluster formation. Devotees who booked for Sabarimala temple darshan from January 16 would be advised to postpone the temple visit. No public functions will be allowed in districts with TPR above 30 per cent. Pregnant women at government offices would be given work from home option. All government offices and institutions were directed to conduct all functions online. No restrictions were imposed on the functioning of shops. But shops were directed to promote online sales. Malls should limit the maximum number of customers at a time to one person per 25 square feet. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/offline-classes-suspended-for-class-1-9-covid-19-restrictions-intensified-in-kerala-1071190.html
14-01-2022||State||Karnataka Milk Federation proposes Rs 3 hike on milk||The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has sought a Rs 3 hike per litre of milk in the state and appealed to CM Basavaraj Bommai to approve the fresh tariff. The General body meeting of the KMF, headed by KMF Chairperson Balachandra Jarkiholi, which was held in Bengaluru on Thursday unanimously approved the proposal to hike Rs 3 per litre of milk.  Acknowledging the decision Jarkiholi told media persons that the 'Nandini' milk-the flagship brand of KMF is the cheapest milk brand available in India. "We are selling a litre of Nandini milk at Rs 37 and all Milk unions of Karnataka have unanimously sought revision in the prices. As a federation, we will not benefit from the hike as Rs 3 will be paid to the farmers during the procurement of milk. We will soon meet CM Bommai and get approval for the revised tariff," Jarkiholi said.  The KMF Chairperson also said that the work at Nandini Mega Food park in Belagavi is in full swing and once operational the unit will boost the sale of Paneer and Cheese besides helping market other products of KMF. The General body also decided to market its flavoured milk products produced at Hassan Pet bottle plant. The plant alone produces about 5 lakh pet bottles on daily basis. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-milk-federation-proposes-rs-3-hike-on-milk-1071140.html
14-01-2022||State||Pvt Karnataka schools to move court over renewal of recognition||The private unaided schools have decided to approach the court questioning the norms framed by the state government for renewal of recognition for schools. The Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association Karnataka, at a meeting on Friday, has decided not to submit applications anymore to the department of public instruction seeking renewal of recognition, instead decided to go to the court. Even the Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka has written to the chief minister requesting to constitute an expert committee to frame guidelines for fire and building safety at schools. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pvt-karnataka-schools-to-move-court-over-renewal-of-recognition-1071208.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Toon | Congress suspends march amid Covid fears||According to leaders, the mood in the Congress camp is upbeat despite the abrupt end to the 11-day Mekedatu padayatra. The 4-day march was a success, the party says, as it put the government on the defensive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-toon-congress-suspends-march-amid-covid-fears-1070995.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt offers Sankranti gift to protesting guest faculties of Karnataka colleges||Making this Sankranti festival a memorable celebration for thousands of protesting guest faculties of various government degree colleges, the state government on Friday announced that it will consider their demands besides fixing a minimum honorarium. The guest faculties will henceforth be paid between Rs 32,000 and Rs 26,000 depending on the qualification as prescribed by the UGC. Higher education minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan announced this during a press conference in Bengaluru on Friday and said that the state government has decided to pay the guest faculties as per the recommendations of the Committee headed by Additional Chief Secretary Higher Education G Kumar Naik. The minister explained that the guest faculties who have UGC qualifications and five years and above service experience will get Rs 32,000 per month which is three times more than what they are currently paid. Similarly, those who have less than five years of experience along with UGC qualifications, will be paid Rs 30,000 per month.  Meanwhile, those with five years of experience but lack UGC qualifications will be paid Rs 28,000 and those who do not have UGC qualifications and also less than five years of qualification will be paid Rs 26,000, according to the minister.  It can be recalled that the guest faculties were on protest boycotting classes for the last one month and the majority of the colleges were dependent on guest faculties and academic activities were stalled. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-offers-sankranti-gift-to-protesting-guest-faculties-of-karnataka-colleges-1071131.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister Sunil Kumar tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar said Friday that he has tested positive for Covid-19.  “I have tested positive for Covid-19 today with mild symptoms,” Kumar, who is also the Kannada & Culture minister, said in a tweet. “I request everyone who has recently come in contact with me to isolate and get themselves tested.” Kumar is the latest among ministers who have tested positive for the coronavirus. Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar are recovering whereas Primary & Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh is back to work after having contracted the virus. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai himself is working from home after testing positive for Covid-19.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-sunil-kumar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1071157.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid cases doubled in 3 days in third wave, says health minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Friday said Covid cases have doubled in the state in three days during the third wave, much faster than the first two waves. Meanwhile, test positivity rate in Bengaluru has hit 20 per cent as cases rose to 18,374 on Friday, he said, citing the data shared by the Health Department. This is an increase of 18 per cent over Thursday's tally of 15,617. Bengaluru accounts for three-fourth of the state's total cases. The active cases stood at 90,893. As many as 90,041 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, the Minister stated. The number of Covid cases during the third wave jumped from 289 in December 27, 2021 to 707 by December 30, 2021. Within five days, the numbers rose to 2,479, in a gap of five days. As many as 5,031 cases were reported on January 6 in two days and cases jumped to 12,000 in the next three days by January 9, Sudhakar stated. The Minister also said that the hospitalisation rate in the third wave, however, is lower than the second wave as of now. "That is no reason for complacency, please follow Covid appropriate behaviour." During the third wave, the hospitalisation from January 1 to 11 shows that among the 62,691 active cases, only 6 per cent are hospitalised and 1 per cent are in Covid Care Centres, while 93 per cent are in home isolation. Whereas, in the fourth week of June 2021, there were 23,031 active cases. 19 per cent were in hospitals, 3 per cent were in Covid Care Centres and 74 per cent were in home isolation, he explained. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-cases-doubled-in-3-days-in-third-wave-says-health-minister-k-sudhakar-1071171.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Strengthen surveillance at border areas of Karnataka, says Kota||Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said the officials to consider the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Karnataka government seriously. All the precautionary measures taken during the first and second wave of Covid-19 should be strictly implemented. Surveillance should be strengthened at border areas, he said. He was speaking during a review meeting on Covid-19 and rain damages at the Zilla Panchayat hall on Friday. "No adolescent should be denied of vaccine. All the school dropouts should be vaccinated. The district should complete vaccination drive for the children in the age group of 15 to 18 within three months," he directed.   The infected people in home isolation should be strictly monitored. In case if they were found loitering in public places, they should be shifted to Covid care centres, he said.  Reacting to it, DC Dr B C Sateesha said that teams have been constituted to keep an eye on those in home isolation. In addition, nodal officers have been appointed at the Gram Panchayats.  MLA K G Bopaiah sought to know whether Covid care centres have been opened in the district. "If we fail to take Covid-19 seriously, then the cases will increase. The Gram Panchayat-level task force meeting should be convened on Monday to reactivate it," said the minister.  The DC said that old Covid care centres have been identified. If the positivity rate is 5%, then schools will be closed down. Such a situation has not arisen in the district.  MLC Veena Acchaiah said that there are 256 active Covid cases in the district and also sought information on a number of people undergoing treatment in ICU. To which, District hospital's Dr Manjunath said that two infected are undergoing treatment in ICU.  DHO Dr Venkatesh said that Covid-19 cases are on rise in the district in the last four days. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/strengthen-surveillance-at-border-areas-of-karnataka-says-kota-1071199.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC extends virtual mode hearing||In view of rising number of cases of Covid-19, all hearings at the principal bench of the Karnataka High Court in Bengaluru will be on virtual mode. The notification issued in this regard stated that the virtual mode hearings will be continued until further orders. Meanwhile, hearings before the benches at Dharwad and Kalaburagi will be on hybrid mode. It is stated that parties-in-person can appear only through online mode and their physical appearance is not permitted. The entry to the court precincts has been restricted through prescribed entry points in the light of pandemic situation. The notification stated that all government advocates in the principal bench in Bengaluru are required to appear through virtual mode. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-extends-virtual-mode-hearing-1071203.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||KMF proposes to hike milk price by Rs 3||The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has sought to hike milk price by Rs 3 per litre and will make a fresh appeal to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to approve the same. The general body of the KMF, headed by chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi, which met in Bengaluru on Thursday, unanimously approved the proposal to hike the price of milk by Rs 3 per litre. Jarkiholi told media persons that the ‘Nandini’ milk - the flagship brand of KMF - is the cheapest milk brand available in India. “We are selling a litre of Nandini milk at Rs 37 and all milk unions of Karnataka have unanimously sought revision in the prices. The federation will not benefit from the hike as Rs 3 will be paid to the farmers during the procurement of milk. We will soon meet CM Bommai and get approval for the revised tariff,” Jarkiholi said. The KMF chairman also said that the work at Nandini Mega Food park in Belagavi is in full swing and once operational the unit will boost the sale of paneer and cheese besides helping market other products of KMF. The general body also decided to market its flavoured milk products produced at Hassan pet bottle plant. The plant alone produces about 5 lakh pet bottles daily. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kmf-proposes-to-hike-milk-price-by-rs-3-1071204.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Former IAS, minister J Alexander dead||Former Karnataka chief secretary and Congress leader J Alexander passed away Friday. He was 83.   He was being treated at a hospital in the city due to illness. His last rites will be performed on Saturday. He is survived by two children and four grandchildren. Originally from Kerala, Alexander joined the IAS in 1963 with Karnataka as his cadre. He rose to become chief secretary in 1992.  He later joined the Congress and was elected as MLA from the erstwhile Bharatinagar constituency in Bengaluru. He was the tourism minister in the SM Krishna government.  In 2019, Alexander resigned from the Congress, reportedly upset with the party’s neglect towards Christians. However, he stayed on after being convinced by senior leaders.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-ias-minister-j-alexander-dead-1071205.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 28,723 new Covid-19 cases, over 20K in Bengaluru||Karnataka reported 28,723 new Covid cases on Friday, including 20,121 in Bengaluru, as the state recorded the highest number of tests since the beginning of the pandemic at over two lakh. There were 14 new deaths, out of which Bengaluru accounted for seven deaths. "Highest testing since the beginning of pandemic with 2.21 lakh tests today," Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar tweeted on Friday. Bengaluru reported 18,374 cases on Thursday, and on Wednesday it had reported 15,617. It is for the third consecutive day when the state has reported over 20,000 cases. On January 12, Karnataka registered 21,390 cases and on the following day, 25,005 fresh cases were recorded. The positivity rate stood at 12.98% in the state, and active cases at 1,41,337, which include 1.01 lakh in the state capital. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-28723-new-covid-19-cases-over-20k-in-bengaluru-1071206.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC disposes of petitions against Cong Mekedatu padayatra||The High Court on Friday directed the state government to strictly implement the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), issued in the wake of Covid-19, in all the districts. The court asked the government to ensure that no rallies, dharnas or any other political gathering are permitted in the entire state during the Covid-19 pandemic so long as the SOP is operational. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, gave this direction while hearing two PILs filed against the Congress party’s padayatra demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project. During the hearing, senior advocate Uday Holla, appearing for the Congress, said the party has decided to suspend the padayatra in considering the Covid-19 situation and the observations made by the court. He further said that the party wanted to emphasise the importance of the construction of the dam considering that 60 tmcft of Cauvery water, which is Karnataka’s share, is going waste.  He said that the state government, in the meantime, allowed other large gatherings in the state. The chief justice appreciated the decision taken by the party saying “Good sense has prevailed”. However, the court said that it is only concerned about the situation created by the pandemic. On enquiry, Additional Advocate General R Subramanya submitted that the government order dated January 4, 2022, takes care of all rallies/dharnas and said no permission has been granted for large gatherings. He informed the court that a notification has been issued on January 12, in the exercise of powers under section 24 of Disaster Management Act 2005, prohibiting all inter-district (within Karnataka) and intradistrict (within Ramanagara) movement of vehicles, persons or whoever in the name ‘Namma Neeru Namma Hakku’ or in any other name from Mekedatu to Bengaluru. In view of these submissions, the bench disposed of the petitions filed against the padayatra. “However, before parting with the case, we hereby direct the State Government to strictly execute the SOP issued vide Government Order dated 4-01-2022 in all the districts and no rallies, dharnas or any other political gathering shall be permitted in the entire state during the Covid-19 pandemic so long as this SOP issued by the State Government is operational,” the court said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-disposes-of-petitions-against-cong-mekedatu-padayatra-1071207.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||'Mekedatu or Mahadayi, it's just politics for parties'||While the political parties claim that they have concern for people and strive hard to redress the common man’s grievances, the crusaders of the public causes at the ground level feel such claims are only political gimmicks to garner the attention of the voters.   Vijay Kulkarni, a 67-year-old crusader who is fighting for the implementation of Mahadayi and Kalasa-Banduri projects for the last 20 years, asked, “Do politicians really have concern for people? Do they honestly struggle to address the common people’s grievances?”  Kulkarni, the founder president of Kalasa-Banduri-Malaprabha Jodana Horata Samithi, said despite a continuous struggle, successive governments have neglected the project.  He said padayatras or agitations by elected representatives on Mekedatu and Mahadayi issues are just political gimmicks to garner voters’ attention, and not for solving people’s problems. “If they really had any concern for the people of this region, they would have implemented the Mahadayi project a long back,” he said. Kulkarni noted that for the first time, bhumi puje was performed for the Mahadayi project near Kanakumbi in Balagavi district on October 2, 1960. Its main purpose was power generation as there was no adequate power supply in the state at that time, and its initial cost was just Rs 85 crore. According to figures at Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Ltd, in 2002-03, the cost of Kalasa-Banduri projects rose to more than Rs 290 crore. Now, the estimated cost of just the Kalasa project is about Rs 800 crore, and the Banduri project is about Rs 700 crore, totalling Rs 15,00 crore. The cost is being scrutinised and is yet to be finalised. Delays will further lead to cost escalation, he explained. Kulkarni said, “When Congress government was in power in the State, BJP leaders including present Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, State Public Works Minister C C Patil, Sugar Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa, and MLA Jagadish Shettar had raised a voice in favour of Mahadayi project, and had also extended their support for the Mahadayi agitation launched by me.” “Now, they are in the ruling party and also have the power to fulfil the demands of the farmers. But they have remained a mute spectator on implementing the ambitious project. Even after 21 years of my struggle, not much progress has been achieved in the Mahadayi and Kalasa-Banduri projects,” he rued. He also charged that political interests have become more important than farmers’ welfare for both BJP and Congress. Due to fear of losing vote share in Goa, both the national parties are not paying much attention to realising the farmers’ dream. Besides, Goa’s revenue is high. Hence, both the parties don’t want to lose power there, he criticised.   On condition of anonymity, leaders from BJP and Congress here admit that the political interests have led to delay in the implementation of the project. Karjol’s reaction When asked about the politics behind the water projects, Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Govind Karjol said: “There is proof that Congress takes out padayatras just for political gains. Nine years ago, on January 7, 2013, Congress leaders led by Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah had taken out ‘Congress nade Krishneya kade’ padayatra from Hosapete to Kudalasangama, demanding proper implementation of the Upper Krishna Project. Later, they came to power by misleading people. But nothing was achieved. Now, the Congress leaders are again doing a similar political gimmick in the Mekedatu issue too.”  He also said the BJP government is committed to implementing both the Mekedatu and Mahadayi projects.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mekedatu-or-mahadayi-its-just-politics-for-parties-1071210.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Nirani Sugars among six big-ticket investment projects to get Karnataka govt nod||The government has given its nod to Nirani Sugars, a company linked to Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani’s family enterprise, to increase ethanol production while giving the Sajjan Jindal-led JSW Steel more time to expand its operations.  These are among at least six big-ticket investment projects for which government orders have been issued after they were approved by the State High Level Clearance Committee (SHLCC) that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chairs.  Nirani Sugars will expand its ethanol capacity from 150 klpd to 700 klpd at a cost of Rs 506 crore in Mudhol, which the company says will make it India’s largest such single-location plant. “We hope to commission this by June 2022,” Nirani Sugars managing director Vijay Nirani, the minister’s son, said.  He specified that there is no conflict of interest. “Murugesh Nirani resigned from Nirani Sugars in 2007. He has no executive role whatsoever. The only conflict of interest is that he’s a good guide,” he said.  The company will divert 40% of the 20,000 tonnes per day sugarcane it crushes towards ethanol production. “The Centre is pushing for 20% ethanol-blending with petrol. India consumes 4,000 crore litres of petrol per year and we will need 800 crore litres of ethanol,” Vijay said, explaining the significance of ethanol production.  For JSW Steel, the government has ordered a 3-year extension to implement its expansion project in Ballari worth Rs 10,192 crore, which was approved in 2007. The delay is mainly in providing housing facilities whose land faced litigation.  The KIADB acquired and allotted 841.12 acres in 2011. This was challenged by landowners of 198 acres. While the High Court dismissed their plea, the Supreme Court issued a status quo order. Now, the petitioners have filed for withdrawal of their litigation. While the company asked for a 5-year extension, the government gave it three, subject to the top court’s decision.  In other approvals, Khayati Steel will establish an integrated plant in Koppal worth Rs 2,917 crore.  The government has approved a proposal by Netmagic (NTT) to set up a data centre at Kajisonnenahalli, Whitefield-Hoskote Road in Bengaluru worth Rs 1,200 crore.  Carl ZEISS India will establish a manufacturing unit with an investment of Rs 723.78 crore at Haralur-Muddenahalli Industrial Area in Bengaluru Rural.  While Minera Steel & Power has been given two more years to commission its plant at Ballari worth Rs 2,180.40 crore, JK Cements is permitted to purchase 80.9 acres in Bagalkot for mining activity.  These projects will create hundreds of jobs going by the government orders. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nirani-sugars-among-six-big-ticket-investment-projects-to-get-karnataka-govt-nod-1071219.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Mekedatu project will be disastrous for environment, adivasis: Medha Patkar||Activist Medha Patkar on Friday described the proposal to build a dam at Mekedatu as a disastrous project that will wreak havoc on Kaveri river, and urged the government to heed the voice of the people instead of pitching them against the people of the neighbouring states. She was speaking at a press conference organised by the Karnataka Nelajala Parisara Rakshana Samiti here on Friday. “We need environmental impact assessment as well as a social impact assessment to understand the adverse effect of the project on the adivasis (tribals) who depend on the rivers and the forests for their livelihood,” she said. Medha said the Mekedatu dam should not be viewed from the spectrum of the river dispute between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. “By questioning the dam, we are questioning the exploitation and destruction of resources. The inequity and injustice in the use of natural resources should stop. The resources should be used to support the life and livelihood of people and not the builders, contractors and politicians,” she added. Actor Chethan, member of the Samiti, questioned the decision to spend Rs 9,000 crore on a “destructive” project and said the government should instead focus on proven solutions to meet water needs. “The lakes built by Kempegowda are rotting or dying but the government is busy building his statues. Saving the lakes, harvesting the rainwater and recycling the used water are real and sustainable solutions that need funding,” he said. Activist Naganna Gowda from Mandya said efforts were being made to garner the support of farmers by promising more water for irrigation. “The farmers should realise that these promises are false. At the same time, the dam is being portrayed as a project to score over Tamil Nadu and get more Kaveri water. Soon, politicians will start pitting one district against another as climate change hits availability of water,” he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mekedatu-project-will-be-disastrous-for-environment-adivasis-medha-patkar-1071227.html
14-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt announces doubling salary of guest lecturers in colleges||The agitating guest lecturers of government degree colleges got a sweet deal from the state government a day before Sankranti. The guest faculties will henceforth receive an honorarium in the range of Rs 32,000 and Rs 26,000, depending on the qualification and experience as prescribed by the UGC.  Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan announced this during a press conference in Bengaluru on Friday. The minister said that the state government had decided to pay the guest faculties as per the recommendations by the committee headed by Additional Chief Secretary, Higher Education, G Kumar Naik. The minister explained that the guest faculties who have UGC qualifications and five years and above service experience will get Rs 32,000 per month which is three times more than what they are currently paid. Similarly, those with UGC qualifications and less than five years of teaching experience will be paid Rs 30,000 per month.  Meanwhile, those without UGC qualifications but with five years of experience will get honorarium of Rs 28,000 and those who do not have UGC qualification and have teaching experience of less than five years will be paid Rs 26,000, according to the minister. “They will be hired for a period of 10 months and their workload will be increased. The applications for the current academic year will be received from January 17 through the portal by the department of college education,” said the minister. Demanding job security and fixed honorarium, around 14,000 guest faculties working with 430 government degree colleges in the state had been protesting for the last one month. This has stalled the academic activities at several government colleges. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-announces-doubling-salary-of-guest-lecturers-in-colleges-1071233.html
14-01-2022||West||Over 60 injured by kite strings during Uttarayan festivities in Gujarat||Over 60 people sustained injuries in kite-flying accidents in the first few hours of Uttarayan festivities in Gujarat on Friday, an official said. Till 12 pm, the "108" emergency ambulance service shifted 63 people, mostly commuters on roads, to nearby hospitals after they sustained cuts on their throats and faces due to kite strings hanging dangerously in public places, it was stated. No deaths have been reported in kite-flying accidents so far during the day, the official said. As per a release issued by the ambulance services, of 63 persons injured by kite strings, 21 cases were reported from Ahmedabad alone, followed by seven each from Vadodara and Rajkot districts. In all, the “108” ambulance service received 1,203 emergency calls till noon, which was higher than last year's count of 1,043 calls, it was stated. Apart from the injuries caused due to kite strings, 69 persons across the state also fell from their terraces or from a height, mostly while flying or catching kites, the release said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-60-injured-by-kite-strings-during-uttarayan-festivities-in-gujarat-1071060.html
14-01-2022||West||MVA vs BJP over CM’s absence in meeting chaired by PM||The Maha Vikas Aghadi and the opposition BJP are once again in a war-of-words - this time over Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s absence during the virtual meeting to review the Covid-19 situation chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It may be mentioned that the state was represented by Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope. State BJP President Chandrakant Patil took exception to Thackeray’s absence from the meeting which reviewed the situation vis-a-vis Omicron-triggered third wave and the vaccination programme.  Patil suggested that the charge of the Chief Ministership be handed over to someone else while Thackeray recovers from health issues.  “In Indian culture, we do not comment on anyone’s health…and, after all, Uddhav ji is our friend,” he said and also pointed out on many issues the Chief Minister is on video-conference mode. “The chair is very important,” he said, stressing that in such an important meeting by the Prime Minister, the Chief Minister should have been personally present.  Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut, however, hit back.  When pointed out that Thackeray was not there in the meeting chaired by Modi, he said that the Chief Minister’s Office can speak on that in detail. “However, Rajesh Tope, who is handling the Covid-19 situation was present…he is in the thick of things,” he said, adding that many times the Prime Minister is also not present in some meetings.  Hitting out at BJP, Raut said, “The BJP has nothing but to criticise, they are left with no other work….they should speak about China and the border situation…they speak on Indo-Pakistan issue, they should speak about Indo-China issue as well.” On BJP’s criticism that the MVA was not running the state properly, he said, “We must organise medical camps for them…to test the number of specs, give the right number and …and perhaps also provide hearing aids.” This is the second time in a matter of days that the BJP has raised the issue of Thackeray's health.   During the winter session of the Maharashtra legislature in December 2021, Patil, a former Revenue Minister had stated that Thackeray may be replaced by either his wife Rashmi Thackeray or son and Tourism, Environment and Protocol Minister Aditya Thackeray. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-vs-bjp-over-cm-s-absence-in-meeting-chaired-by-pm-1071103.html
14-01-2022||West||Self-tests, self-medication for Covid-19 become a concern in Mumbai||Unreported home tests and self-medication for Covid-19 is emerging as a major cause of concern in the financial capital and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region.  Mumbai’s municipal body, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has decided to crack the whip on the unreported home tests. Bodies like the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG) have expressed concern over the situation. The BMC has ordered all retail manufacturers/distributors of such home testing kits sold to pharmacies, chemists or dispensaries, etc to inform the Food & Drugs Commissioner and the civic body’s Epidemiology Cell of the same. The corporation said that all Covid-19 positive tests either through Rapid Antigen Test Kits or Home Test Kits were expected to be reported to the ICMR by the concerned laboratory or the individuals who are found infected. However, there are instances of persons testing positive on Home Test Kits that have not been brought to the notice of ICMR. This has resulted in no tracking of such patients and the infection keeps spreading through their contact, making it difficult to contain the spread of the virus. The retailers shall also issue a bill to the concerned buyer and maintain a record of such sales of Home Test Kits. OMAG secretary general Dr IS Gilada said: “Earlier only two Rapid Antigen Test kits were approved by ICMR for home testing, with a condition of uploading test results at ICMR portal using QR code. However, now some 40 types are available everywhere - portals, grocery and medical shops, with no need to upload results.” Meanwhile, IMA-Maharashtra president Dr Suhas Pingle said: “In case of problems, one must visit a doctor and do not engage in self-medication.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/self-tests-self-medication-for-covid-19-become-a-concern-in-mumbai-1071175.html
14-01-2022||West||Lack of guidelines from Centre on Omicron, Delta treatment causing confusion, says Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said there are no clear guidelines from the Centre on the treatment of patients detected with the Omicron and Delta variants, especially on the usage of Molnupiravir, an oral, direct-acting antiviral. He said the lack of guidelines from the Union government on clinical management protocol for treatment and testing of Omicron and Delta variants was causing confusion. "There is confusion regarding the treatment and testing of Omicron and Delta variants. When anti-drug and Molnupiravir are used there are no clear guidelines from the Union Health Ministry,” he said. Tope also said home testing kits to detect the infection were creating problems as data in a lot of cases was not being uploaded on the requisite sites. "In Mumbai itself, around 5 lakh such self test kits were sold but a lot of cases detected through them have gone unreported. Such cases should be monitored by the health department but this did not happen," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lack-of-guidelines-from-centre-on-omicron-delta-treatment-causing-confusion-says-tope-1071230.html
14-01-2022||West||2021's mistakes being repeated in 3rd Covid wave; unnecessary medication should be avoided, doctors say||As many as 32 prominent doctors from India and abroad have written a letter to the Union as well as state governments and warned about "inappropriate" diagnostic methods and medications being used to deal with the current wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "Wanton use of drugs" can be harmful, as seen during the earlier two waves of the pandemic, they warned in the open letter. “Despite the weight of available evidence and the crushing death toll of the Delta wave, we find the mistakes of the 2021 response being repeated in 2022 during the clinical management of Covid-19. We urge you to intervene to stop the use of medications and diagnostics that are inappropriate for clinical management of Covid-19,” the letter said. The "vast majority of patients" who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms will require little or no medication, it said. "Most prescriptions we have reviewed in the past two weeks include several Covid-19 “kits” and cocktails. The prescribing of vitamin combinations, azithromycin, doxycycline, hydroxychloroquine, favipiravir and ivermectin for treating Covid-19 is irrational practice,” said the doctors. Outbreaks of fungal infections like mucormycosis in India and aspergillosis in Brazil were attributed to the widespread abuse of inappropriate medications, the letter pointed out. It also said that most Covid-19 patients will need no additional tests after the initial positive rapid antigen or PCR test, except, in some cases, home monitoring of oxygen levels. The Omicron variant can infect even those who had contracted the infection earlier or who are vaccinated, but the "mortality" will be lower among these patients, it said. “However, CT scans and a battery of laboratory tests like d-dimer and IL-6 are routinely being prescribed by practitioners across the country in asymptomatic and mild cases, placing undue financial burden on families,” the letter said. Patients are being admitted to hospitals "without clinical justification," which adds to such burden and also leads to non-Covid patients not getting hospital bed in emergency, it warned. The government as well as medical associations must put an end to such practises, the letter said. The signatories to the letter included Dr Sanjay Nagral of Jaslok Hospital, Mumbai; Dr Cyriac Abby Phillips, the Liver Institute, Rajagiri Hospital, Kerala; Dr Rajani Bhat, Bengaluru; Dr Bharat Gopal, Delhi and Dr Richa Gupta, Christian Medical College, Vellore. The group also included some Indian-origin doctors living in the US and Canada. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2021s-mistakes-being-repeated-in-3rd-covid-wave-unnecessary-medication-should-be-avoided-doctors-say-1071232.html
14-01-2022||West||BJP should speak about Chinese 'intrusion' too, not just Pakistan, says Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said the BJP should speak about China's "intrusion" into the Indian territory and not restrict itself to commenting only on Pakistan. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Raut hit back at the BJP when asked about Maharashtra Chief Minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray skipping Thursday's Covid-19-related meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "BJP keeps criticizing the Maharashtra government for any trivial issue as if that party does not have any other job," said Raut, a Rajya Sabha member. "The party should comment on China's intrusion into the Indian territory. It is a more important issue. The BJP selectively chooses to refer to Pakistan, but not to China,” he claimed. Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 2020. There was no breakthrough in the 14th round of talks between the two militaries, an official statement said on Thursday. Meanwhile, asked about chief minister Thackeray's absence at Thursday's video meeting with the PM, Raut said, “One day (even) the PM could skip a meeting. There could be (other) important work. The meeting with PM was attended by state health minister Rajesh Tope who is in charge of everything related to health." The Sena leader also said he wanted to hold a "special health camp" for Maharashtra BJP leaders like Chandrakant Patil. "The Sena can organize such a camp to check their eye-sight and hearing ability as they keep making false claims. We will surely cure them," Raut added. Asked about the Sena's plans for Uttar Pradesh and Goa elections, he said, “Some Trinamool Congress leaders are meeting me tomorrow about Goa elections. In UP, we are planning to contest 50 seats."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-should-speak-about-chinese-intrusion-too-not-just-pakistan-says-shiv-sena-1071240.html
