15-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||7 killed as car hits divider near Davangere||Seven people were killed when the car in which they were travelling rammed into a road divider as driver fell asleep at the wheel, near Kaananakatte village in Jagalur taluk of Davangere district on NH-50 in the wee hours of Friday. The driver Sanjeev, a Uber driver in Bengaluru, had bought the car only recently. The six others were working as daily-wage workers in Reva University in Bengaluru. They decided to visit their native places on account of Sankranti festival after seeing tourist spots in Hosapete and Hampi. They left Bengaluru on Thursday night by car. Sanjeev, who was driving the car, fell asleep around 3 am and the vehicle rammed into road divider around 100 metres from the toll plaza. The police identified the victims as Mallanagouda (22), Sanjeev (20), Santosh (21), Jai Bhim (18) of Yadgir district, Raghu (23), a resident of Talikoti, Vijayapura district, Siddesh (20) and Vedamurthy (18) of Kudligi taluk of Vijayanagar district. Siddesh, who was still alive when the accident took place, died on his way to the hospital. The bodies were shifted to the taluk general hospital in Jagalur town.  The seven youths had moved to Bengaluru to earn their livelihood. With their deaths, their families have lost their breadwinners.  Superintendent of police C B Rishyanth rushed to the spot in the morning.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/7-killed-as-car-hits-divider-near-davangere-1071296.html
15-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: 2 held for bid to extort money from entrepreneur||The Puttur rural police arrested two rowdy sheeters for allegedly threatening and trying to extort money. Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that the arrested had called an entrepreneur from Puttur and demanded Rs 13 lakh to release their associate who is lodged in jail. The callers had used different mobile phone numbers to make extortion calls and even threatened him with dire consequences of failing to pay the money.   The arrested are Kalander Sharief alias Shafi, a resident of Golthamajalu in Bantwal and Hasanabba alias Hasan alias Acchu alias Achun, a resident of Manjanady in Mangaluru taluk. The duo had asked the entrepreneur to get ready with Rs 3.5 lakh within two days and even threatened to kill him and his children if he failed to arrange the money, said the SP. Following the complaint, the police had registered cases under various sections of the IPC against the extortion callers. The police who swung into action arrested the duo while they were returning after collecting money from the entrepreneur. The police seized Rs 50,000 cash, a car and a mobile phone from the arrested. The Bantwal police had opened a rowdy sheet against Kalander for the offences he carried out in the past while Hasanabba is a rowdy sheeter in Konaje Police Station. The Puttur rural circle inspector Umesh Uppalige, SI Uday Ravi, Ameen Saab M Attar and other police personnel carried out the operation to arrest the duo under the guidance of DK SP Rishikesh Sonawane and Puttur sub-division DSP Dr Gana P Kumar. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-2-held-for-bid-to-extort-money-from-entrepreneur-1071367.html
15-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Kannada boards blackened in Belagavi||Two caution boards in Kannada installed by the Public Works Department near Kangrali B K and Kadoli village road in Belagavi taluk were blackened by unidentified persons. The incident came to light on Saturday. A few Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) members are believed to have indulged in the act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kannada-boards-blackened-in-belagavi-1071443.html
15-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Post-Mekedatu padayatra, South Karnataka districts struggle to meet Covid testing targets||The health department had given southern districts revised testing targets to be followed for three days after the Mekedatu padayatra ended. But the districts are struggling to meet the targets. As opposed to the revised target of 15,000, Kolar managed to test only 4,500 people and found 500-550 Covid-positive individuals, double the previous daily average of 200-250 cases. Chikkaballapur did 6,000 tests out of the revised target of 10,000 and found 234 Covid patients. Bengaluru Rural was given a revised target of 15,000, but the district managed to collect only around 6,000 samples and detected 340 positives on Friday, and another 418 on Saturday.  Asked if contact tracing revealed domestic travel history to Ramanagara district where the padayatra had happened (before the state government banned inter-district vehicular movement), Kolar district health officer (DHO) Dr Vijaykumar S N said such individual cluster details had not been compiled.  “It requires a lot of time and resources, and we haven’t been told to undertake any such exercises.” “We do have some cases with a Sabarimala travel history or of having been to Om Shakthi temple in Tamil Nadu. We used to have a daily target of 2,100. We can’t possibly test 15,000 per day,” Dr Vijaykumar said. Travel history & testing Chikkaballapur district surveillance officer Dr Ramesh Babu told DH, “We don’t have targeted line list of padayatra participants. We used to have a daily target of 2,900 which has been increased to 10,000. We achieved about 60% of the target. During contact tracing if they reveal their travel history, we test their contacts.”     Bangalore Rural DHO Dr A Thippeswamy said they previously had a target of 2,300 and that it wasn’t possible to collect the samples of 15,000 daily. Mysuru DHO Dr K H Prasad said out of the revised target of 20,000 given to the district, they had tested about 11,000 and detected 580 positives. Previously, the district had a target of 6,000 samples.  “It’s very difficult to collect the samples of 20,000 people. We need people’s cooperation for that. There are some clusters on and off. We’ve made thousands of calls to patients and don’t know yet of any clusters due to the padayatra,” Prasad said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/post-mekedatu-padayatra-south-karnataka-districts-struggle-to-meet-covid-testing-targets-1071447.html
15-01-2022||National||Ban on physical rallies: EC to decide future course of campaigning on January 15||The Election Commission will meet on Saturday to take a call on whether to extend beyond January 15 the ban on public rallies, roadshows and corner meetings in five poll-bound states in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision will be taken based on inputs about the spread of the virus and its new variant Omicron, sources said. Announcing the schedule of assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur on January 8, the panel had taken the unprecedented step of banning public rallies, roadshows and corner meetings till January 15 in view of the pandemic. The Commission had also listed 16-point guidelines for campaigning as it banned 'nukkad sabhas' (corner meetings) on public roads and roundabouts, limited the number of persons allowed for the door-to-door campaign to five, including the candidate, and prohibited victory processions after the counting of votes. In a press release on Friday, the EC said that considering the ongoing pandemic and enhanced relevance of non-contact-based campaign, it has, in consultation with Prasar Bharti Corporation, decided to double the broadcast/telecast time allotted to each national party and recognised state party of the five states. Assembly polls in the five states will be held in seven phases between February 10 and March 7 and the counting of votes will be on March 10. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-on-physical-rallies-ec-to-decide-future-course-of-campaigning-on-january-15-1071278.html
15-01-2022||National||Maharashtra adds 1 lakh Covid cases in 2 days; Pune tops in Omicron infections||Maharashtra has added over one lakh new Covid-19 cases to the state tally which shot above 71 lakh on Friday with a stupendous 200-plus Omicron cases, with Pune overtaking Mumbai, health officials said here. After recording record high of 46,723 on Wednesday, the number of new Covid infectees in the state figures dropped to 43,211 and the fatalities also fell from 36 to 19, and the mortality rate dipped from 2 per cent to 1.98 per cent. After 207 Omicron cases on January 9, the state infections of the variant shot up to a new peak of 238, sparking fresh concerns among the health authorities. The government is continuing the intensive surveillance of passengers arriving at the three international airports - Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur - since December 1. A total of 277,114 travellers have landed here, including 42,062 from the "high risk" countries from where 523 have tested positive and 580 from other countries, with all their reports sent for genomic sequencing to confirm if they are afflicted by Omicron. Besides, another 4,641 positive samples from field surveys conducted since November 1 have been sent for genomic sequencing with the results of 83 are awaited, the officials said. Omicron has spread extensively across several districts in the state, and out of the 1,605 cases till date, 859 have recovered. Mumbai was edged out by Pune as far as the total Omicron infections are concerned. Now, Pune has 677 cases of the variant, followed by 629 in Mumbai, 79 in Thane, 59 in Sangli, 51 in Nagpur, 19 in Raigad, 18 in Kolhapur, 13 in Satara, 11 in Osmanabad, nine in Amravati, six each in Palghar, Akola, and Buldhana, three each in Nanded, Aurangabad, and Gondiya, two each in Ahmednagar, Gadchiroli, Latur, Nandurbar, Nashik, and Solapur, and one in Jalna. Of the 43,211 new Covid-19 cases, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region alone accounted for 22,037 infections, while Mumbai city remained at a high, with 11,317 new cases. The next is Pune circle's 11,421 infectees, Nashik circle's 3,182, Nagpur circle's 2,552, Kolhapur circle's 1,264, Latur circle's 1,227, Aurangabad circle's 913 and Akola circle's 615. The number of people sent to home quarantine shot up hugely - from 17,95,631 on Thursday to 19,10,361 now, and another 9,286 have been shunted to institutional quarantine. Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Raigad, and Palghar remain at the top with the highest number of active cases currently in the state, with the afflictions shooting up from 251,828 a day before to 261,658, with the recovery rate dropping from 94.39 per cent a day earlier to 94.28 per cent. The cumulative figures of Covid-19 since the start of the pandemic in March 2020 now stands at 71,24,278 cases and 141,756 deaths, while a total of 67,17,125 patients have fully recovered till date. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-adds-1-lakh-covid-cases-in-2-days-pune-tops-in-omicron-infections-1071286.html
15-01-2022||National||India's desire for peace born out of strength, should not be mistaken otherwise: Army Chief||The Indian Army stands firm to counter any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the country's borders and India's desire for peace is born out of strength and should not be mistaken otherwise, Army Chief General M M Naravane said on Friday. The army chief also said that differences in perceptions and disputes are best resolved through established norms based on the principle of equal and mutual security. The armies of India and China are locked in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5, 2020, after a violent clash erupted in the Pangong lake area. Both countries have conducted 14 rounds of military-level talks to resolve the standoff. "We stand firm to counter any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along our borders. Our response to such attempts has been swift, calibrated and decisive as was seen when the situation so demanded," Naravane said in his speech on the eve of Army Day. Naravane said the Army has instituted additional safeguards to prevent any further attempts at military brinkmanship. "We believe that the differences in perceptions and disputes are best resolved through established norms based on the principle of equal and mutual security," he mentioned. "Our desire for peace and tranquillity is born out of our inherent strength. It should not be mistaken otherwise," he added. Institutional mechanisms and safeguards to counter state-sponsored terrorism have been strengthened both along the borders and the hinterland, Naravane mentioned. These mechanisms and safeguards have proven effective in lowering the levels of violence, he said. "Our actions have demonstrated our capability and willingness to strike at the source of terrorism," the Army chief mentioned. In the year gone by, the Indian Army has resolutely executed its responsibilities and was steadfast in safeguarding the security and territorial integrity of the nation, he said. India's active borders were guarded with resolve and resilience, he mentioned. "Our brave officers, JCOs (junior commissioned officers), and soldiers, have faced adversaries and adversity with courage and fortitude even to the extent to laying down their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army," Naravane said. The Indian Army remains at a high state of operational readiness to face ongoing and future challenges, he said. After the violent clash on May 5, 2020, both -- Indian and Chinese militaries -- gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process last year in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake and in the Gogra area. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-desire-for-peace-born-out-of-strength-should-not-be-mistaken-otherwise-army-chief-1071304.html
15-01-2022||National||PM Modi hails Ayush Ministry's 'Surya Namaskar' event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday appealed to people to follow all Covid-19 related protocols, wear masks and get vaccinated if eligible. Hailing the initiative of elite athletes taking people step by step through the 'Surya Namaskar' for fitness and positivity, Prime Minister Modi said the ongoing global pandemic has reaffirmed the importance of keeping fit and boosting immunity.  "This is a great effort to do so," he said, tagging a Sports Authority of India tweet urging people to join in as India's elite athletes make a step by step demonstration of Surya Namaskar. The ongoing global pandemic has reaffirmed the importance of keeping fit and boosting immunity. This is a great effort to do so. "At the same time, I again appeal to you all to follow all Covid-19 related protocols, wear masks and get vaccinated if eligible," Modi said. The Ayush Ministry observed 'Surya Namaskar for vitality' on Friday in which more than one crore people from across the world, including India, performed the 'yoga asanas' to keep themselves safe during the Covid-19 pandemic, a statement said.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-ayush-ministrys-surya-namaskar-event-1071310.html
15-01-2022||National||India set to export BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles to the Philippines||India is set to export the BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles it jointly developed with Russia to the Philippines as the South East Asian nation is seeking to bolster its defence capabilities in the face of the growing belligerence of China. This is the first time that India will be exporting the missiles designed, developed and manufactured by the BrahMos Aerospace Private Limited, a joint venture of its Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) and the NPO Mashinostroyeniya (NPOM) of Russia. India is also exploring the possibility of exporting the BrahMos missiles to Vietnam – another South-East Asian nation, facing the aggression of China. The Ministry of National Defence of the Government of the Philippines is likely to sign a $374.9 million deal with the BrahMos Aerospace Private Limited next week for procurement of an undisclosed number of shore-based anti-ship missile systems, sources in New Delhi said. The BrahMos has established itself as a major force multiplier in modern-day complex battlefields with its impeccable anti-ship and land-attack capabilities with multi-role and multi-platform abilities and has already been deployed in all three wings of the Indian Armed Forces. The first test launch of the BrahMos took place in 2001 and to date numerous test launches have taken place from various ships, Mobile Autonomous Launchers and Su-30 MKI aircraft, making it a versatile weapon. The air version of the missile was successfully test-fired from the supersonic fighter aircraft Sukhoi 30 MK-I on December 8 last year. The sea-to-sea variant of the missile was test-fired from a navy warship off the western coast as recently as Tuesday. The Philippines is bolstering its defence capabilities to counter China’s growing belligerence over disputed islands on the South China Sea. New Delhi has been trying to step up its defence cooperation with the South East Asian nations, particularly after China’s aggression along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India triggered a military stand-off in April-May 2020. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-to-export-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missiles-to-the-philippines-1071315.html
15-01-2022||National||DH Toon | Maurya gets the meaning of 'UPYogi'!||Akhilesh Yadav on Friday taunted the BJP for losing "one wicket after the other" and not fathoming the SP strategy as he inducted two ministers and six other MLAs who recently deserted the ruling alliance into his Samajwadi Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-maurya-gets-the-meaning-of-upyogi-1071316.html
15-01-2022||National||Over 1 crore performed Surya Namaskar globally: Govt||The Ayush Ministry observed ‘Surya Namaskar for vitality’ on Friday in which more than one crore people from across the world, including India, performed the ‘yoga asanas’ to keep themselves safe during the Covid-19 pandemic, a statement said. The programme was launched virtually by Union Ayush Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and MoS for Ayush Munjapara Mahendrabhai as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations.  In his inaugural address, the Union minister said that sun worship is done through Surya Namaskar to improve physical and mental well-being. Under the leadership and guidance of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, Yoga and Surya Namaskar are being promoted for the health of mankind, the minister said, according to the statement. Munjapara said that research on Surya Namaskar has demonstrated that the exercise builds immunity and keeps the body fit. On this occasion, Baba Ramdev, Acharya Balkrishna, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Sadguru Jaggi Vasudev and many other notable personalities joined the programme. Ramdev said Yoga means to unite people and they were doing the same by uniting so many people to perform Surya Namaskar together. Vasudev, the founder of Isha Foundation, said performing sun salutations daily improves physical and psychological health, the statement said. Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY) director Ishwar Basavareddy said Surya Namaskar plays a big role in strengthening the respiratory system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1-crore-performed-surya-namaskar-globally-govt-1071318.html
15-01-2022||National||India logs over 2.68 lakh new Covid-19 cases, Omicron tally at 6,041||India registered 2,68,833 new Covid infections in a day taking the tally to 3,68,50,962, which includes 6,041 Omicron variant cases, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. With 402 more deaths, the number of people who have succumbed to the viral disease has risen to 4,85,752. The case fatality rate was 1.32 per cent. A total of 6,041 Omicron cases have been detected so far, an increase of 5.01 per cent since Friday, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily positivity rate was 16.66 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was 12.84 per cent. Active cases have increased to 14,17,820, the highest in around 223 days, and comprise 3.85 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 94.83 per cent, the Health Ministry said. In a day, the active caseload in the country has increased by 1,45,747. The total number of people who have recuperated from the disease so far has increased to 3,49,47,390.  The cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide inoculation drive has exceeded 156.02 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 last year and three crore on June 23, 2021. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-over-268-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-omicron-tally-at-6041-1071329.html
15-01-2022||National||PM Modi, President Kovind greet Army personnel on Army Day||On the occasion of Army Day on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the Indian Army, saying it is known for bravery and professionalism, and words cannot do justice to its invaluable contribution towards national safety. Army Day is observed on January 15 to mark Field Marshall KM Cariappa taking over as the first Indian Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army, replacing his British predecessor in 1949. "Indian Army personnel serve in hostile terrains and are at the forefront of helping fellow citizens during a humanitarian crisis, including natural disasters. India is proud of the stellar contribution of the Army in Peacekeeping Missions overseas as well," the prime minister said.  He added, "Best wishes on the occasion of Army Day, especially to our courageous soldiers, respected veterans and their families. The Indian Army is known for its bravery and professionalism. Words cannot do justice to the invaluable contribution of the Indian Army towards national safety." President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said the Indian Army has been pivotal in ensuring national security and the country is grateful for their service. Greeting Army personnel and veterans on Army Day, he said the soldiers have displayed professionalism, sacrifice and valour in defending the border and maintaining peace. "Greetings to Army personnel and veterans on Army Day. Indian Army has been pivotal in ensuring national security. Our soldiers have displayed professionalism, sacrifice and valour in defending borders and maintaining peace. The nation is grateful for your service. Jai Hind!" Kovind tweeted. Greetings to Army personnel and veterans on Army Day. Indian Army has been pivotal in ensuring national security. Our soldiers have displayed professionalism, sacrifice and valour in defending borders and maintaining peace. The nation is grateful for your service. Jai Hind! Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-president-kovind-greet-army-personnel-on-army-day-1071334.html
15-01-2022||National||Centre to celebrate January 16 as National Start-up Day||The Centre decided to celebrate January 16 as National Start-up Day to take the concept to the far-flung areas of the country as Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the start-ups as people who are changing the rules of the game and are going to be the backbone of new India. In an interaction in which the startups made presentations on six themes before the PM, Modi underlined the government's emphasis on liberating entrepreneurship and innovation from the web of government processes, bureaucratic silos. He also claimed that startups of India are working with 55 separate industries and the number of startups has increased from less than 500 five years ago to more than 60 thousand today.  "Last year, 42 unicorns came up in the country. These companies worth thousands of crores of rupees are the hallmark of self-reliant and self-confident India. Today India is rapidly moving towards hitting the century of unicorns. I believe the golden era of India's start-ups is starting now. Don't just keep your dreams local, make them global. Remember this mantra," Modi told them while interacting via video conferencing. Union Ministers Piyush Goyal, Mansukh Mandaviya, Ashwini Vaisnaw, Sarbananda Sonowal, Parshottam Rupala, G. Kishan Reddy, Pashupati Kumar Paras, Jitendra Singh and Som Parkash were among those present on the occasion. Recalling the concept of the current decade as the ‘techade’ of India, the Prime Minister listed three important aspects of the massive changes that the government is making in this decade to strengthen the innovation, entrepreneurship and start-up ecosystem--- to liberate entrepreneurship and innovation from the web of government processes and bureaucratic silos, creating an institutional mechanism to promote innovation and handholding of young innovators and young enterprises. Flagging the rise in the indicators of innovation, Modi said that in the year 2013-14, 4000 patents were approved, while last year, more than 28 thousand patents were granted. In the year 2013-14, where about 70000 trademarks were registered, in 2020-21 more than 2.5 lakh trademarks have been registered. In the year 2013-14, where only 4000 copyrights were granted, last year their number has crossed 16000 He added that startups of India are working with 55 separate industries and the number of startups has increased from less than 500 five years ago to more than 60 thousand today. There is at least one startup in each of the 625 districts of the country and more than half of the startups are from tier 2 and tier 3 cities, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-celebrate-january-16-as-national-start-up-day-1071339.html
15-01-2022||National||Republic Day parade to see 24,000 people in attendance, foreign dignitary as chief guest unlikely||Approximately 24,000 people will be permitted to attend the Republic Day parade on January 26 this year given the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, sources in the defence establishment said on Saturday. In 2020, before the pandemic struck India, around 1.25 lakh people were permitted to attend the parade, they noted. Last year's Republic Day parade took place amid the Covid pandemic and close to 25,000 people were allowed to attend it, sources mentioned. Like last year, this time too the parade may not have any foreign dignitary as the chief guest due to the pandemic, they said, adding India was planning to invite the leaders of Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan. Out of the approximately 24,000 people who will be attending the parade this year, 19,000 would be invited and the rest would be the general public, who can purchase tickets, sources said. All Covid-19 protocols will be followed at the parade. Social distancing norms would be followed while making the seating arrangements, they mentioned, adding sanitiser dispensers will be available everywhere and wearing masks would be compulsory. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-parade-to-see-24000-people-in-attendance-foreign-dignitary-as-chief-guest-unlikely-1071354.html
15-01-2022||National||Army will remain central in securing national interests as India grows in stature: Rajnath||The Indian Army will remain central to securing the national interests as India grows in stature and strength, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion of Army Day, the minister noted that the Indian Army inspires confidence among the citizenry as it resolutely maintains an unflinching vigil across the frontiers of the nation.  "The Indian Army is preparing for an enhanced operational role in addressing the newly emerging multi-domain security challenges," he said in a message that was put out by the Army's Twitter handle. Singh said that the Army's response during natural calamities has been remarkable and deeply appreciated by one and all. "As India grows in stature and strength, the Indian Army shall remain central in securing our national interests and pursuing our national aspirations," he mentioned.  The government stands firmly committed to the capability development of the Indian Army and of the welfare of its rank and file, their families, veterans and Veer Naris (war widows). "On this day, we pay homage to our valiant soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the service of the nation," he stated. Singh said the nation also stands united behind expressing solidarity to their families, who have endured the loss of their loved ones with courage and fortitude. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-will-remain-central-in-securing-national-interests-as-india-grows-in-stature-rajnath-1071359.html
15-01-2022||National||ED attaches Delhi-based journalist's property in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday said it has attached a Delhi-based journalist’s residential property worth Rs 48.21 lakh in connection with a money-laundering probe linked to the alleged leakage and supply of sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers. A provisional order has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to attach the property of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma in the national capital’s Pitampura area, the ED said in a statement. Sharma, who was arrested by the agency in July last year, was granted bail in the case by the Delhi High Court last week. The agency said its probe found that "Sharma had supplied confidential and sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers, in exchange for remuneration thereby compromising the security and national interests of the country". "Such remuneration to Rajeev Sharma was being provided by a Mahipalpur based shell company that was run by Chinese nationals like Zhang Cheng alias Suraj, Zhang Lixia alias Usha and Qing Shi along with a Nepali national Sher Singh alias Raj Bohara.  "This Chinese company was acting as a conduit for the Chinese intelligence agencies to provide remuneration for persons like Rajeev Sharma...," the ED said in the statement. The remuneration, it claimed, was being paid in cash through carriers as well as through cash deposits.  "Sharma also received money using the bank account of his friend in order to conceal his involvement in criminal activities. In addition to obtaining remunerations in cash, he also received remuneration in kind in the form of various paid foreign trips which were arranged by the Chinese intelligence agents," the ED alleged. The agency's case is based on a Delhi Police FIR filed under the Official Secrets Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Sharma in 2020. The journalist was arrested by the special cell of the Delhi Police on September 14, 2020, and charged with passing on information about the Indian Army's deployment and the country's border strategy to Chinese intelligence officers. The ED had also filed a charge sheet in this case last year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-delhi-based-journalists-property-in-money-laundering-case-1071360.html
15-01-2022||National||Modi govt to study drug pricing policies of 10 nations to regulate domestic market: Report||The Centre plans to launch research on drug pricing policies enforced in at least ten nations including China, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, and the US, to make drugs more accessible and affordable in India. The department of pharmaceuticals (DoP), which is part of the Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers, has issued a tender to find a reputable company to perform the study on the government's behalf. The study aims to learn about the drug price mechanism used in the international market and the best practices in terms of medicine availability and cost from various countries (or areas). The proposal deadline is February 21 and shortlisted bidders will be contacted on March 1 for a presentation. The government intends to research the practical execution of medication pricing regulations in various nations, as well as other policy elements that influence pharmaceutical availability and affordability in these countries. Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, China, the EU, the United Kingdom, Australia, the United States, Brazil, South Africa, and Thailand are among the ten countries/regions that should be covered, according to the proposal. The research will mostly rely on secondary sources of data and other publicly available material. Interviews or focus group discussions (FGDs) with foreign missions, relevant trade and industry associations, drug exporters, and foreign manufacturers are also conducted to obtain their opinions or perspectives. The final report after the business is chosen must be submitted in four months, according to the request for proposal (RFP) document labelled ‘Notice Inviting Tenders’. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-to-study-drug-pricing-policies-of-10-nations-to-regulate-domestic-market-report-1071368.html
15-01-2022||National||Prospects of violent conflict growing immensely with dangerous ideology in neighbourhood: Pakistan||Pakistan has said special attention is required to manage lingering border disputes which continue to pose security threats, particularly along the Line of Control (LoC) and Working Boundary where ceasefire violations by India threaten civilian lives and property while endangering regional stability. Pakistan in its National Security Policy said: "With a regressive and dangerous ideology gripping the collective conscience in our immediate neighbourhood, the prospects of violent conflict have grown immensely. "The possibility of use of force by the adversary as a deliberate policy choice cannot be ruled out. Pakistan is committed to defending its territorial integrity in response to any military misadventure. Requisite conventional capabilities will be ensured through astute investment in constant modernisation of our armed forces without embroiling in any arms race." The document went on to say that "the expansion of India's nuclear triad, open-ended statements on nuclear policy, and investments in and introduction of destabilising technologies disturb the strategic balance in the region. Pakistan's deterrence regime is vital for and aimed at regional peace. "Pakistan's prized geo-economic location provides a unique opportunity through north-south and east-west connectivity for South and Central Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. "Westward connectivity is also a significant driver for Pakistan's continued push for regional peace and stability in Afghanistan, which is ever more important given that eastward connectivity is held hostage to India's regressive approach." Pakistan is envisioned as an Islamic welfare state as per the policy document. "Pakistan's vital national security interests are best served by placing economic security as the core element of national security. The country's security imperatives in the next decade will be driven by the need to realise its economic potential while ensuring national cohesion, territorial integrity, internal security, and citizen welfare," it said. In the context of comprehensive national security, "achieving economic security is predicated on an expanding national resource pie and a redistributive model that can transfer the benefits of greater availability of resources to human welfare." "Sustainable and inclusive economic growth that expands Pakistan's global economic footprint, reduces external economic dependency, and allows Pakistan to better leverage its resultant economic clout will also ensure our traditional security requirements are adequately resourced. "The challenge before us is to move away from the traditional guns versus butter debate, instead recognising that traditional and non-traditional aspects of national security must be linked through a symbiotic relationship," the document added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prospects-of-violent-conflict-growing-immensely-with-dangerous-ideology-in-neighbourhood-pakistan-1071377.html
15-01-2022||National||S Jaishankar holds talks with Sri Lankan minister; Indian projects to boost Lankan economy discussed||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday held discussions with Sri Lankan Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa on projects by India that would strengthen the economy of the island nation and sought an early release of detained Indian fishermen on humanitarian considerations. During the meeting, Jaishankar conveyed that India has always stood with Sri Lanka, and will continue to support that country in all possible ways for overcoming the economic and other challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic,  a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs said. As close friends and maritime neighbours, both India and Sri Lanka stand to gain from closer economic interlinkages, the external affairs minister conveyed during the virtual interaction. On his part, Rajapaksa recalled India's long-standing cooperation with Sri Lanka and deeply appreciated the gestures of support and welcomed Indian investments in a number of important spheres including ports, infrastructure, energy, renewable energy, power and manufacturing. During the "detailed" meeting, Jaishankar also raised the issue of Indian fishermen in Sri Lankan custody and urged for their early release as a humanitarian gesture. "EAM brought up the issue of Indian fishermen detained in Sri Lanka. He urged the Government of Sri Lanka to ensure early release of the detained fishermen on humanitarian considerations," the MEA said. Last month, the ministry said that 68 fishermen from Tamil Nadu have been taken into custody by the Sri Lankan authorities between December 18-20. While expressing concern over the detention, the ministry asserted that steps were being taken to ensure their early release. The issue of fishermen remains one of the irritants in India and Sri Lanka ties and there have also been several alleged incidents of Sri Lankan Navy personnel firing at Indian fishermen in the Palk Strait and seizing their boats. "Just concluded a detailed virtual meeting with Sri Lankan Finance Minister @RealBRajapaksa. Reaffirmed that India will be a steadfast and reliable partner of Sri Lanka," Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting. "We positively noted the extension of the $400 million swap facility and the deferred ACU settlement of $515.2 million. Discussed the early realisation of $1 billion term loan facility for essential commodities and of $500 million LoC for fuel purchase," the external affairs minister said. Considered projects and investment plans by India that would strengthen Sri Lankan economy. Urged early release of Indian fishermen in Sri Lankan custody as a humanitarian gesture. Jaishankar said he assured that India will take up with other international partners initiatives to support Sri Lanka at this important juncture.  "Welcomed the progress on Trincomalee Tank Farm which will contribute to energy security," he said in another tweet. "Considered projects and investment plans by India that would strengthen the Sri Lankan economy," Jaishankar said. This interaction follows Rajapaksa's visit to India last month. The MEA statement said that both ministers positively noted that extension of $400 million to Sri Lanka under the SAARC currency swap arrangement and deferral of ACU settlement of $515.2 million by two months would assist Sri Lanka, the MEA said. The two ministers reviewed the progress in extending the Indian credit facility of $1 billion for importing food, essential items and medicine and $500 mn for importing fuel from India. During the meeting, Rajapaksa welcomed Indian investments in Sri Lanka in a number of important spheres including ports, infrastructure, energy, renewable energy, power and manufacturing and assured that a conducive environment will be provided to encourage such investments. In this context, both ministers noted that the recent steps taken by the Government of Sri Lanka for jointly modernizing Trincomalee Oil Tank Farms will boost the confidence of investors, apart from enhancing Sri Lanka's energy security, the MEA said. It said the two ministers agreed to remain in close touch for guiding mutually beneficial bilateral economic cooperation towards long-term economic partnership for shared progress and prosperity. Jaishankar conveyed greetings to the finance minister, people and the government of Sri Lanka for the year 2022 and on the occasion of the festival of Pongal celebrated both in India and Sri Lanka, the statement said.  Check out DH's latest videos: "Urged early release of Indian fishermen in Sri Lankan custody as a humanitarian gesture, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-sri-lankan-minister-indian-projects-to-boost-lankan-economy-discussed-1071379.html
15-01-2022||National||Army veterans move Supreme Court in Haridwar hate speech case||Three Army veterans have moved the Supreme Court for the appointment of a special investigating team (SIT) to look into alleged hate speeches made at Haridwar and Delhi last month. Major General S G Vombatkere, Colonel P K Nair and Major Priyadarshi Chowdhury, in their plea, cited the videos circulated on social media where blatant calls for genocide against minority communities have been made. "One of the speeches specifically calls upon the police and the army to pick up arms against the minorities. In another such instance, an event was organized in Delhi on December 19, 2021. From a video of the event, a gentleman can be seen administering an oath to a group of people to 'die for and kill' to make India a 'Hindu rashtra'," the plea said. Such seditious and divisive speeches violate not only the criminal law of the land but also strike at the core of Article 19 of the Constitution, they said, adding these speeches stained the secular fabric of the nation and also have serious potential to impact public order adversely. The plea said that if such incidents go unchecked, it will have a serious impact on the morale of the soldiers in the armed forces who come from diverse communities and religions. "From their personal experience, it is felt that such hate speeches can even affect the battle efficiency of our Armed Forces and in turn compromise national security," the petition stated. On January 12, the top court had issued notice to the central and Uttarakhand governments on a plea by retired Patna High Court judge Justice Anjana Prakash and journalist, Qurban Ali seeking an independent probe into the hate speech incident. Yati Narasimhanand held The Uttarakhand Police on Saturday picked up Yati Narasimhanand from his dharna site in Haridwar in connection with the case of Dharma Sansad where alleged hate speeches against Muslims were delivered, reports PTI from Dehradun. Narasimhanand, the priest of Ghaziabad’s Dasna temple, was the organiser of the event in Haridwar in December 2021. He was picked up from where he was sitting on a dharna in protest against the arrest of another accused in the case, Jitendra Narayan Tyagi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-veterans-move-supreme-court-in-haridwar-hate-speech-case-1071401.html
15-01-2022||National||India’s stance on Nepal boundary well known, consistent & unambiguous: Embassy||The Indian Embassy on Saturday said that India’s position on its boundary with Nepal is well known, consistent and unambiguous amidst discontent within the Opposition parties over reports claiming that the Indian government is undertaking construction activities in areas that Nepal has included in its map. The statement of the Indian Embassy here came days after Nepal’s main Opposition Communist Party of Nepal-Unified Marxist-Leninist (CPN-UML) urged Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba to speak up on the boundary issue and make its position clear on Lipulekh. “The UML unwaveringly believes that construction of roads and other structures should be stopped. The issue should be promptly resolved through dialogue and no structure should be built at the state level until resolution is reached through dialogue,” read the statement issued by Rajan Bhattarai, the UML’s foreign department head. In response to media queries over the recent reports and statements in Nepal on the question of the India-Nepal boundary, the spokesperson of the Indian Embassy said: “The Government of India’s position on the India-Nepal boundary is well known, consistent and unambiguous. It has been communicated to the Government of Nepal”. “It is our view that the established inter-governmental mechanisms and channels are most appropriate for communication and dialogue. “Mutually agreed boundary issues that are outstanding can always be addressed in the spirit of our close and friendly bilateral relations,” it said. In November last year, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand that there was an attempt to create misapprehensions in Nepal about a road from Lipulekh Pass to Mansarovar through Dharchula that was inaugurated by him recently. Union Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt also claimed that pilgrims will soon be able to visit Kailash-Mansarovar by car as Rs 60 crore has been sanctioned by the Centre to upgrade the border road from Ghatiabagar to Lipulekh into a metalled one. Singh last month reiterated that the route to Mansarovar via Lipulekh pass has been cleared. The Lipulekh pass is a far western point near Kalapani, a border area between Nepal and India. Both India and Nepal claim Kalapani as an integral part of their territory -- India as part of Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh district and Nepal as part of Dharchula district. The bilateral ties came under strain under then prime minister K P Sharma Oli after India opened an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8, 2020. Nepal first protested the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through its territory, and days later, it came out with a new map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territories. India reacted sharply to the move. However, in June 2020, Nepal's Parliament approved the new political map of the country featuring areas which India maintains belong to it. After Nepal released the map, India criticised the move, calling it a "unilateral act" and cautioning Kathmandu that such "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims will not be acceptable to it.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-stance-on-nepal-boundary-well-known-consistent-unambiguous-embassy-1071427.html
15-01-2022||National||Rahul Gandhi extends wishes to families of armed forces' personnel on Army Day||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi extended his best wishes to the families of all villagers, farmers and middle class people whose members are part of the armed forces on the Army Day on Saturday, saying their sacrifice is also involved with every soldier. The Army Day is observed on January 15 to mark Field Marshall K M Cariappa taking over as the first Indian Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army, replacing his British predecessor in 1949. हार्दिक शुभकामनाएँ हर ग्रामीण, किसान, मध्यवर्ग परिवार को जो देश के सैन्य परिवार का हिस्सा हैं- हर जवान के साथ आप सबका बलिदान शामिल है। "Heartiest congratulations to the families of all villagers, farmers, middle class people who are part of the armed forces' family of the country -- your sacrifice is also involved with every soldier. The Indian Army - the protector, pride too. Jai Hind!," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-extends-wishes-to-families-of-armed-forces-personnel-on-army-day-1071439.html
15-01-2022||National Politics||BJP's wickets falling, couldn't fathom SP's strategy: Akhilesh after inducting deserters||Akhilesh Yadav on Friday taunted the BJP for losing "one wicket after the other" and not fathoming the SP strategy as he inducted two ministers and six other MLAs who recently deserted the ruling alliance into his Samajwadi Party. Apart from the six BJP MLAs, a legislator from BJP ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) also joined the SP at a large public meeting in the compound of the party office here, a defiance of Covid norms that led to the registration of a case. The Election Commission has banned election meetings till January 15. In apparent deference to the EC order, the meeting was called a "virtual rally” and a “press conference”, going by the banner behind the dais. "The BJP wickets are falling one after the other. Our ‘baba’ CM doesn’t know how to play cricket. Even if he knew, he has dropped the catch," the SP president commented on Yogi Adityanath, the face of the ruling party in the UP polls. Yadav also mocked the chief minister over his “80 versus 20” remark, suggesting that Adityanath should get himself a math teacher. The CM had recently said 80 per cent of the voters will be on the BJP’s side and the remaining 20 per cent against it in next month's assembly polls, a jibe that many thought alluded to the Muslim proportion of the state’s population. The SP leader said the real proportion of those with the two rivals was just the opposite. And after the entry of Swami Prasad Maurya and the others in the SP, the BJP would lose even this 20 percent, Yadav said after conferring the party membership to the OBC leader who resigned from the Adityanath cabinet earlier this week. Maurya too referred to the 80-20 remark. “Now it will be 15 and 85. Eighty-five is ours, there will be divisions in the 15 as well,” he said. He also vowed to “finish” the BJP. Using wrestling terms, the new entrant challenged BJP leaders to try whatever move they wanted. “I will ground you into the earth. I will finish the Bharatiya Janata Party as the time has come to rid Uttar Pradesh of your oppression.” Maurya was the first to desert the BJP, and the move was followed by similar announcement by others -- mostly leaders from the Other Backward Classes who claimed that the ruling party had ignored their community. Apart from Maurya, his former cabinet colleague Dharam Singh Saini and five other BJP MLA joined the SP on Friday. They are Bhagwati Sagar (from Bilhaur in Kanpur), Roshanlal Verma (Tilhar in Shahjahanpur), Vinay Shakya (Bidhuna in Auraiya), Brajesh Prajapati (Tindwari in Bahraich) and Mukesh Verma (Shikohabad in Firozabad). Amar Singh, an MLA who represented BJP ally Apna Dal (Sonelal), also joined the opposition party. Several district and block-level politicians, aligned to different parties, also switched sides at the event. But Dara Singh Chauhan, who too had quit the state cabinet, was absent. Sources said he is likely to join the SP on Sunday. Red turbans were placed on the heads of the new SP members on the dais, where Maurya sat centre stage. Akhilesh Yadav pooh-poohed the BJP claim of winning three-fourths of the seats in the 403-member UP House. "They meant they will win three or four seats," he said. "Baba CM has failed. No matter how many people come from Delhi, he is not going to pass the exams,” he said, referring to the top BJP leaders who have campaigned in UP. He said the BJP has scored a hit wicket and its leaders are unable to fathom the SP strategy. “Had they known the strategy, they would have started damage control," the SP chief said. The crossing over of the OBC leaders could help the SP expand its support base among the backwards, who form over 50 per cent of the UP population. In the packed SP headquarters compound, there was no scope for social distancing and a large proportion of the crowd did not wear masks. The local police registered an FIR for violation of coronavirus curbs. It mentioned 2,000 to 2,500 unknown Samajwadi Party activists. Maurya said Makar Sankranti, the festival that fell on Friday, will mark the end of the BJP. He claimed that senior BJP leaders were in deep slumber like that of Kumbhkaran, the Ramayan character, and would not listen to ministers or legislators. “They have lost their sleep after our resignations,” the former minister said. He claimed that the BJP “cheated” the Scheduled Castes, minorities and the backwards to gain power. Maurya claimed the BJP floated his name and that of the present deputy CM, Keshav Prasad Maurya, ahead of the 2017 elections, and formed the government on the basis of the votes of the backwards. He described Adityanath as the `Skylab’ from Gorakhpur that was made to land on the CM’s chair, depriving the backward castes that position. Maurya boasted that after his departure from the Bahujan Samaj Party, Mayawati could never return to power. “And now BJP will be reduced to its 2012 position of the number three party in UP and Akhilesh will become the CM.”  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-wickets-falling-couldnt-fathom-sps-strategy-akhilesh-after-inducting-deserters-1071279.html
15-01-2022||National Politics||Muslims 'most secure and happy' under BJP rule: RSS body appeals for votes||The RSS' Muslim wing on Friday appealed to the minority community to vote for the BJP in the assembly polls in five states, saying Muslims are "most secure and happy" under the BJP rule whereas the Congress, SP and the BSP considered them just as vote bank. The Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM) listed various schemes implemented by the BJP governments at the Centre and in states for the welfare of the community and said the party is "the biggest well-wisher" of Muslims in the country. The opposition parties, including the Congress, Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), have only considered Muslims as their vote bank and after coming to power, they gave the community members poverty, illiteracy, backwardness and "atrocities like instant triple talaq", the MRM charged. The MRM's 'Nivedan Patra (letter of appeal), printed in the form of leaflet for distribution in the poll-bound states, was released at a meeting here presided over by its founder and chief patron Indresh Kumar, the outfit's national convenor and in-charge of media Shahid Sayeed told PTI. He said that leaflets will be distributed among the minority community members seeking vote for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab. It noted, "The Narendra Modi government has started as many as 36 schemes, including Nai Roshni, Naya Savera, Nai Udaan, Seekho Aur Kamao, Ustaad and Nai Manjil, for the welfare of the minority communities since 2014." The minority community members also benefited from the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Mudra Yojana, Jan Dhan Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, Startup India and other schemes launched by the Modi government, it said. "Opposition parties, including Congress, SP and BSP, have been running propaganda against the RSS and the BJP for long saying that Muslims will be thrown out of the country if BJP comes to power... How many Muslims have been expelled from the country in the past seven years?" it asked. "Congress and other opposition parties have considered Muslims only as their vote bank...Muslims got poverty, illiteracy, hatred against Hindus, backwardness, and anti-Islamic atrocities like (instant) triple talaq during the regimes of Congress and so-called sympathisers of Muslims,” it added. The MRM claimed that the incidents of “communal riots and atrocities” on Muslims have come down “drastically” since 2014. "BJP government is the biggest well-wisher of Muslims... Don't fall prey to the Congress, SP-BSP during the elections. The Muslims of the country are most secure and happy under the rule of BJP and will continue to remain so. Cast your votes wisely. Even a slight mistake can become a cause of trouble,” it added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/muslims-most-secure-and-happy-under-bjp-rule-rss-body-appeals-for-votes-1071308.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Weekend curfew starts, non-essential activities on hold for next 55 hours in Delhi||The weekend curfew, imposed in the national capital to check Covid spread, kicked in from Friday night putting on hold all non-essential activities for the next 55 hours. The weekend curfew has been imposed from 10 pm of Friday till 5 am of Monday by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) through its order on January 1. Metro train services will continue to be regulated on the weekend (January 15 -16) in compliance with the DDMA guidelines issued last week, said an official spokesperson of the Delhi Metro. Metro services and public transport buses will operate with full seating capacity during the curfew but no standing commuters will be allowed. Trains will be available at a frequency of 15 minutes on the 'Yellow Line' - HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli-and 'Blue Line' (i.e. Dwarka Sec-21 to NOIDA Electronic City/Vaishali, the spokesperson said. On all other lines, trains will be available at a frequency of 20 minutes during the weekend curfew. The e-passes issued last week for essential services will be valid during the curfew. Markets will be closed during the weekend curfew barring those dealing in essential goods and services like groceries, vegetables and fruits, medicines, milk among others. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/weekend-curfew-starts-non-essential-activities-on-hold-for-next-55-hours-in-delhi-1071309.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Weekend restrictions back in J&K amid surge in Covid cases||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday imposed "complete restriction on non-essential movement" during weekends in the Union Territory amid a surge in Covid cases that rose by 2,456 a day earlier. The district authorities swung into action immediately, closing down markets and asking people to return to their homes. Announcing the decision of the State Executive Committee (SEC), which met under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary A K Mehta, officials said night curfew and online mode of teaching in schools and colleges will continue. After a weekly review of the Covid-19 situation, Mehta said there was a need for additional steps besides continuing with the existing Covid containment measures in all districts given the uneven trend in daily cases as well as rising positivity rate. "There shall be a complete restriction on non-essential movement during weekends in entire Jammu and Kashmir," Mehta said in his latest order. Following the order, Deputy Commissioner of Jammu Anshul Garg, in a tweet, said the complete restrictions on non-essential movements in the district is from Fridays 9 pm to Mondays 6 am. "There shall be no restrictions on transport, essential services/activities and home deliveries during the weekend in Jammu. However, the public is strongly urged to stay at home to avoid any inconvenience. Grateful for your cooperation," he said. Police and civil officials visited different markets in the city to enforce the order. Shopkeepers, who had opened their establishments in the morning, were surprised by the announcement and said the government should have intimated them about it a day in advance time to prevent the panic buying of essentials that has started. Deputy Commissioner of Udhampur Indu Kanwal Chib herself led the drive to implement the order and was seen asking commuters and shopkeepers to return to their homes. She said, "Patnitop is recording huge turnout on weekends. We are enforcing strict lockdown there as well." Nobody will be allowed to visit the hill station after 5 pm on weekdays, the officer said. Police vehicles fitted with public address systems were seen roaming in public places informing people about the weekend restrictions and seeking their cooperation. The State Executive Committee order, however, said asymptomatic people arriving in the Union Territory by air, rail and roads would not be required to undergo RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen test on arrival if they have a valid and verifiable final certificate report of Covid-19 vaccination or a valid verifiable negative RT-PCR report done within 72 hours of arrival. "RT-PCR or RAT Covid tests shall, however, be conducted on symptomatic incoming passengers by air, rail and road," it stated. Inner-state movement of passenger vehicles of State Road Transport Corporation and private buses shall be permitted for fully vaccinated people with verifiable RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours or on-spot RAT test. Vaccinated people will be allowed entry to parks after due verification. The SEC however reiterated that gathering of 25 people at any indoor or outdoor function or gathering up to 25 vaccinated people or 25 per cent of the authorised capacity, whichever is less, preferably in open spaces at banquet halls will be allowed. Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, restaurants, clubs, gymnasiums and swimming pools are permitted to continue operation at 25 per cent of the authorised capacity. Jammu and Kashmir recorded the highest single-day rise of Covid cases this year on Friday when 2,456 fresh infections pushed the tally to 3,52,623, while five fatalities took the death linked to the viral disease to 4,557. The SEC directed all deputy commissioners to intensify testing and constitute teams to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour. The Home Secretary will monitor the enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour closely and submit a report to the chairperson of the SEC daily basis, the order said. District magistrates can order the setting up of as many micro containment zones as needed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/weekend-restrictions-back-in-jk-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-1071330.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Deaf and mute girl 'has not been raped', says Alwar SP||Superintendent of Police (SP), Alwar, Tejaswini Gautam, in a surprising statement, has said that the deaf and dumb girl -- found on a culvert on Tuesday in profusely bleeding state -- has not been raped. On the "basis" of opinion shared by JK Lon Hospital on Friday late evening, she said that the minor has not been raped and investigations are in progress to ascertain the cause of her injuries. The SP said that the girl has injuries in her private part, however, facts like rape have not come to the fore. Medical experts gave this information on basis of forensic, medical and technical experts, she added. "We are investigating how she was injured at the culvert," she said adding that "we shall share new facts once they are revealed". "The girl was seen walking alone on streets. She came to the city from a village in an auto, which has been traced but no trace of sexual assault has been found till date." "No doubtful person was seen along with her as she went on culvert. What left her bleeding in next 10 minutes is yet to be known. A total of 300 CCTV cameras have been explored," the SP asserted. The girl was found on culvert in Alwar on Tuesday morning in profusely bleeding state and was rushed to hospital in a serious state, where doctors performed a surgery for around three hours. Thereafter police formed SIT inquiry. Meanwhile BJP has objected to claims made by the SP and said that why such a statement has been made without SIT report. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deaf-and-mute-girl-has-not-been-raped-says-alwar-sp-1071341.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||4.32 lakh vacancies in nine core sectors in July-Sep 2021: Govt survey||An estimated 4.32 lakh vacancies were reported in nine core non-farming sectors during July-September last year, soon after the second wave of Covid-19. Of this, only one-third were due to resignations or retirements. According to the second round of Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) for July-September 2021 released earlier this week, the education sector topped the list with 1.49 lakh vacancies followed by the manufacturing sector with 1.04 lakh jobs and IT/BPOs with 87,833 jobs. The estimated vacancies in Health were 53,952, 12,472 in Trade, 11,231 in Accommodation and Restaurants, 6,810 in Construction, 3,643 in Transport and 2,428 in Financial Services. In April-June last year, the QES-1 reported 1.87 lakh vacancies of which 57.7 per cent arose due to resignations and retirements. According to QES-2, only 11.7 per cent or 50,637 vacancies arose due to retirement while 22.5 per cent or 97,383 were due to resignations. A whopping 65.5 per cent or 2.81 lakh were due to "other" reasons, which were not specified but could be speculated as lay-offs, firing and previous vacancies among others. According to the survey, an estimated 5.6 per cent of the establishments had vacancies. Among those, 7.6 per cent were reported from the education sector and 6.6 per cent from the IT/BPO sector. Four sectors — Education, Manufacturing, IT/BPOs and Health — accounted for 91 per cent of the reported vacancies. In the IT/BPO sector, very few vacancies were caused by either resignation 8.3 per cent or by retirement 6 per cent. A whopping 85.7 per cent vacancies in the IT/BPO sector arose due to "other" reasons. After the IT/ BPOs sector, Education and Health sectors were found to be ‘In the Process’ of filling up 83.9 per cent and 81.2 per cent of their total vacancies respectively. Construction and Financial Services sectors had kept the maximum proportion (37.6 per cent and 33.7 per cent respectively) of their vacancies unfilled due to ‘Need not Felt’. In the education sector, 17.8 per cent were due to resignation while 9.7 per cent were due to retirement.  A major reason for vacancies in financial services was retirement (58.4 per cent). While the highest percentage with 54.6 per cent cases of vacancies due to resignation was observed in the Construction sector, the lowest was recorded in the accommodation and restaurants sector with only 4.7 per cent cases. On filling vacancies, the majority (75.5 per cent) was in the process of being filled up. While about 12 per cent remained unfilled due to "no need felt now", 9 per cent was due to non-availability of skilled workers". According to the survey, 99.5 per cent of the 87,833 vacancies in the IT/BPO sector were in the process of being filled while the remaining 0.5 per cent remained not filled for either not getting requisite skilled workers or no need felt. The "important reasons" for not filling up the vacancies in financial services were either they were ‘In the Process’ (66.3 per cent) or ‘No need felt now’(33.7 per cent).  Non-availability of skilled workers was the prime reason for not filling up the vacancies in Construction (24.5 per cent), Trade (24.7 per cent) and Manufacturing (19.5 per cent) sectors. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/432-lakh-vacancies-in-nine-core-sectors-in-july-sep-2021-govt-survey-1071343.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Seems Delhi has reached its peak in Covid infections: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that it seems the national capital has reached its peak in Covid-19 infections and the government will think of easing restrictions when the cases decline to touch 15,000. He said Delhi is expected to record around 20,000 cases on Saturday, less than Friday's figure of 24,383.  On Thursday, there were 28,867 cases recorded in Delhi, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic.  "We can say that Delhi has reached a peak in terms of cases. Cases have started slowing down. Let's see when the decline happens," he told reporters. He reiterated that the hospitalisation rate has stabilised in Delhi. When asked whether restrictions will be eased in Delhi as cases have come down, he said, "Let's wait. The cases have started declining. They came down to 24,000 yesterday and will come down to 20000 today. Let them come down to 15,000 or below and then we will see."  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seems-delhi-has-reached-its-peak-in-covid-infections-satyendar-jain-1071371.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Study finds evidence of community transmission of Omicron in Delhi||There is a definite shift from Delta predominance to Omicron along with its community spread in Delhi, a study revealed on Saturday. This is the first study in India that provides evidence of Omicron community transmission with significantly increased breakthrough infections, decreased hospitalisation and symptomatic infection rate among individuals with high seropositivity against SARS CoV-2 infections. The study conducted by the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences is based on epidemiological, clinical and genome sequence analysis of 264 cases since the day Omicron was designated as VoC by WHO. Out of the 264 cases included during the study period, 68.9 per cent were identified as Delta and its sub-lineages while 31.06 per cent were Omicron with BA.1 as the predominant sub-lineage (73.1 per cent). Most of the Omicron cases were asymptomatic (nP,61 per cent) and did not require any hospitalisations. A total of 72 (87.8 per cent) cases were fully vaccinated. At least 39.1 per cent had a history of travel or contact while 60.9 per cent showed community transmission. A steep increase in the daily progression of Omicron cases with its preponderance in the community was observed from 1.8 per cent to 54 per cent, the study highlighted. The study observed that young adults and males were infected more in comparison to children and the elderly population which could be due to more socialising and close connections than other mentioned groups. The results suggest a large reduction in protection against the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 infection as 87.8 per cent population got reinfected after full primary vaccination thus implying increased breakthrough infections. The results suggest a large decrease in protection from the vaccine or natural immunity against Covid infections caused by the Omicron variant. This is a prospective study where respiratory specimen from all RT-PCR confirmed positive cases between November 25 to December 23 collected from five districts of Delhi were subjected to whole-genome sequencing. Complete demographic and clinical details were recorded. This emphasises the urgent need for a booster vaccination and will warrant implementing non-pharmaceutical interventions along with the installation of rapid detection strategies for asymptomatic carriage in high-risk transmission populations especially with those having comorbidities. The study has said that the majority of Omicron patients (60.9 per cent) had no documented international travel history or contact hence evidently they acquired the infection locally, thus signifying the community spread and imposing further challenges in controlling the virus. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/study-finds-evidence-of-community-transmission-of-omicron-in-delhi-1071387.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||IED detected, defused in J&K's Bandipora||An improvised explosive device (IED) was detected and defused on Saturday in J&amp;K's Bandipora district. Police said a 10-kg IED was detected by police and 14 Rashtriya Rifles in orchard area of Bandipora today. "Bomb disposal squad of the army was called in and the IED was defused", police said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ied-detected-defused-in-jks-bandipora-1071392.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi HC, district courts to continue virtual hearing till February11||The Delhi High Court has said that it would continue hearing cases through the virtual mode till February 11. According to an office order dated January 12, the district courts would also hear matters only through the video conferencing mode till then. "In continuation of this court's office order dated 30.12.2021, as directed by Hon'ble the Chief Justice, the existing system of hearing of cases in this court [including the courts of Registrar and Joint Registrar (Judicial)] as well as in the district courts in Delhi shall continue till 11.02.2022," the latest order said. On December 30, the high court - which resumed physical hearings from November 22 - had decided to shift to the virtual mode from January 3 in view of rise in Covid-19 cases and the subsequent 'yellow alert' declared by the government in the national capital. The decision to go back to the virtual system was taken after an office note was placed before Chief Justice D N Patel highlighting the rise in number of cases of Covid-19 infections. "There is, indubitably, a sudden spurt and spike in Covid-19 cases in the NCT of Delhi. Such rise is quite alarming and worrisome. The government of NCT of Delhi has already issued 'yellow alert' in Delhi. It's high time that this court also takes all the possible precautionary and preventive measures to thwart any possibility of resurgence of any wave of extreme nature," the statement issued by the high court had said. The statement had quoted Justice Patel saying, "I have also consulted with the esteemed members of the Administrative and General Supervision Committee of this court. They all are also of the view that immediate steps are required to be taken to safeguard the health and well-being of all the stakeholders while also ensuring that the justice delivery system remains functional." The high court had first moved to the virtual system in March 2020 following the outbreak of Covid-19, and subsequently, few benches had started holding physical courts everyday on rotation basis. High court holding physical courts also held hybrid proceedings, wherein lawyers have the option to attend the hearing via video conference instead of appearing in person. Last year, complete physical hearings were resumed in high court from March 15 but on April 8, it was ordered that matters would be taken up through virtual mode only on account of the second wave. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-district-courts-to-continue-virtual-hearing-till-february11-1071402.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Three lakh take holy dip in Ganga in Prayagraj amid rising coronavirus cases||Around three lakh devotees took a dip in the Ganga here on Saturday in connection with Makar Sankranti despite the coronavirus threat. The Magh Mela area has been witnessing the arrival of devotees since morning and around three lakh people, including children and the elderly, had taken bath in the river by 2 pm, an official of the annual religious event said. On Friday, around 6.5 lakh people took a holy dip in the river in Prayagraj on the occasion of Makar Sankranti. Around 1,25,000 masks were distributed in the Mela area till 12 noon on Saturday, the official said, adding that awareness about compliance of the coronavirus protocol is being spread through 25 Covid help desks. Holding the event amid rising number of coronavirus cases has emerged as a major challenge before the fair administration. In fact, many on-duty police personnel were found infected with Covid-19 even before the start of the fair. The Prayagraj district administration has already announced that it will be mandatory for visitors to the fair area to come with a negative RT-PCR report, not older than 48 hours. They are also expected to mandatorily carry certificates of both doses of vaccination and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour. The mela administration has divided the fair area into five sectors. Five pontoon bridges have been erected so that devotees staying in more than 3,200 institutions and camps in all these sectors can have an easy access to 12 bathing ghats in the Mela area. Two 50-bed hospitals, named Ganga and Triveni, 12 health camps and 10 treatment centres have also been set up in the Mela area.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-lakh-take-holy-dip-in-ganga-in-prayagraj-amid-rising-coronavirus-cases-1071407.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||BJP holds joint core group meet in Jammu, discusses Covid situation in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir BJP on Saturday held a joint meeting of core groups of all its organisational districts in Jammu and discussed the Covid-19 situation in the union territory. J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina inaugurated the meeting at the party headquarters here, while Union minister Jitendra Singh and other senior leaders joined it virtually, a party spokesperson said. "A core group meeting of all organisational districts of Jammu province was held to discuss the prevailing situation, especially the surge in Covid-19 cases," Raina told reporters. At the meeting, the party workers were directed to extend their support to the administration in its efforts for the mitigation of Covid-19 and to serve the people in the best possible way, he said. Raina praised BJP workers for their constant work for the welfare of society and emphasised the role of the party's 'Morchas' in empowering the neglected communities and strengthening the party structure in those communities. Singh asked BJP workers to work as consistent learners and performers, maintain an unfailing touch with society and take the government's public welfare schemes to the targeted population, according to the spokesperson.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-holds-joint-core-group-meet-in-jammu-discusses-covid-situation-in-jk-1071414.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||SKM says farmer unions contesting Punjab polls no longer part of it||The farmer unions contesting the Punjab assembly polls will no longer be part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body that spearheaded the agitation against the now-repealed agri laws said on Saturday. SKM leaders in a press conference after their meeting at Kondli on the Singhu border also said that BKU leader Rakesh Tikait will visit Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh for three days in January to press for sacking of Union Minister Ajay Mishra whose son is accused of mowing down protesting farmers last year. "Tikait will meet victims, jailed farmers and officials. If there is no progress, a siege may be laid in Lakhimpur by farmer organisations," said Yudhvir Singh. Singh also said that the SKM does not agree with farmer organisations participating in the election in Punjab and they will not be part of it. "Those organisations taking part in polls are not part of SKM. We will decide about our relation with them in a meeting of SKM four months later," he said. SKM leader Joginder Singh Ugrhan said, "SKM has nothing to do with them." Two prominent leaders of the SKM Gurnam Singh Chadhuni and Balbir Singh Rajewal, who were part of the year-long anti-farm law protests at Delhi borders last year, have joined the fray in Punjab. Chaduni has formed his own political party. The Punjab unit of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has formed Samyukt Samaj Morcha to contest the Punjab assembly elections. The Samyukt Samaj Morcha comprising several farmer organisation has announced contesting the election under the leadership of Balbir Singh Rajewal.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/skm-says-farmer-unions-contesting-punjab-polls-no-longer-part-of-it-1071418.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||5 held in bribery case involving GAIL director; Rs 84 lakh recovered||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday conducted raids at the residence of the Director (Marketing) of GAIL, and several NCR-based locations in connection with a bribery case, and arrested five persons for their alleged involvement in the case. ES Ranganathan, the Director (Marketing) at GAIL, allegedly took bribes from private persons for issuing discount orders on the purchase of petrochemical products. An official said that the CBI team has collected some incriminating documents following the raid. It also recovered cash of Rs 84 lakh. A CBI official said that a case was lodged in this regard on January 14. The CBI had got the information that Ranganathan is indulging in corrupt and illegal activities in criminal conspiracy with two individuals -- Pawan Gaur and Rajesh Kumar. These two persons were allegedly acting as his middleman, by obtaining bribes from the private companies buying petrochemical products marketed by the GAIL. "We were informed that at the direction of Rajesh, Pawan had asked Ranganathan for allowing some discount to the buyers on petrochemical products being marketed by GAIL in lieu of illegal gratification. They met at Noida several times," said a CBI source. In order to collect the bribe amount, Rajesh had further contacted other dealers, who would be the prospective beneficiaries of the discount. In December, Rajesh collected the demanded bribe amount and delivered it to Pawan for Ranganathan. On the direction of Ranganathan, a Gurugram-based businessman N. Ramakrishnan Nair collected Rs 40 lakh from Pawan. "Rajesh also entered a negotiation with two more prospective beneficiary dealers -- namely Saurabh Gupta and Aditya Bansal, and convinced them for paying bribe in exchange for the favourable orders from GAIL," said the source. The CBI official said that Rajesh requested Saurabh Gupta for fulfilling his commitment for issuance of the discount order by GAIL and also informed that Ranganathan had demanded Rs 15 lakh but agreed to take Rs 12 lakh. Pawan also asked Saurabh to pay the amount at the earliest. Saurabh had already given Rs 3 lakh to Rajesh and decided to pay the rest of the amount through the Hawala channel. On January 14, Aditya Bansal also gave a bribe amount to Rajesh for Ranganathan. "Ranganathan on the request of Pawan and Rajesh got some checks conducted in the month of November, in the premises of some authorised stockists of GAIL. However, before the said surprise check, Ranganathan had also cautioned some of his favoured parties. Thus they committed huge fraud and we lodged a case of prevention of corruption act," said the CBI official. The official said that during the raid they have recorded the statement of arrested persons. Further probe into the matter is underway. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-held-in-bribery-case-involving-gail-director-rs-84-lakh-recovered-1071419.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Pleas seek transfer of cases on Uniform Civil Code from Delhi HC to SC||Three petitions have been filed in the Supreme Court seeking transfer to it the pleas on the Uniform Civil Code (UCC) issue pending in the Delhi High Court to avoid multiplicity of litigations and ensure its final adjudication. The transfer petitions have been filed by Amber Zaidi, Nighat Abbas and Danish Eqbal whose separate pleas seeking implementation of the Uniform Civil Code have been pending in the Delhi High Court. The pleas said though the high court, on March 20, 2020, had issued notices to several union ministries on the PILs on UCC, no substantial hearing has taken place thereafter. As the petitions involved “very important constitutional issues”, it would be in the “fitness of things” that they are transferred to the Supreme Court for a “pronouncement with finality”, they said. Article 44 of the Constitution, which is part of the Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSP), lays down that the state shall endeavour to secure UCC for the citizens throughout the territory of India. Earlier, a similar transfer petition was filed by lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay. Upadhyay, in his transfer plea filed through lawyer Ashwani Dubey, had said that his five separate PILs seeking uniform laws on minimum marriage age, divorce grounds, maintenance-alimony, adoption-guardianship and succession-inheritance are pending in the Supreme Court. The petition had also sought a direction to the Centre to constitute a judicial commission or expert committee to draft the Uniform Civil Code while considering the best practices of all personal laws and civil laws of the developed countries and international conventions. "A gender-neutral, religion-neutral law will apply to all Indians, whether Hindu or Muslim, Zoroastrian or Christian, in relation to the will, charity, divinity, guardianship, sharing of custody, etc. The gender-based discrepancy in the religion caste and sect will end. "A comprehensive unified gender-neutral and religion-neutral law will be passed at the national level and will be equally applicable to all citizens," Upadhyay had said in his plea. It had said that it would not only promote fraternity and national integration but also secure gender justice and dignity of women. The plea stated that the "Uniform Civil Code or Indian Civil Code” has always been seen as a "spectacle of religious appeasement". The Supreme Court or a high court cannot ask the government to implement Article 44 of the Constitution but can direct the Centre to constitute a committee to prepare a draft of the Uniform Civil Code, the plea said. "The Supreme Court and High Court may direct the Centre to constitute a Judicial Commission or Expert Committee to study the Uniform Civil Code of the developed countries and the laws applicable in India and make public a draft of the 'Indian Civil Code', combining the good of all, and public discussion could begin on this subject," it said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pleas-seek-transfer-of-cases-on-uniform-civil-code-from-delhi-hc-to-sc-1071445.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Ride aggregators, delivery services to mandatorily adopt EVs as Delhi govt notifies draft policy||The Delhi government on Saturday notified a draft "aggregator's policy" under which ride aggregators and delivery services will have to mandatorily adopt electric vehicles while procuring new fleet. "Ride aggregators and delivery services will have to mandatorily adopt electric vehicles in their new fleet. The Kejriwal government has become the first in India to draft an aggregator's policy to mandate EV fleet; draft policy has been placed for public opinion for 60 days," a government statement said. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the policy will provide the necessary push to the aggregator industry to become environment friendly. "Aggregators and delivery services would need to ensure 10 per cent of all new two-wheelers and 5 per cent of all new four-wheelers are electric in the next three months while 50 per cent of all new two-wheelers and 25 per cent of all new four-wheelers are electric by March 2023,” he said. “The Delhi government will also be making a representation to the Commission for Air Quality Management to direct other states in the NCR area to also adopt the policy," Rai added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ride-aggregators-delivery-services-to-mandatorily-adopt-evs-as-delhi-govt-notifies-draft-policy-1071454.html
15-01-2022||North and Central||Republic Day celebrations to this year to begin on January 23||The Centre will now begin celebrations for the Republic Day every year from January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of Subhash Chandra Bose, government sources said.  The development is in line with the Modi government's norm of instituting newer public holidays connected to India’s freedom struggle.  The government had earlier started celebrating Bose's birth anniversary as Parakram Divas and chose to observe August 14, a day before Independence Day, as the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.  Similarly, Sardar Patel's birth anniversary on October 31 is celebrated as Ekta Divas or National Unity Day, while November 15, the birth anniversary of tribal freedom fighter Birsa Munda, is celebrated as Janjatiya Gaurav Divas.  The Modi administration has sought to promote the legacies of leaders it believes have been neglected by the Congress regime over the last seven decades.   Sardar Patel, Lal Bahadur Shastri and Bose are some of the key figures of India’s freedom struggle promoted by the government.  Recently, on the death anniversary of Lal Bahadur Shastri on January 11, there was a significant media push, courtesy of the Modi government. Several of the government’s handles posted messages and tweets remembering the former PM.    As part of the government’s efforts to promote Netaji, the 2014 Modi Cabinet had declassified over 75 files on the leader in two batches in March and April in 2016. The Congress had accused the BJP of trying to usurp its freedom fighter icons. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-celebrations-to-this-year-to-begin-on-january-23-1071466.html
15-01-2022||Opinion||Urban conundrum in five poll-bound states||Political polarization has begun in the five poll-bound states - Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. Issues of caste and religious identity are again the focus, while those of livelihoods, pandemic management, price rise and such have still not come to the fore. All five states have substantial urban populations. Unfortunately, issues linked with urbanisation remain neglected. It would not be amiss to mention that recently Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited a few mayors to Kashi to witness his vision of urban India. It is a brazenly iniquitous, exclusivist vision of urban design and governance. Status of urbanisation in five states Of the five poll-bound states, UP, in numerical terms, has the highest number of urban voters, 4.5 crore according to the 2011 Census, 22.7 per cent of its population, living in 3894 census towns. The Noida city alone contributes 10.12 per cent of UP's gross domestic product, followed by Lucknow's four per cent. Urban and peri-urban areas send nearly a hundred legislators to UP's 403-member legislature. At 37.48 per cent, Punjab has a high urban population percentage, higher than the national average of 34 per cent, and has some of India's largest industrial towns. Some model towns were also developed in Punjab, which finds reference in many Punjabi songs as places to have fun and frolic. While more than one crore people live in 237 defined townships of urban Punjab, the peri-urban in the state is also primarily urban, and hence issues of urbanisation are relevant. Towns contribute nearly 60 per cent of the state's GDP, and according to an estimate, there is an outlay of a meagre 3 per cent for urban areas. Goa is 62.17 per cent urbanised, with 9.06 lakh living in its 20 small and big towns. Uttarakhand has 114 small towns and municipalities and an urban population of 31 lakh, or 30.2 per cent of its total. Nearly 50 per cent of Uttarakhand's workforce migrates out to seek work. Manipur has almost 30 per cent urban population, 8.34 lakh, residing in 51 towns. Commonality of issues Nearly six crore urban population living in these five states will exercise their voting right over two months. The number surpasses populations of many European countries which are predominantly urban. But urban issues are seldom exclusively seen from a political perspective.  Even if urban issues become essential, we cannot generalise these to be common to all urban areas. In some towns and cities, water may be a vital issue. It could be garbage management, mobility or healthcare services in other urban areas. But there are still a few concerns and issues shared across the urban spectrum. Foremost of all is the enormous impact on peoples' livelihoods owing to "privatisation of cities" since last few decades but with a rocket speed since 2014. These towns and cities, which were centres of employment and industry, have seen a sharp increase in people's vulnerability, mainly economic, and this has happened across the states.  This privatisation of cities is not confined only to some utilities and has accentuated poverty levels since it is taking place with the city planning process. It contributes to inaccessible housing, high costs of transport, utilities, water, electricity, health, education; the list is long. The loss of livelihoods in urban centres is phenomenally high. The unemployment rate crossing double-digit figure in the past is the highest in the last four decades. The cost of living has skyrocketed in urban centres. The social security net has loosened, which has compounded the distress. People, especially migrants who comprise a large population in the urban areas, find it difficult to make ends meet, evident in the aftermath of the lockdown announced in March 2020. Inequity in India's towns and cities has increased sharply. Since the last few years, the Oxfam report has repeatedly pointed out that urban inequity is phenomenally high in India. The gap between the rich and the poor has been widening. One reason is how towns and cities are being developed as envisioned by the prime minister. The 'smart cities' further rob the people of the urban commons and transfer them to the super-rich in urban areas. Lastly, the common feature in urban towns is the low levels of urban governance. Charles Correa, the chairperson of the first urban commission in India, once pointed out that cities in India are hardly run by the elected mayors but by the chief ministers of the state. Moreover, the 74th constitution amendment provisions empowering city governments by transferring the three F's - functions, functionaries and finances - are yet to happen. Most cities are unable to manage the waste generated, be it solid or liquid, and unable to pay their employees' salaries on time. Thus, city governance structures are weak and performances abysmal. In its recent report, the Reserve Bank of India pointed out that towns need more finances and empowerment. Despite these significant issues that concern people, one does not find them to be resonating in the political atmosphere in the five poll-bound states. One reason for the urban puzzle is that the political process leading to urban leadership is too meek to demand a space in the overall political debate. For example, the All-India Mayors Council (AIMC), a body of elected mayors from the country but completely defunct. The chairperson of the AIMC is the mayor of Agra. The political interest of the mayor is not to strengthen such bodies rather would be to become an MLA from his constituency. Agra city may be elect as many as five MLAs still the mayor would like to be one of them.  Here, allow me to share an anecdote KC Sivaramakrishnan, former secretary of the ministry of urban development, shared with this writer at a meeting of the national task force to review the 74th constitution amendment. He said, "Do you know what a mayor of Mumbai would like to become?" The mayor, he said, wants to become an MLA despite Mumbai electing more than 20 MLAs and five MPs. (The writer is a former deputy mayor of Shimla)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/urban-conundrum-in-five-poll-bound-states-1071397.html
15-01-2022||Opinion||In the quest for a perfect recording, a note of falsehood||All I remember of my first studio recording is the discomfort: physically isolated from my musical partners, stuck in a sound-proof cubicle, unable to see them properly, trying to make music in synchrony while taking instructions via the headphones. A year later, I was introduced to ‘punch’. Before this technological facility was introduced, we would finish a song and listen to it being replayed by the sound engineer. If we weren’t satisfied, we would redo the entire song. But ‘punch’ allowed us to record over just the mistakes we made. Since we were performing from booths, each musical track was recorded separately; i.e., one sound did not leak into the other. I could sing over my mistake, much like erasing a word in the middle of a sentence and writing again in that exact place carefully. In the case of audio, the erasing+rewriting happened together. The engineer would replay just that part of the song and I would sing along while that one phrase would be recorded over the older version! My job was to maintain the same tonality, volume and duration so that it fitted exactly. It was called a ‘punch’ because it was punched-in. But this raised an ethical question. Is it OK to perform a hatchet job on a piece of music? Are we taking something away from the flow? Is the listener being tricked into believing that it was performed uninterrupted? These questions are relevant, especially in musical forms such as Carnatic, because the ‘on-the-go’ coming together is considered essential to the experience. When we made these corrections, something was definitely lost. There was also a notional threshold beyond which alterations destroyed the music. But this line was subjective. The tool’s availability affected our attitude; a casualness crept in. I could go into a recording under-prepared because I knew that I could make corrections! With time, technology got more intelligent and efficient. Instead of my having to actually sing a ‘punch’, now the software did it for me! Depending on the kind of musical error, two options came into play. If I sang out of pitch, the auto-tuner ironed it out. Or like the Ctrl C+Ctrl V operation on a word processor, I could use a better version of the same note or line from elsewhere in the recording and paste it where required. I want you to imagine where technology might be today! Each note can be separated, adjusted, tone wildly changed, pitch altered to minutest degrees, syllables morphed and, even if the musicians are not in separate booths, each individual instrument’s sound can be fiddled with. At this juncture, we need to distinguish between adding elements and effects consciously to enhance a musical production and covering up a lacking or inefficiency. I am speaking of the latter. The pandemic-induced recording culture has made things worse. Forget the bad quality of Instagram and Facebook ‘live’, other ‘live’ concerts are professionally recorded in advance and premiered as live-streaming. In this context, ‘live’ means ‘a real concert’. But if you think what you hear is what has been sung or played during that ‘live’ recording, you are mistaken. Nine times out of ten, recordings have been manipulated to such an extent that to call it a ‘live concert’ is farcical. After the recording is completed, it is sent to the musicians to check, corrections made! Often, only the ‘main performer’ is given that right. Recording engineers then get hundreds of micro-specific corrections, which include tune musical error at 42.36 min, replace the note at 32.43 min with the same note found at 54.59 min, etc. Singers have sung so off pitch that almost the entire vocal track has been ‘re-tuned’. During the recording, co-musicians would have adjusted to the ‘not-in-tune’ singer. But now, because the singer’s voice has been ‘re-tuned’, they sound off pitch. There are cases where the violinist has been muted for no fault of hers. Places where things that have not fallen in rhythm are smudged. The concert’s actual duration would have been 1-1/2 hours, but this process can take longer. Some musicians sit with the engineers for days to choose the best from what they have rendered, or correct every breath. The magic word today is ‘Melodyne’. According to its website, this is a software “to correct, perfect, reshape, restructure vocal samples and recordings of all kinds in the highest quality.” Don’t blame technology; it is what we do with it that needs introspection. Are we musicians willing to give credit to the multiple softwares used at the end of each recording? That will at least inform the listener of the truth behind the music. The concert is a cover-up job. Organisers expect the sound engineers to do all this, and even blame them for being bad concealers. I would argue that, at the rate we are going, they must be given special acknowledgement as concert-menders! Our questions should be directed towards musicians. Do such musicians have a right to be on stage? But this has also become an addiction for proficient musicians. We are so insecure that we are unable listen to music as it is, with our own human imperfections. This is different from incompetence. Even the greatest of musicians have moments when things are not perfect, as per the scientific rule book, but it is still emotionally moving. It is real. This is now being ripped out of music. Maybe the pressure of published permanence is inducing this over-correction. But we are training listeners to consume clean, synthetic, lifeless music, and mediocrity is being hushed up. The warning signs are all there, but is anyone listening?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-the-quest-for-a-perfect-recording-a-note-of-falsehood-1071477.html
15-01-2022||Opinion||Mahabharata and the art of self-critique||A new current of fascinating books on the Mahabharata has arrived! I was reading Keerthik Sasidharan’s The Dharma Forest and Ira Mukhoty’s Song of Draupadi, and wondering what makes stories from the Mahabharata endure. One reason the Mahabharata is so powerful is that it offers itself up for critique and continually ponders over, re-evaluates, and negates its own ideas. Krishna, regarded as God himself, is not spared this questioning. He is doubted many times over, by Arjuna, by the sage Uttanka, and most importantly, by Gandhari, who curses him and his entire clan to perish. Some characters remain unconvinced by Krishna’s justifications for his actions. In fact, the one thing the Mahabharata establishes beyond all doubt is the imperfection of all human endeavour. Perhaps this was why, some ancient thinkers of Sanskrit aesthetics concluded that the aesthetic purpose of the epic was to make us all realise the pointlessness of everything and persuade us to renounce the world! In our time, the pandemic seems to have done a great job of this. While many scholars have spent too much ink arguing about the contradictions and inconsistencies in the Mahabharata and its philosophical outlook, perhaps the epic has a message that it can only convey through these inconsistencies: such as the importance of dialogue and of reflecting on the same things every once in a while, finding new answers and new questions. We all know of the grand narrative of Bhishma’s vows. Bhishma, who was born Devavrata, finds out that his father is in love with a fisherman’s daughter, Satyavati. Satyavati’s father refuses to allow their marriage since his grandchildren would not succeed the throne. Bhishma, hearing of this, takes the oath that he would remain celibate and never marry (the oath gives him his name Bhishma). Now, Bhishma comes to be celebrated for this oath throughout the epic. Even when the throne of Hastinapura is left without a successor, Bhishma refuses to give up his vow, although the throne was the reason for his vow in the first place. Brian Black, in his new book on dialogue in the Mahabharata, brings up a very interesting story connected with these vows. Bhishma repeatedly justifies his vows in the epic, revealing them to different characters and explaining his reasons. Each time, the explanations change, depending on the context and character. Finally, when Bhishma is on his deathbed, he must instruct Yudhishtira on the duties of a king. He tells Yudhishtira many stories, one of which is the story of Kaushika. Kaushika is a well-meaning sage who has taken a vow to always speak the truth. Kant would like him, perhaps? But Krishna certainly does not. Unfortunately for Kaushika, one day, he witnesses some people fleeing from robbers. When the robbers come looking, they ask Kaushika where the people went. Kaushika, bound by his promise, reveals the direction, and the people are killed. As a result of keeping his vow, Kaushika ends up in hell, where he suffers for a long time. But it is Bhishma telling Yudhishtira this story. Bhishma is hinting at the danger of making rash vows and sticking to them irrespective of context, something that he himself is guilty of! Now, you can say, of course, that self-criticism, and a critique of power, can only happen when dialogue is in good faith. When prime ministers of powerful countries hold drinking parties in a pandemic and call them ‘work meetings’, we are left with only satirists to engage in real dialogue with! I agree.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mahabharata-and-the-art-of-self-critique-1071478.html
15-01-2022||Opinion||The discreet charms of akhadas||A wrestling match was raging in Bangalore. A large crowd had formed to watch it. The year was 1950. Tall and finely built, both the wrestlers kept the fight going, matching technique (dao) with counter-technique (tod). All the while, a man in a black coat and black cap and with vermilion marks on his forehead shouted excitedly from the stage to encourage them, his eyes keenly following every movement in the akhada (arena). He rose suddenly and started making his way towards the wrestlers. One of the wrestlers, Ismail, who was from Davangere and enjoyed fame as the ‘Gama of Mysore’, had just used the tibbi dao to bring down his opponent to the ground. As the crowd cheered, the man in the black coat took off his golden wrist watch and thrust it in the hands of the winner. This sports aesthete was Annayappa, a wrestling contractor in Bengaluru whose integrity and commitment was known across Maharashtra, Punjab and Pakistan. Annayappa’s young daughter, Ramakka, was superbly skillful at swinging a metal baton with water sprinklers at its ends. Blown away by her talent, the Maharaja of Mysore offered to build a gymnasium for her if she wished to train girls in this skill. Her father had been diffident: “It’s better that young children not shoulder big responsibilities.” In the early part of the 20th century, around 1915, Pehlwan Amiruddin Qureshi, a wrestler from outside Mysore, had posted notices all over Mysore city challenging the locals to wrestle with him. By this time, he had already “shown the sky” to every local wrestler. The wrestlers and their gurus and fakirs went into a huddle: none among them, it became clear, could take on the challenge. A deep silence followed. One of the teachers soon noticed a farmer’s son returning from his farm on his bullock cart. After studying him at length, he felt certain that he could be trained to win against the Pehlwan. A rigorous training regime followed for the farmer’s son, Basavayya. He had to climb up and down the Chamundi Hill very early in the morning, with two wrestlers on his shoulders. To keep him inspired during the exercises, his teacher sang alongside. Basavayya’s body soon grew strong. He also learnt the secrets of various wrestling techniques. A date was then found for the contest with the Pehlwan. In the sold-out wrestling show, Basavayya was able to pin down Amiruddin Qureshi after several rounds. The Pehlwan vowed never to wrestle again, and Basavayya went on to become a champion wrestler. Still, they became good friends. Two years before this wrestling episode, a heavily-built wrestler from North India had thrown an open challenge on the popular wrestling arena inside Jaganmohan Palace, Mysore. None of the local wrestlers responded to his call. A tall, fair and sinewy man, Sardar Gopalaraje Urs, a member of the royal family, then stepped inside the arena and extended his arm to accept the challenge. His deep breaths made his chest heave, tearing the buttons off his shirt. Oddly, the other wrestler withdrew his challenge. A wrestler and a wrestling trainer, and widely liked for his impartial refereeing, Gopalaraje Urs ably oversaw the wrestling matches during the month-long Dasara festivities in Mysore for a few decades. I learnt about these thrilling episodes, among many others, from Kustirangada Diggajaru (‘The Giants of Wrestling,’ Kannada Book Authority, 2010) by M Narasimhamurthy. His lively profiles of eight wrestlers, including brief asides about several other wrestlers, trainers and patrons, show traditional Indian wrestling to be a beautiful, open affair: trainers and the garadis (training centres) welcome anyone interested in the sport; and, community barriers do not exist in the wrestling competitions: Hindus and Muslims, high and low castes, meat-eaters and vegetarians, North Indians and South Indians, everyone freely wrestles with each other, making the garadi and the akhada truly unique cultural spaces. The audience, too, does not allow the social identities of the wrestlers to matter for their enjoyment: the man with the better talent wins, and that is that. The physical culture of wrestling sees a range of dietary conventions, with differing ideas of how food relates to the body. Even within the same garadi, some eat meat, and some put their faith in fruits and vegetables. What the wrestlers ate never offers a basis for judging their performance. With its own cartography of garadis and akhadas stretching across different parts of India over centuries, traditional Indian wrestling, which prizes technical finesse and keeps out brutality, and where the honour of the garadis and their gurus and fakirs matter so much, is still seen in small towns and cities, at a safe distance from the glamourous world of commercialised sports but in need of new sources of sustenance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-discreet-charms-of-akhadas-1071479.html
15-01-2022||Opinion||Why we don’t like data? Psst…it disturbs the narrative||The word ‘data’ has Latin origins. As Jer Thorp writes in Living in Data: “It first appeared in the English language on loan from Latin, where it meant “a thing given, a gift delivered or sent”. In its early usage, the giver of data was the almighty god and hence, it carried a “particular strength of truth”. Data continues to carry a strength of truth and given this, governments try to control it in one way or another. Take the case of Tanzania. In September 2018, it decided to impose fines and/or at least three years in jail, on anyone questioning the official data. Closer home, data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) showed that unemployment rate in the state of Haryana stood at 34%. This didn’t go down well with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The Tribune reported Khattar as saying: “CMIE…adopted various tricks to defame the state government.” He even threatened to “raise CMIE with the state Attorney General and if some action has to be taken against them, we will.” Politicians may not agree with any data put out by non-government agencies, nonetheless, they need to specifically explain why they disagree with such data, rather than saying it is a conspiracy against their government and threatening legal action. In fact, at a more general level, under the current regime, the importance of data has gone down dramatically. Take the case of the household consumption expenditure survey of 2017-18. The data collected through this survey was never released. This, even after the Chairman of the National Statistical Commission tried to get it released. The government said that there were quality issues with the data. Interestingly, a November 2019 news report in the Business Standard based on the survey data had said: “Consumer spending fell for the first time in more than four decades in 2017-18, primarily driven by slackening rural demand.” Given that the data for the 2017-18 survey isn’t available publicly even today, the last survey for which such data is available was carried out in 2011-12. How does one make sense of the economy in 2021-22 by using data from 2011-12? The government doesn’t seem to care. A major change that the Indian economy has seen over the last few years is the weakening of the informal sector. The sector has been badly hit, first due to demonetisation and the GST, and then due to the pandemic lockdowns and restrictions. Indeed, surveys carried out by sector-level business associations, from textile to restaurants, have shown this very clearly. But there is no aggregate-level data available that can clearly tell us the overall state of the informal economy. This information is key to calculating the GDP, the size of the economy, and its growth rate. Given that the informal economy has been negatively impacted over the last few years, the economy hasn’t been growing as fast as it used to. It may have even contracted, for that matter. The point is, we don’t know. Nonetheless, as several economists have pointed out in the past, while making the GDP calculation, the assumption that the informal sector is growing as fast as the formal sector continues to be made. This is something that can be set right by carrying out a proper country-level survey of the informal sector. Finally, let’s get back to the issue of unemployment. If a private firm can carry out a country-level unemployment survey and put out the results for a particular month at the beginning of the next, there is no reason the government cannot do the same and come up with its own country-level unemployment survey published on a regular basis. If publishing data at the beginning of the month is a problem, the data can always be published with a month’s lag, as is the case with several economic indicators. Of course, if the government does so, questions will be raised when the unemployment rate goes up. As is well known, the current dispensation doesn’t like questions being asked, because it disturbs the projected narrative. There’s a line in poet and lyricist Gulzar’s song Yaaram in the 2013 movie Ek Thi Daayan: “koi khabar aayi na pasand, toh end badal denge” (if there’s any news in the paper that we don’t like, we’ll change the ending of the story).” That’s easily done when there’s no data. That’s the long and short of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-we-don-t-like-data-psst-it-disturbs-the-narrative-1071480.html
15-01-2022||Opinion||Hindutva cannot produce economic growth||It’s now fashionable to say that there are “two Indias”, but in Hindutva electoral politics, there really are two Indias: There is an India that votes for Hindu nationalists because they seek muscular Hindu supremacy, and there is an India that votes for them because they seek economic growth under a muscular government. The former India has cause to feel justifiably happy. The latter India will continue to pay for its naivete. India’s economic growth rate was already plumbing a low even before the pandemic. In January 2020, India’s GDP had recorded the lowest nominal growth rate in 42 years. Demonetisation had ruined the informal sector and a messy GST had flayed the formal sector. Sneakily passed reforms had to be inevitably rolled back. For years, analysts have been lashing out at incompetent policymaking. But even if Hindutva perfected the art of economic policy, it simply can’t deliver. Using inherently divisive religious nationalism to produce economic growth is like using the timber industry to increase the population of trees. Sample the narratives spawned by Hindutva politics: Among other things, Muslims stand accused of contriving to overhaul the Hindu majority by “breeding like rabbits”, converting unsuspecting Hindu girls through “love jihad”, and populating the government through “UPSC jihad”. When you begin suspecting someone of treason for their identity, it impacts that person’s ability to be a productive part of your economy. Just this month, villagers came together in Chhattisgarh to take an oath to boycott Muslims. The villagers pledged not to buy goods from Muslim shopkeepers, sell or rent land to Muslims, or work for a Muslim employer. Anybody who reads this newspaper will know that this was no hollow oath. Last year, a popular Muslim-owned dosa joint in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura was vandalised by a mob. A Muslim-owned chicken shop in Karnataka’s Belagavi was also vandalised. A Muslim meat-seller in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad was mercilessly thrashed. Economic exclusion is not confined only to street-vendors. An affluent journalist friend recently related to me that her sister could not procure a loan of Rs 45 lakh to pursue graduate studies at a leading British university, despite offering property worth Rs 2 crore as collateral and furnishing all necessary documents. Her uncle – a bank officer – suggested that her Muslim name had played a role in the loan rejection. A couple of years ago, an uncle narrated that he was struggling to rent an apartment in a “Brahmin-dominated” neighbourhood in Chennai, despite being able to afford it comfortably. The controversial case of Ankhi Das at Facebook and the detention of young engineers behind the Bulli Bai app show how prevalent Islamophobia already is in the tech world. These aren’t mere anecdotes. A study by the Economic Times some years ago found that Muslims make up less than 3% of executives in India’s top 500 corporate firms. According to the Labour Force Survey of 2017-18, only 21% of Muslim workers enjoyed salaried jobs (that for Hindu high-caste workers, it was 33%). In 2019, a study by Delhi-based think-tank Common Cause found that half of the police personnel surveyed showed anti-Muslim bias, making them less likely to intervene to stop crimes against Muslims (or their businesses). Hindutva is betting that it can somehow make India the first country in human history to become an economic powerhouse while actively excluding close to a fifth of its population – or 200 million people – from productive economic activity. Politicians tend to promise the sky. But you’d think that the well-read and educated middle-class would know better.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/hindutva-cannot-produce-economic-growth-1071481.html
15-01-2022||South||Nun's contradictory statements, lack of evidence cited by Kerala court for bishop's acquittal||Kerala's Kottayam additional sessions court, which acquitted Jalandhar Bishop Franco Mulakkal in the nun rape case, has cited contradictions in the statement of the complainant, delay in reporting, and lapses in the investigation in finding corroboratory evidence as reasons for the Bishop's acquittal.  According to the 289-page judgment by Additional Sessions Judge G Gopakumar, there were contradictions in the versions given by the nun about the rape allegations against the bishop to various witnesses in the case. The judgment said, the grievance projected by the nun to her companion sisters was that the accused was taking retaliatory steps for not yielding to his sexual desires, whereas her version before the court was that she was forced into sexual intercourse with the accused on 13 occasions. There was no mention of penile penetration in the first information statement as well as the history narrated to the doctor. These inconsistent versions at different points of time to different persons pose questions about her statements' credibility. The prosecution failed to give a proper explanation for the inconsistent version. The court also said that apart from the testimony of the victim there was no corroborative evidence to prove the prosecution case. The prosecution failed to produce the mobile phone used by the victim which would have provided some input into the alleged vulgar messages sent by the accused. The explanation offered for not producing the phone is thoroughly unsatisfactory. The laptop too was not subjected to scientific analysis, as it is claimed that the hard disk of the system was damaged.  The judge also said that the victim was found to be having close interactions with the accused on the days after the alleged sexual assault. She had traveled long distance with the accused in his car and had attended many functions. Though the prosecution attempted to explain the two to four years delay in complaining, there was no satisfactory explanation. There were enough circumstances to prove that the nun started complaining about the sexual abuse and sexual overtures of the accused after the commencement of the enquiry ordered in the complaint of her cousin Jaya alleging that the nun had illicit relationship with her husband, the court said.  As held by the Supreme Court, the court order said, when it was not feasible to separate truth from falsehood, when grain and chaff were inextricably mixed up, the only available course was to discard the evidence in toto. In the said circumstances, the court is unable to place reliance on the solitary testimony of the victim and to hold the accused guilty of the offences charged against him. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nuns-contradictory-statements-lack-of-evidence-cited-by-kerala-court-for-bishops-acquittal-1071362.html
15-01-2022||South||27-year-old gored to death by bull at Jallikattu event in Tamil Nadu||A 27-year-old man was gored to death by his own bull at the 'Jallikattu' event held at Periya Suriyur in Tamil Nadu's Tiruchi district on Saturday morning. This is the second death caused during the bull-taming competition in the state. Addressing the media, the Jallikattu organisers said that the victim, Meenakshisundaram, was guiding his bull to the entrance of the event when the bull gored him on his thigh. When he started bleeding, he was taken to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. At least nine people have been injured till now at the Periya Suriyur Jallikattu and are receiving treatment at various hospitals. The organisers said that 400 bulls and 300 bull tamers are expected to take part in the competition. The district administration has insisted on a Covid negative certificate for the bull owners as well as the tamers. A strong police contingent is present at the Jallikattu venue. On Friday, a 19-year-old youth was gored to death by a bull at the Jallikattu event in Madurai. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/27-year-old-gored-to-death-by-bull-at-jallikattu-event-in-tamil-nadu-1071365.html
15-01-2022||South||As tamers frenziedly vie to grapple with bulls, Palamedu sustains Jallikattu fervour in Tamil Nadu||As the bulls dart into the Jallikattu arena with all the ferocity, frenzied tamers, mostly youth, vie with each other to grapple with the animals, refusing to give up every time they are flung by the bulls. And as the majestic bulls and determined tamers battle it out to display their prowess, Palamedu here sustains the Pongal Jallikattu fervour in Tami Nadu on Saturday. About 179 bulls out of nearly 700 strong ones, were released into the crowd of enthusiastic tamers at the end of second round of competition here. The day-long sport which commenced at 7.30 am was flagged off by State Ministers: P Moorthy and P T R Palanivel Thiyagarajan. As the bulls were released one after the other in quick succession, the tamers gathered around them and attempted to grab its large hump with both their hands and cling on to it as the bull tried to flee. The spectators cheered lustily every time the bull was embraced. Those animals which refused to be ‘tamed’ are announced as winners. Atleast two bulls had a free run when none succeeded to go near them, at the end of the second round. Anticipation and disappointment alternated the feelings of the spectators when the bulls were tamed or had a free run. The Avaniyapuram Jallikattu here on Friday, kicked off of the first Jallikattu competitions during the Pongal (harvest) festival in the district in style and nearly 641 bulls aggressively stormed into the arena. An 18-year-old spectator was gored to death by a raging bull at the Avaniyapuram Jallikattu. An elaborate security arrangement was made by the police and for the first time the administration live streamed the Palamedu Jallikattu, the second high-profile competition in the district.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-tamers-frenziedly-vie-to-grapple-with-bulls-palamedu-sustains-jallikattu-fervour-in-tamil-nadu-1071375.html
15-01-2022||South||KPCC chief claims arrested Youth Congress activists have no role in SFI worker's murder||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief K Sudhakaran on Saturday continued to criticise the ruling CPI(M) over the recent killing of Dheeraj Rajendran, an activist of its student wing SFI, and claimed that the arrested Youth Congress activists have no connection with the incident. Alleging that the 21-year-old youth was a victim of the Marxist party's "violent politics", the Kannur MP said even witnesses did not say that the arrested YC activists had stabbed him. Playing a purported voice clip of some students, who are said to have witnessed the incident that happened at the Government Engineering College in Idukki last week, he told reporters that none of them said who had stabbed the deceased man. How could the responsibility of the crime be attributed to the YC activists, he asked during a meet-the-press programmme here. Sudhakaran claimed that the Kerala Students Union (KSU) and YC activists did not go after anyone to attack them and asked why the police were reluctant to rush the injured Rajendran to hospital. Urging police to find out the "real" culprits, he also rejected the criticism that he did not mourn the youth's death. "The loss of a human life is a sad incident. My mind is not made of stone and iron... I am a person who can understand the pain of his family members. But it was the CPI(M) that tried to celebrate his death by buying land to build a memorial in his name soon after the incident," Sudhakarn charged. Rajendran's family came from the Congress background, he claimed and said he really wanted to visit and console them. Taking a dig at the ruling party, the Kannur strongman also said the CPI(M) also did not mind organising a mega thiruvathirakkali, a traditional group dance, while mourning the student activist's death. The veteran Congress leader was referring to the recent controversial group dance organised in connection with the Marxist party's district conference soon after the death of Rajendran. Coming down heavily on the SFI, he said it was an outfit that has managed to prevail in the state campuses only because of its violent politics and they were unleashing violence against the KSU activists. Nikhil Paily, a district-level YC leader and Jerin Jijo were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly stabbing Rajendran to death. Rajendran was a student of the college. Two students, Abjijith and Amal, were also seriously injured in the attack. In the FIR, the police have mentioned that the murder took place due to political rivalry. The ruling CPI(M) had alleged that the murder was pre-planned and claimed 21 Left workers were killed in the state in the last six years. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kpcc-chief-claims-arrested-youth-congress-activists-have-no-role-in-sfi-workers-murder-1071378.html
15-01-2022||South||Police to appeal against Bishop Franco's acquittal in nun rape case||A day after a Sessions Court here acquitted Roman Catholic Bishop Franco Mulakkal of the charge of raping a nun in a convent in the State, Kerala police on Saturday sought legal advice to move an appeal against the verdict in the High Court. Kottayam SP D Shilpa told reporters that the police have sought legal opinion from the special public prosecutor to move an appeal against the judgment. "We got the detailed verdict late Friday. We have sought a legal opinion to move the appeal," she said. Meanwhile, Bishop visited various churches and met former MLA P C George, who had been backing Mulakkal since the issue came out. The Bishop, after a brief meeting with George, left for other visits to churches nearby, but refused to comment before the media. George, who met the media after the meeting, said the case was an effort to target the Church. He said the case was part of a conspiracy to target the Church and the believers. Mulakkal, 57, was accused of raping the nun multiple times during his visit to a convent in this district between 2014 and 2016 when he was the Bishop of the Jalandhar Diocese of the Roman Catholic Church. The complainant is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus, a diocesan congregation under the Jalandhar Diocese. Acquitting the Bishop, the judge of the Additional District and Sessions Court I, Kottayam, in the order, said the victim's claim that she was raped on 13 occasions under duress cannot be taken reliance on the basis of her solitary testimony.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-to-appeal-against-bishop-francos-acquittal-in-nun-rape-case-1071391.html
15-01-2022||South||Union minister inaugurates country's first coal to methanol plant built by BHEL||Union Minister for Heavy Industries Mahendra Nath Pandey on Saturday dedicated India’s first BHEL-built 'coal to methanol' (CTM) pilot plant to the nation here, as part of the ongoing 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebrations, an official release said. Pandey also inaugurated an exhibition on ‘Products Developed under Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ organised at Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited's (BHEL) Hyderabad unit, it said. Speaking on the occasion, the Union minister said one of the important goals of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision is to build a self-reliant nation. "The role of the manufacturing sector will be crucial in realising this vision. The government has already highlighted the importance of the manufacturing sector through schemes like Make in India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat”, he said. Pandey further said the capital goods industry is the backbone of the manufacturing sector as it provides critical inputs such as machinery and equipment to a broad set of user-industries. The 0.25 TPD (tonnes per day) capacity CTM pilot plant that has been indigenously designed, developed and installed by BHEL is currently producing methanol with purity of more than 99 per cent from high-ash Indian coal. Significantly, this conversion of high-ash Indian coal to methanol through the gasification route is the first-of-its-kind technology demonstration in India, the release added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-minister-inaugurates-countrys-first-coal-to-methanol-plant-built-by-bhel-1071417.html
15-01-2022||State||'Green nod must for 5-star hotel at Jog Falls'||The Jog Management Authority’s attempt to bypass the wildlife and environment clearance procedures to build a five-star hotel at Jog Falls, located close to an eco sensitive zone (ESZ), has been thwarted as the Forest Department has told the authorities to follow rules. Over the past few months, activists have led a sustained campaign against the proposals by the authority. Apart from the five-star hotel to be built under public private partnership (PPP), officials had also proposed to construct a ropeway and other infrastructure. Following a series of complaints made to the state government as well as the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), the Centre advised the state to look into the matter. “Following instructions from the state and the Centre, the authority has been told that the present proposal cannot be accepted. The authority has to now follow the due process and submit detailed applications, including an environment impact assessment, for consideration of the proposal,” sources in the government said. In his complaint, activist Giridhar, had noted that the land in Nadawada Talakalale village in Sagar taluk falls within the deemed ESZ of the Sharavathi Valley Lion Tailed Macaque Sanctuary. “The forests around the proposed project are home to critically endangered and threatened species,” he noted. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/green-nod-must-for-5-star-hotel-at-jog-falls-1071297.html
15-01-2022||State||MTB, Priyank Kharge test Covid positive||Muncipalities Minister MTB Nagaraj and former Congress minister Priyank Kharge said they tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Nagaraj said he is alright. Kharge, who participated in the Congress’ Mekedatu foot march, said he contracted the virus after escaping it in the first and second waves. “Thankfully all my staff members have tested -ve. Request anyone who was in touch with me to get tested as per norms,” Kharge said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mtb-priyank-kharge-test-covid-positive-1071448.html
15-01-2022||State||A call to dump conservatism, write what you converse||Is the Kannada script accessible to all sections of society? Does the language need simplification in its written form? Has the influence of Sanskrit on Kannada created barriers for learning and usage? Social media has been abuzz with these debates in recent weeks. “Ellara Kannada”, a movement that attempts to simplify Kannada language usage has been at the crux of these debates. The proponents of “Ellara Kannada” argue that Kannada, in its present form, needs simplification as some of its features like the “aspirated sounds” (Mahapraana) have made the language inaccessible to a large section of the society. For, most people do not use aspirated consonants while speaking. The written script must be accordingly simplified to make it relatable to all, they say. The campaign challenges the idea that pronunciation has to be in a certain way to speak the language correctly. While that’s one part of the debate, the larger effort is also to use words that are etymologically derived from Kannada and not Sanskrit. Where did this debate originate from? Why is it being discussed now? In recent weeks the debate has been driven on social media by a section of Kannada language activists and linguists. However, the term “Ellara Kannada” was coined in 2013, activist Ganesh Chetan explains. Simplifying the Kannada script was part of a larger project associated with ‘Honalu,’ a Kannada language portal. The ‘Honalu’ team experimented with a reformed script with fewer letters in the Kannada alphabet. “Ellara Kannada” was the tagline given for the simplified script, Chetan says. They have also come up with Kannada equivalents for Sanskrit-rooted scientific terms, compiling about 8,000 such words. “Our focus was to simplify academics for students in Kannada medium. Especially when it comes to science terms, we have complicated words rooted in Sanskrit. We wanted to find simpler equivalents,” he adds. Aside from Honalu, author and linguist Shankar Bhat has been among the active proponents of simplified Kannada in years. There have been earlier efforts, too. Kannada poet B M Shrikantaiah (BM Shri) had done one such experiment in his book “Kannada Baavuta”. In this work, BM Shri tried placing the clustered sounds (Vottakshara) side by side instead of one below the other, as is used in Kannada. “Tamil uses it horizontally and BM Shri tried to replicate it in Kannada,” says Meti Mallikarjuna, Professor of Linguistics, Sahyadri College. While authoring books, Mallikarjuna himself makes use of words with Kannada etymology rather than Sanskrit. “Words with Kannada etymology do not have aspirated sounds. So naturally, the script gets simplified.” The debate is not purely linguistic but political, too. Those demanding a simplified script believe that “Sanskritisation” is a result of a Brahminical approach to the language, which seeks to keep its usage exclusive to one section of the society. Nonetheless, the ‘Ellara Kannada’ campaign has seen backlash, with many fearing that the features of Kannada language will be diluted. Author Vasudhendra adds nuance. While the intention behind the movement is good, one cannot expect sudden change, he opines. “How the language is used will be decided by the society at large. It always changes with time. The Kannada we use today is different from what it was in the tenth century,” he says. While spoken language can be unique to each individual, the written script needs some uniformity, he opines. Publisher Akshatha Humchadakatte has a similar opinion. “We all have to practise usage of spoken Kannada words in writing, too. This will give a momentum to the language,” she says. “However, no one should impose this process on anyone. It has to take its own course.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/a-call-to-dump-conservatism-write-what-you-converse-1071453.html
15-01-2022||State||Choornotsava held with religious fervour and pomp||The 'Bramharathotsava' of Lord Sri Krishna, popularly known as 'Choornotsava', was conducted with religious fervour and pomp at Sri Krishna Temple, as part of 'Saptotsav' (the annual seven-day festival), on Saturday. The car festival, during the day, was organised under the supervision of Paryaya Admaru Mutt seer Sri Eshapriya Theertha Swami. A huge crowd of devotees pulled the specially made clay idol of Lord Krishna mounted on the 'Bramharatha', the massive chariot. The Swamis from the Bramharatha threw sweets, coconuts, fruits and coins at the crowd after performing 'Mahamangalarathi' to the presiding deity Lord Sri Krishna's 'Utsavamurthy'. Choornotsava is organised annually to commemorate the installation of the Shaligramashila idol of Lord Sri Krishna (in the form of a child with a churning stick on one hand and rope on the other) 800 years ago, by Dwaita philosopher Sri Madhwacharya. The Shaligramashila idols of Lord Sri Krishna and Lord Balaram, covered in 'Gopichandan mud', are said to have been presented to Sri Madhwacharya by a sailor whose ship was rescued by the saint. The saint installed the idol of Lord Balaram at Vadabhandeshwara, near Malpe Beach, about five kilometres from here, while the idol of Lord Krishna was installed in Udupi on Makara Sankranti day. Following the Rathotsava, the clay idol was immersed in Madhwa Sarovar, and the assembled seers and devotees took a holy dip. Lord Krishna was decorated with diamond armour on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/choornotsava-held-with-religious-fervour-and-pomp-1071473.html
15-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Classical Kannada centre struggling for a roof of its own||Almost 10 years since the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK) was sanctioned to Karnataka, the facility is struggling to have a building of its own. After dilly-dallying over the location, the state government appears to have finalised a 4.2-acre plot in the University of Mysore premises. But a full-fledged building can only materialise if the Ministry of Education clears the MoU required to set it up. Activists have decried the laxity over the centre that has moved from one location to another and pointed out the example of its Tamil counterpart, which has grown in leaps and bounds. CESCK was cleared by the Centre in 2011, three years after Kannada was accorded the classical language status. Despite demands by various language groups to get it up and running, successive governments have dragged their heels on granting funds and make it fully operational. Currently, CESCK is run by a skeletal crew at the University of Mysore's National Centre for History of Science (NCHS), where it moved to on November 2020 after operating from the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) for nine years. Speaking to DH, Kannada Development Authority chairperson TS Nagabharana said that there aren't enough research publications from CESCK, hindering its progress. "The facility has not taken up enough research and publication. Rather than waiting for money from the Centre, CESCK should have published research and then sought funds," he said. The CIIL director has written to the education ministry to clear the MoU, which will permit CESCK to use the 4.20 acres allotted at the varsity premises in Mysuru. "The letter was sent 9-10 months ago and the ministry is expected to approve it soon," Nagabharana said. Arun Javgal, organising secretary, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, disputed Nagabharana's claim, saying that though the location for CESCK was finalised in 2017, funding from the Centre has delayed its progress. "According to a response in Parliament, Tamil research has received Rs 50 crore from the Centre in the last eight years, while Sanskrit got Rs 1,200 crore. Kannada, being a classical language, got only Rs 8 crore," he said. To a question, he said that a few people are now blaming the state for CESCK delays, even if the onus is on the Centre to allot funds for the language research centre. "Unlike Kannada, classical Tamil has a fully-furnished facility," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/classical-kannada-centre-struggling-for-a-roof-of-its-own-1071294.html
15-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka making unprecedented contributions: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described Karnataka as a state making “unprecedented contributions to national progress.”  This came in response to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s tweet wishing Modi on the occasion of Makar Sankranti.  “Makar Sankranti wishes to my sisters and brothers of Karnataka, a state which makes unprecedented contributions to national progress,” Modi said. “The Centre and state government will keep working for the empowerment of the people of the state.” Bommai tweeted festive greetings to Modi and thanked him for the approval of synchronization of 18.78 lakh houseless and 6.61 lakh siteless households under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Rural) scheme, which he said was long pending. “This is a Makar Sankranti gift from your goodself to Karnataka,” Bommai said.  Bommai was referring to synchronization of the state government’s data with the Centre’s Awaas+ database to make sure genuinely deprived households get housing benefits under the PMAY (Rural) scheme.  Earlier this week, Modi called up Bommai to enquire about his health following the Covid-19 infection. They spoke for about five minutes and Modi asked Bommai to take appropriate medical treatment, the chief minister’s office had said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-making-unprecedented-contributions-pm-modi-1071399.html
15-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP is experimenting on me, says D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar on Saturday said he will not rule out the possibility of the ruling BJP "targeting" him in the aftermath of the Mekedatu foot march.  Between January 9 and 12, Shivakumar led the Congress on a foot march demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project.  Asked if he will face action from the Income Tax or Enforcement Directorate sleuths ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections, Shivakumar said: “Let’s not talk about that now. When the time is right, I will speak with documents. And, the right time is coming soon.”  Shivakumar chose not to make specific comments on activist Medha Patkar, who has opposed the Mekedatu project on the grounds that it will harm the environment. “Why should I answer? She’s a senior lady. We respect her and her sentiments. Let the government respond,” he said. “For your information, do you know how much loss this project will cause in my taluk? All our lands will go for the sake of giving water to Bengaluru,” he added.  Cleanliness drive Congress workers and supporters are carrying out a cleanliness drive from Sangama (Mekedatu) till Ramanagara along the route of the 4-day padayatra that ended earlier this week. Based on the direction by Shivakumar and D K Suresh, the party workers are removing plastic bottles, covers, plates, papers, discarded masks and other garbage items. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-is-experimenting-on-me-says-d-k-shivakumar-1071436.html
15-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Despite hike in honorarium, guest lecturers to continue protest||A day after the state government offered a 'generous' Sankranti gift with a three-fold hike in honorarium, the guest lecturers have decided to continue their agitation over the decision to increase their workload from 8 hours to 15 hours. The protesting guest lecturers are of the opinion that nearly 50% of them would lose jobs due to enhanced workload.  The members of the Karnataka Guest Faculties Association told DH,  "Currently with the eight hours of workload, around 14,000 faculties are working as guest lecturers and if the government implements 15 hours of workload, then at least 7,000 of them will lose jobs."  They even pointed out another demand which was not considered by the committee constituted by the state government. "Government has not considered our demand for job security till we attain the age of 60 years," added members. Meanwhile, the protesting faculties mentioned the Finance Department's rejection to increase the honorarium paid to them every year by 3%. "We will not return to work until the government considers our demands and revises the 15-hour workload," they stated. The agitating lecturers said that the intention of their protest was not to get a hike in the honorarium. They wanted their jobs regularised and urged the state government to follow suit of the West Bengal government. The guest faculties have been boycotting classes for the last month. On Friday, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan announced a three-fold increase in the honorarium paid to the guest faculties. With this those who were getting an honorarium of Rs 11,000 per month will henceforth receive Rs 26,000, and those drawing Rs 13,000 will be paid Rs 32,000. Meanwhile, the department of a college education is launching a portal inviting applications from the eligible guest faculties for the current academic year. Minister urges teachers to withdraw agitation Higher education minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has appealed to the protesting guest faculties to withdraw protest and resume work. The minister, in a statement issued on Saturday, said, "The government has given a best package for guest faculties and considering the interest of students they must resume work. They should submit applications for 2022-23 academic year in the online portal which will be active from Monday. The portal will be active for a week and those eligible will be considered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/despite-hike-in-honorarium-guest-lecturers-to-continue-protest-1071444.html
15-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't visit hospitals for 2 weeks except in an emergency: Karnataka govt||As daily new Covid cases neared 33,000 in Karnataka on Saturday, State Health Secretary T K Anil Kumar issued a public notification requesting people not to visit hospitals in the next two weeks unless in an emergency in order to prevent crowding and spread of Covid. "In pursuant to the existing Covid situation, it is hereby informed that only sick and patients requiring emergency care may visit the hospitals/super specialty hospitals and autonomous institutions. All other patients with mild illness which requires outpatient care/follow up care/ elective cases including dental patients should not visit the hospitals for the next two weeks till further orders to prevent crowding and the spread of Covid-19," the notification said. Orders are already in place to reserve 75% beds in private medical colleges and 50% beds in private hospitals for government quota Covid patients. Private hospitals and medical colleges are currently taking up only emergency surgical procedures and deferring all elective surgeries. Meanwhile, in an another circular, the government said that persons who have given throat or nasal swabs for Covid testing, should should not socialise. The circular said legal action will be initiated under the Epidemic Diseases Act in case of violation of the norms. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-visit-hospitals-for-2-weeks-except-in-an-emergency-karnataka-govt-1071446.html
15-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to enrol 5 lakh families into Kutumba family ID system||Karnataka has decided to rope in enumerators to enrol at least five lakh families into the flagship Kutumba database, as a one-time measure.  This will become the basis for the government to identify eligible beneficiaries for welfare schemes.  According to an order issued recently, the government has allocated Rs 1 crore to have at least five lakh families enrolled into the Kutumba family ID platform. Operators or Janasevakas (those who provide door-step delivery of citizen services) will get Rs 5 for every member who is successfully enrolled.  The Kutumba project aims to be a comprehensive database to create an Integrated Social Protection System (ISPS) consisting of a Social Registry and an Entitlement Management System that the government wants to use for automatic disbursal of benefits to eligible citizens without them having to even apply. Kutumba currently has data on 5.5 crore citizens belonging to 1.6 crore families.  “Some 100-150 lakh people are still out of Kutumba. Most of them are in the APL category who don’t interact much with the government,” Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla told DH.  “For all family-oriented benefits such as health insurance, we consider one family as a unit. But, if we don’t know the family, then how can we give the benefit? So, it was decided to make efforts to get people enrolled,” Chawla explained. “We’re going slowly by making people see the advantage of the Kutumba project.” At present, citizens can visit kutumba.karnataka.gov.in to register on their own. “In addition to this self-service mode, we will give an incentive to Janasevakas under the Janasevaka project in Bengaluru to enrol people when they go to houses to deliver services,” Chawla said. In addition to Janasevaka, the government will bear the enrolment cost at Bangalore One and Karnataka One centres.  One-time measure “This is a one-time measure where the government has decided to bear the cost for the 2021-22 financial year only,” Chawla said. If the demand for enrolment continues into the next fiscal, the government will decide on whether the citizen should pay to get enrolled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-enrol-5-lakh-families-into-kutumba-family-id-system-1071449.html
15-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 32,793 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths||Registering yet another spike in numbers, Karnataka on Saturday logged 32,793 new cases of Covid-19, and seven fatalities, taking the tally to 31,86,040 and the death toll to 38,418. The state had recorded 28,723 fresh infections on Friday. Of the new cases on Saturday, 22,284 were from Bengaluru Urban that also saw 2,479 people being discharged and five deaths. "Caseload of Bengaluru, which accounted for about 75% of the caseload of the State for the last two weeks, falls below 68%, as cases in districts rise," tweeted Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar. The total number of active cases across the state is now 1,69,850. There were 4,273 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,77,743. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 15%, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.02%. Chikkaballapur and Mysuru reported one death each. Tumakuru recorded the second-highest of 1,326 new cases, Hassan 968, Dakshina Kannada 792, Mysuru 729, and Mandya 718. A total of 5,88,11,041 samples have been tested so far, of which 2,18,479 were tested on Saturday alone. As many as 98,225 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Saturday, taking the total vaccination doses given so far to 9,14,05,870. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-32793-new-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-1071456.html
15-01-2022||West||Maharashtra Congress to appoint female working presidents in all disricts||Maharashtra Congress has decided to appoint female working presidents in all districts of the state hoping to widen women's representation in the party ahead of local body polls. “Congress has always respected women and has given them equal opportunities. Women leaders from the Congress party have held important posts like the president, prime minister, governor, and chief ministers,” Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee president Nana Patole said. “Congress has a progressive tradition of giving important responsibilities to women in politics and we are taking the tradition forward,” he said, addressing media during Makar Sankranti festivities. “It was during the Congress government that the revolutionary decision to reserve 50 per cent seats in the local body elections for women was taken,” he said. Patole pointed out that even now, the party's national general secretary and Uttar Pradesh in-charge Priyanka Gandhi has taken a bold decision to field 40 per cent women candidates in the Assembly elections and its implementation has already started. “She has set a new standard by including 40 per cent women candidates in the first list. She has coined the slogan 'Ladki hoon, Lad sakti hoon' and has taken a big step to empower women,” he said. “Maharashtra also has a long tradition of taking steps towards women empowerment and so it has been decided to appoint a woman working president in each district congress committee,” he said adding that the decision was taken to increase the participation of women in politics and decision-making process at the local level. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-to-appoint-female-working-presidents-in-all-disricts-1071338.html
15-01-2022||West||Gujarat police register FIR against 'unknown' for conspiracy to derail Rajdhani Express||The Valsad rural police in south Gujarat has registered an FIR against unidentified persons for criminal conspiracy to derail the Rajdhani Express train in an attempt to murder the passengers and destroy railway properties, among other charges. The FIR was registered after the Mumbai-Delhi express train on Friday evening hit a cement pillar, barely a km from Atul Railway Station situated about 6 km from Valsad station. The train was not affected by the impact of the pillar and no one was hurt. The FIR was registered at Valsad rural police station under section 307 (attempt to murder) to be a criminal conspiracy (120b) of the Indian Penal Code and several sections of the Railway Act, 1989. Police said that the loco pilot informed Atul Railway Station officials about the incident who reached the spot immediately. The railway officials found something was amiss as 23 minutes prior to the incident a goods train had passed on the same track without any such accident. Sensing possible mischief, railway officials informed the local police which registered an FIR after visiting the spot. The FIR was registered on the basis of a written complaint filed by Sudhanshu Sharma, station superintendent, at Atul Railway Station. When contacted, Valsad district superintendent of police Rajdeepsinh Jhala told DH, "We have registered an FIR last evening against unidentified persons. We have formed several teams for investigation. As of today, I won't be able to comment on anything. We are looking into all aspects." Police suspect that some miscreants may have placed the pillar, weighing 42 kg, on the track in order to derail the train. Sharma has said in his complaint that at 6:47 PM, a goods train passed through the same route "safely" and later Rajdhani Express passed the station at 7:10. A minute later at 7:11 the driver of the train Mohammed Siddiqui informed Sharma on a walkie-talkie that "a sleeper (concrete pole) had collided with the train." Sharma, according to police, dispatched two of his employees to the site who reported back that the railway track was clear and a broken cement pole was lying near the track. The FIR states that at 32-foot away from the track, cement poles have been used in fencing. These poles are buried at least 1 foot in the ground. The railway staff, according to the FIR, suspected that one of the poles was dug out and kept on the track. "We don't know how that heavy concrete pole could have reached the track. This railway track is close to Dedicated Freight Corridor between Mumbai and Delhi where construction is going on. The pole could have been left here by some labourers or someone may have placed it here purposely. Whatever it is, it could have led to an unfortunate incident," a railway officer told DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-police-register-fir-against-unknown-for-conspiracy-to-derail-rajdhani-express-1071340.html
15-01-2022||West||Assets worth Rs 410 cr of Mumbai realty group, actor-producer attached by ED||Flats and land worth a total of about Rs 410 crore of Mumbai-based realty group Omkar Realtors and that of a company belonging to actor-producer Sachin Joshi have been attached by the Enforcement Directorate under the anti-money laundering law. Joshi, who has acted in some Telugu and Hindi movies, is the son of JMJ group promoter and businessman J M Joshi who is into gutka and pan masala manufacturing and also into hospitality business. Sachin Joshi has produced some movies too. A provisional order under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has been issued to attach "flats worth Rs 330 crore (approximately) in Tower C of sale building namely Omkar 1973, Worli (Mumbai), of Omkar Group and an open land situated at Viram, Pune worth Rs 80 crore (approx.) of a company belonging to Sachin Joshi", ED said in a statement. It said probe found that "loan amount Rs 410 crore was fraudulently acquired by Surana Developers Wadala, LLP, a sister concern of Omkar Realtors and Developers Pvt. Ltd (ORDPL) through falsely increased slum dwellers numbers and FSI (floor space index).  "Out of Rs 410 crore, an amount of Rs 330 crore was laundered into the sale building of Omkar Group and an amount of Rs 80 crore (approx.) was laundered through Sachin Joshi and his Viiking Group of companies under the guise of services and investment," the agency alleged. The ED had raided these entities in January last year and filed a chargesheet in March naming the chairman of Omkar Relators and Developers, Kamal Kishore Gupta (62), its managing director Babulal Varma (51), and Sachin Joshi (37) and their companies. The three were arrested by the ED last year. While Joshi was granted a four-month temporary bail by the Supreme Court in September last year, the two others are in judicial custody. The central agency's case is based on a 2020 FIR of the Aurangabad Police against Gupta and Varma on charges of cheating and diversion of loan funds of Rs 410 crore taken from Yes Bank for the re-development of Anand Nagar Slum Rehabilitation Authority. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/assets-worth-rs-410-cr-of-mumbai-realty-group-actor-producer-attached-by-ed-1071388.html
15-01-2022||West||ATS lawyer to be present in court during Malegaon bomb blast case trial||With some witnesses in the 2008 Malegaon blasts case turning hostile, Maharashtra’s home minister Dilip Walse-Patil assured that lawyers of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) would be present in the court during the trial.  The case was initially investigated by the ATS and later taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The Maharashtra government would also speak to the NIA on the issue. The trial in the case, in which there are a dozen accused including Sadhvi Pragya Singh Chandrapal Singh Thakur alias Swami Purnachetananda Giri, now BJP MP, Lt Col Prasad Purohit, a former Military Intelligence official and Sudhakar Dhar Dwivedi alias Dayanand Pandey alias Swami Amrutanand Devtirth, a self-proclaimed Shankaracharya, is being conducted by a special NIA court.  “Recently some witnesses have turned hostile…we will have our lawyers present in the court during the hearings,” Walse-Patil said.  Besides, the government will also speak to the NIA through the additional chief secretary (home). Earlier the week, Maharashtra Congress leader and former minister Naseem Khan met additional director general of police Vineet Agarwal, who heads the ATS, and discussed the issue of witnesses turning hostile and also headed over a memorandum to him seeking the presence of ATS lawyer in court during the trial.  “So far 223 witnesses deposed in which 16 turned hostile and claiming that, ATS tortured them to give evidence against accused. The witnesses tarnished the image of the Maharashtra government and the ATS. Hence, presence of ATS in court is inevitable to save the image of the government and ATS,” Khan said.  “It seems witnesses are under influence by accused and deliberately taking names of BJP-RSS people to get mileage in Uttar Pradesh elections and defame Maharashtra government and ATS as prosecution witness 220 went beyond what was recorded in his 161 CrPC statements by mentioning the name of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. It is that the Special Public Prosecutor did not take objection to it and after deposition appeared on national news channels and took the name of Yogi Adityanath and others,” Khan pointed out.  Last month, a witness told the court that the ATS tortured and threatened him to take the names of  Yogi Adityanath and four other RSS leaders. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ats-lawyer-to-be-present-in-court-during-malegaon-bomb-blast-case-trial-1071398.html
15-01-2022||West||Delta still dominant strain of Covid-19, says Maharashtra health official amid Omicron scare||Amid the scare caused by the Omicron variant of coronavirus, a senior official of the Maharashtra health department has said that the Delta strain of the virus still accounts for the maximum number of infection cases in the state as revealed by the genome sequencing of the patients' samples. Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary of the health department, in a letter written to his colleagues on Wednesday said that the Delta variant was found in 68 per cent samples, out of the over 4,200 analysed, while the remaining 32 per cent patients were found infected with the Omicron strain. The Delta variant had wreaked havoc during the second wave of the pandemic last year. The Omicron strain, which was first detected in South Africa in November 2021, started spreading in India from the first week of December. Till Friday night, Maharashtra has reported 1,605 Omicron cases, while its overall Covid-19 infection tally has jumped to 71,24,278. "Since November 1 last year, the samples of 4,265 Covid-19 patients were sent for genome sequencing. The results of 4,201 cases have been issued, which indicate that Omicron variant was detected in 1,367 cases or in 32 per cent, while the prevalence of Delta variant was found in the remaining 68 per cent cases," Dr Vyas said in the letter. It also said that of the 2,40,133 active coronavirus cases in Maharashtra till Wednesday (January 12), 90 per cent patients were in home isolation or in CovidCare Centres. "We have seen three weeks of the present surge in Covid-19 infections. Till January 12, there were 2,40,133 active Covid-19 cases, of which 90.9 per cent were either in home isolation or in Covid Care Centre. Only 21,783 patients or 9.1 per cent of the total active cases were in hospital," the letter said. Of these hospitalised patients, 16,175 or 74.2 per cent had mild symptoms and 5,608 of them or 2.3 per cent needed ICU or oxygen support. Only 700 patients, which is about 0.29 per cent of the total active cases, were on ventilators, he said. The official also maintained that the present surge is mainly restricted to cities and areas like Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Palghar Pune and Nagpur, which relatively have better anti-coronavirus vaccination coverage. He asked his colleagues that these observations should be taken into consideration while gearing up to tackle the present surge, he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/delta-still-dominant-strain-of-covid-19-says-maharashtra-health-official-amid-omicron-scare-1071406.html
15-01-2022||West||Mumbai logs highest one-day Covid deaths in six months, but cases drop to 10,661||Mumbai on Saturday reported 11 new coronavirus-related deaths, the highest single-day toll since July 29 last year, and 10,661 fresh infections, the civic body said. As many as 21,474 patients were discharged, taking the total of recoveries to 8,99,358. The number of new infected patients has been decreasing for the last three days, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) data. Further, only 722 of the new 10, 661 patients found during the day were admitted to hospitals, which raised the number of hospitalized Covid-19 patients to 5,962. As many as 8,955 or 84 per cent of the new patients were asymptomatic. The city on July 29, 2021, had reported 13 deaths and the mortality figure had started declining after that. Mumbai had reported 16,420 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, 13,702 cases on Thursday and 11,317 on Friday, thus showing a steady decline. The caseload in the country's financial capital rose to 9,91,967, while death toll reached 16,446, the BMC release said. As many as 54,558 Covid-19 tests were carried out in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of tests to 1,45,64,996. Of 38,117 hospital beds in the city, 5,962 or 15.7 per cent beds are currently occupied. Mumbai's recovery rate is 91 per cent while overall case growth rate between January 8 and 14 was 1.56 per cent. The caseload doubling rate is now 43 days, which was 39 days on Friday, the release said. Currently the BMC has sealed 58 buildings due to high number of Covid-19 cases on their premises. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-logs-highest-one-day-covid-deaths-in-six-months-but-cases-drop-to-10661-1071426.html
15-01-2022||West||No further restrictions as of now in Maharashtra: Ajit Pawar says cases spiked due to irresponsible behaviour of people||Expressing concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in Pune and the rest of Maharashtra, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday said that as of now no new restrictions will be brought in but a decision will be taken next week depending upon the scenario. Pawar was speaking to reporters after attending a Covid-19 review meeting here. This meeting was attended by officials of the Pune district administration, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the Zilla Parishad representatives. "Coronavirus cases are rising every passing day. But in today's meeting, we decided not to bring in further restrictions. At the same time, existing curbs will not be relaxed soon. But, if needed, a decision will be taken in the next week,” he said. The Maharashtra government recently imposed new restrictions on the movement of people. As per the new guidelines, the movement of people in groups of five or more has been restricted from 5 am to 11 pm and no movement has been allowed from 11 pm to 5 am, except for essential services. Earlier in the day, when asked by reporters about the further tightening of curbs if the demand for medical oxygen rises in the state, Pawar had mentioned Aaditya Thackeray as the chief minister of Maharashtra instead of the latter's father Uddhav Thackeray. “It was unintentional. Like we take back our words in the Assembly if they are wrong, I take the word 'Aaditya' back. I stress that Uddhav Thackeray is the CM of Maharashtra,” he said in the evening when asked about the apparent faux pas. Aaditya is a cabinet minister in the MVA government led by Shiv Sena. Interestingly, BJP has been demanding that CM Thackeray should hand over the charge to some other leader if he is unable to attend to the issues concerning Maharashtra due to his health. Pawar said the cases rose rapidly because people are not following Covid-19 norms. "Recently, many people returned from foreign countries. At the same time, no norms were followed in public events, especially in marriages that were attended by people coming from other states. If we have to control the spread of infection, we must follow rules,” he added. The deputy CM said the case positivity rate jumped to 17 per cent from six per cent last week. He said the pace of vaccination for the 15-18 age group has been good in the Pune district. He is the guardian minister of the Pune district. Pawar said a booster dose should be taken nine months after the administration of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccines. He also said that medical stores selling Covid-19 test kits should write down the contact numbers of persons buying these products. "Government teams will contact such people about the status of the test result,” he added. FDA joint commissioner (Pune division), S B Patil, has issued a notification, directing all the retail as well as wholesale chemists and pharmacists in Pune to keep a record of customers buying the Covid home test kits. Responding to a query, Pawar said he was of the view that the exams for classes 10 and 12 be held offline. Recently, Pune Police had arrested six people for allegedly using the phone number of Ajit Pawar to contact a city-based builder and later attempting to extort Rs 20 lakh from him. When asked about the incident, Pawar said the concerned builder is his very good friend. "Whenever I make a call from my number it goes out as a private number. But that day I got to know about the incident where someone called this builder and demanded money. I and the state home minister were together at that time. Pune commissioner of police was informed following which a case was registered,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-further-restrictions-as-of-now-in-maharashtra-ajit-pawar-says-cases-spiked-due-to-irresponsible-behaviour-of-people-1071434.html
15-01-2022||West||Goa polls: Leaders in war of words on Twitter as Congress-TMC alliance talks flounder||The alliance talks between the Congress and Trinamool Congress for the Goa polls appear to have been lost in translation for now, if the exchanges between leaders from both parties are anything to go by. Initial overtures by the TMC Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra have been rebuffed on Twitter by two All India Congress Committee officials, namely AICC in charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao and Congress general secretary KC Venugopal. “The rumour in circulation that a possible alliance with TMC was discussed by Rahul Gandhi in today’s meeting is completely baseless & untrue. Let me assure, that the Congress party is confident- we will put Goa back on the path to progress soon,” Venugopal had tweeted on January 10, amid rumours of an alliance between the two parties working out. The rumours had been fuelled by Mahua’s initial overture to the Congress, to join the West Bengal based party’s joint battle to oust the ruling BJP. Venugopal’s clarification on Twitter was responded to by Mahua, who said that her party had given a “formal and definitive” offer to the Congress and party had sought time to respond to it. “In response, 1. AITC already made formal & definitive offer to INC on Goa to defeat BJP. 2. INC leadership asked for time to revert. This was almost two weeks ago. 3. If Mr Chidambaram is not aware of details he should talk to his leadership rather than making these statements,” Mahua said. Responding to Mahua this time was Rao. “If Venugopal’s tweet wasn’t reply enough, I wonder who from amongst Delhi leaders response is Mahua Moitra awaiting. And Trinamool’s brilliant strategy to defeat BJP in Goa is to weaken Congress and divide the anti-BJP vote. Whom does that help Moitraji?” he said on Saturday morning. By Saturday afternoon, Mahua appeared to have had enough of the Twitter contest. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-polls-leaders-in-war-of-words-on-twitter-as-congress-tmc-alliance-talks-flounder-1071459.html
