16-01-2022||First Edit||Kohli, a cut above the rest||It’s been a dramatic four months in Indian cricket, a period that has seen a complete leadership transition within the senior men’s team. The once all-powerful Virat Kohli, the leader across all three formats, announced in September that he would relinquish the T20 captaincy at the conclusion of the T20 World Cup in November and resigned as Test skipper on Saturday, following a series loss to South Africa. Between these two developments, he was axed as the ODI skipper. It has been a massive turnaround in the fortunes of a player who ran the Indian team as if it were his fiefdom. The Captain Kohli era is well and truly behind us, but is he more sinned against than sinner? One of cricket's oldest sayings that has stood the test of time is that 'a captain is as good as the team he leads.' This is true for everyone from Clive Lloyd to Graeme Smith and Sourav Ganguly to Steve Waugh. Occasionally, you come across captains who build the team they desire to lead. They are natural leaders, be it Imran Khan, Arjuna Ranatunga or disgraced late South African skipper Hansie Cronje. They were not just captains, they were visionaries. Kohli falls in that category. The aforementioned names didn’t boast the same on-field histrionics as Kohli. They didn't mouth expletives as freely as Kohli scored runs nor did they go looking for a scrap every time they took the field. Even in his last Test as captain in Cape Town, Kohli let rip through the stump microphone, inviting all-round criticism. But rest assured, history will be kinder to the 33-year-old for his pioneering role in the transformation of the Indian Test team.  From his first Test in charge, standing in for the injured MS Dhoni in Adelaide in December 2014, Kohli showed he was cut from a different cloth. He played to win and was willing to risk defeat in pursuit of victory. A maiden series win in Australia in 2019 may rank as his greatest on-field achievement, but his grandest legacy will remain the lengths he went to in bolstering the team's fortunes in testing overseas conditions. The emphasis on pace and fitness catapulted India to one of the most feared sides in the world. Additionally, no current cricketer of stature has done more to further the cause of Test cricket. Kohli takes great pride in not just playing Tests but doing so with passion and intensity, for which the cricketing world and the authorities must be hugely thankful given the threat to the longer format from the T20 upstart in the main.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/kohli-a-cut-above-the-rest-1071750.html
16-01-2022||In Perspective||New thrust in ties with Bangladesh needed||On December 16, President Ram Nath Kovind joined the 50th Victory Day celebrations of Bangladesh as the chief guest to signify the importance of our bilateral relations with the strategic neighbour. The robust economic relations are a vital and growing component of India-Bangladesh bilateral ties. Bangladesh is not only the largest trading partner of India in South Asia but is also one of India’s leading export destinations. However, China’s growing economic prowess coupled with its strategic investments in South Asia has eroded India’s clout in Bangladesh’s external economic profile in the recent past. China is proposing to offer tariff concessions on 97% of imports from Bangladesh. Therefore, if India is to retain its economic presence in Bangladesh, it will have to address the existing issues that impede trade and investment flows, and identify the key areas for mutual cooperation. India-Bangladesh bilateral trade has witnessed notable growth and almost tripled - from $3.4 billion in 2010 to $9.8 billion - in 2018. During the last decade, India’s trade with Bangladesh witnessed faster growth vis-a-vis the rest of the world. Even during Covid-19 (2020), the bilateral trade showed more resilience — India’s trade with the world contracted by 19.8% while with Bangladesh it declined only by 5.5%. In 2021, trade with Bangladesh grew faster than that with the rest of the world. However, India has always maintained a favourable trade balance with Bangladesh and this has been viewed as an area of concern for the Bangladesh side. Bangladesh’s share in India’s exports increased from 1.4% in 2010 to 3.5% in 2021. India’s share in Bangladesh goods exports stood at 3.3% and it was the eighth largest export destination. On the other hand, China was ranked as the 15th largest export destination with a share of 1.75% in Bangladesh’s exports. Moreover, China constituted about 30% of global exports to Bangladesh and was the top exporter to Bangladesh in 2020 followed by India with 16% share. Overall, Bangladesh has a more severe unfavourable trade balance with China compared to India. Being part of the South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA), both India and Bangladesh get preferential treatment in terms of tariff concessions in each other’s market, but there exist several non-tariff barriers (NTBs) that hamper the realisation of the full potential of India-Bangladesh trade relations. The Bangladesh side highlights two specific concerns over its exports to India — first, the new Indian customs rules that stipulate the verification of certificate of origin from Bangladesh, and second, the anti-dumping duty imposed by India on imports of jute products, hydrogen peroxide and fishing nets. Limited routes Indian companies also complain about discriminatory treatment with regard to the tenders floated by various ministries and departments of the Bangladesh government. These NTBs along with other issues like limited routes, customs harassment, visa problems etc increase the trade cost and dampen bilateral trade. Infrastructure connectivity through sea routes from China is more efficient than trading on roadsides at Benapole and Petrapole with India. One of the key areas that could boost trade in a significant manner and requires urgent attention is upgradation of infrastructure at existing land customs stations (LCSs) along with the establishment of new LCS without port restrictions. With rising trade volumes, the bilateral trade basket is getting diversified, which is making it necessary to have harmonisation of standards and mutual recognition of certificates between the two countries. Being an LDC (least developed country), Bangladesh gets market access with zero tariffs in most of the developed economies of the world. Both countries could explore ways to cooperate to strengthen their positions in the global supply chains. Similar opportunities exist in the jute sector as well. China is capturing the Bangladesh market by flooding it with cheap exports, investing aggressively and extending credit lines for various strategically important projects. Some of the important investments by China in Bangladesh are financing and constructing the Deep Sea Port project (Chittagong and Mongla) and developing generation and distribution lines in the power sector. China has been investing in visible public infrastructures such as friendship bridges, sewage treatment plants, economic zones, expansion of airports, roads and rail links. All these certainly create a positive public perception of China. Given Bangladesh’s vitality in India’s external relations, India must enhance its economic relations to contain China in Bangladesh. In fact, it is also good for Bangladesh as trade with China is more unfavourable to it and is likely to bring it into China’s debt trap. India must invest in visible public infrastructure and help to Bangladesh without considering the economic gains but to minimise the growing influence of China in the region. (Sahoo is Professor, Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi; Rai is Fellow, Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/new-thrust-in-ties-with-bangladesh-needed-1071751.html
16-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Youth dies in road accident in Mysuru; two others injured||A 22-year-old youth died and two of his friends sustained injuries after a two-wheeler they were travelling on hit a car at Kukkrahalli main road in the city on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Abhishek. His friends – Rakshith of Kodagu and Harsha of Belgavi – sustained injuries and are undergoing treatment in a hospital. All three had visited another friend's house and were returning when the bike hit the car coming from the opposite direction. K R Traffic police are investigating the case. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-dies-in-road-accident-in-mysuru-two-others-injured-1071601.html
16-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Farmer throws bundles of coriander on road in Vijayapura in anger over weekend curfew||Angered over denial of permission to sell vegetables at the vegetable market here following weekend curfew in the city, a farmer threw coriander he brought to sell, on the road. The police prevented Bheemagouda Biradar from Domanal village when he tried selling the produce from his village. They told him to take away the vegetable as the market was closed in the wake of weekend curfew imposed to contain Covid-19. But Biradar pleaded them to give him some time to sell his produce. The police, ignoring his appeal, got the market closed. Angered over it, the peasant threw the vegetable including bundles of coriander on the road, telling the people to take them free of cost. "What will Covid-19 do, should we eat floor without business?", the ryot asked. The police remained mute spectator to his anger. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmer-throws-bundles-of-coriander-on-road-in-vijayapura-in-anger-over-weekend-curfew-1071655.html
16-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Daily Covid tally mounts to 782 in Dakshina Kannada||With the spike in Covid-19 cases, Dakshina Kannada on Sunday logged 782 new cases and two fatalities. The positivity rate in the district is 6.45%. On Saturday, the district had reported 792 cases. Of the two fatalities, one is from outside the district while the other is from Mangaluru. According to District Covid Nodal officer Dr Ashok, one more cluster has been identified at a nursing college hostel in Mangaluru taluk with 10 fresh cases. A total of 65 samples were tested in the hostel. The active Covid-19 cases in the district has increased to 4,011. While the total deaths so far is 1,708 cases. The district has reported a total of 1,21,757 cases so far. With 216 discharges, the total discharges so far is 1,16,038. Over 12,000 samples were tested in the district.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/daily-covid-tally-mounts-to-782-in-dakshina-kannada-1071672.html
16-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||More students contract Covid in Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mysuru districts||The number of students of schools and colleges in Uttara Kannada, Belagavi and Mysuru districts testing positive for Covid-19 went up further on Sunday. About 17 students of St Thomas Convent School at Shirali in Bhatkal taluk in Uttara Kannada district tested positive. As a student had contracted the virus, 600 students and 45 staff were tested. The 17 reports on Sunday were positive for the virus. “A proposal will be submitted to the deputy commissioner requesting permission to shut the school for seven days,” assistant commissioner Mamatha Devi told DH. In Sirsi, 16 students of MES Chaitanya PU College, 5 students of the MES PU College and 6 students of the Commerce College contracted the virus. In Belagavi district, 47 students and three staff of Kittur Rani Channamma residential sainik school for girls tested positive. The number of cases, including 13 staff and students, went up to 194. It is alleged that the construction works on the campus continued despite an increasing number of cases. A total of 142 children tested positive in Mysuru district, including 92 children in Mysuru city and 29 from T Narasipur taluk. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/more-students-contract-covid-in-uttara-kannada-belagavi-mysuru-districts-1071767.html
16-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||BJP MLAs Ramachandra, Benake make mockery of Karnataka weekend curfew||Making a mockery of Covid-19 rules, BJP MLA from Jagalur S V Ramachandra celebrated his birthday along with his supporters here on Sunday. The legislator’s followers, party leaders, cops and officials turned up in good numbers at his KB Layout house to greet him. A shamiyana was erected in front of the house and food arrangements were made for the guests. This is despite the fact that the state government had imposed a weekend curfew to curb the spread of the virus. Social distancing was not maintained and many were found not wearing masks at the venue. According to Davangere Palike Commissioner Vishwanath Mudajji, the ruling party MLA had not taken any permission from the corporation for the birthday celebrations. “No one has given any permission to hold the birthday celebrations. I have no information whatsoever on the event, Mudajji told DH. "Are Covid guidelines meant only for common man and opposition parties? Do they not apply to the ruling party members? Last week Honnali MLA Renukacharya flouted Covid rules by participating in Hori Habba (bull taming event). This week Jagalur legislator has violated the rule," charged Davangere district Congress office-bearer Harish Basapur. Benake breaches guidelines Yet another ruling party MLA has violated the weekend curfew. Belgaum Uttar (North) MLA Anil Benake, along with his followers and elected representatives, took part in a programme to mark the anniversary of the anointment of Sambhaji Maharaj in Belagavi on Sunday while the weekend curfew was in force. Palike member Jayatheerth Savadatti, party leaders Sunil Jadhav, Nishant Kude, Srinath Pawar, Omkar Mohite, Sourabh Baamane and others were present. However, no case has been registered for violation of Covid guidelines. Efforts to reach the legislator to elicit his response on the violation did not yield the desired results as Benake did not answer phone calls. DCP Ravindra Gadag told DH, “We will look into the issue and an appropriate action will be taken.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-mlas-ramachandra-benake-make-mockery-of-karnataka-weekend-curfew-1071777.html
16-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Cong attacks Centre for rejecting Narayana Guru tableau||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah lashed out at the Centre for rejecting the tableau of social reformer Narayana Guru. This has exposed BJP’s disdain towards the great social reformer who advocated social justice, he said. The tableau was proposed by Kerala. In a series of tweets, Siddaramaiah sought clarity on why the tableau of Narayana Guru was rejected. “Does he not belong to Hindu religion? Let BJP clarify the position?” he asked. The social reformer dedicated his entire life to reform Hinduism by fighting against social evils like untouchability, he said. He also demanded an apology from the BJP for “their disgraceful act". The Central government should allow the tableau during Republic Day parade, Siddaramaiah demanded. “It is surprising that Prime Ministers’ Office and PM Narendra Modi has still not apologized to the nation for this great mistake of rejecting Narayana Guru’s tableau. Does it mean he is still unaware of this blunder or was he the reason for the rejection?” he asked. Congress MLC B K Hariprasad attacked the Centre and called the rejection of tableau an insult to the spiritual guru. “BJP is having vindictive attitude towards certain states. Centre has rejected Kerala tableau based on Narayana Guru, a philosopher & social reformer. He fought against caste-ridden society & rejecting his tableau is an insult to spiritual guru,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cong-attacks-centre-for-rejecting-narayana-guru-tableau-1071778.html
16-01-2022||Main Article||Passive BSP hurting own prospects||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) appears passive and disengaged in political action today. There are growing apprehensions about its capacity to emerge as a significant force in the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. It is assumed that BSP's continued inaction under Mayawati's leadership, especially to mobilise its conventional Dalit-Bahujan support base, would not only damage its prospects in the state’s electoral battles, but will also dethrone it as the leading vanguard of the Dalit movement at the national level. The Dalit-Bahujan politics aspires to place the marginalised sections as an independent political class. Ambedkar viewed social justice as not merely a welfare policy framework to secure certain material doles from the State but also a dynamic tool to generate revolutionary political consciousness among the socially marginalised group. In the post-Ambedkar period, it was Kanshi Ram, the founder of the BSP, who reintroduced the agenda of social justice as a transformative ideology to bring political change. Kanshi Ram utilised the ideas of social justice to unveil the oppressive caste hierarchies and inspired the marginalised groups to build a political opposition against the Brahmanical hegemony. He imagined an antagonistic majoritarian block (Bahujan) against the minority powerholders (often represented as Manuwadis) and wanted that such binary to be the deciding factor in democratic battles. The politics of social justice thus ruptures the idea of Hindu unity and suggests that the ruling social elites are responsible for the precarious and degraded condition of the vast majority. Kanshi Ram argued that national political parties retain their domination over legislative bodies by relegating lower caste groups as a passive vote bank. He imagined that under the BSP, the socially marginalised communities form a robust political alliance and defeat the traditional ruling castes. Replacement of the conventional ruling elites by Dalit-Bahujan collective would bring a revolutionary change in governance and policy matters. Whither social justice agenda? The BSP emerged as a dynamic force in the late 1990s and introduced Dalits as the most influential social category in democratic processes. Mayawati led a powerful state government several times and ensured that the issues of caste discrimination, representation of Dalits and OBCs in state institutions and communal riots shall not become challenges against her government. Her regimes are valued for providing effective law and order, rapid infrastructural development and for implementing effective social justice policies for the marginalised groups. However, the BSP failed to retain its momentum of political success as its social and cultural strategies to preserve its support base, especially the non-Jatav voters of the party, was unimpressive and non-engaging. Imagining the Dalit-Bahujan mass as the ruling class was a radical version of social justice agenda. Forming social and political alliances is the foundational requirement to build robust politics of social justice. It is also true that the OBCs often showed resistance to join and work under the BSP under the prejudice that it serves mainly the Dalit counterparts. Such stereotypes corner the BSP as a Dalit party and the SP eventually becomes a Yadav-dominated party. The crude rivalry between the BSP and the SP and the division between socially marginalised communities defeated the objective of social justice politics. Importantly, the BSP has also hesitantly refused to bridge the socio-cultural divisions between the Dalits and OBCs and proposed political alliances with social elites (mainly Brahmins) and nationalist parties (initially the Congress and later the BJP) and thus moved away from the foundational principles of the social justice movement. The BSP is further criticised for its deep attachment to specific communitarian identity and there is a charge that the worst-off Dalits have not been given legitimate space in mainstream politics. Such trust deficit motivates various caste segments to flag separate political demands, undermining the possibility of collective political action. Such caste-based segmentation allowed right-wing politics to enter Dalit groups with creative cultural strategies and successfully engaged them into the Hindutva agenda. The BJP challenges the agenda of social justice with alternative cultural politics. The right-wing engages with the lower caste groups as the cultural and religious subject and exploits their association with Hindu rituals and traditions. The divisionary caste segments are celebrated as ruminants of Hindu civilisation with new iconography and social history for each fragment is invented. The right-wing underplays the lower caste identities as socially deprived classes and reprimands their political assertion as a disruptive force against Hinduism. Instead, the domination of the social elites over political and public institutions are legitimised under the rubric of ‘social harmony’ and not seen as the continuation of Brahmanical hegemony. Further, propagating communal hatred against Muslims has been the most potent tool for the BJP to mobilise the Dalit-Bahujan sections. Further, vast sections within the Dalit-Bahujan survive under precarious economic conditions. Knowing this well, the BJP has launched powerful rhetoric of development, anti-corruption politics and euphoria of nationalism that often bewitch the aspirational groups and motivate them to support right-wing politics. Most important, the maverick leadership of Narendra Modi effectively controls the ship of propaganda and makes BJP a dynamic force amongst vulnerable social groups. The social justice politics wanted to elevate the Dalit-Bahujan masses as the new political elites. Instead, the BJP’s Machiavellian cultural politics exploit caste divisions and relegates the lower caste groups as the militant participants in the Hindu renaissance under the aegis of social elites. The BJP appears influential and successful in the democratic battle today; However, it has no roadmap to empower the vast majority of impoverished communities from the burden of poverty, social discrimination and political powerlessness. Hindutva’s hegemonic cultural politics can be defeated by reinventing the ideology of social justice. The proponents of social justice have to demonstrate substantive accountability towards the vulnerable worst-off groups and have to ensure their dignified presence in the mainstream political process. There is a need to craft creative strategies to organise cultural and social diversities and invent new methods to inspire the most vulnerable sections to join the politics of social justice. (The writer teaches at the Centre for Political Studies, JNU)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/passive-bsp-hurting-own-prospects-1071752.html
16-01-2022||Mysuru||Relief for Mysuru Royal family member: HC directs changes in entry for 100 acres||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the revenue/ municipal authorities in Mysuru to make appropriate entries in the name of Indrakshi Devi, a member of Mysuru royal family, in respect to 100 acres 32 guntas of land at Kurubarahalli village, Kasaba Hobli in Mysuru. The subject land was part of a huge chunk of lands that were held by the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru as ‘B-kharab’/government land reserved for public purpose by an order dated May 26, 2015. This order of the Deputy Commissioner in respect of 2,000 acres of land in three villages - Kurubarahalli, Alanahalli and Chowdanahalli in Mysuru were held to be private properties by a coordinate bench of the high court on June 19, 2020. The counsel for the petitioners contended that the 100 acres 32 guntas is part of the land in Kurubarahalli. Indrakshi Devi, one the sisters of Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar, through her two power of attorney holders, contended that the land was part of 1,563 acres of land acquired by the then Maharaja of Mysuru. The land can be seen in the list of properties filed by the then Maharaja and the Union government and the government of Mysuru in the accession treaty of 1950. It was also informed to the court that the order of the co-ordinate bench (June 2020) was tested by the state government right up to the Supreme Court and the government has been unsuccessful. Considering these developments, Justice R Devdas allowed the petition and directed the authorities to consider the representation, to be submitted by the petitioners, for appropriate changes in the entries. Three deputy commissioners of Mysuru, from 2011 to 2015, had passed separate orders pertaining to the lands in three villages. The owners of the land, including Pramoda Devi Wodeyar, wife of Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wodeyar, moved the high court challenging the orders. The petitioners contended that the lands classified as ‘B’ kharab government lands by the deputy commissioner in 2015 were the very lands held by the Maharaja of Mysore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/relief-for-mysuru-royal-family-member-hc-directs-changes-in-entry-for-100-acres-1071774.html
16-01-2022||National||Indian Army vows to keep status quo along borders intact||India on Saturday sent out a message to both China and Pakistan with its army vowing to foil any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the country’s borders with the two neighbouring nations. “Our patience is a sign of our self-confidence, but no one should make the mistake of testing it,” Gen M M Naravane, the Chief of the Army Staff, said. “Our message is clear, the Indian Army wouldn’t let any attempt to unilaterally change status quo along country’s borders to succeed.” Gen Naravane was delivering a speech on the occasion of Army Day. His statement came just days after the military commanders of India and China restarted negotiation to resolve the 21-month-long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) — the de facto boundary between the two nations — in eastern Ladakh. “We stand firm to counter any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along our borders. Our response to such attempts has been swift, calibrated and decisive as was seen when the situation demanded,” Gen Naravane said. He referred to the recent round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders and called it constructive. He said efforts to find a solution to the current situation along the LAC would continue “on the basis of mutual and equal security”. Gen Naravane said the situation along the Line of Control between India and Pakistan was better than the previous year. But Pakistan still had 300-400 terrorists in its camps ready to cross over to India, he added. Gen Naravane also reviewed the Army Day Parade at the Cariappa Parade Ground in Delhi Cantonment. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-vows-to-keep-status-quo-along-borders-intact-1071512.html
16-01-2022||National||Indian Army unveils new combat uniform||The Indian Army on Saturday unveiled a new combat uniform that is comfortable, climate-friendly and features a digital disruptive pattern. A contingent of commandos of the Parachute Regiment, wearing the new uniforms, took part in the Army Day parade that was conducted at the Cariappa ground in New Delhi. The uniform, which features a mix of colours including olive and earthen, has been designed taking into considerations aspects like areas of deployment of the troops and climatic conditions in which they operate. The new uniform has been designed after analysing combat uniforms of armies of various other countries, in association with the National Institute of Fashion Technology, sources said.  This uniform is more comfortable and it would be worn in all types of terrains, they said.  The digital disruptive pattern is designed with help of computer aid, they said. The shirt in the new uniform does not have to be tucked in the trouser, the sources said. The shirt in the old uniform had to be tucked in.  The sources said the new uniforms would not be available in the open market. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-unveils-new-combat-uniform-1071513.html
16-01-2022||National||BEL says its new drone can prevent Pathankot-style attack||A new drone being developed by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) could help prevent a Pathankot-style attack. In the 2016 attack, at least six heavily armed militants dressed in Indian Army uniforms had breached the outer fence of Air Station Pathankot, Punjab, potentially crossing over using eucalyptus trees growing alongside the fence while exploiting faulty floodlights in that part of the perimeter. They had possibly then used elephant grass inside the airfield to mask their approach. BEL’s answer is the Tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, a 9-kg unmanned drone that can loiter in a fixed position above airfields and army bases, providing 360-degree surveillance capability. “The drone is ‘tethered’ to the ground by a cable which also supplies it with power from a battery,” a BEL source said. At the heart of the machine is its camera equipment: one a CCD video camera with a range of two kilometres in daylight plus an EO/IR (Electro-Optical/Infra-Red thermal camera with a range of 600 metres.  “The machine can loiter above the base for six hours are a stretch. The rotors tend to overheat after six hours and must be cooled for an hour,” the source said. A second BEL source specified that an airfield the size of Yelahanka Air Force station, for example, would need between two to three drones operating in shifts to ensure continuous surveillance capabilities. “Development of this project began six months ago and demonstrations have been made for the army and air force. Interest has been shown,” the source said. “The deployment of these drones could prevent a future Pathankot-style attack because they would be constantly surveilling the military bases around the clock,” the source added. BEL eyeing drone pie The genesis of this project, plus the development of a frontline drone (called the Hexacopter-20), shows that BEL is trying to gain a piece of the battlefield drone pie. One officer told DH that one advantage of their drones is that all systems and components are wholly made in India. “We are eyeing the drone market in a big way and we are collaborating with the Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO) in development,” a BEL officer said. The Hexacopter-20 is a 20-kg UAV with a two-stroke internal combustion engine that can fly for 3.5 hours with a payload of two kgs. A payload could include medical kits. This drone, which can carry out recon and search and air rescue activities has a camera with a peak range of 600 metres. It also has swarming capability, which is being developed in conjunction with a Bengaluru-based startup. The defense PSU is also planning a mega-display with a hundred different kinds of drones operating in concert with each other.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bel-says-its-new-drone-can-prevent-pathankot-style-attack-1071514.html
16-01-2022||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crosses 156 crore||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 156 crore with more than 57 lakh vaccine doses administered on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night. Cumulatively, 52,40,53,061 first doses have been administered to individuals in the 18-44 age group across states and union territories and 36,73,83,765 second doses have been given since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive, according to health ministry data. In the 15-18 age group, 3,36,09,191 vaccine doses have been administered, the ministry said. Cumulatively, 90,68,44,414 first doses and 65,51,95,703 second doses have been administered, it said. India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 156 crore (1,56,63,10,110) on Saturday. More than 57 lakh (57,29,760) vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm, it added. More than 42,69,993 'precaution' doses for the identified categories of beneficiaries for Covid-19 vaccination have been administered so far. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-crosses-156-crore-1071515.html
16-01-2022||National||DH Toon | Analysing voters under the microscope of caste, religion||Pushed on the backfoot following large scale desertions from its OBC leaders and fighting a perception that it had 'humiliated' leaders from the community, the BJP has included over 40 per cent OBC candidates in its first list of 105 nominees for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls which was released on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-analysing-voters-under-the-microscope-of-caste-religion-1071519.html
16-01-2022||National||India a source of inspiration, says Palestinian official as ROI organises events to celebrate Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav||India is a "source of inspiration" and continues to set an "unmatched example" for Palestinians while gaining a leading status globally, a senior Palestinian official has said, as several events were organised across the West Bank to celebrate the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav in Palestine. In continuation to bringing Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to Palestine, the Representative Office of India (ROI), organised Hindi Diwas, Swami Vivekananda's birthday, marked as National Youth Day, and Makar Sankranti in various parts of Palestine between January 10-15. The period also coincided with the conclusion of the Swachhata Pakhwada (Cleanliness Fortnight) as part of which the ROI donated masks and other sanitisation materials to local schools and charities. The celebrations were organised in partnership with the Municipality of Nablus, Beitunia, and the Ramallah Directorate of Education. As part of the events to mark Swachhata Pakhwada and within the framework of social outreach to the local community's youth, Representative of India in Palestine, Mukul Arya, visited the Beitunia Basic Boys’ School on January 13. Addressing the students, Arya underlined the civilisational commonalities on the importance given to cleanliness, and its relevance in light of the ongoing global pandemic. Mayor of Beitunia, Ribhi Doleh, Director of Ramallah Education Directorate, Basem Ereqat, School Principal Saleh Bzour, teachers, and a large number of students attended the function. Ereqat thanked the people and the Indian government for the ongoing support on various levels, especially in the fields of education, capacity building efforts, and vital school construction projects funded by India. Thanking the ROI for the "deeply appreciated gesture", Doleh said that “not only does India support Palestine politically, but India continues as the source of inspiration for Palestinians due to its history, the doctrines of its great leadership, continues to set an unmatched example of a country that had gained its independence through non-violent means and today, has gained a leading status, not only in the region, but on the international level as well”. The almost week-long celebrations kicked off with a grand event held at the Nablus Municipal Culture Center to mark the World Hindi Day on January 10. It started with the screening of messages by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Minister of External Affairs, Dr. S. Jaishankar, followed by a recorded message from MoS for External Affairs, Meenakshi Lekhi. The event emphasised on the importance and relevance of Hindi language as one of the most widely spoken languages in today's world. Participants took part in several cultural activities, including singing Hindi Songs, playing Hindi Music and reciting Hindi poetry. Palestinian officials and dignitaries, including Iyad Khalaf, Mayor of Nablus, Anees Sweidan, Deputy Mayor of Nablus, representatives of academic institutes, ITEC and ICCR alumni, cultural groups, school children and large number of India enthusiasts participated in the event. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda on January 12, the ROI celebrated National Youth Day at Hamdi Manko Cultural Centre, Nablus. A collection of famous quotes and teachings of Swami Vivekananda were showcased at the event. It also featured a book exhibition, the recitation of Swadesh Mantra, and screening of two documentaries - World Thinkers on Swami Vivekananda and Do Good to Others. The ROI also brought the festival of Makar Sankranti to Palestine by organising a kite festival and also introduced the art of Rangoli drawing among the local youth at Beitunia School as part of the celebrations. Focusing on the diverse culture of India, Arya stated that “Rangoli is one of the colourful arts of India that combines beauty and brings colours into our lives”. A large number of local youth enthusiastically participated in both the events. The ROI has been organising several events from time to time to celebrate the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav in various Palestinian Governorates and localities. Last November, it organised the Indian Cultural Week in cooperation with the Palestinian Ministry of Culture and in association with Indian Council for Cultural Relations. The festival was organised in the cities of Bethlehem, Jericho, Nablus and Ramallah. Hundreds of Palestinians have studied in India over the past several decades as part of New Delhi's efforts to help capacity building in Palestine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-a-source-of-inspiration-says-palestinian-official-as-roi-organises-events-to-celebrate-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-1071526.html
16-01-2022||National||Congress steers clear of dissent ahead of Punjab polls||Kin of top Punjab Congressmen, a controversial Punjabi singer, sister of Bollywood actor Sonu Sood among others appear prominently on the list of 86 Congress candidates for the ensuing Assembly elections in Punjab. The state has 117 Assembly segments that will go to polls on February 14. In the first list of candidates that it announced on Saturday, the Congress high command has chosen to steer clear of controversy by ensuring that sitting MLAs and prominent leaders are not denied tickets. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu will contest from Amritsar East from where he is a sitting MLA. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will defend his current Assembly segment from Chamkaur Sahib. The party is likely to field him from another segment in Doaba region also given his popularity as a Dalit leader. Dalit votes in Punjab were a major factor when he was chosen as the chief minister after the unceremonious exit of Capt Amarinder Singh. Punjab has the highest percentage of Dalits at 33%.   Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has been fielded from Qadian Assembly constituency in Gurdaspur. His brother Fateh Jung was the sitting MLA from Qadian. Jung had switched sides to the BJP after he sensed that the Congress intended to give the Qadian ticket to his brother. Congress Punjab campaign chief Sunil Jakhar is unlikely to contest the elections. His nephew Sandeep Jakhar has been given the ticket from Abohar. Mohit Mohindra, the son of Punjab minister Brahm Mohindra has been fielded from Patiala Rural while Malavika Sood, the sister of actor Sonu Sood has been given the ticket from Moga. Controversial Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala has been given the ticket from Mansa. Moosewala joined the Congress last month and has been fielded from his hometown. The singer, who often brags about guns and the gun-toting culture in his music videos, faces many cases. Firebrand Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in November in connection with a money-laundering case, will contest from his stronghold Bholath. Most of the sitting Cabinet ministers have been retained in the first list. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-steers-clear-of-dissent-ahead-of-punjab-polls-1071528.html
16-01-2022||National||India reports 2.71 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 314 deaths; Omicron tally rises to 7,743||Continuing its daily surge of Covid-19 cases, India reported 2,71,202 fresh infections on Sunday, with 314 more succumbing to the virus, government data showed. The country saw 1,702 new cases of Omicron variant, the highest in a single day so far, and an increase of 28.17 per cent since Saturday. According to experts, it is not possible to undertake genome sequencing of each and every sample, but stressed that this wave is largely being driven by Omicron. India now has 15,50,377 active cases, the highest in 225 days, while the death toll is at 4,86,066. The positivity rate declined from 16.66 per cent on Saturday to 16.28 per cent on Sunday. A total of 70,24,48,838 samples were tested up to January 15 of which 16,65,404 samples were tested on January 15. Meanwhile, 1,56,76,15,454 have been vaccinated so far under the national immunisation drive. The active cases comprises 4.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 94.51 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 1,32,557 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. (With PTI inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-271-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-314-deaths-omicron-tally-rises-to-7743-1071535.html
16-01-2022||National||'Private bank' vanishes after duping hundreds in Uttar Pradesh||A private 'bank' that promised Muslims to keep their money secured, has duped hundreds of people of their money and the main accused has reportedly fled to Dubai. According to the police, hundreds of villagers in the Nagina area have lost the hard-earned money they had deposited with 'Al Faizan Muslim Fund Ltd', a facility privately owned by one Mohammad Faizi for Muslims to keep their money in a "secured manner". So far, 170 police complaints have been filed and the police are in the process of ascertaining the extent of loss to the depositors. The institution had been running for five years in Nagina's Mohalla Lal Sarai. The accused, Faizi, had also employed some agents to get more customers in the villages. Police sources said Faizi may have amassed several crores of rupees. Preliminary investigations have revealed that he had quietly sold off his house in Nagina town before disappearing. Earning or paying interest on investment is considered un-Islamic in Sharia and many Muslim families shy away from depositing their money in banks and look for interest-free facilities that these private institutions known as 'Muslim fund banks' provide. Krishna Murari, Nagina Station House officer (SHO), said, "Police have registered a case against Faizi and his partner under the relevant sections of the IPC. Two agents collecting money from people have been detained and are being interrogated." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-bank-vanishes-after-duping-hundreds-in-uttar-pradesh-1071550.html
16-01-2022||National||Covid-positive Lata Mangeshkar to remain in ICU under supervision||Melody queen Lata Mangeshkar continues to remain in the ICU of a Mumbai hospital because of Covid-19 infection coupled with pneumonia, and her condition has shown signs of improvement.  “Lata Mangeshkar's condition is improving,” Maharashtra’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said.  Lata Mangeshkar (92) is currently in the Breach Candy Hospital and Research Centre in south Mumbai.  “I spoke to the authorities of the Breach Candy Hospital who updated me about her health. I told them that the spokesperson of the hospital should provide updates on the singer's condition as people are eager to know about her health," Tope told reporters in Jalna on Sunday.  Lata Didi, as she is popularly known, was admitted to the hospital last week.  Earlier in the day, Breach Candy Hospital’s associate professor, Dr Pratit Samdani had said Lata Mangeshkar continues to be in the ICU and is under treatment. “She continues to be in the ICU under observation. We have to wait and watch. Pray for her recovery. She will continue to remain in the hospital,” Samdani was quoted saying by a news agency.  Meanwhile, ‘get well soon messages flooded the social media platforms with people wishing a speedy recovery to the Nightingale of India. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-positive-lata-mangeshkar-to-remain-in-icu-under-supervision-1071552.html
16-01-2022||National||After a year, India has administered over 156 crore Covid jabs||The countrywide vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Sunday completed one year, during which over 156.76 crore vaccine doses were administered. According to health ministry officials, over 93 per cent of the adult population have received at least one dose while over 69.8 per cent have been fully vaccinated.  The Centre will issue a postal stamp on Sunday afternoon to mark the completion of one year of the inoculation drive. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that India crossed the landmark milestone of administering 10 crore vaccine doses on April 1 last year. बेमिसाल एक साल 💉 The world's largest vaccination drive achieving new milestones! Precaution Dose Drive for healthcare & frontline workers and citizens aged 60 years or above is going on in full swing.  As many as 25 crore vaccine doses were administered on June 25, crossed 50 crore Covid-19 vaccine dose on August 6 and 75 crore on September 13, he said. The drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. Vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. Vaccination of all people aged over 45 from April 1. The government then decided to expand the ambit of the inoculation drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.  The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from January 3 this year for adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years. India started administering the precaution dose of Covid vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers, which include polling personnel deployed in the five poll-bound states, and comorbid people aged 60 and above from January 10 in a bid to stymie the coronavirus spread driven by its Omicron variant. The health ministry has claimed that India's vaccination programme has been one of the most successful and largest inoculation programmes when compared to many developed western nations with a significantly low population base to vaccinate. In the vaccination drive, the country has achieved several milestones, which have no precedent in the world, including administering over 100 crore doses in less than nine months, administering 2.51 crore doses in a single day and several times administering one crore doses in a day, it said. Covid vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on October 21 last year. The cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 150-crore mark on January 7. With the administration of more than 66 lakh vaccine doses in a day, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 156.76 crore, according to provisional reports till 7 am on Sunday. More than 43.19 lakh precaution doses of the vaccine have been administered. Also, 3,38,50,912 first doses have been given to beneficiaries in the 15-18 years age group. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-a-year-india-has-administered-over-156-crore-covid-jabs-1071570.html
16-01-2022||National||CPI(M) MP writes to FM against sale of CEL to private company with 'no expertise'||CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas has written to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman against the sale of Ghaziabad-based Central Electronics Ltd to a private firm with no domain experience at "throwaway prices". While Brittas has also written to Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh on the issue, another CPI(M) MP Dr S Sivadasan has demanded immediate intervention of the Comptroller and Auditor General, the Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Public Accounts Committee Chairman to "save the CEL and stop corruption". In his letter to Sitharaman on January 13, Brittas said the CEL is being sold for a "paltry sum of Rs 210 crore" to Nandal Finance and Leasing Pvt Ltd, which is a financial intermediary with "no competence in concerned field, managerial or technological".  Referring to Premier Furnitures and Interiors holding 99.96% stake in the firm that bought CEL, he said, "we cannot dismiss the allegations that the government is proposing to sell a strategic PSU, which is manufacturing strategically important components having ramifications in the defence sector also, indirectly to a furniture company." He said the CEL has 50-acre land it could cost over Rs 500 crore as per its annual report in 2019-20. The CEL is a profit-making company and it has orders worth Rs 1,592 crore in pipeline and Rs 132 crore as collectible dues from government agencies, he said. "The proposed sale of CEL causes serious concerns among the public about the undervaluation of tangible and intangible assets of Central Public Sector Enterprises during the disinvestment process," he said. Brittas also found the decision to mobilise resources through privatisation of public assets as "flawed" as the private entities buying the public assets would be raising most of the needed resources from public sector banks. "The sale of CEL implies underselling a highly valuable asset base of the government for a paltry sum to a company that may change its role to the detriment of the national interest. The tall claims to consider the sale as a source of non-inflationary fiscal resource for the budget is fallacious, since such an argument is patently invalid,” he said. There are more "benign and effective ways" to raise additional fiscal resources, he said. He said the transaction adviser or asset valuer could not discover the true potential of CEL, which has around 130 engineers of proven competence and capable of tapping more than 1,000 retired technical personnel who could be accessible even today. Earlier, Congress too raised the pitch against Narendra Modi government's disinvestment programme as it accused BJP regime of "compromising" the country’s strategic interests by selling the "profitable" CEL to a private firm with no domain experience but having links to BJP leaders at a rate that is much lower than the value of its assets. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-mp-writes-to-fm-against-sale-of-cel-to-private-company-with-no-expertise-1071574.html
16-01-2022||National||Why MSP law is not being passed, asks Congress||A day after the farmer unions gave ultimatum to the government on the issue of MSP, the Congress on Sunday questioned the government over the issue. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said, "Why MSP law is not being passed? Why Minister in Lakhimpur Kheri case not being dismissed? Why farmers union not being called for meeting? Withdrawal of black farm laws turning into mere election stunt. Will 19 Nov 2021 day when farm laws were withdrawn will turn into 'Dhokha Diwas'?" The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday had alleged that there is no forward movement on the MSP issue. "There has been no progress. No committee has been formed on Minimum Support Price (MSP). There is only some action on withdrawing cases against farmers in Haryana, but not much progress on that count in other states, including Delhi. There has been no discussion on our demand in connection with power bills," SKM leader Yudhveer Singh told a media conference SKM, a consortium of 40-odd farmers' organisations, had on December 9 declared to suspend their 15-month-long agitation that had started to protest the three contentious farm laws passed in 2020. Lakhimpur Kheri was the place where on October 4 half-a-dozen people, including farmers and a journalist, were mowed down by a speeding vehicle, allegedly belonging to the son of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Ajay Mishra Teni. The farmers have demanded action against Teni and his son, but no step has been taken yet. The SKM also declared to extend support to the all-India strike by labour organisations on February 23 and 24 as their demands include MSP and also because the labour organisations had supported the farmers' agitation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-msp-law-is-not-being-passed-asks-congress-1071576.html
16-01-2022||National||CBI arrests GAIL director in bribery case||Gas Authority of India Ltd (GAIL) Director (Marketing) ES Ranganathan has landed in the CBI's net in a case of bribery of over Rs 50 lakh for giving discounts to private companies buying petro-chemical products. Six persons, including Ranganathan, were arrested on Saturday, as the CBI unearthed the racket involving middlemen and businessmen after registering a case on Thursday and subsequently conducting searches at the premises of the accused at Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon, Panchkula and Karnal among other cities. The investigators seized around Rs 1.29 crore in cash and articles worth around Rs 1.25 crore from Ranganathan's residence in Uttar Pradesh's Noida.  Besides Ranganathan, the other arrested suspected middlemen are Pawan Gaur and Rajesh Kumar – who is also Director of Rishabh Polychem Ltd, N Ramakrishnan Nair, United Polymer Industries' Saurabh Gupta and Bansal Agencies' Aditya Bansal. According to the CBI, Ranganathan was allegedly collecting bribes from prospective beneficiaries of discounts to private companies buying petro-chemical products marketed by the Maharatna PSU. He was allegedly "indulging in corrupt and illegal activities in criminal conspiracy" with Gaur and Kumar. The first arrest was that of Gaur and Kumar, allegedly with Rs 10 lakh which they collected on behalf of Ranganathan, following a tip-off. The others were arrested following this. According to the CBI FIR, Kumar had directed Gaur to approach Ranganathan to allow some discount to the buyers on petro-chemical products being marketed by Maharatna PSU in return for illegal gratification. Kumar and Gaur allegedly met Ranganathan at the latter's residence in Noida on December 11 last year and at Hotel Leela in New Delhi three days later. In between the two meetings, Kumar had allegedly contacted other dealers, who would be prospective beneficiaries of the discount. "Source has further informed that on 17 December, 2021, Rajesh collected the demanded bribe amount from beneficiary private parties and delivered it to Gaur for Ranganathan. Source has further informed that on 18 December, 2021, on the direction of Ranganathan, Nair has collected the said amount of Rs 40 lakh from the residence of Gaur. Thereafter on December 20, 2021, Gaur pursued Ranganathan for issuance of order, on which he had told him that he would sign after returning from Mumbai," the FIR said. Kumar then allegedly entered into negotiation with "two more prospective beneficiary parties/dealers" other than the previous ones — Gupta of United Polymer Industries and Bansal of Bansal Agencies — and "convinced them to pay bribes in exchange for the favourable orders". The FIR then claimed that Kumar on January 13 asked Gupta to fulfil his commitment and sought Rs 12 lakh from Ranganathan, who had brought down his demand from Rs 15 lakh. "Gaur also asked Gupta to send the demanded bribe amount at the earliest. It is also informed that Gupta had already given Rs 3 lakh to Kumar as bribe for said purpose and he would be sending Rs 9.20 lakh through hawala channel on January 14," the FIR said. On the same day, Bansal also gave some money. The FIR also alleged that Ranganathan also got some checks conducted in November last year at the premises of some of the stockists of GAIL at the behest of Gaur and Kumar. However, Ranganathan allegedly tipped off some of his "favoured parties" before the checks. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-gail-director-in-bribery-case-1071579.html
16-01-2022||National||The season of 'Aaya Ram Gaya Ram' politics is back||As the election to the five state assemblies draws near, the pace of political activities naturally has become turbocharged. Not that rallies or road shows are happening, neither are posters and banners flooding the streets. The movement is of politicians shifting alliances in search of pastures that they believe can fetch them the necessary greens. The proverbial 'Aaya Ram Gaya Ram' is here again, and no matter what the law says, or what the sentiment and goal of the law is, the crossovers continue. It is not common to see politicians who have been ministers for full five years suddenly decide to exit their parent party and join the rivals. In recent days, Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Punjab -- three of the five states going to the polls -- has this drama unfolding almost daily. It must surely have made the voters sit up and ponder. In Goa, political defections continue unabated. At least nine MLAs resigned their seats in the state assembly to join other parties. A Minister in Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's cabinet, Michael Lobo, switched over to the Congress, which is said to have promised tickets to him (Lobo), his wife and some of his associates. Senior Goa Congress leader and former MLA Victor Gonsalves left the party to join Mamata Banerjee's TMC. The reason for his resignation is said to be the induction of Lobo into the Congress. However, Gonsalves has himself been party-hopping, from the Congress to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to Goa Forward Party (GFP) in 2017, to the Congress in 2020, before settling in Trinamool. Uttar Pradesh is considered to be one of the toughest political territories in the country, where political equations and affiliations are dominated by caste and religion. And the state has its own share of 'Aaya Ram Gaya Ram' stories. At least 20 leaders, including ministers, have jumped ship so far. Just ahead of the election, Swami Prasad Maurya, a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government, announced his resignation on Twitter and joined the Samajwadi Party. After serving his complete five-year term as minister, he accused the BJP of neglecting Dalits, OBCs and farmers. Maurya had switched over to the BJP from the Bahujan Samaj Party, months ahead of the 2017 Assembly elections, accusing Mayawati of corruption. Before joining the BSP in 1996, he had a stint in the Janata Dal. Soon after Maurya's resignation from the BJP, two more ministers -- Dara Singh Chauhan and Dharam Singh Saini -- followed in his footsteps. Saini was with the BSP before joining the BJP in 2016 and now has moved to SP with Maurya. Chauhan started with the BSP in 1996, then went to SP and got elected as a Rajya Sabha MP, returned to the BSP ahead of 2009 general elections and was appointed leader of the BSP parliamentary party in the Lok Sabha, switched to the BJP in 2015, and now has again moved on. As the exodus continued, the BJP was also inducting 'other' leaders -- SP's Hariom Yadav and Dharampal Singh, and Naresh Saini of the Congress, for instance. In Punjab, too, politicians are hopping around from one party to another in search of better deals. The Congress' Dalit face and former minister Joginder Singh Mann resigned and joined AAP after accusing the party of "patronising the tainted and giving space to opportunists". Six days after joining the BJP, MLA Balwinder Laddi rejoined the Congress on January 2. It is being said that he returned after being assured of a party ticket in the assembly elections. Harjot Kamal, Congress MLA from Moga, was said to be unhappy after his seat was given to actor Sonu Sood's sister Malvika, just weeks ahead of the state elections. A "humiliated" Kamal joined the BJP on Saturday. Congress MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, brother of senior party leader and MP Partap Bajwa, also switched sides, fearing he may lose the candidature this time. In Uttarakhand, AAP leader Ravindra Jugran quit the party and rejoined the ruling BJP, saying it was like a homecoming for him. He had earlier been in BJP for 25 years, but had joined AAP a year ago. Former Uttarakhand Congress president Kishore Upadhyay was reported to have met some BJP leaders because he is said to be unhappy with Harish Rawat spearheading the party's election campaign. Upadhyay was removed from all party posts on the charge of committing 'anti-party activities'. Similar examples of jumping ships can be multiplied. The 'Aaya Rams Gaya Rams' may evoke awkward responses, but the fact is that they are a striking feature in the political space. Some may dismiss them as being disgustingly opportunistic, others may even regard them as loyalty shifts dictated by legitimate political reasons. The fact is that 'Aya Rams Gaya Rams' continue to exist even in 2022, a good 55 years after an independent MLA, Gaya Lal, from Haryana in 1967 switched two parties in a day and three in 15 days -- joined the Congress, then the United Front, and finally, back to the Congress to become a part of the new government. According to contemporary news reports, Congress leader Rao Birender Singh addressed a press conference in Chandigarh with Gaya Lal by his side. Birender Singh told the media: "Gaya Ram ab Aaya Ram hai." A few days later, the then Union Home Minister, Yashwantrao Chavan, used the phrase 'Aaya Ram, Gaya Ram' in Parliament as he took a jibe at Gaya Lal. In June 1979, Bhajan Lal formed the Janata Party government in Haryana. However, when Indira Gandhi won the Lok Sabha elections in 1980, he joined the Congress along with all his MLAs. This is also regarded as one of the worst instances of 'Aaya Aam Gaya Ram' politics. The Rajiv Gandhi government in 1985 introduced the anti-defection law to stop the jumping jacks from ditching their mother parties. A Constitution Amendment Bill that included the Tenth Schedule to enact the anti-defection law was passed. An MLA or MP who switches parties can avoid the anti-defection law, only if one-third of the party legislators also resign; otherwise he or she would stand disqualified. Although 'Aaya Ram Gaya Ram' politics has become uncommon after the anti-defection law came into force, it keeps surfacing every now and then. The phrase is an idiom that became popular in the late 1960s, but has a deep political history laced with suspicion. The openness on social media and the unparalleled access to all sorts of information today gives an advantage to the people and it is this that the turncoats, the 'Aaya Rams Gaya Rams', need to fear. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-season-of-aaya-ram-gaya-ram-politics-is-back-1071584.html
16-01-2022||National||ISI activates terror wings to derail Punjab, UP polls: Intel||With an aim to to derail the electoral process in the state and to increase the Khalistani footprints in Punjab, the Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) has activated its terror outfits to execute more terror activities in the state and also in some parts of Uttar Pradesh, Intelligence agencies said. The sources in the security set up, quoting the intelligence inputs, said that the ISI sponsored Sikh terror outfits may target the election rallies and may attempt to hit some important leaders or VVIP during the electioneering process in Punjab, parts of UP and Uttarkhand. Considering Punjab election as an apt opportunity to reactivate the Khalistani movement in the state and also in other poll bound states wherein the Sikh voters are in large numbers, the ISI has activated all small or big terror groups which have been tasked to derail the poll process in the state, the sources further said. The inputs have been shared by the Punjab, UP and Uttrakhand administrations which disclosed that these outfits may try to make inroad among Sikh population in other states too to gain their supports for their cause. The ISI has also conveyed these proscribed Sikh Militant organizations that this is a time of 'now or never' for Khalistan. Accordingly, the UP and Uttarakhand governments have been asked to keep a vigil on these activities and to keep in touch with the Sikh religious leaders and prominent persons in these states. The ISI has instructed the Sikh militant groups which are active abroad to channelise the supply of weapons and explosives in Punjab and the organizations like International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) to arrange the supply of weapons through Pakistani handlers. The sources, quoting the intelligence input, also said that Sikh militant Wadhava Singh Babbar of BKI, Parmjit Singh Panjawar of Khalistan Commando Force and Ranjeet Singh Neeta of Khalistan Zindabad Force are in constant touch with ISI and executing the instructions while Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of Sikh for Justice who have already been declared terrorist by Indian authorities, is also active in the UK, the US and Germany to support his men in Punjab by all means. They also said that Lakhveer Singh led ISYF has a substantial influence in the villages at international border with Pakistan and many of his henchmen are expert in making bombs and other explosive devices. Singh has been tasked to arrange safe passage in Punjab of these explosive materials once it is smuggled in to Indian Territory, the sources revealed. The use of drones for transporting weapons and explosives across the border has become a major challenge for the security forces in recent times along the Punjab border. According to the officials, over 60 incidents of drones have been spotted on the Indo-Pakistan border in Punjab sector. Many of them have been shot down by the Border security Force. The investigations into the recent Ludhiana blast have also revealed that how these Sikh Militant groups are trying to execute their terror attacks in the state with their overground workers. A senior official in the Punjab security grid said that the ISI has also activated old terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e Mohammed, Indian Mujahideen and Hizbul Mujahideen and asked them to recreate their sleeper cell network in Punjab and other parts of UP too. These Pakistan Occupied Kashmir based terror wings have been more active in Jammu and Kashmir through over ground workers especially after the Taliban took over the reign in Afghanistan in August last year. He also said that by extending the jurisdiction of BSF up to 50 km from the border to the hinterland in Punjab will help the security forces to prevent the terror activities in forthcoming elections. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isi-activates-terror-wings-to-derail-punjab-up-polls-intel-1071610.html
16-01-2022||National||Strict laws and tax hike on tobacco products needed to keep our youth safe, experts say||Experts have called for making India free from tobacco during the National Youth Week, being celebrated during 12-18 January to mark Swami Vivekananda Jayanti. A significant raise in taxes and implementing the proposed amendments for a stricter anti-tobacco law, COTPA, are the way forward to curbing tobacco consumption. Delivering the keynote address during the webinar 'Freedom From Tobacco: What India Wants' on the occasion of National Youth Day, Mr Priyank Kanoongo, Chairman of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) advocated increase in taxes on a wide range of tobacco products. Kanoongo said that affordability and easy availability of such lethal tobacco products is harmful, especially for the youth. An increase in taxes will not only make these products out of bounds, but the additional revenues earned can be used for the treatment and rehabilitation of those suffering from tobacco-related diseases. In addition to requesting increased taxes on a wide range of tobacco products, NCPCR also suggested an increase in taxes on films, OTT, and other media that show use of tobacco in any form. "Imposition of greater taxation on media that displays use of tobacco will require people to pay more and help discourage glorification of tobacco products. NCPCR has also requested the government to use the earnings from increased taxes entirely on rehabilitation and preventive activities," he informed. "There is a psychological warfare by the tobacco companies. They are targeting young children by positioning tobacco-related ads at their eye-level at points of sale and promoting sale of tobacco products such as gutkha and beedi, alongside sweets, candies, and toys," Kanoongo said. At present, India loses more than 13 lakh of its citizens annually to tobacco and second hand smoke. "The number of tobacco users is rising and it is scary to note that children between 13 and 15 years of age constitute 8.5% per cent of them," said Prof (Dr) Uma Kumar, Head of Rheumatology Department, AIIMS, New Delhi. Long-term use of tobacco is hazardous and is a known cause for cardio-vascular problems, neurological disorders, stroke, reduction in immunity, recurrent infections, respiratory illnesses, and auto-immune conditions. She called for various policy measures to protect the youth from this menace. Shweta Shalini, youth leader and BJP spokesperson for Maharashtra, said that Swami Vivekananda had described youth as the strength of the country and that health should be the top priority for them. However, today they are the most at risk of tobacco. She emphasised on the need for strict policy initiatives against tobacco. Shalini referring to the e-book titled 'What India Wants', released during the programme, said that it has been proven once again that the people of India want taxes on tobacco products to be increased in order to save the youth from this menace. Even a large number of tobacco users, themselves, favour a hike in taxes. The e-book released on this occasion 'What India Wants', is a compilation of results from various polls and surveys that suggest more than 88 per cent respondents want the proposed amendments to the tobacco control laws to come into effect. The poll results also indicate a sense of urgency among the masses to make India tobacco-free. A scientific survey conducted in 10 states and several Twitter polls conducted by various concerned citizens are included in this e-book. Tobacco consumption is striking deeper roots in the country and increasingly engulfing our children and youth. Children as young as 10 years of age are now using tobacco products, according to the latest Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS-4). Therefore, experts insist on increasing taxes and passing of the proposed amendments to the tobacco-control law, COTPA, to ensure better deterrence to tobacco consumption. Under the National Youth Week starting from January 12, the Central government is also organising many national level programs. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strict-laws-and-tax-hike-on-tobacco-products-needed-to-keep-our-youth-safe-experts-say-1071616.html
16-01-2022||National||BJP's hate politics very harmful for India: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the BJP's politics of "hatred" is very harmful for the country and is also responsible for unemployment. The former Congress chief said this a day after he attacked the BJP government by putting out an online quiz. "I also believe that the hate politics of the BJP is very harmful for the country. And this hatred is also responsible for the unemployment," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Domestic and foreign industries cannot run without peace in the society. Will defeat this growing hatred around you everyday with brotherhood. Are you with me? #NoHate," Gandhi added. The Congress leader had put out an online quiz on Saturday, asking people about the "biggest shortcoming" of the BJP government. The options he gave were "unemployment", "tax extortion", "price rise" and an "atmosphere of hatred".  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-hate-politics-very-harmful-for-india-rahul-1071618.html
16-01-2022||National||Navies of India and Russia conduct passing exercise in Arabian Sea||The navies of India and Russia conducted a passing exercise in the Arabian Sea, the Indian Navy said on Sunday. Indian Navy's indigenously designed and built guided missile destroyer INS Kochi exercised with Russian Federation Navy's destroyer Admiral Tributs on Friday, it mentioned. “The exercise showcased cohesiveness and interoperability between the two navies and included tactical manoeuvres, cross-deck helicopter operations and seamanship activities,” the Indian Navy's statement said.  A passing exercise is done to ensure that two navies participating in it are able to smoothly coordinate and communicate in times of any disaster or war. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navies-of-india-and-russia-conduct-passing-exercise-in-arabian-sea-1071619.html
16-01-2022||National||AIMIM announces 1st list of 9 candidates for UP polls||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Sunday announced its first list of candidates for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. The party led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi declared candidates for nine seats. The party released the list signed by its UP unit president Shaukat Ali. According to the list, Dr Mahtab will contest from the Loni constituency in Ghaziabad district. Furqan Chaudhry is AIMIM candidate from Garh Mukteshwar in Hapur district while Haji Arif will contest from Dhaulana in the same district. The Hyderabad-headquartered party has decided to give tickets to Rafat Khan from Siwal Khas and to Zeeshan Alam from Saradhana. It has fielded Tasleem Ahmad from Kithore. All the three constituencies are in Meerut district. The other candidates are Shaheen Raza Khan (Bareilly-124) in Bareilly district Amjad Ali (Behat) and Margoob Hasan (Saharanpur Dehat), both in Saharanpur district AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi had said in November that his party will contest 100 of the 403 Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. The party's efforts to have poll alliances with some smaller parties have not yielded results. The Assembly elections are scheduled to be held in seven phases between February 10 and March 7. A total of 58 constituencies will go to polls in the first phase on February 10. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aimim-announces-1st-list-of-9-candidates-for-up-polls-1071620.html
16-01-2022||National||Amit Shah compliments Modi, citizens for successful completion of 1 year of Covid vaccination||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday complimented Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the successful completion of one year of India's Covid vaccination drive and said the country has set an example for the world how the government and the people together can conquer impossible challenges. The countrywide vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Sunday completed one year, during which over 156.76 crore vaccine doses were administered. Shah also congratulated the scientists, health workers, Covid warriors and the people of the country for this endeavour. "With the efficient leadership, determination and constant efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, India has set an example in the world that if the government and citizens unite in the interest of the nation and set a common goal, then the country can overcome the impossible and conquer every challenge," he tweeted in Hindi with a hashtag one year of vaccine drive. "I congratulate the talented scientists, health workers, all corona warriors and citizens on the successful completion of one year of the world's largest free vaccination campaign in the fight against Covid under the strong and inspiring leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji," Shah said in another tweet. According to the Health Ministry, over 93 per cent of the adult population have received at least one dose while over 69.8 per cent have been fully vaccinated.  The drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. Vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. The government decided to expand the ambit of the inoculation drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-compliments-modi-citizens-for-successful-completion-of-1-year-of-covid-vaccination-1071621.html
16-01-2022||National||A year on, vaccines remain India's most effective weapon against Covid-19||With India's inoculation drive against Covid-19 completing one year, vaccines remain the most effective weapon against the deadly virus though a number of drugs and other methods, including chanting of Gayatri mantra and Gaumutra-based treatments, have been tried. Besides vaccines, experts are only unanimous about the efficacy of masks, sanitisation and safe distancing in preventing the spread of Covid-19. On January 16 last year, India rolled out the world's biggest vaccination drive against Covid-19. The drive started with vaccinating healthcare workers who were then joined by frontline workers. The government then started the second phase of the vaccination drive from March 1 – for all citizens above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities. On May 1, vaccinations were opened for all adults and this year from January 3, it began for children aged 15-17 years. Even though vaccines remain to be the only acceptable weapon against the deadly virus, a number of drugs and other methods, including chanting of Gayatri mantra and Gaumutra (cow urine) are being tried. The Department of Science and Technology (DST) had funded a clinical trial at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh to determine if the chanting of Gayatri mantra and performing the yoga practice of Pranayama can aid the quality of recovery as well as cure Covid-19. Dr Rajeev Rajesh, Chief Yoga Officer, Jindal Naturecure Institute, said though the human body has a natural ability to preserve, self-regulate, repair and maintain its entity, it requires something extra to deal with the constant challenges. "That is where the ancient practice of yoga comes into play. To stay healthy and fit both physically and mentally, you need to sustain your vital energy, nourish your body, boost immunity and support your mental health. That's what yoga brings to you," he told PTI. "From stretching the muscles to flexing the joints to improving blood flow, asanas shower us with a myriad of benefits that in turn, boost the immunity power of the body," he added. Rajesh listed asanas such as Tadasana, Vajrasana, Padmasana, Gomukhasana, Balasana, Uttanasana, Bhujangasana and Dhanurasana which can be practised on a daily basis to gain better health and strengthen immunity power. "As for Gayatri mantra, there is still research going on to determine if chanting the religious hymn and performing the yoga practice of Pranayama can aid the quality of recovery as well as cure Covid-19. But one can perform Gayatri mantra along with the breathing exercises and there is yet no specific drug proven to improve health outcomes," he said. Rajesh further said that while there are certain herbs, minerals, foods, and naturopathic treatments along with yoga that can help enhance immunity, such measures should not be an alternative for preventive measures like vaccination, physical distancing, wearing masks, using sanitiser, etc. as issued by the government. Dr Shuchin Bajaj, Founder Director, Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals, said Ayush has a very important role in countering cold diseases, not just Covid-19. "Yoga has many good asanas for increasing your lung capacity and increasing your strength. And also, meditation has a big role in calming your mind because we have seen that fear, anxiety and depression are some of the key things that come along with Covid. So that is a very good way to counter the mental health effects that Covid has on all of us. So very good results with yoga and there are Ayush therapies for all these diseases," Bajaj said. Not just Ayush interventions, but several medical treatments were also tried to tackle Covid-19 but no widely accepted treatment has been seen till now. Recently, at a press briefing, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul expressed concern over the "overuse and misuse" of drugs. "The use of steroids can increase the chances of mucormycosis. Steroids are very potent life-saving drugs but they are also have side-effects and they disturb the immunological protection, they disturb many biochemical pathways so it was a very big lesson...we were learning at that time but now we know it so this is an appeal that general public should be aware that there is a set of rational treatments that are listed under the national protocols -ayush and mainstream protocol and we must be confined to that," he had said last week. "For fever, paracetamol is given, and for cough Ayush syrup can be used. This is what we have prescribed in the home care module too. If a cough continues for more than three days, there is an inhaler called Budesonide. These are the only three things that need to be done. Other than that do gargle, take rest, not overdo it has a cost," Paul warned. Dr Rajesh Kumar, internal medicines specialist based in Noida, said allopathic medicines are the treatment for Covid-19. "Exercise in the form of yoga can help in improving immunity while chanting of Gayatri mantra and meditation can help with mental peace but these should never be confused with treatment of Covid-19," he said. Kumar said there are medicines and treatment lines like plasma, Remdesivir, DRDO's anti-Covid drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) and most recently Molnupiravir that were tried accordingly. "But the learning about the right medicines for Covid still continues as still there is no definitive medicine that can cure Covid-19," he said. As attempts to tackle Covid-19 and its most recent variant Omicron continue, vaccines remain the most viable option for mitigating the disease. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi underlined the importance of vaccination and said irrespective of the variant, proven way to tackle the pandemic remains vaccination only. India is currently administering three vaccines to the people – Covishield, Covaxin and Spurtnik V. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-year-on-vaccines-remain-indias-most-effective-weapon-against-covid-19-1071623.html
16-01-2022||National||Pakistan mercenaries tricking J&K youth into terrorism, using them as 'terror mules': Officials||Pakistani mercenaries operating in Jammu and Kashmir are tricking the youth into terrorism and using them as "terror mules" who can even be eliminated if they plan to shun the path of violence, senior security officials said on Sunday. Referring to an encounter in Budgam earlier this month and the call details of 24-year-old Wasim Qadir Mir, a resident of Shahzadpora, the officials said he was the latest victim of the despotic behaviour of the Pakistani terrorists who eliminated him during a gunfight with security forces in village Zoiu in the central Kashmir district on January 6. Mir along with his two Pakistani accomplices were trapped in a cordon-and-search operation, leading to a fierce gunfight, they said, adding by dawn, it was common news that the security forces had eliminated yet another group of terrorists in an encounter but what was uncommon was the way the series of events unfolded during the encounter the preceding night. "During the encounter Mir wanted to put down his arms probably with an aim to come out and surrender to the security forces but was forced by the two Pakistani terrorists to keep firing back. "Details that emerged later including the post-mortem report further confirmed that Mir was actually killed by members of his own group, as a result of their failed attempts to resist him from surrendering," a senior official involved in the gunfight said. Mir was a school dropout who initially worked as an Over Ground Worker and subsequently was recruited into the terror folds in December 2020 by JeM commander Saifulla alias "Lambu Bhai", a Pakistani terrorist. Even though Mir's stint as an active terrorist was short, he had a long list of acts of terror attributed to him, including the Zewan attack in which three police personnel were killed and 11 others were injured on December 13 last year, the officials said. They said it was probably his involvement in a long list of terror-related incidents that prevented him from re-joining the mainstream and eventually when he was given an opportunity by the security forces to save his own life, he did not stand a chance at the hands of the very companions for whom he was working as the "terror mule". He said as it would have exposed the façade of the so-called local freedom movement and also shown the great human tragedy that the valley has been subjected to for the last three decades by Pakistan-based terror groups. "As far as Kashmir is concerned, Pakistan's modus operandi continues to remain the same over the years -- infiltrate Pakistani terrorists into the valley in numbers, sizable enough to create and operate cellular groups of 3-4 terrorists, comprising at least one local boy," he said. The official said Pakistan's strategic aim remains to mislead the global community and portray terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir as the result of a local uprising and an insurgent movement led by the local youth. They do it by creation of pseudo terror groups, namely Kashmir Tigers and The Resistance Front (TRF), which are only shadow outfits of banned terror groups like Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashker-e-Taiba respectively. The shadow groups were created by ISI coupled with the tactical aim of ensuring that these local Kashmiri recruits provide the much-needed logistical support to the foreign terrorists and act as a conduit to keep terrorism in the valley alive. "But in reality, over the years these local recruits have been reduced to nothing but 'terror mules', acting as guides for the Pakistani terrorists, carrying the burden of Pakistan's misinformation campaign and exploited to keep its terror factory up and running in the valley," the official said. He said the local Kashmiri recruit lies at the heart of this vicious terror cycle, carefully planned and surgically executed by ISI-backed terror groups, including JeM and LeT. On recruitment of the local youth into terrorism, the official said it all begins with "talent" spotting, where radicalised mind and religious leaning form the virtues of a potential recruit. "After being employed initially for logistical errands, transportation of arms and ammunition and reconnaissance of potential targets, the local Kashmiri boys are tasked to carry out random acts of terror which include grenade throwing, planting IED and stand-off attacks against security forces,” the official said. "Once the routes back to a normal civil life are severed, the next step is to recruit them into the terror folds, followed with deliberate circulation of their photographs carrying arms, swearing allegiance to proscribed terror groups. "If the persistence to surrender does not end there, they are intimidated by threatening the life of their loved ones by the same recruiters who forced them into terrorism," the official said, adding "no matter how hard one tries to give up arms and go back to their home and live a normal life, they just fail to come out of this vicious quicksand of Pakistan's terror cycle." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-mercenaries-tricking-jk-youth-into-terrorism-using-them-as-terror-mules-officials-1071629.html
16-01-2022||National||Centre issues postal stamp to mark 1 year of Covid vaccination drive||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday released a commemorative postal stamp on India's achievement in developing the indigenous Covid vaccine as the nation marked the first anniversary of its Covid vaccine drive which began on January 16 last year. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya released the postal stamp at a virtual programme, and termed India's vaccination drive as the "most successful in the world". "Today, on the occasion of #1YearOfVaccineDrive, a postal stamp has been issued on the indigenous Covaxin developed jointly by ICMR and Bharat Biotech, realizing PM Narendra Modi ji's dream of Self-reliant India," Mandaviya said in a tweet. He further congratulated and thanked all the scientists in the same tweet. The Minister also shared a graphical representation of how India's vaccination drive began and how it managed to administer more than 150 crore shots in a year on his handle. As India marks the first anniversary of vaccination drive, over 156.76 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the drive 1,68,19,744 sessions. In the previous 24 hours, over 66 lakh vaccination doses have been administered. Taking to Twitter, Mandaviya said: "16th January 2021 will always be remembered! Congratulations India on crossing 157 crore Covid-19 vaccinations that too in just 1 year. With PM Narendra Modi Ji's mantra of 'Sabka Prayas', India has emerged as an example in the world in fight against Covid-19." India's collective fight against Covid pandemic began on January 16 last year with the vaccination drive across the nation. The drive was later expanded to citizens and people with comorbidities, and finally all above 18 plus. The drive for administering precaution doses to the healthcare workers, frontline workers and 60 plus individuals commenced this month on January 10. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-postal-stamp-to-mark-1-year-of-covid-vaccination-drive-1071637.html
16-01-2022||National||Vaccination added great strength to fight against Covid: PM Modi||Lauding India's Covid-19 vaccination drive as it completes a year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said it has added great strength to the fight against the pandemic and has resulted in saving lives and protecting livelihoods. When the pandemic first struck, not much was known about the virus. However, our scientists and innovators immersed themselves in developing vaccines, he noted.  India feels proud that our nation has been able to contribute to fighting the pandemic through vaccines, Modi tweeted. "I salute each and every individual who is associated with the vaccination drive," he said, adding that the role of our doctors, nurses and healthcare workers is exceptional. "When we see glimpses of people being vaccinated in remote areas, or our healthcare workers taking the vaccines there, our hearts and minds are filled with pride," he said. The prime minister asserted that India's approach to fighting the pandemic will always remain science based.  Health infrastructure is also being augmented to ensure that fellow citizens get proper care, he said, asking people to keep following all Covid-19 related protocols.  The countrywide vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Sunday completed one year, during which over 156.76 crore vaccine doses were administered.   According to Health Ministry officials, over 92 per cent of the adult population have received at least one dose while over 68 per cent have been fully vaccinated.  The Centre will issue a postal stamp on Sunday afternoon to mark the completion of one year of the inoculation drive. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-added-great-strength-to-fight-against-covid-pm-modi-1071641.html
16-01-2022||National||Covid-19: India's R value drops to 2.2 between January 7 and 13, shows IIT Madras analysis||India's 'R-value', which indicates how rapidly Covid-19 is spreading, was recorded at 2.2 between January 7 and 13, a drop from the previous two weeks, according to a preliminary analysis by IIT Madras. The R value of Mumbai was 1.3, Delhi 2.5, Chennai 2.4 and Kolkata 1.6, according to the analysis by IIT Madras' Department of Mathematics and Centre of Excellence for Computational Mathematics and Data Science headed by Prof Neelesh S Upadhye and Prof S Sundar. It was close to 2.9 nationally from December 25 to December 31 while it was 4 between January 1 and 6. The R value marks the number of people an infected person can spread the disease to. A pandemic is considered to end if this value goes below 1. Dr Jayant Jha, an assistant professor in the department of mathematics at IIT Madras, said the R value depends on transmissibility probability, contact rate and expected time interval in which infection can happen. India added 2,71,202 new coronavirus infections to the Covid case tally that reached 3,71,22,164 on Sunday, including 7,743 cases of the Omicron variant. The country saw 1,702 new cases of Omicron variant, the highest in a day so far, and an increase of 28.17 per cent since Saturday. Experts said it is not possible to undertake genome sequencing of each and every sample, but stressed that this wave is largely being driven by Omicron.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indias-r-value-drops-to-22-between-january-7-and-13-shows-iit-madras-analysis-1071644.html
16-01-2022||National||Sidhu invites Musk to set up Tesla unit in Ludhiana||In the run-up to the state assembly polls, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday invited industry tycoon Elon Musk to set up Tesla's unit in state's industrial hub Ludhiana. "I invite @elonmusk, Punjab Model will create Ludhiana as a hub for Electric Vehicles & Battery industry with time-bound single-window clearance for investment that brings new technology to Punjab, create green jobs, walking path of environment preservation &amp; sustainable development," Sidhu tweeted. Sidhu's invite comes in the wake of Musk's assertion that the company is facing a "lot of challenges" in bringing the company to India. Earlier, Telangana and Maharashtra also invited Elon Musk to set up business there. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sidhu-invites-musk-to-set-up-tesla-unit-in-ludhiana-1071647.html
16-01-2022||National||Father of deceased army pilot writes to President Kovind over training requirements||The father of an Army Aviation pilot who died in a crash in Jammu and Kashmir last year has written to President Ram Nath Kovind, requesting him to make it mandatory for all army pilots to undergo underwater survival training and to equip them with essential life-saving gears. Harish Chander Joshi's son Capt Jayant Joshi of 254 Squadron of Army Aviation had died in a fatal crash of his helicopter over Ranjit Sagar Dam in Jammu and Kashmir on August 3, 2021 while on a mission sortie. A pilot of Rudra Weapon System Integrated (WSI) attack helicopter of Army Aviation, Jayant Joshi along with Lt. Col. AS Batth, a test pilot and an aviation instructor, were practising target acquisition and deployment of integrated weapons on the 200-square kilometre dam when the crash took place. "The crash has exposed many glaring gaps in the safety processes being followed in Army Aviation. It has also apparently revealed an attitude of apathy and disregard in the matter of pilot safety and training needs among those responsible for the affairs of Army Aviation," Jayant Joshi's father Harish Chander Joshi wrote in his letter to the President. The President's secretariat has forwarded the complaint to the Defence Secretary, according to a communication received by Joshi. He questioned whether the Rudra helicopter is meant to fly low to avoid detection and fire by the enemy and fly over ground. Why was it being flown over water? "My question is that if the Rudra was not meant to be flown over water, then why were the helicopters of the squadron being routinely sent to fly over a vast expanse of water that was 25 km long and 8 km wide? This information on the expanse of water was often put out in the public domain by the army's own publicity wing," he said. Joshi said he was told that it was the only area available for low flying as it was free from obstacles. "If that be the case, did anyone responsible for running the affairs of Army Aviation, from top to down the squadron command level, realise the basic survival training needs of the men and provide them with the necessary safety gears before sending them for flying over water? "Were they not aware of these needs? Did they not know that their pilots were risking lives by flying over a vast water body every day? They did know but chose to ignore and disregard these critical requirements," he said. Joshi said flying over water as a routine requires specialised training about depth perception which is different from flying over land due to reflection from water surface. "If not trained and while over water, a minute miscalculation about the depth on the part of pilots may cause them to hit the water and crash," he said. He was told that the court of inquiry found that the team, flying very low and deeply engrossed in acquiring the target, and aligning it on to the integrated weapons, both the pilots did not realise that they were going to hit the water. In plain words, they missed the depth perception and crashed to die, he said. "In my opinion, since they were not trained for depth perception, the crash was inevitable. This is one version of circumstances and reasons leading to the crash. There are many eyewitness accounts and CCTV footage and all these present a different story," he said. He said lack of training as well as lack of basic safety gears for flying over water are perhaps to be blamed for this crash. "Unfortunately, all army pilots fly in the same situation. Those flying over water routinely are trained for underwater escape and survival in case of a crash. Navy pilots are provided this training. These pilots are also provided with life-saving jackets so that they float and are rescued in case of a crash over water," he said. Joshi said that had a basic life-saving gear in the form of a life jacket been provided to his son, he would have floated on the water surface and could have been rescued to the nearest medical facility by the locals and the rescue boats of the dam authorities that had reached the crash site within 15 minutes of the crash. "Deprived of a life jacket, he was killed and went into the waters. The other pilot also met the same fate. Chances of their survival were reduced to zero due to the criminal negligence to pilot safety and survival. Due to this criminal negligence, his body could be retrieved only after a 76-day-long search," he wrote. Joshi requested the President to make it mandatory for all army pilots to undergo underwater survival training and also equip them with the essential life-saving gears, and ensure life-saving skill up-gradation through periodic training modules. Their flying machines should also be made float worthy. Joshi also asked the President to fix accountability for the death of his son and the other pilot and those responsible for violation of safety norms, apathy and complete disregard to pilot safety and survival training be brought to book and a commensurate action be taken against them. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/father-of-deceased-army-pilot-writes-to-president-kovind-over-training-requirements-1071653.html
16-01-2022||National||Experts want Kerala government to freeze rail project||Experts and known personalities from various walks of life in Kerala have urged the left-front government in the state to freeze the semi-high-speed rail project, titled as Silver Line. An open letter in this regard by around 40 known personalities, which even included some left-lenients, to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan could be considered as an embarrassment to the government that has been aggressively campaigning for the project and terming the protests against the project as politically motivated. Incidentally the experts sent the letter close on the heels of the government releasing the detailed project report on Saturday after facing much criticism for keeping it confidential. The protests against the project also aggravated with the project details coming out. According to the letter signed by around 40 known personalities, the state's fragile public finance and increasing ecological vulnerability were posing major concern over the project. The "unilateral declaratory fashion" of the government with regard to the project without the much-needed political consensus and public debate was dismaying beyond words. The government should freeze the project until a diligent articulation on the priorities for the state's development, they demanded. The government should come out with a white paper on the existing transportation systems in the state and explore options of enhancing the existing railway systems. The government should also explain to the people the need for taking forward the fully debt-funded and foreign technology-based project by sidelining other welfare need of the people in the wake of the Covid pandemic. As per the DPR made public on Saturday, in the 530 kilometre long rail line, 293 kilometre passing through the ground would require fencing. The alignment of the rail line was parallel to the Western Ghats and hence the impact on biodiversity need to be carefully assessed it said.  Opposition leader V D Satheesan of the Congress said that the concerns that the rail project would affect the natural water flow and affect ecology were vindicated as the detailed project came out. The major benefits of the project being highlighted by the government are reducing the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasargod travel time from around ten hours to four hours and reduction in carbon emission with a possible shift of many road users to the high-speed rail. The estimated cost is Rs. 63,940 crore, which experts say that could be over Rs 1 lakh crore. The project was expected to be commissioned by 2025-26. But only the demarcation of the land for social impact study was progressing, that too amidst stiff local resistance.    Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-want-kerala-government-to-freeze-rail-project-1071669.html
16-01-2022||National||70% adults fully vaccinated: Mandaviya at stamp launch to mark 1 year of Covid vaccination drive||Seventy per cent of India's adults have been fully vaccinated against Covid-19 while 93 per cent received the first jab, said Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya while launching a postage stamp on indigenously developed vaccine Covaxin to mark one year of the inoculation drive. The drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. Addressing the commemorative postage stamp release event through a video link, Mandaviya said it is a proud moment for Indians and the entire world is amazed by the country's Covid inoculation drive. "India has been able to achieve the milestone of administering over 156 crore doses despite such a huge population and diversity," he said. "On the occasion of completion of one year of the Covid vaccination drive, a postage stamp has been released on the vaccine indigenously developed jointly by the ICMR and Bharat Biotech, realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji's dream of self-reliant India." the minister said. He also congratulated all scientists on the occasion. "Our prime minister encouraged scientists to carry out research and develop an indigenous Covid vaccine and held discussions with vaccine manufacturing companies and offered them support. "There was no dearth of manpower or brainpower. What was needed was the ability to identify the potential in the country for coming up with vaccines," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70-adults-fully-vaccinated-mandaviya-at-stamp-launch-to-mark-1-year-of-covid-vaccination-drive-1071674.html
16-01-2022||National||1993 Mumbai blast accused Salim Gazi dies in Pakistan||The most wanted 1993 serial blast accused Salim Gazi, a member of the Dawood gang and close aide of Chota Shakeel died on Saturday in Karachi, Pakistan, Mumbai Police sources told ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1993-mumbai-blast-accused-salim-gazi-dies-in-pakistan-1071682.html
16-01-2022||National||Shocked by Centre's move to reject Bengal tableau from Republic Day parade, Mamata writes to Modi||Expressing shock over the Centre's decision to exclude West Bengal's tableau, which was set to highlight contributions of freedom fighters, from the upcoming Republic Day Parade in Delhi, Chief Minister Mamara Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to reconsider the decision as people of the state would be "pained" by the move. Banerjee also said that no reason was cited for the tableau's rejection. "I have been profoundly shocked and hurt by the decision of the Government of India to abruptly exclude the proposed tableau of the Government of West Bengal from the ensuing Republic Day Parade. It is even more baffling for us that the tableau was rejected without assigning any reasons or justifications," Banerjee said in a two-page letter to Modi. The proposed tableau was set to commemorate the contributions of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and his INA on his 125th birth anniversary year, the CM said. "I may like to inform you that all the people of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government. It is shocking to find that the contribution of its valiant freedom fighters finds no place in the nation's ceremony to celebrate the occasion of the Republic Day on the 75th year of our Independence." "I urge you to reconsider the decision and include the tableau of freedom fighters from West Bengal in the Republic Day parade on the 75th year of our Independence," Banerjee added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shocked-by-centres-move-to-reject-bengal-tableau-from-republic-day-parade-mamata-writes-to-modi-1071686.html
16-01-2022||National||Rahul Gandhi joins marital rape debate, says consent needs to be foregrounded to ensure safety for women||Top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday came out in support of those arguing for the criminalisation of marital rape, saying consent is the "most underrated" concept in the society and it should be "foregrounded" for the safety of women. Rahul tweeted, "consent is amongst the most underrated concepts in our society. It has to be foregrounded to ensure safety for women. #MaritalRape." Consent is amongst the most underrated concepts in our society. His remarks came as the Delhi High Court is hearing a batch of petitions seeking criminalisation of marital rape with the Centre telling the judges that it was considering a “constructive approach” to the issue of criminalising marital rape. The Centre also said it has sought suggestions from state governments, the Chief Justice of India, MPs and others on comprehensive amendments to the criminal law. At present, the provisions of the Indian Penal Code under Section 375 (rape) exempt sexual intercourse by a man with his wife from the offence of rape, provided the wife is above 15 years of age. Senior lawyer Rajshekhar Rao, who was assisting the court as an amicus curiae, on Friday asked the Delhi High Court whether it was fair that a wife is denied the right to call rape a rape and is asked to take recourse to the provision of cruelty against her husband for the act in today’s age. He said, “can anyone argue that it is reasonable, just and fair that a wife should be denied the ability to call rape a rape but should be called upon to seek remedy under section 498A (cruelty to married woman) of the IPC in today’s age?... unfortunately the law is not gender neutral.” Rao said in an otherwise happy marriage, if the wife is just saying she is not in for sexual intercourse today, law does not say that the husband can do so, but it subtly says if he does in lack of her consent, he will not be called out for raping her, PTI has reported. The petitions were filed by RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women's Association (AIDWA), a man and a woman seeking striking down of the exception granted to husbands under the Indian rape law. The next hearing will be on Monday. However, those opposing the criminalisation of marital rape argue that such a move would lead to disintegration of family. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-joins-marital-rape-debate-says-consent-needs-to-be-foregrounded-to-ensure-safety-for-women-1071704.html
16-01-2022||National||PM Modi to address World Economic Forum's Davos Agenda on January 17||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver a 'State of the World' special address at the World Economic Forum's Davos Agenda on Monday via video conference, his office said. The virtual event will be held from January 17 to 21 and will also be addressed by several Heads of State including Japanese Prime Minister Kishida Fumio, European Commission President Ursua von der Leyen, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Indonesian President Joko Widodo, Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, Chinese President Xi Jinping, among others. Prime Minister Modi will deliver the 'State of the World' special address at the World Economic Forum's Davos Agenda on January 17, 2022 at 8:30 PM IST via video conferencing, the Prime Minister's Office said in a statement. The event will also witness participation of top industry leaders, international organizations and civil society, who will deliberate on critical challenges being faced by the world today and discuss how to address them, it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-world-economic-forums-davos-agenda-on-january-17-1071710.html
16-01-2022||National||Tableau politics heats up ahead of Republic day parade||Ahead of the Republic day parade, politics of tableau has heated up after the Centre rejected the proposals of Kerala and West Bengal governments with Mamata Banerjee shooting off a letter to the Prime Minister and Congress alleging partisan and vindictiveness in the selection of the states for the Tableau. Congress leader BK Hariprasad has alleged that the BJP is vindictive towards non-NDA ruled states. "BJP is having a vindictive attitude towards certain states. The Centre has rejected Kerala government's tableau which was based on Narayana Guru, a philosopher & social reformer." BJP is having vindictive attitude towards certain states Centre has rejected kerala tableau based on Narayana Guru,a philosopher & social reformer. "He fought against caste-ridden society rejecting his tableau is an insult to the spiritual guru. This smells of #BJP conspiracy," he added. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday too shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and requested him to reconsider the decision of excluding West Bengal's tableau. The tableau was to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and his Indian National Army (INA) on his 125th birth anniversary. "All the people of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government. Bengal was at the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle and has paid the heaviest price for the country's Independence through the partition," Mamata in her letter said. Earlier, floor leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had written to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh over the issue and had said that he is disappointed and shocked. "It is an insult to the people of Bengal that the Central Government has rejected the proposal of West Bengal's tableau showcasing its cultural heritage and Netaji's life and contributions in our Freedom Struggle, on Republic Day", he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tableau-politics-heats-up-ahead-of-republic-day-parade-1071721.html
16-01-2022||National||Sitharaman holds pre-Budget consultations with BJP leaders||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday held pre-budget consultations with BJP leaders in which representatives from 25 states participated virtually and gave their suggestions on the budget. The meeting was conducted from the BJP's national headquarters here by Vice President Baijayant Panda, General Secretary Arun Singh and Spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal. Representatives of 25 states including Mizoram, Tripura, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Ladakh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha attended the meeting and put forward their views for the development of their respective regions. Apart from state presidents, some prominent think tanks and presidents of the party's various morchas (fronts) also gave their suggestions to the Finance Minister on the budget. Agarwal told IANS that this meeting for pre-budget discussions, was very important, in which many meaningful suggestions came up. He said the Finance Minister took note of them. Agarwal said that around 20 written suggestions have also been received and they will be handed over to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Representatives of tribal and backward classes and women community including industries, professionals, business communities, academicians, economists also participated in this virtual discussion. The Budget Session of Parliament is going to start from January 31 and the Finance Minister will present the budget in the House on February 1. Sitharaman has been holding pre-budget consultations with all the stakeholders and also taking suggestions from them. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitharaman-holds-pre-budget-consultations-with-bjp-leaders-1071726.html
16-01-2022||National||Under Modi's leadership, India's vaccination drive fastest in world: BJP||Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership on the completion of one year of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India, the BJP on Sunday said it was the fastest in the world and so far more than 150 crore doses have been administered. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters, party spokesperson Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore said India has set a record in the vaccination drive. It started only a year ago and 156.83 crore doses have been administered so far. It was the world's fastest vaccination drive under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi, Rathore said. Despite doubts raised by the opposition parties over vaccines, about 96 per cent of the population has received the first dose, he said, adding that it shows people's faith in Prime Minister Modi and his leadership. Rathore further said on average 66 lakh doses were given daily in the last three months. About three crore doses have also been administered to the youth in the age group of 15-18 years. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-modis-leadership-indias-vaccination-drive-fastest-in-world-bjp-1071759.html
16-01-2022||National||Take decision on including Patidars in OBC category at the earliest, Athawale tells Gujarat govt||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale on Sunday asked the Gujarat government to take a decision on inclusion of the Patidar community in Other Backward Classes (OBC) category at the earliest. Athawale was on a visit to the Statue of Unity at Kevadia in Narmada district. "As far as the inclusion of Patidar community in OBC category is concerned, the (Social Justice and Empowerment) ministry has given the power to the states, and we also amended the Constitution for the same," Athawale told reporters. "Now that we have given this power to the states, I would request the Gujarat government to take a decision to include the Patidar community in the OBC category at the earliest. It will have my full support," Athawale, president of Republican party of India (A) and Rajya Sabha member from Maharashtra, said. In the visitors' book at the Statue of Unity, Athawale wrote that the dream of 'Ek Bharat, Sreshtha Bharat' was made possible due to the efforts of Sardar Patel. Due to the far-sightedness of Prime Minister Naredra Modi, the world's tallest statue dedicated to Sardar Patel was built in such a short time, he was quoted as saying in a PIB release. The issue of reservations to the Patidar community has remained a burning issue ever since they launched a statewide agitation for it in 2015. The stir, led by Hardik Patel, who is now with the Congress, had turned violent. The BJP government's effort to appease the community by coming out with a notification providing 10 per cent reservation to the economically backward classes in government jobs and educational institutions was quashed by the Gujarat High Court. The Parliament had, in August last year, passed the Constitutional Amendment Bill to restore the power of the states to make their own OBC lists. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-decision-on-including-patidars-in-obc-category-at-the-earliest-athawale-tells-gujarat-govt-1071763.html
16-01-2022||National||What the dip in Covid cases in Delhi, Mumbai means||With the daily Covid-19 count showing a decline in Delhi and Mumbai, medical experts on Sunday said they were cautiously optimistic that the two metropolises may have reached the peak of the Omicron-driven third wave as the test positivity rate remained stable for Delhi and nosedived in Mumbai. However, because of a drop in the number of tests due to a change in the government strategy, they said it would be better to wait for some time for a definite answer on the trend, which they described as “positive” that matched with a Covid-19 model forecast. Mumbai reported its highest Covid count of 16,420 cases on Jan 12 with a test positivity rate of 24.38% following which there is a steady decline for the next four days leading to a sub-10K figure of 7,895 cases on Sunday. Delhi recorded its highest (28,867) on Jan 13 after which the daily count is on the wane, logging just above 18,000 new cases on Sunday. “While there is a drop in tests, the TPR is stable, which along with declining positives suggests we are at a peak. The actual decline will come in the coming week,” said Anurag Agarwal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology and one of the key members of the INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Consortium). Others, however, are more circumspect largely due to a corresponding drop in the Covid-19 testing number. In Delhi, the number of tests dropped from 105,000 plus on Jan 12 and nearly 99,000 on Jan 13 to 65,000 plus on Jan 16. In Mumbai, the decline was more gradual – from 68,249 tests on Jan 9 to around 54,500 tests on Jan 15 and a slight increase to 57,500 on Sunday. “At the moment, it's hard to say whether the drop in is due to the peak or lower tests. The test positivity is high, so there are certainly people who are simply not being tested in sufficient numbers. People who are choosing not to be tested will skew the underlying numbers,” Gautam Menon, a professor at Ashoka University and the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who is tracking the pandemic, told DH. “However, we did project that the Omicron wave in the big Indian cities would turn around early, around Jan 20, while it would take more time for the rest of the country, in particular rural India. So these signs are encouraging,” he added. Menon was part of a team that last week predicted that the third wave would peak between January 20 and February 20 with 600,000-900,000 daily cases for the country. The team comprising researchers from IISc, Bengaluru and Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata predicted the big cities would be peaking towards the earlier date. A peak in Delhi and Mumbai, however, doesn’t mean an end of the third wave in India with 265 districts reporting a test positivity above 10% and 149 districts having a positivity between 5-10%. “Unless we see the numbers from smaller towns and rural areas, we cannot conclude that the peak has been reached in the country as a whole. The wave starts first and recedes first in the big cities,” said K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-the-dip-in-covid-cases-in-delhi-mumbai-means-1071770.html
16-01-2022||National Politics||UP BJP leaders quitting as they are fed up with dictatorship: Sushil Kumar Shinde||Taking a veiled swipe at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Congress veteran Sushil Kumar Shinde on Saturday said that many leaders are quitting the BJP and joining other parties ahead of elections as they are fed up with "dictatorship". Speaking to reporters, he said Congress will get votes from certain sections in the upcoming UP polls even as he downplayed a query on why leaders walking out of the ruling BJP fold are preferring the Samajwadi Party (SP) over Congress. Responding to a query, the former Union home minister said there was no breach in the security of prime minister Narendra Modi during his recent visit to poll-bound Punjab. When asked about the PM's statement after the alleged security breach, Shinde said, "I don't think there is any breach in the PM's security. They (the PM and his security personnel) should have asked various agencies before leaving for the function (in Punjab). The intelligence is available 24 hours before... How did they go there? Now, they are accusing Congress of politics". Shinde said it didn't matter if some leaders from BJP in Uttar Pradesh are joining SP and not Congress. "It doesn't matter which party they are joining. Congress will get votes from certain sections in Uttar Pradesh. As they are fed up with the dictatorship in BJP they are joining other parties in UP," he alleged. "BJP's days are over now. They have proved that they just talk and do nothing. I think they are following the democratic way," he said when asked about leaders deserting BJP. Shinde said terming farmers protesting for the withdrawal of three farm laws as "Khalistanis" was wrong. "These farmers were protesting against injustice. Their issues should have been resolved earlier, but the government lacked the willpower to do so," he alleged when asked about the farmers' protests that were withdrawn in last December after over a year. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-bjp-leaders-quitting-as-they-are-fed-up-with-dictatorship-sushil-kumar-shinde-1071505.html
16-01-2022||National Politics||Battle for UP: BJP follows 'Hindu first' policy to counter Akhilesh||Stung by a series of defections to the Samajwadi Party, the Bharatiya Janata Party in Uttar Pradesh is now pursuing the policy of 'Hindu First'. The policy of 'Hindu First' follows the policy first propounded by late Kalyan Singh. This policy aims at blurring caste lines and bringing all Hindus — particularly, OBCs and Dalits — under one umbrella. The first list of 107 candidates released by the BJP on Saturday, clearly indicates that the party is trying to project an inclusive image and blunt the Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav's efforts to polarize OBCs in his favour. The BJP's first list has 44 OBCs, and 19 Dalits, which means nearly 60 per cent of the tickets and this is in proportion to the combined Dalit and OBC population. In 2017 too, the party fielded 44 OBCs on these seats. Among the OBCs, the party has given the largest representation to Jats with 16 seats. The move is an attempt to assuage Jat feelings in the wake of the farmers' agitation. Gurjars have been given 7 and Lodhs have got six seats. Saini, Kashyap, Kushwaha, Prajapati and Kurmi candidates have also been included. Among the 19 Dalits, the BJP has given 13 tickets to Jatavs who constitute Mayawati's loyal voter base. Other sub castes like Valmiki, Dhobi, Khatik, Pai and Banjara have also been accommodated. Apparently, the BJP is striking at the BSP vote base since Mayawati has been inactive so far and her party cadres are expectedly demoralised. Interestingly, among the upper castes, it is Thakurs who have got the lion's share with 18 seats while Brahmin lag behind with 10 and Vaishyas with 8 seats. The BJP is obviously not going overboard to please the Brahmin voters this time. To counter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's women outreach, the BJP, in its first list, has named 10 women candidates, which is less compared to 2017. A senior party functionary admitted that the party was consciously trying to demolish caste lines. "We are not promoting casteism like Akhilesh Yadav is doing. We believe in consolidating all those who are Hindus -- from Dalits to Brahmins. This is what Yogi Adityanath meant when he spoke of 80 versus 20 recently," said the party functionary. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/battle-for-up-bjp-follows-hindu-first-policy-to-counter-akhilesh-1071587.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab CM Channi writes to ECI, demands polls be postponed||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has urged the Election Commission of India to postpone the February 14 Assembly polls by six days in view of Guru Ravidas Jayanti. Voting for Punjab's 117 assembly seats will be held on February 14 and the counting of votes will take place on March 10. In a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra, Channi wrote that it was brought to his notice by some representatives of the Scheduled Castes community, which contributes around 32 per cent of the state's population, that the birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas falls on February 16. “On this occasion, a large number of SC devotees (about 20 lakh) from the state are likely to visit Banaras in Uttar Pradesh from February 10 to 16,” Channi wrote. “In such a situation, many people from this community would not be able to cast their votes for the state assembly, which is otherwise their constitutional right,” he stated in the letter written on January 13. “They have requested that the voting date may be extended in such a way that they are able to visit Banaras from February 10 to February 16 as also participate in the assembly elections,” he said. Channi said, “It is considered fair and appropriate that the voting for Punjab Assembly elections 2022, may be postponed for at least six days, enabling about 20 lakh people to utilise their right to vote for the state legislative assembly.” Earlier, Bahujan Samaj Party's Punjab chief Jasvir Singh Garhi had demanded from the ECI to reschedule polls from February 14 to February 20. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-channi-writes-to-eci-demands-polls-be-postponed-1071494.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Over 60% of Omicron-infected people in Delhi without travel history: Study||More than 60 per cent of the people infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in the national capital did not have any travel history or contact with international travellers, suggesting that its community transmission had happened quite fast, according to a study by the Delhi government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. The study, possibly the first in India to provide evidence of community transmission of Omicron, looked into genome sequencing data of positive cases collected from five districts of Delhi -- South, Southeast, Southwest, West and East -- between November 25 and December 23 last year. A total of 332 samples were sent to ILBS from different testing laboratories across the five districts and out of these, 264 samples that passed "quality check" were analysed. Out of the 264 samples sequenced, 68.9 per cent were found infected with Delta and its sub-lineages while the remaining 82 samples (31.06 per cent) were Omicron. In Delhi, the first two cases of Omicron were detected in the first week of December. The study conducted by the Department of Clinical Virology of the facility observed a steep increase in the daily progression of Omicron cases with its preponderance in the community from 1.8 per cent to 54 per cent. Among the 82 cases, 46.3 per cent belonged to a total of 14 families and out of these, only four families had documented trave history. Out of the remaining 10 families with no travel history, three families contracted the infection after coming in contact with a non-family member with travel history. "Rest of the 20 individuals from seven families contracted the infection possibly due to community transmission," it said. The study stated that 39.1 per cent of the people with Omicron had a history of travel and/or contacts, while 60.9 per cent showed community transmission. "Our findings strongly suggest that Omicron has a much higher rate of asymptomatic carriage resulting in high prevalence of asymptomatic infection, a likely major factor in the rapid dissemination of the variant locally and globally. Our results suggest a large decrease in protection from vaccine or natural immunity against Covid-19 infections caused by the Omicron variant," noted the study. Out of 82 Omicron patients, 72 were fully vaccinated with 56 per cent of the individuals having received Covishield, followed by Covaxin (12 per cent), Pfizer (11 per cent), Moderna (four per cent), Sputnik V (four per cent) and Johnson and Johnson (one per cent). The study also stressed on the urgent need for booster vaccination. According to an official, it was after the findings of this study that Health Minister Satyendar Jain had announced the community transmission of Omicron. On December 30, Jain had said that Omicron was gradually spreading in the community and the new, fast-spreading variant of concern had been found in 54 per cent of the latest samples analysed in the national capital. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-60-of-omicron-infected-people-in-delhi-without-travel-history-study-1071516.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Former IPS officer Aseem Arun joins BJP||Former Kanpur police Commissioner, Aseem Arun on Sunday joined the BJP in Lucknow. He is likely to contest the Kannauj Assembly seat. A 1994 batch IPS officer, Arun had resigned earlier this month to join politics. "It was a decision taken within eight days. I was contacted by the party leadership and given the offer of joining politics. I am starting a new chapter in my life though just like my previous job I will be serving people always," Arun said. Arun said he would work for the party in whatever role was assigned to him. Meanwhile, Union Minister Anurag Thakur, who was in Lucknow to welcome Arun to the BJP, said that the latter had seen how the Yogi Adityanath government crush the mafia to restore law and order in the state. He also said that an increasing number of youths are getting attracted to the BJP and this would ensure the party's return to power with greater numbers. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-ips-officer-aseem-arun-joins-bjp-1071566.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi conducting 3 times the number of Covid tests recommended by ICMR: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday sought to nix concerns over "fewer" Covid testing in the national capital, saying the diagnostic tests being conducted in the city is three times the number recommended by ICMR. All those who need to undergo testing are being tested, he said. According to the Centre's new guidelines, asymptomatic patients do not need to undergo a test. Also, contacts of laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 patients do not require a test unless they have comorbidities or are aged above 60. Jain said these new guidelines on testing have come after thoughtful consideration. Delhi conducted 67,624 tests on Friday and 79,578 on Thursday. The city on Thursday reported 28,867 Covid-19 cases, the sharpest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic, after the city conducted 98,832 tests on Wednesday. Jain told reporters that Delhi is expected to register 17,000 Covid cases on Sunday. "Hospital admissions have plateaued and Covid positivity rate will also come down. Restrictions by the Delhi government has impacted the spread of Covid-19. We will monitor the situation for three to four days before reviewing the curbs," he said. On Saturday, Jain had said that it seems the national capital has reached its peak in Covid-19 infections and the government will think of easing restrictions when the daily cases decline to 15,000. Delhi on Saturday reported 20,718 Covid-19 cases and 30 fatalities while the positivity rate stood at 30.64 per cent, according to health department data. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-conducting-3-times-the-number-of-covid-tests-recommended-by-icmr-satyendar-jain-1071575.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh schools closed till January 23 as Covid cases rise||With Covid cases continuing to surge, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to further close all educational institutions -- schools and colleges -- till January 23. The state government had, on January 5, directed to close schools and colleges till January 16. Meanwhile, the schools can continue online classes for their students. For the students of Class 11 and Class 12, the UP government said, classes will be held in online mode and schools will organise vaccination camps to vaccinate the students between 15 and 18 age groups. Students will be allowed to visit their schools to get vaccinated against Covid. For children in Anganwadis, although the classes have been discontinued, the distribution of food and rations will continue. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-schools-closed-till-january-23-as-covid-cases-rise-1071613.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||SAD leader Majithia booked for 'violations' of Covid norms||A case has been registered against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia over alleged violations of the Covid-19 norms. The case was registered under the relevant provisions of law at the Sultanwind police station, according to an official release issued here on Sunday. The release said violating the Covid norms, Majithia was received by hundreds of SAD supporters at an entry point of Amritsar city on Saturday. The SAD supporters were seen honouring the former Punjab minister with garlands and siropas and these activities were captured on camera, it added. Majithia and his supporters violated all the Covid-related norms as well as the restrictions imposed by the Election Commission, the release said. Following the registration of the FIR, police will initiate action in accordance with law, it added. Majithia (46), who was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act last month, was recently granted anticipatory bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. He had moved the high court seeking anticipatory bail after a Mohali court dismissed his pre-arrest bail plea on December 24. A number of supporters of Majithia, who is the brother-in-law of SAD president Sukhbir Badal and the brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, had gathered in Amritsar to welcome him after he was granted anticipatory bail. The Akali leader represents the Majitha Assembly constituency in Amritsar district. Amid a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the EC on Saturday extended its ban on physical rallies and roadshows until January 22 in five poll-bound states including Punjab, saying it will subsequently review the situation and issue fresh instructions. "No roadshows, padyatras, cycle, bike, vehicle rally and procession shall be allowed till 22 January, 2022. Commission shall subsequently review the situation and issue further instructions accordingly," an official statement had said. Punjab, which has also been witnessing a surge in the number of Covid cases as well as in the number of fatalities caused by the viral disease, goes to polls on February 14. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-leader-majithia-booked-for-violations-of-covid-norms-1071643.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi BJP to set up 'NaMo Sewa Kendras' in slum clusters ahead of civic polls||To ensure central government schemes reach the people, the Delhi BJP will open 'NaMo Sewa Kendras' in slum settlements of the city ahead of the civic polls later this year and is waiting for the current Covid wave to subside, party leaders said on Sunday. "Our preparation to open these NaMo centres is complete. Hopefully, the cases of Covid will start declining in the coming week after which we plan to open the centres in the slum clusters of around 20-22 assembly constituencies that were part of our ‘Jhuggi Samman Yatra’ last year," Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. The 'Jhuggi Samman Yatra' was launched by the Delhi BJP in October last year to reach out to slum dwellers in the city. The campaign concluded with party leaders visiting slum clusters in various assembly constituencies and Gupta announcing the opening of 'NaMo Sewa Kendras’ there to ensure central government schemes reach the people living in slums. Delhi BJP secretary and in-charge of Jhuggi Jhopri (JJ) cell of the party Neeraj Tiwari said the 'NaMo’ centres follow the principle of 'Antyodaya' under which the upliftment of the last person standing in a queue and belonging to any section of the society has been ensured. "We have planned to open ‘NaMo Sewa Kendras’ in each of the 70 assembly constituencies for which all preparations have been made. Our focus will be on those constituencies where slum dwellers face basic problems like poor water supply, inflated electricity bills, and lack of sewer and sanitation," Tiwari said. There are an estimated 20 lakh people who live in the slum clusters of Delhi and most of them come from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, and Bengal, Tiwari said. They work as unskilled or semi-skilled labour in factories or domestic helps, drivers, street vendors, Tiwari added. "Amid rapid urbanisation, these slum clusters exist at the lowest level of basic amenities like clean drinking water, sewerage and sanitation, health facilities among others. Each NaMo centre will act as a bridge to fill this gap and ensure people living there get all the benefits of the central government schemes," Tiwari said. Delhi has around 700 slum clusters where the BJP had not been successful in making inroads in the previous elections. The Aam Aadmi Party and previously Congress held sway among the voters of these pockets. The BJP is pitted against a resurgent AAP riding on the popularity of the Arvind Kejriwal government's free water and electricity schemes, in the contest for 272 municipal wards in three municipal corporations that are expected to go for polls in April. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-to-set-up-namo-sewa-kendras-in-slum-clusters-ahead-of-civic-polls-1071648.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||UP Elections 2022: This family worships Akhilesh as Vishnu's avatar||This is not something that is seen usually for the Samajwadi Party, or its leaders. A family in Kakriya village in Barabanki district now believes that SP President Akhilesh Yadav is an avatar of Lord Vishnu and has set up a temple to worship him in their house. The family that does not wish to be named, said that the women in the house had stopped eating grains and are surviving on vegetables and fruits to ensure his party wins the upcoming elections. "Our worship will continue in this manner till the Samajwadi Party forms government. We believe that in this 'kalyug', it is only Akhilesh who can free us from all problems," said an elderly woman in the house. The family has kept a photograph of Akhilesh Yadav and his father and party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and a 'diya' keeps burning in front of it round the clock. "Other women in the village also joins us for 'puja' in the evening and everyone comes to visit this temple," she said. Asked why they did not wish to be identified, the family said that they fear a police crackdown because they are SP sympathisers. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-elections-2022-this-family-worships-akhilesh-as-vishnus-avatar-1071649.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Thousands brave wintry nights on Delhi's footpaths as shelter homes lack facilities||Mukesh Sahoo (40), a rickshaw puller hailing from Odisha, lives in the market corridors of Fatehpuri and Chandni Chowk, braving extreme winter.  To protect himself from the harsh cold weather conditions at night, he often resorts to bonfire but cannot avail lodging at the nearby shelter home in Chandni Chowk due to space crunch there. “Earlier, I used to sleep there but since the last winter, I am unable to get space because the capacity of the shelter home has been reduced to ensure social distancing,” Sahoo told PTI. Scores of homeless people are forced to spend wintry nights on footpaths beneath the flyovers, bus shelters or subways in the city. “I fear sleeping on the footpath during these wintry nights because of the cold winds. Shelter homes either lack space or are in bad shape. Toilets and other facilities at the nearby shelter home are not adequately managed,” Ahmad Ali, a daily wage labourer from Samastipur in Bihar, who sleeps underneath a flyover at Kashmere Gate ISBT, lamented. According to a government survey conducted in 2014, the national capital has over 16,000 homeless people. However, several NGOs working on the subject claim the number to be around one lakh. Government authorities, however, said ample arrangements have been made. An official of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, the agency that looks after government shelter homes in the city, said there are 209 permanent and 216 makeshift shelter homes in the national capital. “With 425 shelter homes across the city, we can accommodate nearly 21,000 homeless people. But due to Covid-19, the revised cumulative capacity is around 10,500 people,” the official told PTI, requesting anonymity. He said the government is providing all necessary facilities such as lodging and food to ensure that they do not face any problem.  The city government has been providing free food to the homeless since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020.  “We also have dedicated teams who pick homeless people from streets and rehabilitate them in night shelters in different parts of the city,” the official said. Centre for Holistic Development, executive director, Sunil Kumar Aledia, said thousands of people are forced to spend their nights on streets due to lack of space and facilities at shelter homes. “We estimate that there are around one lakh homeless people in Delhi. The government-run shelter homes not only lack space but also facilities such as toilets," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thousands-brave-wintry-nights-on-delhis-footpaths-as-shelter-homes-lack-facilities-1071679.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Woman gang-raped, tortured with burning cigarette butts by husband, four others in Madhya Pradesh||A 32-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and tortured by her husband and four of his friends in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district, police said on Sunday, adding that five accused were arrested. The woman claimed that she was brutalised by her husband and others who performed unnatural sex and also singed her private parts with cigarettes. They also threatened to kill her when she resisted the sexual assault, an official said quoting the FIR. The alleged gang-rape occurred at a farmhouse under the Shipra police station area of Indore between November 2019 and October 2021, the official said. He said the woman, hailing from Chhattisgarh, got married to an Indore-based man after meeting him on a matrimonial site. However, the man is already married, the police sub-inspector said. The complainant told the police that she somehow escaped from the farmhouse and travelled to her parent's home in Chhattisgarh. But one of the accused men followed her there intending to harm her, the official added. Five men, including the victim's husband, were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and were arrested from various areas of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, he said, adding that further investigation is underway. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-gang-raped-tortured-with-burning-cigarette-butts-by-husband-four-others-in-madhya-pradesh-1071688.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Yati Narsinghanand, organiser of Dharma Sansad, sent to 14-day judicial custody||A Haridwar court on Sunday sent Yati Narsinghanand, organiser of the controversial Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, to 14-day judicial custody. He has been booked under Sections 295 (A) and 509 of the Indian Penal Code and sent to Roshnabad Jail, Haridwar police station SHO Rakinder Singh Kathait said.           Section 295 (A) deals with deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs while section 509 deals with word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman.         Yati Narsinghanand, the head priest of the Dasna temple in Ghaziabad, was picked up on Saturday night  from Sarvanand Ghat of the Ganga, where he was staging a 'satyagraha' against the arrest of another accused in the case Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, earlier known as Waseem Rizvi. Tyagi is already in jail, Kathait said.         Some of the speakers at the Dharma Sansad, held from December 17-19, are accused of delivering hate speeches against a particular community.         Two FIRs are lodged in Haridwar against more than ten people, including Narasinghanand and Tyagi in this connection.           A special investigation team is probing the case.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yati-narsinghanand-organiser-of-dharma-sansad-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-1071694.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Restore Kashmir Press Club's registration, start process of election of office-bearers: PCI to Manoj Sinha||The taking over of the management of Kashmir Press Club by a group of journalists ran into a controversy with journalist bodies like the Editors Guild of India and Press Club of India condemning the act and accusing the administration of playing a part in the whole episode. The Editors Guild of India said in a statement that it was "aghast" at the manner in which the office and the management of Kashmir Press Club, the largest journalists’ association in the Valley, was forcibly taken over by a group of journalists with the help of armed policemen on January 15. It said that the Guild is "equally alarmed by an arbitrary order of putting the registration" of the Kashmir Press Club “in abeyance”, a day before this "armed take over". The statement said the Club had been issued a fresh “re-registration” on December 29 last year and the interim management had on January 13 announced the election on February 15.  "The armed takeover has effectively scuttled this rule-based functioning of the Club. Even more disturbingly, the state police entered the premises without any due warrant or paperwork, and have therefore been brazenly complicit in this coup, in which a group of people have become self-declared management of the Club," it said. "This violation of the sanctity of the club by the police and the local administration is a manifestation of the continuing trend to smother press freedom in the state," it said.  The Press Club of India said it was deeply concerned over developments, saying it was an "attempt" to "deliberately derail the democratic process" and throttle the body of journalists. It demanded that the holding elections be allowed to proceed in a peaceful manner. "Only the democratically elected body of journalists has a right to run the affairs of the Club in Srinagar as per the bylaws and constitution of the Kashmir Press Club," it said.  Press Club of India is deeply concerned with the developments with Kashmir Press Club. The group of journalists who took over the management issued a statement saying the Kashmir Press Club refutes the "malicious propaganda" and claimed that the takeover came following a "popular demand" from the journalist fraternity. "The journalists wanted the institution to be headed by the founding president who had played a pivotal role in the establishment of the Club, and other working journalists of repute to pave the way for much-awaited elections,” the statement said. The Delhi Union of Journalists said it was "dismayed" at the developments. It said it was "unfortunate" that a division seems to have been created within journalists, with a small faction ‘taking over’ the Club when Srinagar was under a lockdown.  Deploring the developments, the Mumbai Press Club condemned the "forcible takeover" of the Kashmir Press Club from the legally elected management body "in conjunction with security forces".  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restore-kashmir-press-clubs-registration-start-process-of-election-of-office-bearers-pci-to-manoj-sinha-1071706.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||UP polls: BJP leader makes objectionable comments against party MLA||A video has gone viral on social media purportedly showing an Uttar Pradesh BJP leader making objectionable remarks against a party MLA. In the around one-minute long video, Chandra Ram Chaudhary, who is also the chairman of the Lok Kala Sanskriti and Tharu Janjaati Vikas Board, said people will beat sitting BJP legislator from Gaisri assembly constituency Shailesh Kumar Singh 'Shailu' with shoes. The video was allegedly shot on Saturday. Chaudhary hails from the Tharu community and sought a ticket for himself from Gaisri, which is his hometown and has a sizeable number of Tharus. If I am not given ticket from Gaisri, then no one can help BJP win the constituency. Even the OBCs are angry with the BJP, he said in the video. District BJP chief Pradeep Singh said he has got information about the matter and it is being investigated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-polls-bjp-leader-makes-objectionable-comments-against-party-mla-1071709.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Rajasthan government to recommend CBI probe into Alwar rape case||The Rajasthan government on Sunday decided to recommend a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the case of the mentally challenged girl who was found in a distressed condition on a bridge in Alwar with injuries on her private parts, according to an official release. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, the release stated. The state government will send the recommendation to the Centre for a CBI probe into the case at the earliest, it said. Rajasthan Minister of State for Home Rajendra Singh Yadav, Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Abhay Kumar, Director General of Police M L Lather and other senior officers attended the meeting. The decision came a day after Gehlot said the state government was open to getting the matter probed by a police officer from outside Alwar, Crime Branch, Special Operations Group or CBI according to the wish of the girl's family. The 14-year-old girl was found in a distressed state with injuries on her private parts on a bridge near Tijara Fatak on the night of January 11 in Alwar. She was found bleeding and was taken to a hospital, where she underwent a two-and-a-half-hour-long surgery. According to police, the probe revealed that she had travelled from her village to the city on her own. Late on Friday, the police said they had gotten hold of the girl's medical report and it ruled out apprehensions of rape. They said they were yet to ascertain how the girl sustained such grievous injuries on her private parts. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-government-to-recommend-cbi-probe-into-alwar-rape-case-1071720.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Fire breaks out in ICU of private hospital in Indore; patients safe||A fire broke out in the ICU of a private hospital at Indore in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday evening but no casualty is reported as all the ten patients were shifted to another ICU and are safe, officials said. The fire that erupted in the Intensive Care Unit of the Medanta Hospital, located in the Vijay Nagar area, was controlled immediately, an official said. Speaking to reporters about the incident, Medanta Hospital medical superintendent Sanjay Geed said that smoke was seen emanating from an electric board near one of the beds in the ICU located on the fourth floor. "We immediately heard the alarm and controlled the fire," he added. Geed said that a total of 10 patients- at least 2-3 of them were on ventilators- were admitted to the ICU at the time of the incident. All of them are safe, he added. Prima facie, the blaze was triggered due to a short-circuit in the ICU, he said. Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO), Indore, Dr BS Saitya said no report of any casualty in the ICU fire was received. “We will visit the hospital and investigate the incident,” he said. Some videos of the incident have surfaced on social media in which hospital staff can be seen shifting the patients. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-icu-of-private-hospital-in-indore-patients-safe-1071747.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Sulli Deals case: Delhi court dismisses bail plea of alleged app creator||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail plea of Aumkareshwar Thakur, the alleged creator of the controversial Sulli Deals app, saying that granting him relief at this juncture will prejudice a fair investigation. The app had triggered widespread outrage as it had put out details of more than 100 prominent Muslim women allowing users to participate in an ''auction'' of those women. The accused was arrested by the Delhi Police's Special Cell from Indore last week after receiving information about him from Bulli Bai app case mastermind Neeraj Bishnoi during the investigation. Metropolitan Magistrate Vasundhra Chhaunkar passed the order on Saturday after hearing arguments from the defence and the prosecution. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sulli-deals-case-delhi-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-alleged-app-creator-1071749.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||94% adults vaccinated against Covid in Rajasthan, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said Covid-19 vaccination in all categories in Rajasthan is higher than the national average. He said so far 94 per cent of people above the age of 18 have been given first dose of the vaccine. "Covid vaccination drive has completed one year. The percentage of Covid vaccination in all categories in the state is higher than the national average. So far, 94 per cent of people above the age of 18 have been given the first dose of the vaccine," Gehlot said in a tweet. He said that vaccination is an important tool of defence in struggle against Corona. “In this one year, our target has been to maintain the pace of vaccination in the state and more and more people can get the protection of Covid vaccine. "I am happy that with the cooperation of health department, doctors, nurses, personnel, officers and general public, Rajasthan has come to become the leading state in vaccination in the country and in future also we will keep the state on top in this campaign," he said. He also congratulated children between 15 and 18 years of age for the enthusiasm with which they have participated in this campaign. The percentage of people getting precautionary doses in the state is also increasing continuously and it is much higher than the national average, he added. Appealing to people to get vaccinated on their turn, the Chief Minister said that in the coming days, full focus will be on 100 per cent second dose injection, booster dose, and immunization of adolescents.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/94-adults-vaccinated-against-covid-in-rajasthan-says-ashok-gehlot-1071761.html
16-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi reports 18,286 fresh Covid cases, 28 deaths||Delhi on Sunday recorded 18,286 new Covid cases, a slight dip for the third consecutive day, taking its tally to 17,09,870, while positivity rate declined to 27.87 per cent in the city against the previous day's 30.64 per cent. At the same time, 28 deaths were also reported, taking the death toll at 25,363. The city had recorded 30 deaths on Saturday. Meanwhile, active Covid cases have also registered a decline at 89,891 as per the Delhi Health Department. With a 93.26 per cent Covid recovery rate, the active Covid cases rate in Delhi continues at 5.52 per cent while the death rate stands at 1.48 per cent. With 21,846 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the total number of recoveries has gone to 15,94,788. A total of 68,411 Covid patients are being treated in home isolation at present. The number of Covid containment zones has risen to 32,983. Meanwhile, a total of 65,621 new tests -- 54,141 RT-PCR and 11,480 Rapid Antigen - were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 3,40,60,063. Out of 1,65,924 vaccines administered in the last 24 hours, 94,486 were first doses and 52,747 second doses. Meanwhile, 18,691 precautions doses were also administered in last 24 hrs. The total number of cumulative beneficiaries vaccinated so far stands at 2,85,34,771, according to the health bulletin. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-18286-fresh-covid-cases-28-deaths-1071762.html
16-01-2022||Oasis||Inner stillness, key to the outer strength||As we ring in the new year, we realise that precious and memorable moments are not always found in uproarious parties, some can literally be hiding in the quiet stillness of our own backyard. Most of us are in a contemplative, resolute mood as we resolve to be better versions of ourselves at the cusp of reflecting on the year gone by and embracing the one that’s new. As a child, I remember being told that just like morning shows the day, the first day of the year foreshadows one’s priorities for the coming year. As the day dawned, a surprisingly warm one for winter, I took my cup of tea and sat on a bench intentionally positioned to harness the best views on the walkway adjoining our house. The mellow morning rose gently, the breeze was pleasant and the scene was still lush green rising out of a misty morning. I let the sublime stillness pervade my mind and body, I let it quieten me, and felt an immediate sense of calm. Like distant bells from a temple, a wind chime bestowed a sacred aura to the serene morning, which turned into a beautiful start to the day and year both renewing and restoring me.  I made a note to give myself this gift of stillness more often. The nature of our lives is such that more often than not we are racing through the day. We are copiously bombarded with thoughts that often have no time to settle down. They get scattered, as we try to arrange and rearrange them depending on the demands made on our time. It is almost imperative then, that we literally make ourselves still not only physically but more importantly mentally and emotionally to let clarity settle on us just like the gentle rays of the sun soothe over a peaceful morning. Solitude and stillness bring gifts that only time spent listening to your soul can bring. Once we realise the glory of quiet time spent alone, we will find ourselves uplifted and better prepared to deal with the entropy that life presents. We will see that, almost effortlessly, we have risen above the oscillations of chaos, cleaned our minds and eased our path towards finding meaning and clarity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/inner-stillness-key-to-the-outer-strength-1071753.html
16-01-2022||Opinion||OFF THE RECORD||Bungalows named after Maharashtra forts In a unique initiative of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the ministerial bungalows opposite Mantralaya, the state secretariat in Mumbai, have been named after forts of Maharashtra. Earlier these were known by numbers. Now the 20-odd bungalows would be known as Shivgad, Raigad, Pratapgad, Raigad, Lohagad, Sinhagad, RatnaSindhu, Janjira, Pavangad, Vikaydurg, Siddhagad, Panhalgad, Suvarnagad, Brahmagiri, Purandar, Shivalaya, Ajinkyatara, Prachitgad, Jaigad and Vishalgad. “From today, the official residences of ministers in front of the Mantralaya will be known by the names of forts. My demand has been accepted. My official residence B-2 has now become Ratna Sindhu,” said Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant. The majority of these forts are associated with the life and times of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the legendary Maratha warrior. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Rumours vs news The usually cheerful Telugu megastar Chiranjeevi is an angry man now. The iconic star who initially maintained silence on the raging issue of cinema ticket prices between Tollywood and the YSRCP government in Andhra Pradesh finally went to mediate with Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy. Ahead of Sankranti, Chiranjeevi had an hour-long meeting with Reddy over a sumptuous lunch, which he said was served affectionately by CM’s wife Bharathi. A content looking Chiru told reporters that an amicable solution is also expected soon. However, to his apparent dismay, the news the next day was a remoured offer from Reddy to send Chiru to Rajya Sabha. Chiru has earlier dabbled in politics, having served as an upper house member and union tourism minister during the UPA-II rule. His younger brother Pawan Kalyan, chief of Janasena Party is opposed to Jagan. So, attempting to put an end to canards, Chiru sent out a tweet - “I am keeping away from politics, and my reentry into legislatures won’t happen. Please put a full stop to such gossip.” Chiru also had a short, strong message to some media houses - #GiveNewsNotViews. Prasad Nichenametla, Hyderabad TN CM’s Pongal wishes When Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin released a statement wishing people on the occasion of Pongal, a section, was upset. This section believes the beginning of the Tamil month of Thai (mid-Jan to mid-Feb) which marks Pongal should ideally be the Tamil New Year’s day and not Chithirai (mid-April to mid-May) which is now the custom. They expected Stalin to declare the 1st day of Thai (Jan 14 or Jan 15) as the Tamil New Year’s day, but the DMK dispensation has kept quiet so far fearing backlash from another section of the society. This section believed that Stalin will at least send a signal on his intentions by including the word Tamil Puthandu Vaazthukkal (Tamil New Year’s day wishes). Since he didn’t, the disappointment was palpable.  ETB Sivapriyan, Chennai Assam CM’s rap on IAS officer draws ire A video of Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma yelling at an IAS officer publicly in Nagaon district on Saturday invited criticism on social media. In the video, Sarma was seen yelling at Nagaon deputy commissioner, Nisarg Hivare, who had stopped traffic on National Highway 37 for smooth passage of the CM’s cavalcade. “Why have these vehicles been stopped? Is any king coming here? Don’t do this again. People are suffering, let the vehicles go,” the CM was heard saying. CM later defended his actions saying he had earlier instructed the police and government officials to end “VIP culture” but many on social media slammed the way CM reprimanded the IAS officer in public for doing his duty. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-1071756.html
16-01-2022||Panorama||Wildlife conservation gets a boost with timely amendment||The amendment to Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 2021, was introduced and passed in the Lok Sabha and has been referred to a Parliament committee. It is in the public domain for comments. This amendment aims for “conservation, protection and management of wildlife” from the earlier “protection of wild animals, birds and plants”. Section 2-I6A defines exotic and invasive species of animals and plants whose induction or spread may adversely affect animals, plants and their habitats, with a provision in Sec-62A to control, check, regulate and also destroy such alien species. It is very innovative to check and control invasive, exotic weeds such as lantana, eupatorium and parthenium in protected areas affecting the carrying capacity of the habitats in terms of fodder, space, regeneration of trees and cause of fires. Section 6A, an addition, has given powers to the state wildlife boards to constitute “standing committees” for the purpose of exercising powers and performing boards’ duties as may be delegated to it by the Board, with sub-committees along the lines of the National Board of Wildlife, whose standing committees’ powers too have been enhanced. This section seems to be there for the purpose of speeding up forest clearance for development projects in wildlife habitats and to frame management policies. Section-28 (b) has been amended to grant permission for film-making without causing any adverse impact to habitat/wildlife. Film shooting was banned in 1978 to avoid accidents and tragedies. It is not a welcome move since protected areas are already overcrowded with tourists. Section 33 has been amended to vest with the chief wildlife warden the power to manage sanctuaries in accordance with management plans approved by him as per the guidelines of the Central government and with consultation of gram sabhas, wherever such sanctuaries fall, under the “Recognition of Forest Rights Act, 2006”. Similarly, construction activities including government lodges are restricted, which is a positive step. Other amendments such as gun licence around protected areas (Pas) has been restricted up to 10 km radius against 5 km earlier. Wild animals involved in crimes have to be nursed in zoos or rescue centres till they are released into their habitats. The certified owner of a live elephant can transport it without permits as per the procedure prescribed.   Chapter VB: Regulation of International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora as per Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) vide Sections-49D to 49R to deal with the breeding, conservation, trade-in import, export, re-export etc of schedule fauna and flora has been added as a new chapter with power to the Central government to appoint “Management Authority” with paraphernalia. It also provides for a new department to deal with CITES, hitherto handled by the Customs Department. Increase in fines  Penalties in Section-51: The term of imprisonments remains the same but the fines have been increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 and from Rs 25,000 to 1 lakh. Compounding power under Sec 54 has been increased from Rs 25,000 to Rs 5 lakh. The schedules of animals, birds, reptiles, amphibians fishes and invertebrates; vermin and plants in Schedules-I, II part I, II part II, III, IV, V of the Act have been reduced to Schedule-I, II, III and Schedule-V vermin dropped to declare when found necessary. Schedule-IV has been added pertaining to CITES with Appendices I, II, III for details of fauna, flora and their origins to guide prosecution Section 5I (I) proviso (ii); accordingly, changes have been made in the corresponding sections of the Act. Schedules have been made with simple lists of species of fauna and flora with local and scientific names. Under Schedule-I & II, a total of 172 mammals have been listed followed by birds (976), reptiles (65), amphibians (6), fish (26), insects (121), crabs (3), corals (388), mollusks (24), holothurians (32) and sponges (10). Under Schedule-III, 18 plants have been listed, while under Schedule-IV, with Appendices-I, II, III, a total of 368, 497, 217 species have been listed, respectively. This amendment has also sought to address the anomalies found in the Schedules of animals listed in the Act, some with local names, some with scientific names, some with both, which are most confusing for field officers to take cognisance of the offences and to approach the courts. I noticed these lacunae while identifying each animal with a schedule number to show its status in protection for my Hand-Book of Indian Wild Animals. I made a list of such lacunae and submitted two memorandums to the Prime Minister to set right the anomalies in the Schedules of the Wildlife Act, 1972, in 2016 and got an appreciation letter from the Union Ministry of Environment. Now, I am happy that most of my suggestions have been accepted and the schedules of animals are updated. For example, alpine musk deer, the state animal of Uttarakhand, was missing. It has been included in Schedule-I. Similarly, with regard to whales and dolphins, only a few were named in the Schedules earlier; now, a total of 17 whales and 11 dolphins have been listed in Schedule-I. Birds like house sparrow, eagles/kites, lapwings, ibis, terns, frogmouths and wagtails; some reptiles, fishes, frogs, missing earlier, are now listed. In a nutshell, this amendment is more technical and the need of the hour is to plug loopholes in the field of wildlife protection, conservation and management. It opens an era of protection for the aquatic/marine mammals, reptiles, fishes and other invertebrates since the wildlife wing has to take action to monitor coasts to safeguard marine fauna, hitherto neglected. The trade of animals and their parts will be put under strict vigilance with the invoking of the CITES-Management Authority under this Act to strengthen the protection measures to wildlife. This amendment deserves to be praised in the interest of wildlife. (The writer is an IFS officer (retd) and a freelance writer on wildlife, forestry and environment)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/wildlife-conservation-gets-a-boost-with-timely-amendment-1071754.html
16-01-2022||Right in the Middle||A giver, not a beggar...||The character I am writing about is a beggar from a materialistic point of view. He was suffering from leprosy. In the late nineteen sixties, every Sunday morning I woke up to the distant boom of his voice. The only word he uttered was “Narayana”.  He would call the Lord from the very bottom of his soul in such a way that the sound vibration would reach Vaikunta, the abode of Vishnu. His voice stirred my heart. I could not help liking it. His fingers and toes were all worn out. The nose was almost eaten away. There were hardly any lashes on his eyelids. He must have been undergoing a great deal of pain and bodily discomfort. Still, he was calling out to Lord Narayan with love and affection. It was definitely touching. He dragged himself along the street, clutching a metal mug under his armpit. The dhoti he wore was clean and white. He was wearing thick white and red tilak on his forehead. Since his hands were almost fingerless I used to wonder as to who might have applied the Vaishnav mark on his forehead. Once I asked him out of curiosity what his name was. “Everyone calls me kusht," he replied smiling, making me feel ashamed of the society I live in... It was my grandfather who first made me realise the benefit which the residents of our street were getting from him. “He appears to be a beggar. Actually, he is a giver. What he gives you is the transcendental vibrations of Lord Vishnu’s name. Look at his faith and trust in Lord Narayan’s name. After his death he will go to Vaikunta,” he told me one day. From the ‘commission’ I made from the purchase of groceries and vegetables for our home I kept aside some coins for this ardent devotee of Lord Narayan. As soon as I heard his voice I used to go up to the gate and wait for him. When I dropped the coin into his glass he would say Narayana with a smile showing his white teeth, bringing his fingerless palms together in a gesture of salutation and gratitude. He was different from most of us who jump to blame and even curse God as soon as we face a situation or a crisis in our lives. He was not just a leper or a beggar. He was a teacher. He taught me how to face and bear bodily pains and sufferings. Whenever I am challenged by an illness or circumstances, I think of him. He bore his fate without bearing any grudge for God. He was, no doubt, more virtuous than all of us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-giver-not-a-beggar-1071755.html
16-01-2022||Second Edit||Lantana removal not one-time work||Lantana camara, popularly called Lantana, one of the most invasive species of shrubs of South American origin, has emerged as the biggest threat to flora and fauna in the country. Lantana, which was brought to India about 200 years ago as an ornamental plant, has over the years invaded the forests and now covers over 40% or 1.5 lakh sq km of tiger reserves. Known as the forest killer, it threatens the ecological food chain as it replaces the pastures of herbivores by hindering the growth of native vegetation. Animals also do not prefer to live in such areas as the dense, impregnable shrubs obstruct their free movement. While dried Lantana is often responsible for the quick spread of forest fires, the thick shrubbery also comes in the way of conservation activities as they hamper patrolling. It is thus heartening that the Karnataka government, undeterred by the unsuccessful attempts in the past, is once again attempting to remove the shrub from the forests of Bandipur, Biligiri Ranganathaswamy hills and Nagarahole, in a phased manner. Three companies have expressed interest in the project and the demonstration at Bandipur tiger reserve where 60% of the forest is covered with Lantana, has shown encouraging results. However, given that all previous experiments have gone largely in vain, the government should realise that only a sustained campaign and not a one-time effort will ensure the success of this initiative. The fight against Lantana does not just involve removing them from the root but quickly replacing them with palatable grasses to prevent other invasive species like parthenium from taking their place. This is both a laborious and time-consuming exercise that also demands constant surveillance for at least three years. Some time ago, the government had introduced a bug and a beetle that feed on Lantana, though there were concerns that they may consume other edible plants too. Not much is known about the result of this experiment and if it was successful, the government should consider this option as well. The government should also involve tribals in the area in all its conservation efforts particularly in ensuring that forests remain Lantana-free. In 2005,  some local tribes were trained by the Himalaya Environment Studies and Conservation Organisation (HESCO) to produce furniture and other products out of the Lantana stem which is an inexpensive alternative to bamboo. This should be scaled up, as a continuous source of income will serve as an incentive to the tribal population to complement the government’s own efforts. Only when the government and the stakeholders of the forests join hands, will there be a lasting solution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/lantana-removal-not-one-time-work-1071728.html
16-01-2022||South||Massive fire destroys British-era Secunderabad Club||A rich portion of the Hyderabad-Secunderabad twin cities' history and heritage went up in flames in the wee hours of Sunday, when a gigantic fire gutted the main edifice of the iconic Secunderabad Club. A colonial era structure with 140 years of history and a heritage tag, the club is frequented by the who’s who of Hyderabad and Secunderabad. In the complaint to police, club's president Raghuram Reddy pegged the loss at over Rs 25 crore, while its crestfallen members rued that the cultural loss suffered is much more. The club, established in 1878, sits on a 22-acre lush green expanse in the heart of the city and, according to a member, served as a safe, secure, comfortable hangout for its members and families, especially during the pandemic. The engulfing fire, shocking visuals of which Hyderabadis (and Secunderabadis) woke up to on a cold, moody winter day, took over five hours and several fire tenders to be extinguished completely. The imposing facade "Colonnade" housing the colonial style bars, elegant lounges, management committee offices is ruined. “Our association with the club is four generations old and I have been visiting the place since when I was a kid. My favorite spot and piece – a wooden couch my (late) father Sreeram Bhoopal, a retired IAS officer, used to relax in after his lunch is also gone. It is a great loss to not only Hyderabad but the country's heritage. And this is a major personal tragedy for us,” Anuradha Reddy (73), Hyderabad chapter convenor of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage told DH. Fire officials said the flames spread rapidly as the ground plus two storeyed structure was mainly built of wood. A wooden staircase inside was also destroyed but the fire was stopped from spreading to other buildings in the premises. Preliminary reason is stated as an electricity short circuit after a spell of rain on Saturday night. However, conspiracy theories are afloat like "disputes between Defense Estates and club management over addition of new structures, and an issue over widening of a road adjacent to the club." “We have no reason, as of now, to suspect any sabotage,” M Mattaiah, inspector, Maredpally told DH. Interestingly, the flames spread unnoticed by the club's staff till they reached the roof. Their shines, according to the inspector, were spotted over the green canopy from afar by a police patrol team on the main road which reported it at about 3:15 AM. Fire engines reached the spot at 3:30 AM. A probe under a senior police official has been initiated, with necessary support from the electricity and fire departments. “Several buildings in Hyderabad – from the Nizam, and the British time, were built with proper ventilation and were naturally cool even in the summers. But in the name of modernisation additions like ACs and a web of wirings are added. My observation is in general, not about the club,” said a member, not wishing to be named. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/massive-fire-destroys-british-era-secunderabad-club-1071562.html
16-01-2022||South||AIADMK to work for bringing back MGR's 'Golden Rule' in Tamil Nadu||The Opposition AIADMK has exhorted upon party cadres, sympathisers, and the general public to bring back the 'Golden Rule' of the late AIADMK patriarch, M.G. Ramachandran (MGR) and to dispose of the 'corrupt' and inefficient DMK government. The 105th birthday of late MGR is to be celebrated on Monday. Party leaders and former Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu, O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami in a statement on Saturday said that the DMK government of the state led by M.K. Stalin was not practicing what it preaches. The AIADMK leadership said that the party would go all out against the DMK government and its anti-people policies. The statement said, "We request our party men and sympathisers to take a pledge to bring back the golden rule of Puraitchi Thalaivar MGR and that of Puratchi Thalaivi Amma, J. Jayalalithaa." The leaders called upon the party men to act with the courage and wisdom shown by J. Jayalalithaa and that of the path shown by MGR. The AIADMK leaders said that the charitable and philanthropic activities of the late Chief Minister MGR were commendable and there was no leader equivalent to him who had donated a fortune he had earned through hard work to the poor people. The AIADMK leaders said that it was MGR who had brought the world-renowned nutritious noon meal scheme to the state. The leaders said that even though MGR had ruled Tamil Nadu for a decade from 1977 till 1987, his rule will always be considered as the golden rule of Tamil Nadu. Ousted AIADMK leader, V.K.Sasikala in another statement said that the merger of the AIADMK was imperative to restore the AIADMK rule in the state. She also said that MGR who had formed the AIADMK in 1972 had in its bylaw stated that the cadres should elect the leaders. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-to-work-for-bringing-back-mgrs-golden-rule-in-tamil-nadu-1071583.html
16-01-2022||South||Malayalam superstar Mammootty tests Covid postive||Malayalam superstar Mammootty tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday.  In view of this development, the shooting of his movie franchise CBI 5 directed by K Madhu has been suspended. Details about the star's health are awaited. CBI 5 is the fifth of a series of movies directed by K Madhu and each of them has been a runaway hit. Mammootty played the lead role of Sethuraman Iyer in CBI 5. The film has an impressive star cast including Mukesh and Jagathy Sreekumar. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalam-superstar-mammootty-tests-covid-postive-1071594.html
16-01-2022||South||Covid-19: Telangana extends holidays for educational institutions till January 30||The Telangana government has decided to extend the “Sankranti holidays” for all educational institutions till January 30 as Covid-19 cases continue to surge in the state. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has also convened his cabinet meeting on Monday to discuss the latest pandemic situation. The state has so far not imposed any strict restrictions except for asking the public to adhere to the mask rule. On Sunday, Telangana reported 2,047 new cases with 55,883 samples tested. The number of active cases currently stands at is 22,048. After a review meeting on Covid-19 a few days back, Chief Minister Rao asked people to be on alert, take self-regulatory measures and follow the government guidelines while “not entertaining any fear or anxiety over new variants like Omicron.” The CM reiterated that his government “is well equipped to face any situation.” Health department officials said the state has adequate oxygen beds, medicines and other requirements. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, which is also seeing a big jump in new Covid-19 cases, night curfew would come into effect from January 18. On Sunday, Andhra Pradesh recorded 4,570 Covid-19 cases, taking the positivity rate to an alarming 15 per cent. A total of 30,022 samples were tested on the day. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-telangana-extends-holidays-for-educational-institutions-till-january-30-1071605.html
16-01-2022||South||TN closes schools for classes 10-12 till January 31 over rising Covid-19 cases||As Covid-19 cases increase rapidly in the state, the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday declared a holiday for students from classes 10 to 12 till January 31. A press release from the government said the revision exams scheduled to be held from January 19 are being postponed.  The government’s announcement comes as the state continues to add over 20,000 fresh Covid-19 cases a day.  “Due to Covid-19 spread, physical classes for standard one to nine have been suspended and physical classes are being conducted only for class 10, 11 and 12. Due to increasing cases and in the interest of the students, classes for 10, 11, and 12 are also being cancelled,” the press release said.  The government had resumed physical classes for standard 9 to 12 in September. And it opened the schools for other classes in November. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-closes-schools-for-classes-10-12-till-january-31-over-rising-covid-19-cases-1071626.html
16-01-2022||South||Painting worker in Kerala wins Rs 12 crore lottery||A painting worker in the Kottayam district of Kerala won the state government's Christmas-New Year bumper lottery ticket with prize money of Rs 12 crore. Sadanandan, a native of Kudayampady in the district, took the lottery ticket on Sunday morning, just hours before the draw in the afternoon. He would get around Rs 6.5 crore after taxes and agents' commission. Sadanandan who has been into painting works over the last several decades said that he would be using the money to settle the personal liabilities of the family and to start any livelihood for his two sons. He had earlier won a lottery prize of Rs 5,000. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/painting-worker-in-kerala-wins-rs-12-crore-lottery-1071692.html
16-01-2022||South||95% of Covid-19 deaths recorded among 50+ age group in Tamil Nadu||The majority of those who died of Covid-19 in the first 15 days of 2022 in Tamil Nadu were people above 50 years of age and were associated with a co-morbid condition, while nearly 70 per cent of those who lost their lives were either unvaccinated or had taken just one dose of vaccine, an analysis by the Health Department has found.  The Health Department said as many as 191 persons have lost their lives in Tamil Nadu from January 1 to January 15 and 181 of them (94.7 per cent) had one or other co-morbidity associated. In a previous analysis done between August and October, the government found around 84 per cent of those who died due to Covid-19 were unvaccinated. Sharing the results of the latest “administrative analysis”, Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr T S Selva Vinayagam said of the 191 deaths, 163 of them, constituting 85.3 per cent happened in more than 50-years-old.  “When you look into the comorbidities, 181 out of 191 almost 94.7 per cent had one or other co-morbidity associated. The analysis of a combination of elderly with comorbid reveals that 159 out of 191 constituting 83.2 per cent of deaths happened in elderly persons with probably uncontrolled comorbidity,” the DPH said. The analysis, Dr Selva Vinayagam said, found as many as 131 persons (68.5 per cent) out of the 191 dead are either not vaccinated or partially vaccinated. Experts say this is a cause of concern as the vaccination percentage of elders in Tamil Nadu is comparatively less at 62 per cent for the first dose and a mere 48 per cent for the second dose when compared to overall 88.62 per cent for the first dose and 64.23 per cent for the second dose.  “It also shows that the protective effect of vaccination is often scuttled by uncontrolled comorbidities which need a further deeper case to case analysis,” the DPH said. Experts have been warning people not to consider Omicron infection as “mild” as it has the potential to cause serious illness in the unvaccinated population and those with co-morbidities even among the vaccinated.  Tamil Nadu is witnessing a massive surge in Covid-19 cases with as many as 23,975 persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday alone, pushing the number of active cases to 1,42,476. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the state is also quite high at 16.7 per cent with Chennai topping at 30 per cent.  Pointing to the findings, the DPH asked the elderly, and unvaccinated with comorbidity to seek hospital care to prevent mortality. “It is time to protect our elders by vaccinating them and also ensuring that they take proper medication for the comorbidity and keep it under control,” Dr Selva Vinayagam said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/95-of-covid-19-deaths-recorded-among-50-age-group-in-tamil-nadu-1071696.html
16-01-2022||South||Covid-19 is Satan sent by Allah to correct the world: Kerala CPI(M) leader||Leave Marx or dialectical materialism, a leader of Kerala's ruling Communist Party of India-Marxist on Sunday seemed to have adopted an Islamic worldview. In a public programme at Kozhikode, senior leader and former MP and minister T K Hamza said: " Covid-19 is a Satan sent by Allah. This is to correct us and without correcting the world this Satan will not retreat." He also said that people, especially Muslims, must introspect whether they have diverted from the life envisaged by the Holy Quran. Addressing a meeting of the Wakf Board action council, the former minister said: "The whole world belongs to Allah and he has given us the opportunity to look after his property. Everyone must work wholeheartedly for protecting his property." The statement of Hamza, who has been Chairman of the Wakf Board, seems to indicate how the CPI(M) is now trying to woo the Muslim community in the state. The Samastha Kerala Jamiat-ul-Ulema, a powerful body of Muslim scholars, which was ideologically inclined towards the Muslim League, has recently opposed the party conducting agitations at mosques in the state against the appointments in Wakf boards through the Public Service Commission. The CPI(M) has been trying to somehow woo the Muslim community and the statement of the senior leader of the CPI(M) is seen in this context. Talking to IANS, social activist and journalist Roy Mathew said: "CPI(M) has now become a party of political opportunism. In 2006, when CPI(M) legislators, M M Monayi and Isha Potti had taken oath as legislators in the name of God, then Secretary of CPI(M), Pinarayi Vijayan, who is the present Chief Minister, had done a scathing attack on the duo and had publicly censured the two leaders." "In 2021, Veena George, a minister in Vijayan's cabinet, took oath in the name of God and the CPI(M) leadership did not say a word against it." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-is-satan-sent-by-allah-to-correct-the-world-kerala-cpim-leader-1071700.html
16-01-2022||South||Drug cartels, sexual exploitation killing young women in Kerala tribal hamlet||In the last five months, five young women, two of whom were minors, died of suicide in nearby tribal hamlets on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram, raising concerns that antisocial elements were exploiting the local women. In the past, suspicious deaths of tribal women in Kerala have been linked to drug trafficking rings. Tribal hamlets in the Vithura-Peringamala region, around 40 kilometres from the state capital, have reported fresh cases. There were two instances when the deceased had been sexually assaulted. The accused and both of the survivors were children. Two of the three ladies in the 18-19 age range were believed to have taken their own lives because of a lover-affair-related problem. The drug trade and cell phone usage are blamed by the locals. Because of Covid, many parents are forced to leave their children alone at home when they go to work in the morning. As a result, the majority of pupils suddenly have access to online lessons through their smartphones. The rackets were accused of seducing and sexually exploiting the women using mobile phones. The usage of drugs by young people in the area is also claimed to be increasing. Recently, a woman named Sobhana from a neighbouring town was reportedly assaulted by a drug trafficking group for her role in standing up to the local cartels. Adivasi Kshema Samathi leader Anil Kumar stated that prompt interventions of the government were essential to prevent drug trafficking in the area as it was deemed to be the root reason for the difficulties. Top police officers are also slated to visit the area this week. Excise department officials have already increased their vigilance. A report from authorities was also requested by Veena George, who is also in charge of women and child development. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/drug-cartels-sexual-exploitation-killing-young-women-in-kerala-tribal-hamlet-1071713.html
16-01-2022||South||Secunderabad Club has its own printing press, sailing annexe among other rare distinctions||Even in the club of elite clubs of the country, the Secunderabad Club stands out for some rare distinctions. The society, spread over 22 acres in the Secunderabad cantonment area, has over 8,000 members - military officers, bureaucrats, diplomats, police officials, erstwhile-royalty, professionals, scientists and businessmen. And the club boasts of a printing press (USA manufactured in 1885) from a bygone era that is still used for printing daily menus etc, a fuel filling station and its own sailing annexe a few kilometres away at the Hussain Sagar lake. The Secunderabad Club was established in 1878, on the lines of cantonment clubs popular in British India. It was initially known as Secunderabad Public Rooms. The name was changed to United Services Club in 1888, and from 1903 came to be known as the Secunderabad Club. Up until 1947, only British citizens were allowed to be the club's president, and only a handful of high ranking Hyderabad nobility were offered membership. The club’s century old Main Club House, “carefully and aesthetically maintained”, is given heritage status by the Hyderabad Urban Development Authority and INTACH in 1999. “Though the wooden edifice is gutted in Sunday's fire, a metal plaque presented by HUDA-INTACH is intact on a granite wall,” said Anuradha Reddy, Hyderabad convenor of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. What remains now of the iconic facade are the steel beams and granite columns. According to a police official, the fire has destroyed the entrance-reception area, president chambers, billiards room, Colonnade and 1878 bars, and the ball room. History enthusiasts are regretting the loss of a priceless collection like the regimental plates at the bar, rare paintings, photos frames, military insignia and hunting trophies. “The club has unique qualities - antique collections and facilities setting it apart from others. The Salar Jung I, Mir Turab Ali Khan, who served as prime minister of the Nizam, used to stay here during his hunting trips. Its flag pole at the sailing annexe was once the highest in town,” said Vedakumar Manikonda, chairman, Deccan Heritage Academy. Heritage conservationists are requesting the club's managing committee to restore it to its normal glory and the Telangana government for necessary steps to conserve the building. “It is too early to decide on a restoration plan,” a member told DH following an inspection of the gutted structure. The club is affiliated with about 100 top class clubs in India, USA, Europe, Australia, Africa and SouthEast Asia. It has 5-star accommodation that includes heritage suites. Some of the trees growing on the campus are well over 100 years old. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/secunderabad-club-has-its-own-printing-press-sailing-annexe-among-other-rare-distinctions-1071714.html
16-01-2022||South||Kerala's Covid TPR crosses 30%, active cases above 1 lakh mark||The daily Covid test positivity rate (TPR) in Kerala crossed the 30 per cent mark on Sunday. With 18,123 fresh Covid cases being confirmed during the day, the total active cases also crossed the one lakh mark to reach 1,03,864. However, only four per cent of the total infected individuals required hospitalisation, said government sources. The state saw an all-time high TPR of 30.5 per cent during the day. It had previously recorded a TPR of close to 30 per cent during the peak of the second wave in May 2021. Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam districts of Kerala reported the highest number of cases. Several Covid clusters were also found across the state. The government has already decided to suspend offline classes for students in classes 1-9 from January 21. Restrictions were also imposed on gatherings. Government sources were ruling out any chances of a total lockdown as the prolonged lockdown during the second wave was met with much criticism and caused severe financial crises too many. A number of businessmen had even ended their lives owing to the financial crisis. Covid vaccines at school in Kerala Kerala government has decided to give Covid vaccines to students in the 15-17 age group at schools from Wednesday. Health Minister Veena George said that Covaxin would be given to students. The vaccination will be given only with the consent of parents. So far over 7.2 lakh students in the 15-17 age groups took the first dose. It comes to over 47 per cent of the total number of students in this age group. Mammootty Covid positive Popular actor Mammootty also tested Covid positive. He was having mild symptoms on Saturday and a subsequent test confirmed the infection. He is currently in-home quarantine in Kochi and has no major health issues, said sources. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-tpr-crosses-30-active-cases-above-1-lakh-mark-1071715.html
16-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu's Test Positivity Rate at an all-time high; Chennai worst-hit||Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 caseload has increased exponentially in the first 15 days of the New Year with the state’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) standing at around 17 per cent though hospital occupancy still remains low.  The TPR in Chennai has also shown a steady increase from 2.9 per cent on January 1 to a whopping 30 per cent on January 15, the highest since the onset of the pandemic in March 2020. The neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur also have a high TPR at 28.5 per cent and 27.5 per cent, while over a half-a-dozen other districts have TPR higher than 10 per cent.  As far as the state is concerned, the TPR which stood at a mere 1.1 per cent on January 1 shot to 16.7 per cent on January 15. Though the TPR is higher than the second wave of infections that swept the state in May 2021, the number of deaths, according to experts, remains low so far during the third wave. In the first 15 days, the state has reported 183 deaths, while 22 deaths were recorded on Sunday.   With over 85 of 100 persons testing positive for Covid-19 being found to be infected with Omicron variant, the state government has stopped sending the samples for genomic analysis to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. However, the samples are being analysed at the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai set up by the Tamil Nadu government.  While hospitals were full during the second wave, the hospital occupancy rate in the state as of January 16 was just a little over 10 per cent, though it was on the higher side at over 20 per cent in Chennai. Doctors working at government and private hospitals told DH that a majority of the deaths occur in people who are unvaccinated or those with serious comorbidities.  Public health care experts say the third wave is “not severe” only for those vaccinated with both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, whereas the infection is “very severe” as the other variants in the past among the unvaccinated persons. Low death rate and low hospital occupancy rate are not the reasons for anyone to be “complacent”, the experts said.  “The infection is not mild for everyone. It may be mild for those who are vaccinated with two doses or those who were already infected with Covid-19. Even among this section, the infection could be severe in those who have severe comorbidities like uncontrolled diabetes,” Dr K Kolandaswamy, former Director of Public Health (DPH), Tamil Nadu, told DH. The ICU admission and the need for oxygen support among Covid-19 patients are low when compared to the second wave, Dr Kolandaswamy said, adding that people should avoid going to crowded and contained spaces where the spread of the virus is very high. He also said wearing a face mask and washing hands regularly will help prevent a person from getting infected with Covid-19.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-test-positivity-rate-at-an-all-time-high-chennai-worst-hit-1071719.html
16-01-2022||State||Former minister flays rejection of Kerala's Narayana Guru tableau||Former Minister B Ramanath Rai condemned the move of the jury of the Defence Ministry for rejecting the Republic Day tableau proposal of the Kerala government on social reformer Narayana Guru. "There is a need to raise voice against the rejection of the tableau proposal on Narayana Guru," he told mediapersons in Mangaluru. Narayana Guru, a social reformer, had fought against the inequality, untouchability in the society and propagated equality. It was Narayana Guru who preached the doctrine of one caste, one religion and one god. Narayana Guru is known for his efforts for the spiritual and social upliftment of the downtrodden, the former minister said. “The rejection of the tableau proposal is an insult to the Hindu society and has hurt the feelings of backward classes. The rejection is not only an insult to Narayana Guru but also his preaching,” said Rai. The Congress had respect for the Narayana Guru and the Congress-led state government in Karnataka announced that Narayana Guru jayanthi will be celebrated as a government programme and is continued now.  The Congress government had also sanctioned Narayana Guru Study Chair to Mangalore University, he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-minister-flays-rejection-of-keralas-narayana-guru-tableau-1071578.html
16-01-2022||State||Kannada activists hold tweet storm against plan for Sanskrit varsity||The decision of the Karnataka government to set up the Sanskrit University in Magadi in Ramanagara district has attracted severe criticism from Kannada activists. A tweet storm was organised by language activists on Sunday with the hashtag #SayNoToSanskrit, urging the government to withdraw its decision and warned of protests if it went ahead with the establishment of the varsity. T A Narayanagowda, president of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike said that they wouldn’t allow the government to set up the varsity using Kannadiga tax-payers money. The state government has sanctioned Rs 359 crore for Sanskrit university. But the government drags its feet to sanction Rs two crore to Kannada university. How did it allocate such a huge amount (to Sanskrit varsity)?” he asked, demanding that the government roll back the decision. If the government remains adamant, a statewide campaign will be undertaken against the varsity, he said. “What is the need to set up a Sanskrit University using government funds?” asked Prathap Kanagal, head of JD(S)’ IT wing. “What is the government going to achieve with the varsity? It should rather use the resources to encourage Kannada in schools and colleges and promote state languages such as Kodava and Tulu,” he tweeted. Goutham Ganesh M H pointed out that only 1,218 people had identified Sanskrit as their mother tongue as per the 2011 census. “Spending 300+ crore on a language not even spoken by 1% of the population is meaningless and utter waste of taxpayers’ money,” he wrote. The campaign garnered more than 50,000 tweets and retweets on Twitter throughout the day. Many pointed out that the petition by Sanskrit organisations in High Court against teaching Kannada in professional courses was the trigger for the tweet storm. Activist Ganesh Chetan said that Kannada and Sanskrit were from two different families of languages, and challenged the claim that Sanskrit was the ‘mother’ of Kannada. “The days of emotional blackmail with Sanskrit (and) Kannada fake mother daughter sentiment and using this to exploit gullible Kannadigas are over,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kannada-activists-hold-tweet-storm-against-plan-for-sanskrit-varsity-1071769.html
16-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka falls short of two vital Covid drugs recommended by Centre||Out of the six Covid medicines that the Centre asked Karnataka to stock in varying quantities, the state is falling short of two: Dexamethasone and Posaconazole injections. Against the Government of India’s mandate of 11 lakh, the state has about 50,000 Dexamethasone steroid injections, while it has just 1,200 Posaconazole jabs against the recommended stockpiling of 10,000. State Health Commissioner D Randeep said Karnataka State Medical Supplies Corporation Limited (KSMSCL) has issued a purchase order to meet the buffer stock requirement of Dexamethasone within a week. The injection used in the treatment of chronic obstructive lung disease is not fast moving for the time being, the commissioner said, adding: “We don’t expect any immediate shortage.” Antifungal drug Posaconazole is needed to treat patients with mucormycosis if they are resistant to Liposomal Amphotericin B, the first choice of drug. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said his department is unable to find Posaconazole in the market. While Dexamethasone or steroids are the cornerstone of any severe Covid management, Dr Vivek Padegal, director of Pulmonology at Fortis Hospital-Bannerghatta Road, pointed to an alternative drug, Methylprednisolone, which the state has a stock of 2.22 lakh. “I don’t think there is a shortage of Methylprednisolone, but we ran out of everything in the second wave,” Dr Padegal said. “The requirement for Posaconazole can be felt only four to 12 weeks after the patient’s recovery from Covid when they get fungal infection. Even if it is just 5% of the hospitalisation, it is significant,” he said. While hoping that only fewer patients will be on steroids with the Omicron variant, Dr Padegal said Posaconazole is also needed in treating patients with blood infection and cancer. “That may perhaps explain the drug’s shortage in the market,” he said. Manipal Hospitals pulmonologist Dr Satyanarayana Mysore told DH that Dexamethasone is a lifesaving anti-inflammatory drug. “Out of the four arms of the recovery trial in the UK, Dexamethasone was the only drug that proved to be a lifesaver,” he said. “Until now, it is the only drug with massive evidence (as a lifesaver).” He said patients require 6 mg of Dexamethasone per day for 10 days. “It shouldn’t be given until the seventh day of illness, unless there is increasing cough, CRP, fluctuating oxygen levels, and breathlessness,” he said. “We give it if the patient’s cytokines are elevated or find new infiltrates on the X-Ray.” Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-falls-short-of-two-vital-covid-drugs-recommended-by-centre-1071485.html
16-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Supreme Court notice to Karnataka govt on plea for bail in murder case of ex-Tumakuru mayor||The Supreme Court has issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea by a man seeking bail in murder case of former Tumakuru mayor and councillor H Ravikumar in 2018. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B V Nagarathna sought a response from the state government within four weeks on a petition filed by Mahesh V alias Amase. The petitioner led by advocate K V Muthu Kumar questioned the validity of the High Court's order of September 10, 2020 rejecting his plea for bail. He said the High Court did not appreciate that the petitioner was similarly placed with four other accused who had already been granted bail.  The petitioner's counsel also contended that there was no major allegation against him, except that he passed information about the deceased to accused number one. He also pointed out the sessions court itself had said that trial would take long time to conclude because there were 225 prosecution witnesses.  Besides, he also sought permission to place certain medical documents which showed that a surgery of facial bone was required by the accused. According to the prosecution, about five-six persons sprayed chili powder in the eyes of then councillor on September 30, 2018 and hacked him to death by using a machete. The deceased was a history sheeter and said to be close associate of JD-S leader and then Small Scale Industries Minister S R Srinivas. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/supreme-court-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-plea-for-bail-in-murder-case-of-ex-tumakuru-mayor-1071681.html
16-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Some guest faculties politicising their protest: C N Ashwath Narayan||Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan termed the continuation of the protest by guest faculties as politicising the issue by a few of them. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, the minister said that the decision was taken after having consultations with various stakeholders, including representatives of guest faculties' associations. A majority of the guest faculty are happy with the decision. "The salaries of guest lecturers have been increased more than twofold. Out of the 14,000 guest lecturers, around 4,500 lecturers have UGC-prescribed eligibility," he said. He said applications will be received for the posts of guest lecturers from Monday as scheduled. Candidates must submit their applications within seven days. The guest faculties who are on protest, boycotting classes for almost a month now, have announced continuation of the protest despite the government announcing increase in honorarium.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/some-guest-faculties-politicising-their-protest-c-n-ashwath-narayan-1071766.html
16-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt announces seed funding of up to Rs 50 lakh to 200 startups||Karnataka government will provide seed funding of up to Rs 50 lakh for 200 startups in the state to promote technological innovation, said, C N Ashwath Narayan, minister for IT/BT and Skill Development, on Sunday. The 200 include the 75 startups to which seed funding was announced by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on account of the 75 years of India's Independence, he said at an event to mark the first National Start Up Day. "Till date, as many as 500 startups were sanctioned seed funds by the state," he said. In the current fiscal, Karnataka has attracted Rs 1.6 lakh crore in Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). This was more than half the investments attracted by other states of the country, he said. The state, Ashwath Narayan said was home to over 13,000 of 57,000 startups in the country. To maintain Karnataka's lead in the sector, state government will focus on digital education and skill development, he said. Under Electronics, System Design and Manufacturing policy, Rs 5,000 crore will be given as subsidy out of which Rs 2,000 crore is already sanctioned in the first year, the minister added. Startups awarded Under Union government's 'Startup India Innovation Week' from Jan 10 - Jan 16, a total of 14 from the state bagged prizes under various sectors. They are Naffa innovations Pvt Ltd, and Umbo Idtech Pvt Ltd (in Fintech), Thinkerbell Labs (Edutech), Simplotel Technologies (Travel & Hospitality), Blinkin Technologies (Augmented Reality), Tagbox Solutions (IOT- healthcare), Shapos Services Pvt Ltd, Athreya Global Solutions and Zentron Labs Pvt Ltd (Agritech post-harvest), Marketxpander Services (Customer Relationship Management), Leucine Rich Bio Pvt Ltd (Life Sciences), Stellapps Technologies (Animal Husbandry), 1 Bridge (Freight & Logistics), and Steradian Semiconductors (Traffic Management). Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-announces-seed-funding-of-up-to-rs-50-lakh-to-200-startups-1071768.html
16-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||10,000 medicos deployed for Covid tele-triaging in Karnataka||Karnataka has, so far, trained about 2.5 lakh healthcare and frontline workers through online platforms, according to Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. Inaugurating a virtual training programme, being conducted in association with StepOne, to train 10,000 medical, dental and AYUSH students in home isolation care, the minister said “During the first wave it was necessary to provide training to healthcare workers about the new virus. But due to lockdown and other reasons when it was not feasible to conduct physical training, we trained about 2.5 lakh healthcare and frontline staff through online platforms with the help of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences.” He added, even the Central government had appreciated Karnataka’s efforts to leverage technology. StepOne has partnered with the state government in mobilising volunteers and doctors, and training them in tele-triaging.  ‘1.3 cr tele-consultations’ “We have a process to regularly monitor the health of those under home isolation. We are utilising the services of these 10,000 medical, dental and AYUSH students. About 500 experts are supporting the system,” he said. During the second wave, about 1.33 crore tele-consultations were done. This includes 42.57 lakh doctor consultations. About 36,000 people were given mental health counselling. Several people seek hospitalisation due to panic, even if they are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. If proper counselling is provided on the phone, unnecessary burden on the health infrastructure can be reduced. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10000-medicos-deployed-for-covid-tele-triaging-in-karnataka-1071772.html
16-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Self-test RAT kits for Covid causing reporting hesitancy||The demand for home-test rapid antigen tests (RAT) have gone up nationwide since the start of the surge in December. In Karnataka, health officials are in a fix as some positive cases are not declaring their positive status to the authorities. Dr Gautham Wankhede, Director, Medical Affairs, Mylab Discovery Solutions, which produces ICMR-recognized RAT kits, said that the public demand for the kits has risen by up to four or five times. “This is because people want the convenience of having a test that can be done at home,” Dr Wankhede said. In Bengaluru, Ravindra Kumar M J, Secretary, Bengaluru Chemists’ and Druggists’ Association said that an average of about 12,000 kits are being sold daily from 6,000 member shops in the city. “They are relatively cheap to purchase, costing between Rs 250 and 350 and people buy them for peace of mind,” he said. At the same time, he noted that there is hesitancy of test takers to report their results. This issue prompted the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to mandate that test kit buyers provide their Aadhaar card details to pharmacists while purchasing the kits for subsequent follow-up by the authorities. A prominent Mumbai Covid-19 doctor, Dr Swapneil Parikh, author of the book Coronavirus, told DH that a large number of people in Mumbai do test positive at home and that some do not report their test result to the authorities. “Instead, they turn up at hospitals for treatment,” he said. A Bengaluru private doctor who did not want to be named said the situation was no different in the city. “About half of my patients fall into this category of testing at home,” the doctor said, adding that the unreported cases could mean that the overall positivity rate of antigen tests could be higher than is being recorded by the government. As per the State War Room, the test positivity rate of RAT in Bengaluru as of Saturday evening was 14.6% while for Karnataka, it was 13.56%. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the government may also introduce similar rules for buyers of kits in Karnataka. “Although ICMR has approved several RAT kits for the home, self-test market, I do not encourage their use because it is causing a lot of people not to report the results to us,” he said. Another government official said that ICMR has clear guidelines regarding these self-test kits whereby the test-takers must upload their results onto apps created by the manufacturers of the kits. “The onus is on the test-takers to adhere to the official guidelines and report their results,” the official said. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/self-test-rat-kits-for-covid-causing-reporting-hesitancy-1071773.html
16-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's R-Day tableau to showcase handicrafts diversity||Home to different forms of handicrafts dating back to several centuries, Karnataka will showcase its traditional artistic diversity in the form of a tableau during the 73rd Republic Day parade on Rajpath in New Delhi on January 26. The state’s tableau ‘Karnataka: The Cradle of Traditional Handicrafts’ is the only tableau chosen from South India. Karnataka is among the 12 states which got a chance to take part in the parade this year. It is for a record 13th consecutive time that Karnataka will showcase its tableau during the parade. The float will feature all the traditional handicrafts that have earned the Geographical Indication (GI) tag. “Karnataka has the highest number of GI tags in the country. Out of the 346 products that have obtained GI tags in India, Karnataka accounts for 46. This is helping in the marketing and export of these products. Sixteen such traditional artefacts that have GI tags will be showcased in the tableau. It will be a tribute to 50,000 plus artisans in different parts of the state working tirelessly to carry on the legacy of these products,” explained Dr P S Harsha, commissioner, Department of Information and Public Relations. This apart, the tableau will feature acclaimed freedom fighter and social reformer Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, hailed as the ‘Mother of Traditional Handicrafts in India’. “Not many are aware that Kamaladevi was a Kannadiga and revived the traditional handicrafts industry in India by setting up the Crafts Council of India, the Handicrafts Board and other cultural bodies at the national level,” said a senior official of the department. The tableau will have a model of the Asiatic elephant depicting the Mysuru rosewood inlay carving in the front, along with ivory carvings. The float will also feature traditional Bidariware and bronze sculptures. The central part of the tableau will have Kinhal wooden craft along with toys from Channapatna. Intricate carvings in Sandalwood will also be displayed. At the rear end, the tableau will feature a bust of Kamaladevi draped in Molakalmur silk saree and holding all the artefacts in a bamboo tray. The tableau will also feature the famous Ilakal sarees, officials said. Harsha said that a total of 150 artists led by renowned art director Shashidhar Adapa have worked on the concept. The music for the tableau has been composed by Music Director Praveen D Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-r-day-tableau-to-showcase-handicrafts-diversity-1071776.html
16-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 30,000 apply for 1,242 assistant professor's posts in Karnataka||More than 30,000 eligible candidates have applied for 1,242 posts of assistant professor. The Department of College Education had issued a notification to fill the vacancies of assistant professors at the government degree colleges in October 2021. As per the notification, the entrance exams for the recruitment of assistant professors posts were scheduled for December 2021. The exams were postponed as the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA), the nodal agency to conduct the exam, was busy in seat allotment to various professional courses.   According to KEA sources, the highest number of applications were received for Kannada and History subjects. "We cannot give an exact break-up of subject-wise applications received, but the maximum number of applications was received for History and Kannada subjects," said an official from the KEA. The number of applicants could have gone further up had it not been for compulsory NET/KSET or PhD rule. In fact, 3,900 posts of Assistant Professors are vacant. But the college education department has received approval only for 1,242 posts from the Finance Department, this year. Out of 1,242 posts, 145 are left vacant since 2015 due to non-availability of eligible candidates and the remaining 1,097 posts are sanctioned for the current year.  The recruitment pertains to 25 subjects, including Economics (72 posts), Kannada (105), History (108), Political Science (96), Commerce (171), Physics (74), Chemistry (82), Botany (51) and English (34) among others. The 5% of the sanctioned posts will be filled through the Department’s group 'C' cadre. In the written test, it is mandatory for the candidates to clear Kannada and English language exams to get the eligibility. "This process of compulsory Kannada and English paper will filter some more candidates," say aspirants. Also, the candidates will be asked to write descriptive answers in Kannada and English subjects. Other subjects will have only multiple-choice questions and there will be negative (-ve) marking for wrong answers.  The appointments will be made based on the performance of the candidates in the written test. The pay scale will be as per University Grants Commission (UGC) between Rs 57,700 and Rs 1,82,400. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-30000-apply-for-1242-assistant-professors-posts-in-karnataka-1071782.html
16-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's role to be bigger in driving our nation to $5-trillion economy, says CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday exuded confidence that the role of the State would be significant in leading the country to a five-trillion dollar economy. "Karnataka's role will be much bigger in shaping the New India and a new economy of five trillion dollars in the coming years," Bommai said in his address on the occasion of National Startups Day today. The Chief Minister said the country had only 500 startups in 2016, which increased to 54,000 due to the efforts of a visionary leader like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who launched the programme Startup India. Speaking about Karnataka, Bommai said the State is the most preferred destination for the startups as it provides opportunities for the new ventures to grow and flourish. "Karnataka is the hub of IT-BT based startups in the country. Of the 54,000 startups nationwide, over 13,000 are in Karnataka alone," Bommai said. Explaining the measures taken by his government, Bommai said the State is helping in the best possible manner the startups by creating a positive eco system. Further, there is a startup cell in the State and programmes like Elevate-100, Elevate-Unnati, Elevate-75 and Elevate-25 are aimed at giving fillip to the new ventures, said the Chief Minister. He added that about 450 startups are getting about Rs 220 crore as government aid. Check out DH's latest videos: Bommai said the Beyond Bengaluru policy for industrial growth in other parts of Karnataka and a robust research and development policy helped many multinational companies have their R&D centres in Bengaluru and other parts of the State.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-role-to-be-bigger-in-driving-our-nation-to-5-trillion-economy-says-cm-bommai-1071790.html
16-01-2022||West||Another tagged leopard released in Maharashtra||In continuation of the leopard radio-collaring work at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai, yet another female leopard was released into the wild.  “We have successfully radio-collared and released one female leopard named Kranti on Friday. We are expecting interesting data on human-animal interaction through this collared animal. Two more leopards would be radio-collared in the coming days,” said G Mallikarjuna, the chief conservator of forests and director, SGNP.  The project of radio-collaring of leopards started in February this year.  On 20 February, a female leopard L115, aged around three named Savitri, was radio-collared and released in the southern area of SGNP. On 22 February, a male leopard L 93, aged between 6 and 8 years named Maharaja was radio-collared on the northern periphery of the SGNP. From Savitra and Maharaja interesting data was received.  On November 9, a female leopard C33 with a radio collar was released as part of a study by the SGNP administration and Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS). C33 was inadvertently captured in a cage trap in SGNP’s neighbouring Aarey Colony on November 1, instead of her sibling C32 -- identified as the leopard responsible for a recent spate of attacks on humans in the area.It may be mentioned, the SGNP, spread over 103 sq km, is home to 45-plus leopards - the highest leopard density in the world.  The Sanjay Gandhi National Park-Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary-Thane Territorial Division is a green lung of Mumbai – and leopards move in the night and crossroads, railway lines and streams. In the past, there have been several instances of leopards getting killed while crossing the busy Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway and on the roads surrounding Sanjay Gandhi National park including Thane Ghodbunder Road and also in Aarey Milk Colony. The study is meant to monitor the movement of these leopards.  It may be recalled, more than a decade ago, a radio-collared leopard walked 125 km from Malshej Ghat along the Kalyan-Ahmednagar Road to SGNP and its entire journey was documented by wildlife researchers led by Vidya Athreya. Its road trip not only provided some vital information on its behaviour but even fascinated journalists who did several news stories about it that even helped the common man understand. It even inspired a Marathi movie named Ajoba in which Urmila Matondkar had essayed the lead role. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/another-tagged-leopard-released-in-maharashtra-1071536.html
16-01-2022||West||Goa: Speeding car kills constable, IRB jawan at police checkpost; driver detained||A constable and an Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) jawan died after being hit by a car at a police checkpost in Seraulim village of South Goa, an official said on Sunday. The accident took place shortly after Saturday midnight, following which the driver of the car was detained, he said. "Around 12.15 am, when the constable, the IRB jawan and a home guard were on 'nakabandi' duty at Seraulim village in Colva police station jurisdiction, the speeding car hit them," the official said. The deceased were identified as constable Shailesh Gaonkar of Goa police and Vishwas Deykar of the IRB, police said, adding that the latter died while being shifted to a hospital. The home guard escaped unhurt in the incident, they said. According to police, the driver of the car has been taken into custody and is being interrogated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-speeding-car-kills-constable-irb-jawan-at-police-checkpost-driver-detained-1071549.html
16-01-2022||West||Maharashtra Home Minister assures thorough probe in Wardha illegal abortions case||Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil has assured a thorough probe into the "serious and shocking" abortion racket unearthed by Maharashtra Police in Wardha, pledging to bring the perpetrators to justice. Four persons have been arrested while another is under investigation, the minister said, adding that cases would be made under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 and Pre-Conception & Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDTA) Act, 1994 of the Indian Penal Code. The arrested accused are Dr. Rekha Kadam (43), a nurse Sangeeta Kale (38), and two others accused following the secret abortion performed on a 13-year-old girl here on January 4. The two other accused are Krishna Sahare (42) and his wife Nallu (40), the parents of a 17-year-old boy. Forensic examinations are being carried out on the 12 unidentified skulls and 54 other bones, bloodstained clothes and other evidence collected.  The hospital records have been seized and are being matched to check on legal and illegal abortions. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-assures-thorough-probe-in-wardha-illegal-abortions-case-1071599.html
16-01-2022||West||Maharashtra govt to consider demand for reopening of schools in next 15 days: Rajesh Tope||The demand for reopening of schools in Maharashtra will be considered after the next 10-15 days as there is a low incidence of coronavirus infection in children and students are suffering education loss, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said here on Sunday. He said the final decision will be taken by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Schools have been shut in Maharashtra till February 15 due to the rise in Covid-19 cases across the state. "Demands are rising from certain quarters for reopening of schools as children are suffering the education loss. We will consider it after 10-15 days as there is a low (rate of) infection among children. The chief minister will take the final call in this regard," Tope told reporters. Expressing concern over the rise in infections, Tope said that the people don't seem to be afraid of the coronavirus. "The Covid protocols must be followed strictly. Common people, as well as politicians, should avoid crowding,” he added. Speaking on the current scenario of the pandemic, the health minister said that though the cases are surging in Maharashtra, the number of hospitalisations and the need for medical oxygen remain low. On the first anniversary of the Covid-19 vaccination programme, the state health minister said that 10-15 per cent of the eligible people in Maharashtra are yet to be vaccinated as taking the jab is voluntary. "This is a challenge for the health department to ensure a cent per cent vaccination and we will make it possible," he added. Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 42,462 new coronavirus infections, 749 less than Friday, besides 23 deaths, the state health department had said. The overall caseload stands at 71,70,483, and the death toll at 1,41,779 as of Saturday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-consider-demand-for-reopening-of-schools-in-next-15-days-rajesh-tope-1071673.html
16-01-2022||West||Shiv Sena will contest 10-15 seats in Goa: Sanjay Raut||The Shiv Sena will contest 10-15 seats in the next month's Goa Assembly elections, party leader Sanjay Raut said on Sunday and stressed that the Maharashtra-based outfit will field “common men” as its nominees. Responding to a question on whether the Sena will contest the polls in Goa along with the NCP, its alliance partner in the Maharashtra government, Raut said, “We will also go. Their (NCP) leaders are coming to Goa…” “We will contest 10-15 seats in Goa,” he added. The Sena has so far failed to succeed in electoral politics in Goa which has a sizable Maharashtrian population. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party has been fielding candidates in the Marathi-dominated pockets of the tiny coastal state. This time, Shiv Sena was holding talks with the Congress and the NCP to take on the BJP after the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi. However, the talks appear to have not materialised. “The NCP and Shiv Sena are together in Maharashtra. Even Congress is with us. But there must be some compelling reason for the seat-sharing. Our talks with them were on. NCP's talks were with the Congress. That doesn't mean that we will not contest polls,” Raut said. He said that the politics of Goa revolves around 10-12 people who hop from one party to another. “There are land mafia, drugs mafia. No party has remained untouched from this. We want the people of Goa to choose common people. We will give tickets to these people,” Raut added. The political contest in Goa has become multi-cornered with the entry of the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) apart from the traditional contestants like the BJP, Congress, MGP and GFP. In the 2017 Assembly polls for the 40-member Goa Assembly, AAP had drawn a blank. In the previous polls, the Congress had emerged as the single-largest party in Goa as it won 17 seats in the 40-member House. However, it failed to form the government after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which bagged 13, allied with some independents and regional parties to form the government under Manohar Parrikar who passed away in 2019. BJP's Pramod Sawant is the incumbent chief minister. The Congress has already announced its pre-poll alliance with the GFP, while the TMC has a tie-up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) for the upcoming polls. Recently, the TMC had hinted at a grand alliance comprising the Congress and AAP to take on the BJP. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-will-contest-10-15-seats-in-goa-sanjay-raut-1071683.html
16-01-2022||West||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai drop below 10,000||After nearly fortnight, the 24-hour Covid-19 cases in Mumbai dropped below the 10,000 mark even as there was a significant drop in the test positivity rate.  On Sunday, Mumbai reported 7,895 cases and 11 deaths taking the progressive total to 9,99,862 and 16,457, respectively.  The total active cases in Mumbai now stands at 21,025, according to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation.  Meanwhile, as the situation seems to be improving, the BMC announced the decision for international passengers arriving from the United Arab Emirates including Dubai to Mumbai from seven-day home quarantine and RT-PCR on arrival.  During the day 57,534 tests were conducted of which 7,895 turned positive - 13.72 per cent.  On Sunday, the state reported a total of 41,327 cases and 29 deaths taking the progressive total to 72,11,810 and 1,41,808, respectively.  The active cases in the state now is 2,65,346, according to the Public Health Department.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-drop-below-10000-1071729.html
