17-01-2022||Comment||A mammoth confusion||The National Education Policy (NEP) of 2020, which replaced the NEP of 1986, is set to radically change the Indian education system, starting with improving the Gross Enrollment Ratio to 50% from the present 28%. NEP-2020 tries to bring in the US model of education. Karnataka became the first state to implement it at the Higher Education level, but without really working out a roadmap for it. The ideal process would have been to start implementation from the Primary Education level. Many autonomous colleges had begun their admission process by March 2021 and started classes in July. On August 25, the government announced the launch of the NEP. Autonomous colleges had conducted their Board of Studies to update and revamp their syllabi before the opening of the first-year degree programmes as per requirements. In a hurried manner, the Karnataka State Higher Education Council (KSHEC), tasked with implementing the NEP, formed a ‘task force’ with no representation to members of the Christian minority group who run a number of top-class education institutions.   The Subject Expert Committees were formed and given a period of just 15 days to frame multiple sets of subject papers, and many were of the opinion that they could not do justice in that timeframe as it is a serious intellectual task. I am a member of the Board of Studies (BoS) of the Department of History of Bengaluru City University. The Subject Experts Committee in History had framed three Karnataka History papers out of four, for First Year BA. In the pre-NEP set-up, students of History had to study only one Karnataka History paper out of eight. In the autonomous institutions as well as at a few top affiliated colleges, we get many non-Karnataka students who join our colleges with a dream to pursue civil services. They would not mind studying a paper on Karnataka history as it is important for them to study something about the state in which they have chosen to continue their higher education. But Karnataka history is not part of the All-India civil services exams. Karnataka aims to be an educational hub and cannot afford to restrict itself to one specialisation. The vice-chairman of the KSHEC initially stated that the autonomous colleges will have no issues with framing their own syllabi as it had done so far but later insisted on a uniform syllabus to be followed throughout Karnataka. The syllabi of the autonomous institutions are of a higher level and the syllabi of the affiliated colleges are designed keeping in mind the students of semi-urban, rural and remote areas where the infrastructure they require is wanting. Imposing a uniform syllabus is a direct infringement on the whole autonomous structure even as the NEP speaks of granting more autonomy to colleges. The UGC Guidelines of 2018 are very clear on the framing of the syllabus. The state government is selectively implementing the NEP. The full implementation of the NEP in letter and spirit would have been the ideal way of going about it, rather than packaging it in bits and pieces as there are grey areas – such as non-implementation of the status of degree-granting authority to the autonomous colleges, the question of Academic Bank of Credits, wherein as of today, a student has no option to change to a college of their choice outside the state, to cite a few examples. The KSHEC also insisted that the admissions to the first-year undergraduate degree programme have to be done through the Unified University and College Management system (UUCMS) initiated by the Government of Karnataka. As the admissions had already been done by the autonomous colleges, the government stated that for this year they would accept the admissions but from next year onwards, the colleges would have to comply with the UUCMS. The UUCMS takes away the rights of the colleges to select students of their choice as every college has its own aims, objectives, vision and mission, and selection is based on the institution’s requirements. Further, it infringes on the rights of the minority institutions as per Article 30(1) of the Constitution as observed by an 11-member bench of the Supreme Court in TMA Pai vs State of Karnataka to establish, determine procedure and method of admission and selection of students as well as administer educational institutions of their choice. The NEP’s proposal to cluster colleges and universities with a strength less than 3,000 is also not a step in the right direction, keeping in view the ambitious project to increase the GER to 50%. Again, institutions run by minorities will be affected and it once again discards Article 30(1). The implementing states should note that resources of the minority institutions are scarce and harnessed for the wellbeing of the downtrodden over many years and they should not be infringed upon. The NEP model, which offers a four-year programme, has an ‘Exit and Entry’ option where a student can complete a full year’s class and quit with a certificate after one year, a diploma after two years, a degree after three years and an Honours degree after four years. This could create a lot of uncertainty in the planning of courses, workload of staff members, requirement of administrative and support staff. Many of our minority students may exit the system without completing the degree for lack of funds or for the glamour of possessing a certificate/diploma which was not available earlier and is now made available under NEP. It is not late for the KSHEC to review the implementation process of the NEP, accept the concerns of educationists and other stakeholders, and incorporate them to make Higher Education broad and universally acceptable to all sections of society, to make education joyful, robust and a happy learning experience for students of all sections of society, to make India a vibrant constitutional democracy with secular values that would usher in the development of the whole country without any disparity.  (The writer is Principal, St Joseph’s Evening College)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-mammoth-confusion-1072093.html
17-01-2022||First Edit||Defections indicate caste tectonics in UP||The exodus from the BJP in Uttar Pradesh of a number of ministers, legislators and leaders, most of them belonging to the Other Backward Classes (OBC), has imparted a new element to the electoral scene in the state. Three cabinet ministers and nine MLAs have resigned from the party till now, accusing Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the party leadership of ignoring the concerns of Dalits, backwards, farmers, unemployed youth and traders. Those who left the party include some influential leaders of important OBC caste groups. Desertions from parties are common before elections, mainly because of denial of ticket. But the exodus from the BJP in UP may have reasons other than personal grievances. It goes without saying that a change in the caste combinations that make the electoral arithmetic in the state will have an impact on the outcome of the elections.  The BJP’s impressive victories in UP in the last few elections, including the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the sweep of the 2017 Assembly elections, were the result of the consolidation of the votes of Hindu forward castes, non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalit groups. But there are cracks in this combine now. The Jats, who had supported the BJP after the 2013 communal riots in Muzaffarnagar, are alienated now after the farmers’ agitation. Yogi Adityanath’s pro-Rajput image is said to have estranged a section of the Brahmin community. In five years of his rule, the focus is seen to have been more on ‘Kamandal’ than on ‘Mandal’. A dent in the OBC votes is bound to hurt the BJP in the elections. That the disaffected OBC leaders all made a beeline to the Samajwadi Party should further worry the BJP because the SP is the strongest challenger to the ruling party, given the emaciation of Mayawati’s BSP and that the Congress’ revival under Priyanka Gandhi is at best still work in progress.   The narrative of the neglect of OBC interests and the continuing desertions have rattled the BJP because they might lead to a split in its vote base and to an OBC, Muslim vote consolidation under the SP. The OBCs constitute about 50% of the state’s population. Out of the 107 candidates named by the party for the first and second phases of polling, 44 are from OBC castes and 19 from Scheduled Caste groups. The party has also decided to project Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s OBC identity in the campaign though that would amount to a diminishment of his image. It is caste calculations that run election strategies in the state now, but it is too early to say who will come up trumps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/defections-indicate-caste-tectonics-in-up-1072092.html
17-01-2022||In Perspective||NMP: Do India’s infra biggies want those assets?||A disclaimer before I begin: I was with Larsen & Toubro (L&T) for 32 years and continue to be a shareholder today. Till recently, L&T’s tagline read “We make the things that make India proud”. While operating in nine different segments — infrastructure, heavy engineering, power, defence, hydrocarbons, Information Technology (L&T Infotech, L&T Technology Services and Mindtree, which was acquired in 2019, are separately listed), financial services, developmental projects, and a miscellaneous group called ‘others’, infrastructure was always the key growth driver, constituting a major portion of its order book. The general public, too, identified the L&T brand with infrastructure because they saw the world’s tallest ‘Statue of Unity’, a tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, and several other marquee projects spread across the country teeming with L&T workmen in orange work vests, proudly inscribed with the L&T logo in black. Why then is L&T moving out of infrastructure asset ownership? After hiving off its 99 MW hydropower plant to ReNew Power, its Seawoods Grand Central Mall to the Blackstone Group LLP, planning divestment of its stake in L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Limited, which currently owns and operates highways and transmission line assets, why the effort to divest the 1400 MW Nabha Project and the Hyderabad Metro Rail Project, L&T’s single largest project investment, too? Why this strategy to bring in an asset-light balance sheet? The potential for infrastructure growth in India is vast. Pivotal for accelerated economic development, infrastructure is essential for India to achieve its potential economic growth trajectory. Infrastructure results in increased employment opportunities, access to markets and materials, and improved quality of life. The government has correctly identified “Monetisation of Assets” as a key pillar, drawing up a National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) to raise Rs 6 lakh crore by 2025 by selling a host of publicly-owned assets. Except that L&T, seen as the barometer of infrastructure play, is itself trying to become asset-light, not wanting to lock its capital up in long-term infrastructure, instead determined to rid itself of its own assets, the Nabha Power Project and the Hyderabad Metro Rail, to become reduce debt. An inkling of L&T’s predicament can be realised by looking at other Indian companies in the infrastructure space. Hindustan Construction Company declared a net loss of Rs 566 crore in FY2021 and a loss of 202 crore for the first half of FY22. Similarly, JP Associates declared a net loss of Rs 271 crore in FY21 and a loss of 420 crore for the first half of FY22. GMR Infrastructure Limited declared a net loss of Rs 3,427 crore in FY21 and a loss of Rs 487 crore for the first half of FY22. GVK, Gammon, Punj Lloyd face a tough and uncertain future. These FY22 half-yearly figures do not at all augur well for Niti Aayog’s National Monetisation Pipeline, especially when private sector asset acquirers in the past have faced wrong traffic assumptions, have had power purchase agreements for power plant assets forcibly negotiated, and even had judicial orders going against them. L&T’s FY21 Annual Report shows an emphatic shift of profit before interest and tax from infrastructure to the IT space. While its FY20 infrastructure profit fell from 32% to 31%, the profit for IT and technology services rose from 23% to 34%. Continuing this trend, L&T’s stand-alone and consolidated segment results for the first half of FY22 again show that while infrastructure profit fell from 31% to 24%, the IT and technology services profit continued its rise, this time from 34% to 45%. A company that has for long been the byword for infrastructure in India is gradually getting stronger in IT, and at this rate, its future is going to look a lot different! Though L&T has not stopped highlighting infrastructure as a key segment for it, with the IT subsidiaries contributing a substantial chunk to its margins, the nature of the firm is bound to be dissimilar to its past. To boot, L&T has announced a foray into EdTech, with an e-learning platform that would help it cash in on the online education revolution in the country. The practical-oriented hybrid online learning platform will create industry-ready talent while adding further heft to L&T’s IT segment margins. For the shareholder, this tilt toward the IT ecosystem is a win-win, the L&T stock will continue to be a good bet. But the government, looking to offload its infrastructure assets to the private sector, should find this trend worrisome, perhaps requiring a return to the drawing board to take a re-look at its National Monetisation Pipeline plans. (The writer is a formerExecutive Director and Member, Board of Directors, BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/nmp-do-india-s-infra-biggies-want-those-assets-1072090.html
17-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Congress flays rejection of tableu proposals on Narayana Guru, Bose||MLC and District Congress Committee President Harish Kumar and former MLA J R Lobo have condemned the move of the Centre to reject Kerala’s proposed tableau for the Republic Day parade themed on Narayana Guru and West Bengal’s proposed tableau themed on Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s contribution in the fight for freedom. Harish Kumar urged the Centre to clarify on the rejection and review its decision and allow it to present the tableau on Narayana Guru. A memorandum has been submitted to the President of India through the Deputy Commissioner urging the government to review the decision. Narayana Guru is one of the greatest social reformers of the country and his ideas and preachings are relevant to this day. When lower class people were prevented from entering inside the temples in Kerala, Narayana Guru constructed temples to allow people to enter the temples. The Kudroli Temple in Mangaluru was constructed by him. The decision of the jury to reject the proposal has hurt the followers of Narayana Guru. He termed the rejection of the proposal themed Narayana Guru as a national insult and urged the Centre to apologise over it. The Congress had respect for Narayana Guru and the Congress-led state government in Karnataka had announced that Narayana Guru Jayanthi will be celebrated as a government programme and is continued now. As a result of it, Narayana Guru Jayanthi is observed in all the districts and taluks in Karnataka through the government. Former MLA Lobo said that the tableau on Narayana Guru would have given a message to the society that those who fought for the equality and welfare of downtrodden are remembered throughout.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-flays-rejection-of-tableu-proposals-on-narayana-guru-bose-1071920.html
17-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Six held in Mysuru for assaulting Dalits who came to eat 'panipuri'||Karnataka police have arrested six persons for allegedly assaulting five members of a Dalit family, including a woman, for eating 'panipuri at Arasinakere village in Mysuru district. According to the police, the accused barged inside the residence of the victims and assaulted them. The injured persons, including Soubhagya, Dileep, Chandan, Madhukar and Prasanna, have been admitted to a local hospital. The arrested persons have been identified as Murthy, Sachin, Naveen, Mahadevaswamy, Chandan and Santhosh. According to the complaint, Dileep, Prasanna and Madhukar had gone to eat 'panipuri' in a locality with majority upper caste population. The accused had objected to it and Murthy and Sachin had assaulted the victims. The elders of the village held a panchayat and brokered peace between them. However, the accused later barged into the residence of the victims and attacked Dileep, Prasanna and Madhukar. Soubhagya and Chandan, who were at home and came to the rescue of victims, were also beaten up, the police said. The victims filed a complaint alleging atrocity, abuse and life threat at the Jayapura police station. The police went to the village and spoke to the victims and assured them of security. They also warned that such incidents should not be repeated in the village. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-held-in-mysuru-for-assaulting-dalits-who-came-to-eat-panipuri-1071963.html
17-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Man booked for threatening wife with nude video||Ripponpet police booked a case against a man for allegedly threatening his wife of uploading her nude video on social media networking sites if she fails to pay the remaining amount of dowry.  A woman has lodged a complaint at the police station against her husband Salman, a native of Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru district, her mother-in-law Saahira, father-in-law Shoukath Khan, and her relative Sameena. In the complaint, the woman, a native of Huncha hobli in Hosanagar taluk said that she had married Salman eight months ago. As per the agreement, her family had not given the entire dowry to the man during the marriage. Her family had to pay the pending amount of Rs 1 lakh. However, despite a series of negotiations, she was being harassed for dowry. Meanwhile, Salman had videographed his wife while she was naked without her knowledge. Later, he threatened that he would upload the video on social media if he is not given the remaining dowry amount. Later, he even divorced her. However, he continued threatening her even after she went to her native place, she alleged. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-booked-for-threatening-wife-with-nude-video-1072075.html
17-01-2022||National||No person can be forced to get vaccinated against their wishes: Centre to SC||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that its guidelines do not envisage any forcible Covid-19 vaccination without obtaining consent of the concerned individual. It reiterated its stand that no person can be vaccinated against his or her wishes. In an affidavit to a PIL filed by Evara Foundation, the Centre, however, emphasised that Covid-19 vaccination is in larger public interest and it has been duly advised, advertised and communicated through various print and social media platforms that all citizens should get vaccinated.  "It is most respectfully submitted that the Government of India has not issued any SOPs which make carrying of vaccination certificate mandatory for any purpose," it said. The government also said it has formulated Operational Guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination, which stated all beneficiaries are to be informed about adverse events which may occur after administering of vaccine. It also told the court a campaign 'Har Ghar Dastak Abhiyaan' has been launched on November 3, last year to ensure 100 per cent coverage of eligible beneficiaries with first and second doses. With regard to suggestions for treating care providers as essential workers, the Centre has submitted that in its letter of September 22, 2021, it has advised all States and UTs to vaccinate bedridden or beneficiaries with extremely restricted mobility or disability and/or special needs along with their care givers at their place of residence using mobile vaccination teams. In response to the suggestion regarding Co-WIN app and portal being made fully accessible, the Centre has submitted that it is already implementing features in Co-WIN portal to make it more accessible to persons with disabilities.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-person-can-be-forced-to-get-vaccinated-against-their-wishes-centre-to-sc-1071816.html
17-01-2022||National||Noted lyricist Alleppey Ranganath passes away at 73||Noted lyricist and director Alleppey Ranganath passed away late Sunday night, family sources said. He was 73. Ranganath was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the medical college hospital here. The eldest among six children of Alappuzha Vezhappra Kunjukunju Bhagavathar and Gana Bhushanam M G Devammal, Ranganath has directed 42 plays and 25 dance dramas. He wrote and composed music for a play by the Kanjirapally People's Arts Club at the age of 19 and first composed music for the song Hosanna from the 1973 film, Jesus. Ranganath recently wrote 10 keerthanas, composed in Carnatic music, based on Bible verses. He had also penned numerous Lord Ayyappa devotional songs and received this year's Harivarasanam Award. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noted-lyricist-alleppey-ranganath-passes-away-at-73-1071821.html
17-01-2022||National||Legendary Kathak dancer Birju Maharaj passes away in his Delhi home||Kathak doyen Birju Maharaj, who took the classical Indian dance form to the world and helped make it accessible for generations of students and audiences, died at his home here in the early hours of Monday. He would have been 84 next month. Maharaj-ji, as he was popularly known, died surrounded by his family and disciples, laughing and smiling till the very end. They were playing ‘antakshari’ after dinner when he suddenly took ill, his granddaughter Ragini Maharaj told PTI. Birju Maharaj, one of India’s best known artistes who was also a thumri exponent and even voiced a song for Satyajit Ray’s Shatranj Ke Khiladi, was from Lucknow's Kalka-Bindadin Gharana. He is survived by five children, three daughters and two sons, and five grandchildren. He had been suffering from a kidney ailment and was under dialysis treatment for the last month due to high diabetes. He probably died of a cardiac arrest, his granddaughter said. "He was with us when this happened. He had his dinner and we were playing ‘antakshari’ because he loved old music. He was lying down… and suddenly his breathing became uneven. We think it was a cardiac arrest as he was also a heart patient. "This happened between 12.15 and 12.30 am. It must have been just a minute or so. We rushed to the hospital but unfortunately, we could not save him. He died before reaching the hospital," Ragini said Ragini, a Kathak dancer herself, said the only solace for the family is that he did not suffer too much. "Two of his disciples and his two granddaughters, my younger sister Yasyashashwini and me, were with him when this happened. He was laughing and smiling in his last moments," she said. Condolences poured in as news came in of the death of the Kathak maestro, who would have been 84 on February 4. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his death is an "irreparable loss"  to the entire art world. "Deeply saddened by the demise of Pandit Birju Maharaj ji, who gave Indian dance a special recognition world over… My condolences to his family and fans in this hour of grief," the prime minister said. “The demise of legendary Pandit Birju Maharaj marks the end of an era. It leaves a deep void in the Indian music and cultural space. He became an icon, making unparalleled contribution to popularise Kathak globally. Condolences to his family and admirers,” President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said his contribution to the field of Indian classical dance is unparalleled and he will be remembered for it. Fondly called Pandit-ji or Maharaj-ji by his disciples and legions of followers, he had said the younger generation has many more opportunities to learn than in his time. In his last interview with PTI in December, Birju Maharaj had said the future of Kathak was bright in India with the new generation taking the tradition forward. "Artistes who passionately work towards carrying the tradition forward are the right torchbearers of an art form and its legacy. It takes a lot of work and dedication to stay true to a mighty tradition such as classical dance," the Padma Vibhushan awardee had said. Brajmohan Maharaj or Birju Maharaj was a descendant of the Maharaj family of Kathak dancers. He trained under his father and guru Acchan Maharaj and uncles Shambhu Maharaj and Lachhu Maharaj. Singer Durga Jasraj, daughter of the late Pandit Jasraj, called Birju Maharaj's death "a monumental loss to Indian performing arts". "Legendary Pt Birju Mahraj ji's departure has left us poorer, shattered. Pray Maharaj ji's soul rests in rhythmic peace. Deepest condolences to his family, disciples and fans across the world. Om Shanti," she wrote on Twitter. Dancer Geeta Chandran also mourned Birju Maharaj's death and described his contribution to the world of dance as historic and one that will be carried forward by his absolutely amazing tribe of disciples and students. “Loss yes. But also hope in the fact that he has lit many lamps that will continue to spread the light," she said in a statement. Birju Maharaj, whose joie de vivre cut through the aura of fame and legend to make him an instant favourite, was also was much admired in the film industry with directors and actors turning to the Kathak exponent for their performances. His talent was first sought by the great Satyajit Ray for his only Hindi film "Shatranj Ke Khiladi" in 1977. While a disciple performed the dance, Birju Maharaj, also a talented vocalist, sang Kanha main tose haari.   The song has its own history. It was written by  Bindadin Maharaj, Birju Maharaj's grandfather Kalka Prasad's brother, who was a dancer in the court of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah.  The two brothers went on to establish the Kakla-Bindadin Lucknow Gharana later with Birju Maharaj taking it to new heights in his lifetime. Birju Maharaj also trained several Bollywood actors, including Madhuri Dixit, a trained dancer herself, in the Devdas song, Kaahe chhede mohe, and Deepika Padukone in Bajirao Mastani dance number Mohe rang do laal. Both films were by directed by Sanjay Leela Bhansali. \ His other film credits include Vishwaroopam, Gadar, Janisar and Dedh Ishqiya. Ranked among India’s best classical dancers ever, he received several awards in his career, including the Padma Vibhushan, Sangeet Natak Akedami Award, Kalidas Samman, a National award as the best choreographer in Vishwaroopam and a Filmfare award for Bajirao Mastani.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legendary-kathak-dancer-birju-maharaj-passes-away-in-his-delhi-home-1071840.html
17-01-2022||National||India reports 2.58 lakh new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate tops 19.65%||India on Monday reported 2,58,089 new Covid-19 cases and 385 deaths, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The active Covid-19 cases now stand at 16,56,341, while the overall toll is 4,86,451. The active cases account for 4.43 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 94.27 per cent, the ministry said. In the last 24 hours, 1,51,740 persons recovered form the virus, taking the overall recovery to 35,237,461.  An increase of 1,05,964 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate is up from 16.28 per cent to 19.65 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 14.41 per cent. According to the ministry, 8,209 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected across 29 states and union territories so far,  out of which 3,109 have recovered or migrated.  Maharashtra recorded the maximum 1,738 cases of the Omicron variant, followed by West Bengal 1,672, Rajasthan 1,276, Delhi 549, Karnataka 548 and Kerala 536 cases. According to experts, it is not possible to undertake genome sequencing of each and every sample but this current wave is largely being driven by Omicron. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 157.20 crore. However, because of a drop in the number of tests due to a change in the government strategy, they said it would be better to wait for some time for a definite answer on the trend, which they described as “positive” that matched with a Covid-19 model forecast. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23.  (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-258-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-tops-1965-1071845.html
17-01-2022||National||India adds 40 billionaires even as Covid-19 worsens poverty, says Oxfam||By Archana Chaudhary India’s richest have more than doubled their fortunes during the Covid-19 crisis that’s ravaged the country and worsened poverty, and the government should revisit its policies to redistribute wealth, according to the global Oxfam Davos report of 2022. The nation added 40 billionaires to 142 last year, when a second wave of infections overwhelmed its health infrastructure and pushed crematoriums and burial grounds to breaking point. They have almost $720 billion in combined fortune, more than the poorest 40 per cent of the population, the group said in a report on rising inequality published Monday.  Wealth has surged globally during the pandemic as the value of everything from stock prices to crypto and commodities has jumped. The world’s 500 richest people added more than $1 trillion to their net worths last year, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. India, where urban unemployment climbed as high as 15 per cent last May and food insecurity worsened, now counts more billionaires than France, Sweden and Switzerland combined, Oxfam said. State policies including the abolition of a wealth tax in 2016, steep cuts in corporate levies and an increase in indirect taxation are among the factors that helped make the rich richer, while the national minimum wage has remained at Rs 178 ($2.4) a day since 2020, the India supplement of the global report said. Reduced federal funding to local administrations amid growing privatisations in the health and education sectors have further boosted inequalities. The nation is home to a quarter of the world’s undernourished people, Oxfam said, citing the World Food Programme.     “Unfortunately, not only has the taxation policy of the Indian government been pro-rich, it has also deprived India’s States of important fiscal resources -- both particularly damaging in the context of the Covid-19 crisis,” the report said.  Oxfam is recommending the government imposes a 1 per cent surcharge on the richest 10 per cent of the population to invest in health and education. It notes that the fortune of India’s 10 wealthiest billionaires would be enough to fund the school and higher education of the nation’s children for more than 25 years.  With 84 per cent of the households suffering a decline in income at the start of the pandemic, India is in line with sub-Saharan Africa accounting for the highest increase in poverty. In 2020, the number of poor in the south Asian nation doubled to 134 million, more than a Pew research had estimated, Oxfam said. Daily wage workers, the self-employed and the unemployed committed the most suicides, it added, citing official crime data.         The report also highlighted that the leaked Pandora Papers -- a collection of 11.9 million documents detailing 29,000 offshore companies and private trusts globally created for tax evasion -- found that more than 380 Indians had 200 billion rupees worth of undeclared foreign and domestic assets. Gautam Adani had India’s largest wealth surge last year and the fifth biggest in the world, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He added $42.7 billion to his fortune, which now stands at almost $90 billion. Mukesh Ambani’s net worth climbed by $13.3 billion in 2021, and he’s now valued at $97 billion.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-40-billionaires-even-as-covid-19-worsens-poverty-says-oxfam-1071862.html
17-01-2022||National||India may soon have its first Omicron-targeting vaccine||India could soon have its first Covid-19 vaccine targeting the Omicron variant as Gennova Biopharmaceuticals has begun developing the jab, based on its mRNA platform, which is nearing completion of Phase 3 trials. The company has developed the mRNA vaccine for Omicron in-lab and will test its efficacy for human use soon, the report said. "The drug regulator will study and take a decision on whether an approval can be given to Gennova," Dr N K Arora, chairman of India's Covid vaccination advisory group told the publication. Dr V K Paul, head of the national Covid-19 task force, said that the development of the mRNA platform was a significant feat, and the thermo-stable vaccine and the platform could be useful for Covid and even beyond. He also said that the Omicron vaccine under development is "exciting" and the platform would come to play as and when new variants emerged. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-soon-have-its-first-omicron-targeting-vaccine-1071881.html
17-01-2022||National||'Can't you afford a desktop to argue?': SC irked over disruptions as lawyers use mobile phones for online hearings||A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Monday expressed unhappiness over repeated disruptions during virtual hearings due to the use of mobile phones by several advocates, and said it may have to ban participation through mobiles. A bench comprising the CJI and justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli was unhappy over the fact that it had to adjourn the hearings in as many as 10 cases listed on Monday due to disruptions in either audio or visual or both from advocates' end during the proceedings. "Lawyers are appearing using their mobile phones and are not visible. We may have to ban this mobile business. Mr counsel, you are now practising in the Supreme Court and appear regularly. Can't you afford to have a desktop to argue,” the bench observed in one of the cases. During the hearing of another case, the bench took note of poor internet connectivity at the lawyer's end and said, “We have no energy to hear cases like this. Please devise a system by which we can hear you. Ten matters are over like this and we are shouting." The top court has been hearing cases through video-conferencing since March 2020 due to the pandemic and has been relaxing or tightening the conditions from time to time keeping in mind the changing pandemic situation. The apex court, on January 2, took note of a sudden spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the country and decided to hear all matters in virtual mode and from January 7, the benches are sitting at the residential offices of the judges.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-you-afford-a-desktop-to-argue-sc-irked-over-disruptions-as-lawyers-use-mobile-phones-for-online-hearings-1071892.html
17-01-2022||National||Republic Day flypast this year will be 'grandest and largest' with 75 aircraft: IAF||The Republic Day parade on the Rajpath this year will see the "grandest and largest" flypast ever with a total of 75 aircraft to mark the Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav celebrations, an IAF official said on Monday. The flypast will conclude with seven jaguar fighter aircraft flying in the "Amrit" formation to commemorate the 75 years of Independence. "The flypast this year will be the grandest and largest with 75 aircraft from IAF, Army and Navy flying during the Republic Day parade. This is in line with the Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav celebrations," IAF PRO Wing Commander Indranil Nandi said at a press briefing. "The flypast will include Tangail formation which will have one Dakota and two Dornier flying in Vic formation. This is tribute to the Tangail air drop operations of the 1971 War. There will also be Meghna formation of 1 Chinook and four Mi-17s," he said. The flypast will begin with "Dhwaj" formation with four Mi-17 aircraft, followed by "Rudra" and "Rahat" formations with 4 and 5 Advanced Light Helicopters (ALH), respectively. Among the other aircraft that will display their might at the parade are Rafale, Indian Navy's MiG29K, P-8I surveillance aircraft and Jaguar fighter jets. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-flypast-this-year-will-be-grandest-and-largest-with-75-aircraft-iaf-1071903.html
17-01-2022||National||Rohith Vemula remains a symbol of resistance: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday paid tributes to Rohith Vemula on his death anniversary, and said he remains a symbol of resistance and his hero. "Rohith Vemula was murdered by discrimination and indignities against his Dalit identity," he said on Twitter. "Even as years go by, he remains a symbol of resistance and his brave mother a symbol of hope. For fighting till the very end, Rohith is my hero, my brother who was wronged," Gandhi also said. Vemula, a 26-year-old Dalit student of the University of Hyderabad, died by suicide on January 17, 2016 following alleged harassment. His death triggered a nationwide agitation against casteism in institutions of higher learning. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rohith-vemula-remains-a-symbol-of-resistance-rahul-1071910.html
17-01-2022||National||Don't politicise Netaji: Chandra Bose to Centre for rejecting Bengal's tableau proposal||The Centre’s decision to exclude West Bengal’s proposed tableau commemorating contributions of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and the Indian National Army for Republic Day has upset the state, with Netaji's grand nephew urging the government not to politicise the freedom fighter.  Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to the Prime Minister expressing her shock over the decision. Netaji’s grand nephew Chandra Bose, a former vice president with state BJP, told Deccan Herald that a tableau jointly presented by the state and the Centre instead of outright rejection could have been the ideal solution. “I had written to the Prime Minister a week ago, with various proposals concerning celebrations. One was about a tableau on Republic Day. In the meantime, we heard about West Bengal’s proposal on the tableau. When this controversy broke out, I contacted officials concerned (at the Centre). I was told that the Centre is preparing a tableau depicting Netaji and INA,” Chandra Bose told Deccan Herald. "I feel that although Netaji was a political leader, a freedom fighter, a visionary,  he is above politics. If Bengal was giving its proposal on tableau, this could have been jointly done,” he said. “For a national icon, the central government doing it is correct but at the same time, I would like to add that if the Bengal government had submitted a proposal, that should have also been considered and unitedly it could have been done,” Bose said. Chandra Bose is still a BJP member but minces no words when it comes to Netaji. He adds that it needs to be seen if the Bengal government’s proposal had any political angle for which the exclusion was made. “But if it was blocked (just) because it was sent by the Bengal government, then it isn’t fair,” he added. The tableau proposed by Bengal was also to carry portraits of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Swami Vivekananda, Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Nazrul, Birsa Munda, and others. Highlighting their contributions in the letter, Mamata has stated “exclusion of the tableau amounts to belittling and undermining these freedom fighters”. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-politicise-netaji-chandra-bose-to-centre-for-rejecting-bengals-tableau-proposal-1071921.html
17-01-2022||National||Birju Maharaj: Politicians and industry colleagues remember Kathak 'giant', 'rare artiste'||Condolence messages poured in from all quarters for legendary Kathak dancer Birju Maharaj, with President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi leading tributes as political leaders, the film fraternity and people from the performing arts world remembered Kathak's greatest ambassador. Maharaj-ji, as he was popularly known, died at his home in New Delhi in the early hours of Monday. He would have been 84 next month. According to his granddaughter, Ragini Maharaj, the Kathak maestro died surrounded by his family and disciples. They were playing ‘antakshari’ after dinner when he suddenly fell ill. The Kathak exponent, one of India’s best known artistes, had been suffering from a kidney ailment and was under dialysis treatment. He probably died of a cardiac arrest, his granddaughter said. “We took him to hospital immediately but we could not save him,” she said. President Ram Nath Kovind said the demise of legendary Pandit Birju Maharaj marked the "end of an era". "It leaves a deep void in the Indian music and cultural space. He became an icon, making unparalleled contribution to popularise Kathak globally. Condolences to his family and admirers," the president said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Birju Maharaj's death is an "irreparable loss" to the entire art world. "Deeply saddened by the demise of Pandit Birju Maharaj ji, who gave Indian dance a special recognition world over. His passing is an irreparable loss to the entire art world. My condolences to his family and fans in this hour of grief," the prime minister said on Twitter. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said his death is a "huge loss" to the world of performing arts. "... My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members. Om Shanti," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted that the contribution of the Kathak maestro to the field of Indian classical dance is "unparalleled" and he will be remembered for it". Actor Madhuri Dixit, who trained under Birju Maharaj and most memorably performed "Devdas" song 'Kaahe chhede mohe' under his guidance, said he was a legend but had a "child like innocence". "He was my guru but also my friend. He taught me the intricacies of dance and 'Abhinay' but never failed to make me laugh at his funny anecdotes. "He has left behind grieving fans and students but also left a legacy we will all carry forward. Thank you Maharajji for everything you taught me in dance along with humility, elegance and grace," Dixit tweeted. BJP MP and actor Hema Malini, who is also a trained Bharatanatyam dancer, took to Twitter and penned an emotional note on Birju Maharaj's demise. "The nation mourns the passing of a true legend, Shri Birju Maharaj, Kathak exponent par excellence. His ghungroos were on his ankles till he breathed his last. I always admired and respected him as a giant of the medium of Kathak and will miss his presence on the firmament of dance," the 73-year-old actor wrote. Filmmaker Hansal Mehta in a tweet paid his homage to Birju Maharaj, calling him "one of Kathak’s greatest ambassadors". Director Anil Sharma worked with Birju Maharaj for his blockbuster partition drama "Gadar: Ek Prem Katha" and recalled how the maestro was thrilled to choreograph a thumri in the 2001 film titled "Chanda Aaye Taare Aaye". Sharma told PTI that he was eager to collaborate with the veteran again on "Gadar 2" but it will now "remain just a dream". "He had exceptional artistry and a vision to pull it off. When I went to meet him for the first time in Delhi, he was so excited. He heard the entire story of the film and when he liked it, he then heard the song. He would rarely work in films but he was thrilled to choreograph for us." Veteran actor Kamal Haasan, who trained under the maestro for his film "Vishwaroopam"'s song 'Unnai Kaanaathu', remembered Birju Maharaj as an "unparalleled dancer". The Kathak legend was honoured with the National Film Award for best choreography for the song. Director Sudhir Mishra said the veteran was deservedly called "great" as his mastery was unparalleled. "The word great is very loosely thrown around. He truly was a great artiste. In his art form, he was as good as any one in the world. Kathak has lost its finest exponent. Om Shanti," the filmmaker tweeted. Saroj maestro Amjad Ali Khan said the passing away of Birju Maharaj was a personal loss for him. "The passing away of Pandit Birju Maharaj marks the end of an era for Indian dance and Kathak. For me it’s been a personal loss. He was loved immensely by my family and his memories live in our hearts forever. The heavens will dance for him today and everyday! May he RIP," he wrote alongside a picture with the Kathak legend playing the tabla with him on the sarod. Kuchipudi exponent Raja Reddy said, "I am very sad. I know Birju Maharaj since 70s. When we -- Raja Reddy and his wife Radha Reddy -- came to Delhi first time he was there in the Kathak Kendra, teaching and performing... He dedicated his entire life for the Kathak dance." Singer Durga Jasraj, daughter of the late Pandit Jasraj, called his death "a monumental loss to Indian performing arts". Dancer Geeta Chandran said,"His contribution to the world of dance is indeed historic, and will certainly be carried forward by his absolutely amazing tribe of disciples and students. Loss yes. But also hope in the fact that he has lit many lamps that will continue to spread the light."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/birju-maharaj-politicians-and-industry-colleagues-remember-kathak-giant-rare-artiste-1071924.html
17-01-2022||National||Two Indians killed in drone attack in UAE; Centre trying to rescue its citizens held hostage by Houthis||The Embassy of India in Abu Dhabi is in touch with the local authorities after a drone attack by the Houthi rebels of Yemen killed two Indians on Monday. Even as New Delhi has been trying to secure release of the seven Indians held hostage on a United Arab Emirates (UAE) ship seized by the Houthis on January 2 last, the drone attack by the same group of Zaydi Shia rebels of Yemen killed two other citizens of India on Monday. The deceased Indians were employees of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC). They were at the company’s fuel depot at Mussafah near the airport in the capital city of the UAE, when the Yemeni Houthi rebels carried out the drone attack. “The Mission @IndembAbuDhabi is in close touch with concerned UAE authorities for further details,” the Embassy of India in Abu Dhabi posted on Twitter. The priority for the Embassy of India in Abu Dhabi is to ascertain the identity of the deceased citizens of the country, Sanjay Sudhir, New Delhi’s envoy to the capital of the UAE, told a TV channel. He also urged the Indians in UAE to remain calm. New Delhi has already been trying to ensure the release of seven Indians, who are among the 11 sailors held hostage by the Houthis on board the UAE-flagged cargo vessel Rawabee seized by the rebels on the Red Sea off the coast of Yemen on January 2. “We urge the Houthis to immediately release the crew members and the vessel. The Houthis also bear the responsibility of ensuring the safety of the crew members till their release,” T S Tirumurti, New Delhi’s envoy to the United Nations, told the Security Council, during a briefing on the conflict in Yemen on January 12 last. He said that New Delhi was deeply concerned about the safety and well-being of Indian citizens on-board the ship. New Delhi said that the seizure and detention of vessel Rawabee off the coast of Hudaydah in Yemen earlier this month had further exacerbated the ongoing tension in the West Asian nation. “We express our grave concern at this act, which has the potential to deeply compromise the maritime security in the region,” said Tirumurti. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-indians-killed-in-drone-attack-in-uae-centre-trying-to-rescue-its-citizens-held-hostage-by-houthis-1071926.html
17-01-2022||National||Birju Maharaj's contribution to filed of Indian classical dance unparalleled: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday condoled the demise of renowned Kathak exponent Birju Maharaj, and said he will be remembered for his contribution to the field of Indian classical dance. "Received the sad news of the demise of Kathak maestro Shri Birju Maharaj. My condolences to his family, friends and fans.His contribution to the field of Indian classical dance is unparalleled and he will be remembered for it," Gandhi said on Twitter. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/birju-maharajs-contribution-to-filed-of-indian-classical-dance-unparalleled-rahul-1071929.html
17-01-2022||National||Tonga volcanic eruption shockwaves felt in India too: IMD||The massive shockwaves due to the eruption of Hunga-Tonga-Hunga-Ha'apai in Tonga were also felt across India, meteorologists said on Monday. "Every weather station across India recorded the spike. It was expected and it was noticed," said DS Pai, who heads India Meteorological Department's (IMD) climate research and services in Pune. For instance, IMD Goa said between 8.45 pm and 9 pm on January 15, the automatic weather station (AWS) at Panaji recorded a rise in pressure by 1.3 millibars (written as 1.3hpa), supposedly because of the shockwaves . IMD Goa tweeted a barometer graph that showed a clear spike along the curve that regularly showed the regular diurnal recordings in wave form. In fact, almost 12 hours after that, i.e., on Sunday morning, an amateur weather enthusiast from Goa, Atul Naik, posted on Twitter another graph that showed the second peak too. The violent volcanic eruption on January 14 continued for over 12 hours and it again erupted for eight minutes the following day sending massive plumes of ash into the sky. Tsunami waves hit Tonga on the evening of January 15. The tsunami followed a series of violent eruptions from submarine volcano Hunga Tonga Hunga Ha'apai, 65 km north of the country's main island Tongatapu. Tsunami warnings were issued in Australia, New Zealand, Japan and the US. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tonga-volcanic-eruption-shockwaves-felt-in-india-too-imd-1071931.html
17-01-2022||National||Over 157 crore vaccine doses in 365 days: India's Covid-19 vax drive in numbers||India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme completed a year on January 16, during which the country administered over 157 crore doses of vaccines to fully inoculate over 70 per cent of the adult population. Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the nation, remarking that India’s vaccination program “added great strength to the fight against Covid-19”. The government also launched a commemorative postal stamp to mark the day. The first two vaccines approved by India’s drug regulator on January 2, Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Bitoech’s Covaxin, shouldered most of the drive's weight, even as now when India has eight approved jabs. In the year, over 134 crore doses of Covishield were administered, while Covaxin lagged behind with over 21 crore as it was hit by supply woes months into the drive. When the drive was launched only for healthcare and frontline workers in January last year, it got off to a slow start owing to vaccine hesitancy and misinformation, two major hurdles for the government. Soon vaccinated healthcare workers took on geographical challenges to inoculate eligible populations in remote areas.  India achieved the milestone of administering 1 crore vaccine doses on February 19. The drive unfolded in phases till May 1, when all adults above 18 became eligible for the vaccine at the peak of the deadly second wave of the virus. The government administered over 2.5 crore vaccine doses in a day on PM Modi’s birthday, on September 17. On October 21, vaccine doses administered crossed the 100-crore mark. To accelerate the second dose coverage, the government launched the Har Ghar Dastak Campaign in November. Earlier this month, the government started inoculating teens aged 15-17 and administering precautionary dose to healthcare, frontline workers and senior citizens. India's vaccination drive in numbers *As of January 17, 1,57,20,41,825 vaccine doses have been administered.  *Over 1.03 crore health care workers have received the first dose of the vaccine and 97.80 lakh are fully vaccinated. *Over 1.70 crore frontline workers have been inoculated with both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. *Over 52.54 crore in the age group 18-24 have received one dose of the vaccine, while 36.93 crore are fully vaccinated. *Over 19.76 crore in the age group 45-59 years have been vaccinated with one dose and 16.10 crore have received both doses. * At least 10.08 crore senior citizens are fully vaccinated. *The third dose or the precautionary dose that India started administering on January 10 has been given to 18.33 lakh healthcare workers, 14.81 lakh frontline workers and 11.33 lakh senior citizens. *Over 76 crore vaccine doses have been given to women and over 3.69 lakh doses have been administered to transgenders. *Over 6 lakh doses have been given to prison inmates. *Over 11 crore have been vaccinated in tribal districts while 99 crore doses have been administered from rural Covid vaccination centres. *Uttar Pradesh has inoculated the most number of adults, at 23,32,16,649, followed by Maharashtra (14,36,49,517), West Bengal (11,46,98,291) and Madhya Pradesh (10,76,61,391). Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-157-crore-vaccine-doses-in-365-days-indias-covid-19-vax-drive-in-numbers-1071933.html
17-01-2022||National||NHRC aks Centre, states to amend laws that are discriminatory towards leprosy patients||Identifying 97 Acts and Rules enacted by the Centre and states as having provisions that are discriminatory towards leprosy patients, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the governments to take steps to amend them to end discrimination of such people. Issuing an 'Advisory on Identification, Treatment, Rehabilitation and Elimination of Discrimination of Persons Affected by Leprosy', the NHRC asked authorities to ensure that no person suffering from leprosy or any of his family members is discriminated against and denied all or any of the right to healthcare, employment, education and land rights. The advisory has highlighted the need for an raising awareness about the fact that leprosy is fully curable and a person suffering from the disease no longer remains contagious after receipt of first dose of MDT. They can lead a normal married life, can have children, can take part in social events and go to work or school/college as normal, it said. It has identified 97 laws — of which Centre accounted for 21, Andhra Pradesh for 20, Tamil Nadu 13, Kerala 7 and Telangana 6 — as being discriminative towards leprosy patients. Karnataka has three such laws. These provisions related to removal of leprosy patients from being employees and members of University bodies, disqualification of persons suffering from leprosy for election as a corporators, preventing people with leprosy from entering markets and disallowing people suffering from leprosy to travel by Metro among others.   In Karnataka, the Hindu Religious Institutions And Charitable Endowments Act, 1997 does not allow a person with leprosy to be disqualified from being appointed or continue as a member of the Committee of Management of any notified institution. The Karnataka Municipalities (Regulation and Inspection of Lodging and Boarding Houses) (Model) ByeLaws, 1966 does not allow such a person to avail services or be employed while the Karnataka Municipalities Act, 1964 prevents them from entering markets or they can be expelled from the premises. The Bangalore Metro Railway (Carriage And Ticket] Rules, 2011 enacted by the Centre disallows people with leprosy to board a metro train, unless a "closed (noninfective) leprosy patient carrying a certificate from a registered medical practitioner certifying him to be non-infective is presented. "Amend 97 Laws providing for discrimination of leprosy-affected persons in a time-bound manner to end discrimination of such persons," the advisory said. The Centre should also consider enacting a law to provide for substitution of derogatory terms used to describe persons affected by leprosy, it added. It also said that people affected by leprosy are not required to be sent to any special clinic or hospital or sanatorium and should not be isolated from the family members or the community, while emphasising the need for an awareness campaign. The NHRC also asked governments to launch special programmes to provide vocational training, employment benefit, unemployment benefits, parental leave, health insurance and funeral benefits among others to the people affected by leprosy and their family members to enable them to achieve financial independence. Other recommendations included the nudge to state governments to set up helplines to ensure prompt reporting and medical attention to new cases of leprosy as well as development of acute signs and symptoms of lepra reaction/new nerve function impairment in existing patients. It has also emphasised the need to ensure availability of adequate stock of drugs and other accessories including the MDT drugs for treatment and management of leprosy and associated complications and make efforts to provide and expand mobile-based teleconsultation services. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-aks-centre-states-to-amend-laws-that-are-discriminatory-towards-leprosy-patients-1071941.html
17-01-2022||National||Can’t keep bodies of Covid patients exposed, Centre tells SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that keeping the corpses exposed without burial or cremation will not be a permissible way of disposal of dead bodies of Covid positive patients. The government maintained that appropriate handling of dead bodies of Covid positive patients, therefore, remained critical from public health perspective. Responding to a plea for a traditional burial for the members of the Parsi community who died of Covid-19, the Centre's affidavit said, “the dead bodies of such infectious patients are likely to get exposed to environment and animals, if not buried or cremated properly. The OIE (World Organization for Animal Health) has also observed that the people who are suspected or confirmed to be infected with the Covid-19 virus should minimise close direct contact with animals, including wildlife”. Senior advocate Fali S Nariman, representing the Surat Parsi Panchayat Board, had questioned the existing guidelines, which did not allow burial as per Parsi community tradition, that involved professional pall bearers and exposing the body to nature for decay. The government said the OIE has also noted that there are valid concerns about the establishment of SARS-CoV-2 reservoirs in wild or domestic animals, which could pose a continued public health risk and lead to future spillover events to humans.    “The virus introduction to a new animal species from a dead body might accelerate its evolution, which could potentially impact on surveillance and control strategies," the response said. According to the Centre, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in consultation with Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), has issued guidelines for the disposal of dead bodies of Covid positive persons. The basic element of guidelines is that the dead body will be fully covered and not exposed so that people who are handling the dead body, which may or may not include family members, must not come in contact with bodily fluids or secretions, it added. “Corona virus, according to scientific evidence emerged so far, can survive on a dead body, in bodily fluids, secretions and moist cells of the dead body for up to nine days. A dead body will be considered as an inanimate surface and secretions from orifices will carry infected cells and will remain smeared on the body surfaces after death," the affidavit said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-t-keep-bodies-of-covid-patients-exposed-centre-tells-sc-1071943.html
17-01-2022||National||Pandit Birju Maharaj took up tuitions as a child to make ends meet||With the untimely death of Achhan Maharaj, over were the days of childhood fun and frolic, kites, cinemas and so on. The only priority for Maharajji now was to look for work, to earn money. It had become difficult to meet their everyday needs and his mother Ammaji was extremely concerned about his career and well-being. She escorted him to all possible places where there was scope for meaningful work and a respectable income. They stayed in Kanpur for four-and-a-half years with the support of Maharajji's eldest sister, Vidyavatiji, and he studied privately with the help of Sitaram Baglaji, an older friend. Baglaji used to teach him English while Maharajji taught him to dance. Maharajji took up two dance tuitions of twenty-five rupees each. Often he walked long distances and requested passersby to help him cross the graveyard as he was afraid to do so alone. At times his mother skipped meals as there was not enough for both and when he asked her she would say she was fine in order not to bother the child. There were days when they slept almost half-starved. As for school, it was proving to be a big luxury for Maharajji. There was a decision by the Education Board to make vocal and instrumental music two separate subjects at the Intermediate level. At this stage, Ammaji forced him to clear his school-leaving exams. When the results were declared, he excelled in both vocal and tabla. However, owing to his poor performance in English, he failed miserably on the whole. When Maharajji was about 12 years old, he and his mother travelled to Nepal to participate in the celebrations of the marriage of the King's nephew. Those were times when travel was not easy. Several other artistes also joined them in the hope that their works would be rewarded handsomely. Pandit Hanuman Prasadji, Pandit Kishan Maharajji, Tara Deviji (Sitaraji's sister) and Shri Hari Shankarji were among them. They walked for days and nights on foot, crossing several mountains Chandragarhi, Sisagarhi, Ekdanta and Dodantastopping in tents for a few hours at night. They hired a stove and a small kerosene lamp as Ammaji usually cooked khichdi. It was a life of struggle and determination that finally led to Maharajji dancing in the royal courts as well as for the women in the interiors of the palace. They loved his dance and he managed to collect a fair amount of money as well as gifts from this trip. Around the age of 13, Maharajji, along with his mother, his Sutto Jeeya and his brother-in-law, went to stay with his uncle, Lachhu Maharajji, in Mumbai. They lived with him for less than a year in Dadar. It was here that Maharajji learnt from his uncle the intricacies of his lyrical style. His uncle also arranged for private tuitions for him in English, though it certainly was not his favourite subject. The lady who came to teach him was helpless as he wrote dance bols (rhythmic words) in place of his homework. During his stay in Mumbai, Maharajji also enjoyed meeting cinema artistes such as Madhubala, Meena Kumari, Jeevan, Sheikh Mukhtar, Motilal, Dilip Kumar, Ashok Kumar and Kishore Kumar. Once, Maharajji was listening to a music recording at Bombay Talkies with his uncle, when he saw a young man rehearsing some lines in the adjoining room. Maharajji found this rather funny as the man was repeating the words very fast and was acting weird. Ashok Kumar suddenly appeared and introduced the man as Kishore, his younger brother. That was probably the legendary Kishore Kumarji's earliest audition with Shri SK Ojha. Even though Mumbai was good fun, the search for a proper means of earning a livelihood was bothering Maharajji. Around 1953, Kapila Vatsyayanji, who had learnt under Achhan Maharajji and remembered young Birju, called him to Delhi to work at Sangeet Bharati -- the same place where his father had taught. The job was a temporary one as he had been taken on a trial basis. The young boy was extremely excited and promised to work hard to prove his talent; it was a big boon but very challenging for him. Along with Ammaji, they rented a small barsati (attic) in Daryaganj from where he commuted by bus. Later they moved to Minto Road Railway Quarters, then stayed at Raja Bazar for a while, and finally shifted to a place near Hanuman Mandir. From here he walked to school at five every morning. Maharajji had his first coffee at Madras Hotel, where one of the waiters was his favourite as he showed an interest in playing the tabla. Maharajji narrates how he once was in a hurry and forgot to carry his wallet, which he realised after drinking his coffee. He felt awkward, so he made a quick plan. He removed his jacket and threw it over his shoulders, stooped a little, squinted his eyes and made a weird face. Then slowly he moved out of the room limping on his left leg. No one really noticed. The next morning he went to the cash counter almost imitating himself from the previous day and paid the money. (Excerpted from Birju Maharaj -- The Master Through My Eyes with the permission of the publisher, Niyogi Books, Vidushi Saswati Sen is a renowned student of Maharajji.) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandit-birju-maharaj-took-up-tuitions-as-a-child-to-make-ends-meet-1071952.html
17-01-2022||National||Covid-19 vaccination for 12-14 age group likely from March, says top govt expert||India may begin inoculating children in the 12-14 age group against Covid-19 in March as the 15-18 population is likely to get fully vaccinated by then, Dr N K Arora, chairman of the Covid-19 working group of NTAGI, said on Monday. Of the estimated 7.4 crore (7,40,57,000) population in the 15-18 age bracket, over 3.45 crore have received the first dose of Covaxin so far and their second dose is due in 28 days, he said. "Adolescents in this age group have been actively participating in the inoculation process, and going by this pace of vaccination, the rest of the beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group are likely to be covered with the first dose by January-end and subsequently their second dose is expected to be done by February-end," said the Chairman of the Covid working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI). Once the 15-18 age group is covered, he said, the government is likely to take a policy decision for initiating the vaccination drive for the 12-14 age group in March, he said. According to him, there is an estimated 7.5 crore population in the 12-14 age group. Provisional vaccination reports till 7 am on Monday showed that with more than 39 lakh doses being administered in a span of 24 hours, the cumulative number has exceeded 157.20 crore doses. According to government data, over 3.45 crore first doses have been given to children in the 15-18 years age group so far. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2, 2021. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 last year for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1, 2021. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination has commenced from January 3 this year for adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years. India began administering the “precaution dose” -- a third jab of Covid-19 vaccine -- to healthcare, frontline workers including personnel deployed for election duty and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities from January 10 amid the country witnessing a spike in coronavirus infections, driven mainly by the Omicron variant of the virus. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-for-12-14-age-group-likely-from-march-says-top-govt-expert-1071971.html
17-01-2022||National||SC calls for national level buyer-builder agreement, says can't be left to individual state governments||The Supreme Court on Monday told the Centre that it would prefer a national-level model builder-buyer agreement to deter real estate developers from fleecing unwitting homebuyers. The top court emphasised that it was not in favour of individual state governments drafting such an agreement.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant said if the central government can engage with central advisory council (CAC) under Real Estate Regulation and Development Act (RERA) to create a national model on builder-buyer agreement, then it would act as a deterrent for builders from fleecing unwitting homebuyers. “Consider it in broader public interest….we want a central national model for states to implement,” the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, while stressing that this is an important issue. Senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, representing one of the petitioners, submitted Sections 41 and 42 of RERA, gave enough room for the central government to act. However, the Union government has filed a reply, saying that they don't have any role to play in the matter. The bench said this agreement cannot be left to individual state governments. The court also pointed out that it had earlier struck down West Bengal's law on regulating the real estate sector. The bench said the model agreement should include some essential terms to protect the interest of homebuyers. The top court fixed the PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for further hearing after two weeks. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-calls-for-national-level-buyer-builder-agreement-says-cant-be-left-to-individual-state-governments-1071986.html
17-01-2022||National||'Bulli Bai' case accused used Sikh names in social media for animosity, says cops||Three students arrested in connection with a case pertaining to the 'Bulli Bai' app, which targeted Muslim women, deceptively used names belonging to the Sikh community for their social media accounts with an intention to breach the peace in the society and create animosity among religious groups, the Mumbai police told a local court on Monday. The city police's cyber cell submitted its affidavit before the metropolitan magistrate in suburban Bandra opposing the bail pleas filed by the three accused in the case - Vishal Kumar Jha, Shweta Singh and Mayank Rawat. Singh (18) and Rawat (21) were arrested by the Mumbai police's cyber cell from Uttarakhand on January 5, while Jha was nabbed from Bengaluru on January 4. All three are currently in judicial custody with Jha and Rawat quarantined in a BMC-run facility after they tested positive for coronavirus. The court heard the arguments put forth by the accused's advocates and posted the bail applications for further hearing on Tuesday. The police on Monday sought the court to reject their bail pleas, arguing the accused could flee or tamper with evidence in the case. The cyber cell added that a police team has been sent to the national capital to seek custody of two more persons – Niraj Bishnoi, arrested in another Bulli Bai app case lodged by the Delhi police, and one Omkareshwar Thakur, apprehended in the 'Sulli' deals app case. According to the police's affidavit, Jha, Singh and Rawat were part of several social media groups operating with a specific mindset. “The accused were highly active on social media and were posting material which could cause breach of peace in the society,” it said. These accused falsely included names and words from the Sikh community in their Twitter handles and also while posting messages through these social media accounts with an intention to create animosity between two religions, the affidavit maintained. “The timely arrest of the accused persons has prevented a law-and-order situation,” it said, adding the police were still on the look-out for other accused in the case. “The accused persons have created the Bulli Bai app by impersonating as Sikh group followers and the intention behind this needs to be ascertained through further probe,” the police said. They added that further investigation was required to ascertain if any person was instigating the arrested accused to target women from a particular community. “Probe is also on to see if there was any monetary gains by the accused for which bank statements (of the arrested accused) has to be looked into,” the affidavit said. “Preliminary probe has revealed that apart from the Bulli Bai app, the arrested accused were also active in the 'Sulli' deals app of July 2021 and further probe is required to be done with this regard,” the police said. The police's affidavit further said that all the three accused – Rawat, Singh and Jha - knew Bishnoi, an engineering student, arrested by the Delhi police. The Delhi police's special cell, which nabbed Bishnoi from Assam, has claimed he was the main creator of the Bulli Bai app. “The four accused were among those who created the Bulli Bai app,” the Mumbai police affidavit said. It added that the three accused are students and have good knowledge of the cyber world. “The accused tried to hide their location history while using their social media accounts by showing that they have logged in from other countries. Their accounts also hide their true identity,” the police said. “As per investigation carried out so far, the trio during their custodial interrogation have accepted that the Bulli Bai app was created by Twitter accounts @giyu84, @giyu44 and @giyu94. These three accounts used the GitHub platform to set up the app,” the police said. These three accounts were operated by Bishnoi, police said. The police told the court that all the three accused were operating multiple social media accounts on Twitter, Instagram and Gmail. The cyber cell further said that many of the accounts were deleted or suspended for posting defamatory content and information regarding the same is yet to be procured. The Mumbai police registered an FIR in the case following complaints made by several women, who were targeted by the 'Bulli Bai' app. The app made public the details of several Muslim women, allowing users to participate in their 'auction'. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bulli-bai-case-accused-used-sikh-names-in-social-media-for-animosity-says-cops-1072001.html
17-01-2022||National||CCMB researchers reveal genetic mutations responsible for high mortality of cardiovascular diseases||Researchers at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad have discovered some novel genetic mutations among Indians that are responsible for causing dilated cardiomyopathy, a condition attributed to the high mortality rate in the country due to cardiovascular diseases when compared to western countries. Cardiomyopathy changes the integral structure of the heart muscle, and as a result, the organ is unable to pump blood efficiently. This increases the risk of heart failure leading to sudden cardiac death. A team of CSIR-CCMB scientists led by Dr K Thangaraj have found novel genetic mutations in the beta myosin heavy chain gene (β-MYH7) that are responsible for causing dilated cardiomyopathy among Indians. The findings were published in the Canadian Journal of Cardiology - Open last week. “The β-MYH7 is one of the major genes responsible for cardiac diseases globally. However, not many genetic studies were carried out in the Indian context,” said Dr Thangaraj, study's senior author, and presently Director, Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD). The CCMB team sequenced β-MYH7 gene of 137 dilated cardiomyopathy patients along with 167 ethnically matched healthy controls to identify the mutation(s), if any, that are associated with dilated cardiomyopathy in Indians. The research revealed 27 variations, of which seven mutations (8.0 per cent) were novel, and were detected exclusively in Indian dilated cardiomyopathy patients. These included four missense mutations, each altered evolutionarily conserved amino acids in the β-MYH7 protein. Applying bioinformatics tools, these mutations were predicted to be pathogenic. A missense mutation is a gene variation which causes replacement of original amino acids, Thangaraj told DH. "Subsequent study using homology models of β-MYH7, we for first time demonstrated how these mutations uniquely disrupt a critical network of non-bonding interactions at the molecular level and may contribute to the development of disease phenotype”, said Dr Deepa Selvi Rani, lead author of the study. Each protein molecule is made up of specific amino acids. Various interactions between the amino acid residues drive the 3D structure of the protein, which determines its function. One amino acid change at a critical site can change a protein structure dramatically and lead to disease pathogenicity. “The study could aid in developing gene-editing methods that may rescue cardiac contractility of failing hearts among Indians with the novel mutations”, said Dr Vinay Kumar Nandicoori, director, CCMB. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ccmb-researchers-reveal-genetic-mutations-responsible-for-high-mortality-of-cardiovascular-diseases-1072007.html
17-01-2022||National||Power sector employees to go on 2-day strike in Feb: AIPEF||The All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) on Monday said that around 15 lakh power sector employees will go on nationwide strike for two days from February 23 to protest against privatisation. "National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees & Engineers (NCCOEEE) has decided to resort to two days nationwide strike along with call given by All India Trade Unions on 23rd and 24th February," an AIPEF statement said. According to the statement, the NCCOEEE has also decided that core committee leaders of NCCOEEE will meet Governor Punjab on February 1 and handover memorandum to him against privatization of Chandigarh UT Power Department. AIPEF Chairman Shailendra Dubey said that on call of NCCOEEE about 1.5 million power employees & engineers across the country will resort to two days strike on 23rd and 24th February against privatization policies of the central government. He said that main demands of power sector employees are: withdrawal of Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021, scrap decision of privatisation of profit making power departments of Union Territories Chandigarh, Dadra Nagar Haveli Daman & Diu and Puducherry, Integrate all unbundled power utilities in states like KSEB Ltd in Kerala and HPSEB Ltd in Himachal Pradesh, Implement old pension scheme for all power employees recruited after unbundling of SEB''s, regularise all outsourced power employees like Telangana government has done. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-sector-employees-to-go-on-2-day-strike-in-feb-aipef-1072008.html
17-01-2022||National||Ratankumar Singh appointed working president of Manipur Congress||The Congress on Monday appointed Ratankumar Singh as the working president of the Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee, ahead of the assembly elections in the state. "The Congress president has approved the proposal of the appointment of Dr Kh. Ratankumar Singh as working president, Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect," a party statement said. The elections in Manipur are being held in two phases on February 27 and March 3 and the results will be out on March 10. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ratankumar-singh-appointed-working-president-of-manipur-congress-1072030.html
17-01-2022||National||PM Modi urges collective global effort to deal with cryptocurrencies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that a collective global effort is needed to deal with the problems posed by cryptocurrenices. "The kind of technology it is associated with, the decision taken by a single country will be insufficient to deal with its challenges. We have to have a similar mindset," Modi said at the World Economic Forum's virtual Davos Agenda conference. India has been mulling virtual currency-related regulations which were widely expected to be introduced in the Winter Session of the Parliament in December before being shelved. New Delhi has previously flagged that it plans to ban most cryptocurrencies - a move which would follow recent measures by China that intensified its crackdown on cryptocurrencies. India's central bank has also voiced "serious concerns" around digital currencies saying that they may impact financial stability. There are an estimated 1.5 to 2 crore cryptocurrency investors in India, with total crypto holdings of around Rs 40,000 crore ($5.39 billion) according to industry estimates. India is also working on signing free trade agreements with many countries, Modi added. India recently announced a start to free trade talks with Britain with the intent of signing a deal by the end of this year. The prime minister also said that it was the best time to invest in India because the country was willing to become a more trusted partner in global supply chain. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-collective-global-effort-to-deal-with-cryptocurrencies-1072039.html
17-01-2022||National||How one tweet from Elon Musk triggered five states to try to woo Tesla||Even as the Narendra Modi government is persuading Tesla to 'Make in India' instead of exporting its futuristic cars, several states have begun clamoring for Elon Musk's attention and thereby a heavy investment. West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab and Tamil Nadu took the lead in the race but first among the lot is Telangana, with its industries and commerce minister K T Rama Rao even offering to “to partner with Tesla in working through the challenges to set up shop in India/Telangana.” While the Texas-based company has been intending to sell its “eco-friendly” cars in India for some time now, the high import duties India levies on fully assembled cars is stated as a deterrent. The duty on completely built EVs costing $40,000 or less is 60 per cent while it would shoot up to 100 per cent for anything costlier. Tesla understandably thinks the premium price could dissuade the cost-conscious Indian consumer. And given the fledgling state the electric vehicle environment is in the country, Tesla, analysts believe, would opt to test the market first with exported cars coming with an attractive rate tag. Tesla's top executives reportedly approached the PMO a few months back, seeking a meeting of Musk with Modi to resolve the matter. In the case of agreeing to lowering taxes, the government could seek a commitment from Tesla to manufacture its EVs locally later. The race to woo Tesla began in this context. As KTR was stealing the show on social media, West Bengal's minority affairs minister Md Ghulam Rabbani joined the race a day later, with a tweet asking Tesla to “drop here, we in West Bengal have the best infrastructure & our leader Mamata Banerjee has got the vision. Bengal means business.” Tamil Nadu's industries minister Thangam Thenarasu tweeted on Monday evening introducing himself to Musk like KTR. “Tamil Nadu accounts for 34 % share in total planned investments for Electric Vehicles. Welcome to India's EV capital ...” While some state governments have been courting Tesla behind the curtains, the rivalry is now out in the open. While all the fresh appeals are from non-BJP ruled states, Bengal, Maharashtra and Punjab politicians seem so enamored by Tesla that they did not wait for their industries ministers to do the sales pitch. Setting up a car manufacturing plant requires a vast expanse of land, the domain of the states. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-one-tweet-from-elon-musk-triggered-five-states-to-try-to-woo-tesla-1072048.html
17-01-2022||National||India needs Green Revolution 2.0 to make agriculture more climate-resistant, sustainable: RBI||India needs a second green revolution along with the next generation of reforms with a view to make agriculture more climate-resistant and environmentally sustainable, said an RBI article on farm sector challenges. Observing that Indian agriculture has exhibited remarkable resilience during the Covid-19 period, the article said "new emerging challenges warrant a second green revolution along with next-generation reforms". Despite the success in terms of production that has ensured food security in the country, food inflation and its volatility remain a challenge, which requires supply-side interventions such as higher public investment, storage infrastructure and promotion of food processing, said the article titled Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Challenges. The article said Indian agriculture scaled new heights with record production of various foodgrains, commercial and horticultural crops, exhibiting resilience and ensuring food security during the Covid-19 period. "The sector, however, confronted various challenges, mitigation of which requires a holistic policy approach," it said. For instance, crop productivity in India is much lower than other advanced and emerging market economies due to various factors, like fragmented landholdings, lower farm mechanisation and lower public and private investment in agriculture. Second, the article said the current overproduction of crops like rice, wheat and sugarcane, has led to rapid depletion of the ground-water table, soil degradation and massive air pollution raising questions about the environmental sustainability of current agricultural practices in India. Also, despite surplus production in many of the commodities, food inflation and volatility in prices continue to remain high causing inconvenience to consumers and low and fluctuating income for farmers. "Addressing these challenges would require a second green revolution focussed on the agriculture water-energy nexus, making agriculture more climate resistant and environmentally sustainable. The use of biotechnology and breeding will be important in developing eco-friendly, disease-resistant, climate-resilient, more nutritious and diversified crop varieties," it said. Wider use of digital technology and extension services will be helpful in information sharing and generating awareness among the farmers. It also stressed that better post-harvest loss-management and a revamp of co-operative movement through the formation of farmer-producer organisations (FPOs) can arrest the volatility in food prices and farmers' income and help harness the true potential of Indian agriculture. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-green-revolution-20-to-make-agriculture-more-climate-resistant-sustainable-rbi-1072049.html
17-01-2022||National||Maharashtra Congress in a soup over Patole's 'hit Modi' remark||Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole landed in a big controversy after a viral news clip showed him saying that he could "hit Modi and abuse him”, but the grand old party denied the comments and attempted to salvage their image. The Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee stated that Patole was not referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but a local goon. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis tweeted the viral clip and lashed out at the Congress. “What’s happening in the Congress party…At one point of time, it led the freedom struggle but for power, this?…Congress claims to be democratic party…but it is spreading terror….,” he said.    However, Patole issued a video statement denying that he was referring to the prime minister. “Let me clarify again that I was not talking about the Prime Minister, but about a local goon named Modi," Patole said. MPCC spokesperson Atul Londhe Patil said: “People of Maharashtra Congress president Nana patole ji’s constituency were complaining about a local goon who is known as Modi…whatever Patole ji said was about him and not about prime minister  Narendra Modi ji.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-congress-in-a-soup-over-patoles-hit-modi-remark-1072060.html
17-01-2022||National||Assam sees record 6,982 daily Covid cases after infections spike in four districts||Assam on Monday reported its highest daily Covid-19 cases of 6,982 following a surge in infections in four districts. Eleven persons died due to the virus in the past 24 hours. The daily Covid-19 bulletin issued by the state health department said that 64,919 tests were conducted on Monday. Cases more than doubled from Sunday's tally of 2,709. The state's positivity rate also increased from 8.99 per cent to 10.75 per cent in the past 24 hours. Kamrup Metro district (including Guwahati) reported the most number of cases with 1,491, followed by Dibrugarh (489), Tinsukia (407) and Cachar (372). On Sunday, Kamrup Metro had reported 912 cases and in Jorhat (257), Dibrugarh (180) and Cachar (159).  The state's recovery rate stood at 95.18 per cent. The state government has made wearing masks mandatory and efforts are underway to provide vaccines to unvaccinated persons. The state government on Saturday issued a notice restricting entry of nearly 50,000 persons who are yet to get the second dose of the vaccine. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-sees-record-6982-daily-covid-cases-after-infections-spike-in-four-districts-1072073.html
17-01-2022||National||Covid treatment: Govt issues revised guidelines on use of drugs, therapies||There is no evidence of injectable steroids benefitting Covid patients not requiring oxygen supplementation or in continuation after discharge, according to the revised 'Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult Covid-19 Patients'. The revised guidelines issued by AIIMS, ICMR-Covid-19 National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group (DGHS) under the Union health ministry also stated that anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy, such as steroids, can have the risk of secondary infection like invasive mucormycosis, when used too early, at higher dose or for longer than required. Injection methylprednisolone 0.5 to one mg/kg in two divided doses, or an equivalent dose of dexamethasone, can be given usually for a duration of five to 10 days in moderate cases, the guidelines stated. The same drug in two divided doses of one to two mg/kg can be given for same duration in severe cases. "Inhalational budesonide (given via metered dose inhaler/dry powder inhaler) at a dose of 800 mcg BD for five days can be given in mild cases if symptoms (fever and/or cough) are persistent beyond five days of disease onset,” it was stated in the guidelines. If cough persists for more than two-three weeks, one should opt for investigation for tuberculosis and other conditions, they stated. The revised guidelines continue to recommend emergency use authorization (EUA) or off-label use of remdesivir in patients with “moderate to severe” disease and those with no renal or hepatic dysfunction within 10 days of the onset of any symptom. It warned against use of the drug for patients who are not on oxygen support or in home settings. According to the guidelines, EUA or off-label use of the tocilizumab drug may be considered for use in the presence of severe disease, preferably within 24 to 48 hours of onset of severe disease or intensive care unit (ICU) admission. Tocilizumab may be considered for patients with significantly raised inflammatory markers, and not improving despite use of steroids with there being no active bacterial, fungal or tubercular infection, they stated. Coronavirus patients have been classified into those affected by mild, moderate and severe disease, the guidelines stated. According to the guidance note, upper respiratory tract symptoms without shortness of breath or hypoxia has been categorised as mild disease and have been advised home isolation and care.” Those suffering from mild Covid should seek medical attention if they have difficulty in breathing, high grade fever, or severe cough lasting for more than five days. Those having breathlessness with SpO2 fluctuating between 90-93 per cent, can get admitted to a ward, and they will be considered moderate cases. Such patients should be given oxygen support and awake proning should be encouraged in all patients requiring supplemental oxygen therapy, in sequential position changes every two hours, the guidelines stated. Respiratory rate over 30 per minute, breathlessness or SpO2 lower than 90 per cent on room air should be considered as severe disease and such patients have to admitted to an ICU as they will need respiratory support, they stated. Such patients should be put on respiratory support. Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) -- helmet or face mask interface depending on availability -- may be considered in those with increasing oxygen requirements if work of breathing is low. High flow nasal cannula should be considered in patients with increasing oxygen requirements. Intubation should be prioritised in patients with high work of breathing if NIV is not tolerated and institutional protocol for ventilatory management should be used when required, the new guidelines stated. Those aged above 60 years, or those having cardiovascular disease, hypertension and coronary artery disease diabetes mellitus and other immunocompromised states, such as HIV, active tuberculosis, chronic lung, kidney or liver disease, cerebrovascular disease or obesity are at high risk for severe disease and mortality, the guidelines stated.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-treatment-govt-issues-revised-guidelines-on-use-of-drugs-therapies-1072084.html
17-01-2022||National Politics||Uttarakhand minister Harak Singh Rawat expelled from BJP; likely to rejoin Congress||The poaching game between Congress and BJP has intensified in the hill-state Uttarakhand, where the BJP on Monday inducted Mahila Congress president Sarita Arya after expelling its Cabinet minister in the state Harak Singh Rawat, who is likely to join Congress. Rawat was a former Congressman who had joined the BJP in 2016, rebelling with nine more MLAs against the then Chief Minister Harish Rawat, an event that had triggered chain reaction working in favour of BJP leading to its victory in 2017 Assembly polls. The expulsion decision announced on Sunday evening clearly came as a shock to Harak Singh, who broke down saying he came to know about the news from social media while he was rushing to meet Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. In his more than three-decades-long career, Harak Singh has been from BSP, Congress and BJP, his longest of 18 years with Congress between 1998 to 2016. Rawat's exit is advantageous to Congress in case the latter's Chief Ministerial candidate Harish Rawat (both Rawats belong to the dominant Thakur community in the state) wholeheartedly welcomes his once colleague turned critic. Perhaps conscious of the dynamics Harak Rawat played safe saying he will work for the victory of Congress if he does not join and that Congress was winning the polls irrespective of whether he joined it or not. Harish Rawat on his part made a cryptic statement saying Harak Singh has not joined the Congress party yet and the party will take a decision after considering several angles. However, party sources say that Harak Singh joining the Congress is a finality as his induction will boost the Congress prospects. Harish Rawat also said if Harak Sigh will accept his mistake of leaving the Congress party, then "we're ready to welcome him". A day after Harak Singh's expulsion for six years from the BJP, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Singh Dhami accused him of mounting pressure for party tickets for his family members. BJP has decided to by and large go by one family one ticket formulae for the state polls on February 14. "Our policy is absolutely clear. We will not give tickets to two people from the same family. We have decided not to give a ticket to more than one person from a family. Our party has always been against it," Dhami said, alleging that Harak Singh was seeking a party ticket for his family members. The Chief Minister accusing Harak Singh of doing pressure politics evoked barbs from Congress leaders in Uttarakhand who reminded the BJP leaders that the latter should have given some thought to this in 2016. Rawat, the forest and labour minister in the Dhami government, had earlier threatened to resign from the Cabinet on the issue of a medical college in Haridwar but BJP insiders said the real issue was ticket. While Congress was taking time on the issue of Harak Singh's induction, BJP swiftly moved and announced  Arya, a former Nainital MLA of Congress joining the saffron party. Interestingly BJP's Sanjeev Arya, who had defeated her from the constituency in the 2017 Assembly polls is now in the Congress and being a sitting MLA  is likely to get the ticket from the seat. This would have been a reason why Sarita Arya moved to the BJP.  In January two BJP and one AAP leader (its newly-appointed Working President) had joined the Congress. There has been a strong buzz about former Congress chief Kishor Upadhyay likely to join the BJP. A week after Upadhyay had met some senior BJP leaders, Congress last week removed him from all party posts, accusing him of hobnobbing with the BJP. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttarakhand-minister-harak-singh-rawat-expelled-from-bjp-likely-to-rejoin-congress-1071811.html
17-01-2022||National Politics||Digvijaya says MP CM not giving him appointment, threatens sit-in protest for cause of farmers||Congress MP Digvijaya Singh has threatened to stage a sit-in protest outside the official residence of Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan here if the latter doesn't meet him by January 20 to discuss the problems faced by the people affected by Tem and Suthalia irrigation projects. In a letter addressed to Chouhan on Sunday, Singh claimed that the CM had not been giving him an appointment for the last one month, which he said shows the "insensitive attitude towards the project affected persons and farmers". Singh said that he will be forced to stage a sit-in protest with the affected farmers outside Chouhan's official residence if the CM fails to meet him. The former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said that he had written many letters highlighting the plight of the people affected by two dams, but the CM has not replied. Singh claimed that thousands of acres of land will be submerged while many villages will partially or totally go underwater due to the Tem and Suthalia projects. He said very little compensation was being given to the affected people in Bhopal, Rajgarh, and Vidisha districts. “I will bring 15 farmers each affected by the two projects during a meeting with you by following all Covid-19 protocols,” Singh stated in the letter. Madhya Pradesh home minister and government spokesman Narottam Mishra on Monday slammed Singh over his claims. "Recently, a hailstorm had hit Madhya Pradesh. Was Singh seen anywhere? He is never visible at the time of a disaster or crisis. MP is witnessing the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. I want to ask whether Singh was ever seen in any hospital distributing food. He used to write letters to former chief minister Kamal Nath and also to the ex-forest minister Umang Singhar," Mishra said. He said Singh's posturing was political hypocrisy. "If he wants, he can always meet the chief minister easily as Chouhan is visiting the affected agriculture fields. He can also inspect the affected crops,” Mishra quipped. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/digvijaya-says-mp-cm-not-giving-him-appointment-threatens-sit-in-protest-for-cause-of-farmers-1071923.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||UP Polls: AAP releases first list of 150 candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday released its first list of 150 candidates for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. At 55, the party gave the maximum number of tickets to candidates from backward classes in the list. The list was released by AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh at a press conference here this afternoon. He said the AAP will contest on all 403 assembly seats and the names of the rest of the candidates will be announced soon. The party has given tickets to 55 candidates from backward classes, 36 Brahmins, 31 Scheduled Castes and 14 Muslims, among others, he said. Singh said the AAP has fielded good and deserving candidates in the election. "In the first list, there are eight candidates who have completed MBA. Apart from this, there are 38 postgraduates, four doctors, eight who have done PhD, seven engineers and 39 graduates. Eight women have been given tickets in the first list," he said. "Now it is up to the people of UP to elect these deserving candidates and send them to the Vidhan Sabha and wipe out the filth in politics," he said. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls will be held in seven phases between February 10 and March 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-polls-aap-releases-first-list-of-150-candidates-1071806.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||MP's famous 'Collarwali' tigress, mother to 29 cubs, dies||“Collarwali”, the famous tigress of Madhya Pradesh’s Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR), who had earned the tag of “supermom” for giving birth to 29 cubs, has died, officials said. The 17-year-old tigress, also known as T15, died on Saturday evening, they said. She had given birth to 29 cubs in eight litters during the span of 11 years - between 2008 and 2018 - the officials said. An official from the office of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) confirmed about the death of the tigress without disclosing any other information. The tigress, who looked very weak due to old age, was last seen on January 14 by the PTR visitors. According to experts, the average age of a tiger is about 12 years. This female cub was radio-collared in March 2008. After that radio collar stopped functioning, she was again radio-collared in January 2010. The tigress later became famous as “Collarwali” or T15 tigress, the officials said. Collarwali had first given birth to three cubs in May 2008, but they could not survive. For the last time, the tigress delivered four cubs in December 2018, which took the number of her cubs to 29. Officials feel that this number could be a record, they said. Of the total number of 29 cubs, 25 survived, the officials added. In a rare occurrence, Collarwali, born as one of the four cubs to famous tigress T-7 in September, 2005, had given birth to a litter of five cubs (four females and one male) on October 23, 2010, the officials said. Madhya Pradesh, with 526 big cats, had emerged as the “tiger state” of the country in 2018. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mps-famous-collarwali-tigress-mother-to-29-cubs-dies-1071818.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Will work for Congress, says expelled Uttarakhand BJP leader Harak Singh Rawat||Harak Singh Rawat, the BJP leader who was sacked as Uttarakhand minister, said he will work for the Congress party and that talks are on with the party while he is camping in Delhi. Congress leaders, however, remained quiet on the development in the poll-bound state.  Speaking to the media on Monday, he said, "The wind is blowing in favour of Congress and I will work for the party that comes to power." He said the situation will be clear within days as the last date of nomination nears. Rawat, a habitual party hopper, had left the Congress in 2017 to join the BJP. He says the circumstances were different at that time and he considers former CM Harish Rawat as his elder brother. But it is the former CM who had stalled his entry into the party for the past several months, sources said, as Harish Rawat had not forgotten the rebellion by the flock led by Harak Singh. Harak Singh Rawat on Sunday was dropped from the Pushkar Singh Dhami government. Rawat was also expelled from the BJP for six years for indiscipline. BJP sources said that Rawat was asking for tickets for three of his family members, including his wife, for the upcoming polls in the state. "He has been dropped from the Dhami Cabinet and expelled from the party for six years," sources said. It is learnt that Rawat, currently in the national capital, is likely to join Congress on Monday. "Rawat is in touch with the Congress leadership and is likely to join the party. Rawat's daughter-in-law may also join the party with him on Monday," sources said. Last month, Rawat had left a cabinet meeting and announced his resignation. He threatened to resign, demanding a budget for a medical college in his Assembly constituency, Kotdwar, and had said the Rs 5 crore sanctioned for the medical college was not enough. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-work-for-congress-says-expelled-uttarakhand-bjp-leader-harak-singh-rawat-1071863.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Setback for Devas Multimedia as Supreme Court upholds NCLAT order to wind up company||In a setback for Devas Multimedia, the Supreme Court on Monday upheld the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal's order, which in September last year dismissed its petition against winding up of the company. The Bengaluru bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had in May ordered the winding up of Devas. It had also appointed a provisional liquidator, saying Devas was incorporated with a fraudulent motive to collude and connive with the then officials of Antrix Corporation – the commercial arm of Indian Space Research Organisation – to get bandwidth from it by entering into an agreement in 2005. The NCLT’s order was upheld by the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal in September.  On Monday, a bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian while dismissing the Devas’ appeal against its winding up said that “we find all the grounds of attack to the concurrent orders of the NCLT and NCLAT to be unsustainable.” The court said, “if the seeds of the commercial relationship between Antrix and Devas were a product of fraud perpetrated by Devas, every part of the plant that grew out of those seeds, such as the agreement, the disputes, arbitral awards etc, are all infected with the poison of fraud." "A product of fraud is in conflict with the public policy of any country including India. The basic notions of morality and justice are always in conflict with fraud and hence the motive behind the action brought by the victim of fraud can never stand as an impediment,” the top court added in its 134-page judgement. The court rejected the contentions that the actual motive was to deprive Devas of the benefits of a unanimous award passed by the ICC arbitral tribunal. "We do not know if the action of Antrix in seeking the winding up of Devas may send a wrong message, to the community of investors. But allowing Devas and its shareholders to reap the benefits of their fraudulent action, may nevertheless send another wrong message namely that by adopting fraudulent means and by bringing into India an investment in a sum of Rs 579 crore, the investors can hope to get tens of thousands of crores of rupees, even after siphoning off Rs 488 crore," the court said. The top court also did not appreciate the contentions of Devas' counsel Mukul Rohtagi that the criminal complaint was yet to be taken to its logical end and if the officials of Antrix and shareholders of Devas are acquitted after trial, the clock cannot be put back, in case the company was wound up. “Attractive as it may seem at first blush, this contention cannot hold water, if scrutinised a little deeper. The standard of proof required in a criminal case is different from the standard of proof required in the proceedings before NCLT. The outcome of one need not depend upon the outcome of the other, as the consequences are civil under the Companies Act and penal in the criminal proceedings." Antrix had annulled its 2005 contract to lease space segment capacity on two satellites in February 2011 after allegations of the deal being a quid pro quo “sweetheart deal” were raised. Devas then had invoked the India-Mauritius Bilateral Investment Protection Agreement and moved the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA), which directed India to pay $111 million with interest and costs. Devas had also won arbitration proceedings before the International Chamber of Commerce in 2015 that resulted in an award of $1.3 billion against Antrix. While the CBI and Enforcement Directorate were asked to probe the deal in 2014, Antrix had moved a winding up petition against Devas in January last year. Investigating agencies CBI and Enforcement Directorate have also unearthed fraud in executing the agreement and have initiated PMLA proceedings. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) had also initiated an investigation into the affairs of Devas Multimedia but the Delhi High Court had stayed the move. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/setback-for-devas-multimedia-as-supreme-court-upholds-nclat-order-to-wind-up-company-1071880.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi's daily Covid cases likely to go down by 4,000-5,000 on Monday: Minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that the city is likely to witness 4,000-5,000 less Covid-19 cases than the number reported on Sunday. He also said the vaccination drive in Delhi completed one year on Monday and a total of 2.85 crore doses have been administered so far. Jain said that Covid cases in the city have been reducing and Monday will be the fourth straight day when the number of cases will be lesser than the cases reported on the previous day. “Fresh cases today (Monday) are likely to be 4,000-5,000 less than over 18,000 reported yesterday (Sunday). It is expected to be around 13,000-14,000 today,” Jain said in a media byte. On the vaccination drive, he said, "First dose of Covid vaccine has been given to 100 per cent of the eligible population in Delhi while both doses have been given to 80 per cent of the targeted people. As many as 1.28 lakh precautionary doses have been administered to senior citizens, frontline workers and healthcare workers.” He added that out of 1.28 lakh precautionary doses, nearly 36,000 are administered to senior citizens, 60,000 to frontline workers and 32,000 to healthcare workers. According to data provided by the health department, the national capital has recorded 18,286 Covid-19 cases on Sunday with the positivity rate at 27.8 per cent. As many as 28 Covid deaths were reported in Sunday's health bulletin. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-daily-covid-cases-likely-to-go-down-by-4000-5000-on-monday-minister-satyendar-jain-1071884.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Kashmir Press Club interim management tells critics 'to mind their own business'||A war of attrition broke out on Monday between local journalists over the control of Kashmir Press Club after its management was taken over by senior journalist, Saleem Pandit. Many journalists have demanded that the control of the club should be given to a team of duly elected management. The new management headed by Saleem Pandit has dismissed all criticism of the club's take over by them. The social media is now full of comments for and against the new management. The Editor's Guild of India has criticised what it called the 'forcible takeover of Kashmir Press Club'. On the other hand, the interim management headed by Saleem Pandit has asked those criticising their move to 'mind their own business'. "It is unfortunate that the esteemed Editor's Guild of India has taken a one-sided view. The Club has been taken over by its founding president till elections are held. "The interim body took over the defunct club on January 15 on the popular demand of the journalistic fraternity who were otherwise facing numerous problems. "The journalists wanted the founding president to take over the management. The founding president had played a pivotal role in the establishment and other reputed working journalists to pave the way for the much awaited elections." Those criticising the take over claim that it was taken with support of the government that provided police protection to the new management. It must be mentioned that the outgoing president, Shuja ul Haq has not been participating in the affairs of the press for quite some time now. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-press-club-interim-management-tells-critics-to-mind-their-own-business-1071897.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Blame game will not eradicate Covid-19: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that indulging in a blame game over the pandemic situation will not eradicate the Coronavirus and it should be eliminated from the entire country. His remarks came in response to Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij's statement that "increasing Coronavirus cases in Delhi have affected the NCR (National Capital Region) and the infection rate has increased in Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonipat districts". Asked about Vij's remarks, Kejriwal said, "I won't indulge in blame game. It's not going to eradicate the disease. Wherever there is Coronavirus in the country it should be eradicated." He said the number of Covid-19 cases is reducing in Delhi and around 12,000-13,000 fresh cases are expected on Monday, down from over 18,000 cases recorded on Sunday. The chief minister was speaking to reporters after flagging off the first electric bus of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) at its IP depot. He said 300 more electric buses will arrive in Delhi by April. In the next few years, around 2,000 electric buses will join the public transport fleet in the national capital, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/blame-game-will-not-eradicate-covid-19-kejriwal-1071915.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Poll material seized from AAP candidate's vehicle in Shahjahanpur; driver arrested||The driver of an Aam Aadmi Party candidate was arrested after the election material seized was seized from his vehicle, police said on Monday. Circle officer Sadar Akhand Pratap Singh said during checking banners and hoardings were found from the vehicle belonging to the AAP candidate from Dadraul assembly constituency Rajeev Kumar Singh. A case was registered against Singh and his driver at Roja police station on the complaint of election magistrate Alok Agarwal on Saturday, and the driver was also arrested. The driver was later released on bail on Sunday, police said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/poll-material-seized-from-aap-candidates-vehicle-in-shahjahanpur-driver-arrested-1071918.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Union Minister of State Balyan meets BKU president Naresh Tikait, sparks buzz||Union Minister of State and Muzaffarnagar MP Sanjeev Balyan has surprised everyone by meeting the National President of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Naresh Tikait. Sanjeev Balyan, who is busy campaigning in western Uttar Pradesh, visited Naresh Tikait's house in Sisauli on Monday, fuelling political speculation. The first and second phase of elections are going to be very important for the BJP, as they are in western UP, where farmers and Jats have a big say in the victory or defeat of a political party. On Sunday, a BJP leader had said that Union Home Minister Amit Shah may also meet Jat leaders during his visit to Uttar Pradesh. The meeting between Balyan and Tikait in this context assumes significance. Both Naresh Tikait and Sanjeev Balyan belong to Muzaffarnagar and also come from the same Khap. It is being said that Naresh Tikait had an operation a few days ago and Balyan had gone to his house only to inquire about his health. After the meeting, Naresh Tikait said that Sanjeev Balyan is our family man. Everyone has the right to come here, anyone belonging to any political party. People have been coming here to seek blessings since the time of Tikait Sahib (Mahendra Singh Tikait). Naresh Tikait is the elder brother of Rakesh Tikait who had staged a sit-in for more than a year at Ghazipur border in protest against the farm laws. Naresh Tikait is also the national president of the BKU, one of the major force behind the over year-long agitation which was withdrawn after the government scrapped the three contentious farm laws. He had also recently announced his support to the candidates of the SP-RLD alliance, although he later took a U-turn. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-minister-of-state-balyan-meets-bku-president-naresh-tikait-sparks-buzz-1071928.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Pakistan's ISI possibly planted IED in Delhi through sleeper cells||The investigation into the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) recovery case in the national capital has once again indicated Pakistan's role in creating unrest in India. Sources privy to the probe told IANS that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) could have possibly planted the IED in the Ghazipur flower market area in Delhi through its sleeper cells. The National Security Guard and the Special Cell of Delhi Police on January 14 (Friday) averted a major terror attack in the city by timely defusing a 3-Kg IED which was placed at a crowded market by unidentified anti-national elements. "The RDX used in the manufacturing of the IED is indicating the role of ISI in carrying out a planned attack," sources said. Sources further said that the Special Cell, which is investigating the case, has so far conducted multiple raids in the national capital. However, they are yet to make any headway in the probe. Even the CCTV camera, which was already in place at the entrance gate of the Ghazipur flower market, has not been able to give a desired result as the camera's focus was not towards the spot where the explosives-laden bag was lying. The explosives-laden bag was first sighted by a local vendor, however, he did not pay any heed to it and left. When he returned after sometime, the bag was still there after which he informed a civil defence volunteer in the area who then ultimately made a PCR call around 10.16 a.m. and the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) department was also informed at the same time. With things looking very serious the Delhi Police alerted premeir anti-terror force -- NSG -- about the suspicious object around 11 a.m. which sent it bomb disposal squad. The police then cordoned off the entire area for the safety and security of the people. The NSG bomb disposal squad with the help of police personnel dug an approximately 8 feet ditch in an open ground where the bag carrying the IED was disposed off. The NSG conducted a controlled explosion of the recovered IED in that ditch, saving several lives that could have been snuffed out if the bomb had not been found and defused in time. Notably, on the same day -- January 14, a special task force (STF) of the Punjab Police recovered a 5-kg improvised explosive device and Rs 1 lakh in cash near the India-Pakistan border. It was learnt that the IED found in Delhi could possibly be part of the same consignment which was recovered in Punjab. "The investigation is still going on and all possible links are being probed to connect the missing dots in the case," sources said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistans-isi-possibly-planted-ied-in-delhi-through-sleeper-cells-1071936.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Supported by Army, 4 women bakers in J&K's Rajouri become role models for aspiring entrepreneurs||Four women from a border village in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district have become role models for aspiring entrepreneurs as their bakery, set up with the help of the Army, has not only made them self-reliant but also brought their historically significant village in focus. Meenakshi Rani, Tarjinder Kaur, Priya Saini and Seema Devi are household names in Lam village courtesy of their delicately handcrafted cakes and cookies prepared at the 'Lam Bakery'. Rani and Saini even travelled to Pune where they were felicitated by the Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane on December 22 last year for their contribution towards women empowerment in border villages, Jammu-based Army PRO Lt Col Devender Anand said. Their endeavour is being supported by the Army and NGO Aseem foundation. Lam, situated just four km from the Line of Control (LoC), is one of the remotest villages having seen military action in all the wars fought by India since Independence. “Despite the challenges of living in a border village, the local women have taken upon themselves to become self-employed. They have decided to take the bull by the horns and not let their situation pull them down; rather use it as a springboard to touch the sky,” Lt Col Anand said. He said the 'Lam Bakery' has become quite popular in nearby villages. Rani and Kaur are married with children and they fulfil their responsibilities as pillars of their families besides working at the bakery, the officer said, adding that Devi and Saini are the young guns who are the driving force behind the endeavour with their “never give up” attitude and relentless energy. This earnest endeavour and relentless strive by the women at a very young age is a silent reply to the odds faced by them at this border village and these women have become a role model in their village wherein many girls have been drawing encouragement from them, Lt Col Anand said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supported-by-army-4-women-bakers-in-jks-rajouri-become-role-models-for-aspiring-entrepreneurs-1071942.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Fresh charges slapped on Yati Narsinghanand||Fresh charges have been slapped on Yati Narsinghanand for abusing a journalist and photographer after being offended by a question they had asked during an interview. The fresh charges were slapped on the Dasna temple head priest on the basis of a complaint filed by a journalist, Haridwar city police station SHO Rakinder Singh Kathait said. Offended by a question asked during the interview on Saturday, Narsinghanand had allegedly threatened to have the journalist and the photographer accompanying him beaten up, he said. The IPC sections imposed on him are 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 352 (punishment for assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation, officials said. Narsinghanand has been arrested in connection with the Dharma Sansad case and booked under IPC sections 295 (A) (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman).  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-charges-slapped-on-yati-narsinghanand-1071951.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Zomato delivery boy shot dead in Haryana's Rewari||A delivery boy of online food delivery platform Zomato was shot dead in Rewari when he went to serve an order in Ansal township in Sector 19. His mobile and wallet were also found missing and the police suspected that he was shot with intent to rob. An FIR has been registered at the Model Town police station. The police identified the deceased as Mahendra Singh (30), a resident of Hudithal village of district Palwal and he was currently living in Durga Colony, Rewari and used to work as a delivery boy in Zomato. On Sunday night, he went to Ansal township with a food order. It was just at the gate of the township when someone shot him and he got injured. A passerby saw Mahendra lying in an injured condition and he informed the police. Police reached the spot and rushed the injured to the hospital. He was shot in the stomach and his purse and mobile were also found missing from the spot. Due to his critical condition, he was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where he succumbed to injury on Monday morning. “FIR has been registered and we are conducting raids to nab the suspect,” said Rewari’s DSP Mohammad Jamal. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/zomato-delivery-boy-shot-dead-in-haryanas-rewari-1071980.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Korean Cultural Centre India announces online 'Squid Game' challenge||The Korean Cultural Centre India (KCCI) on Monday announced a two-round contest along the lines of the superhit Korean-language series "Squid Game" as its first event of the New Year 2022. As the Covid-19 pandemic has forced people to remain indoors, the KCCI is encouraging them to enjoy their time at home with physical activities. "Squid Game", a Netflix survival drama which was released in September 2021, revolves around hundreds of cash-strapped contestants who accept an invitation to compete in children's games for a tempting prize, but the stakes are deadly. Directed by Hwang Dong-hyuk, the show saw a group of masked staff in pink jumpsuits arrive and explain tasks to the players in green tracksuits who will be given 45.6 billion won (USD 38.3 million) in prize money if they can win six games over six days. The six games were — Red Light, Green Light; carving a shape out from a dalgona candy using a pin; a deadly tug of war; marble game; crossing a two-panel wide bridge, where the panels were made of either tempered or regular glass, and the final titular Squid Game. Hwang Il-yong, director of the KCCI, said amid the recent third wave of Covid 19, the centre wanted to provide online platform where people can communicate and exchange their feelings with each other, so they came up with this contest as "small encouraging gift". "'Squid Game' was a mega hit content through the whole world not only in India. However, I could see unextinguished fever of it even now in India and there have been many demands and requests to hold this event at our centre or at our event," the director said in a statement. A spokesperson for the KCCI said that participants can play some of the games that were played in "Squid Game" or enact the basic survival drama premise of the hit Netflix series. They can record the game as a video or do a photo shoot with "Squid Game" as a concept. They are free to interpret the games in any format as per their creativity. Those interested in participating in the competition can mail their entries at registerkccindia@gmail.com, with 'K-Insider Challenge' as subject and Squid Game Challenge, followed by their name. To qualify in the first round, the number of “views” & “likes, comments & shares” and evaluation by the KCCI management will bear 50 per cent of weightage each. Only 10 participants will make it to the second and final round, where the winner will be judged on the basis of the number of “views” & “likes, comments & shares” only. The first place holder will receive Galaxy Watch 4 Classic. Second and third runner-ups will get a pair of Galaxy Buds Pro each. January 31 is the deadline of submission. The first round will be evaluated from February 2 to 10 and the second round from February 14 to 20. All participants' entries will be posted and evaluated on KCCI's social media platforms – Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and Koo. Only one entry is accepted per one person. Maximum limit for a video entry is 10 minutes. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/korean-cultural-centre-india-announces-online-squid-game-challenge-1071982.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||SC lawyer again receives threat call against taking up PM's security breach case, Indu Malhotra also warned||A Supreme Court lawyer on Monday once again received a threatening call warning the judges to refrain from hearing the Prime Minister's security breach case. "Today I once again received a threatening call on the same pattern as it was earlier received but this time the caller also took the name of Retired SC judge Justice Indu Malhotra," Supreme Court lawyer Vishnu Jain told IANS. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana and comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli had constituted an inquiry committee headed by former judge Justice Malhotra to probe the PM's security breach in Punjab on January 5. The other members on the committee are Director-General or his nominee not below the rank of Inspector General of Police of the National Investigation Agency; Director General of Police, Union Territory of Chandigarh; Additional Director General of Police (Security), State of Punjab; and Registrar General, Punjab and Haryana High Court-Member cum Coordinator. Advocate Vishnu said that he has informed the officials of the Special Cell of the Delhi Police about this latest development. Earlier on January 12, based on Advocate Vishnu's complaint, the Delhi Police had registered an FIR with regard to the threatening calls that were received by the lawyers of the Supreme Court. The FIR was registered by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police under sections 153, 153-A, 506 of the Indian Penal Code read with sections 13, 16, 18, and 20 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). On January 10, the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record (SCAORA) Association had written to the secretary-general of the Supreme Court seeking action against the anonymous callers, who took responsibility for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security breach in Punjab. The caller warned the top court judges to refrain from hearing the PIL seeking a probe into the security breach on the ground that the Supreme Court has not been able to punish the culprits of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. The plea had sought an independent probe into the PM's security breach in Punjab. It sought a direction to the District Judge Bathinda to collect, preserve and present all material pertaining to the movement and deployment of the Punjab Police in connection with the visit of the Prime Minister, and fix the responsibility of the DGP and the Chief Secretary of Punjab. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-lawyer-again-receives-threat-call-against-taking-up-pms-security-breach-case-indu-malhotra-also-warned-1072035.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||I-T team detects Rs 550 crore unaccounted cash in Haryana raids||The Income Tax Department on Monday said that they conducted search and seizure operations at the premises of a diversified business group across Haryana and Punjab's Mohali and detected unaccounted cash around Rs 550 crore. The I-T team has also recovered incriminating documents during the raid on the group which deals with manufacturing of plywood, MDF boards, inverters, and vehicle batteries, and in the refining of lead. An I-T official said that more than 30 premises across the cities of Yamuna Nagar, Ambala, Karnal, and Mohali were covered in the search operation. The search action has resulted in seizure of unaccounted cash of more than Rs 6.60 crore and jewellery valued to the tune of Rs 2.10 crore. A total of 22 bank lockers have been kept under restraint. "During the search operation, various incriminating documents and digital evidence have been found and seized in relation to entities of plywood business. These include a parallel set of books of account recording the entries of cash transactions of purchase, sale, payment of wages, and other expenses of group entities, in addition to transactions of investment in immovable properties," an I-T official said. The official said that these evidences have clearly revealed the modus operandi of the group, that it is involved in the generation of cash by suppression of sales to the extent of about 40 per cent of the actual sales. The preliminary analysis of incriminating evidence indicates that this group has suppressed sales to the tune of Rs 400 crore in the last three years. In case of a battery manufacturing concern, the search team unearthed incriminating evidence regarding payment of wages and purchase of raw materials in cash aggregating to Rs 110 crore which has not been recorded in the books of account. In the case of battery manufacturing as well as lead refining concerns and its related entities, suspicious purchases exceeding Rs 40 crore from non-existent concerns have also been identified. The correlation of this evidence has also revealed that unaccounted cash so generated is systematically invested in the acquisition of immovable properties of key persons of plywood and lead refining businesses. Further investigations are under way. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-team-detects-rs-550-crore-unaccounted-cash-in-haryana-raids-1072041.html
17-01-2022||North and Central||Central Vista project on schedule despite rains, Omicron outbreak: Puri||With days to go for the Republic Day parade at Rajpath, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday visited the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project site and said work is progressing as per schedule despite the recent "unprecedented" rains and the Omicron outbreak. The Union housing and urban affairs minister also shared on Twitter photos of the newly developed Rajpath that comes under the Central Vista Avenue stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. "Visited Central Vista Avenue to review progress of the project. Despite the unprecedented rains a few days ago & the current Omicron outbreak, work is progressing on schedule," Puri tweeted. Last month, the project's architectural consultant had said that the Central Vista Avenue stretch required to host the Republic Day Parade this year would be ready in time, but some facilities would be completed later. On January 11, Puri had said the recent record rainfall had cost the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project "a day or two, but not more". Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Limited is executing the redevelopment work of the Central Vista Avenue. Parking spaces, vending areas and other facilities are being created under the project. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista — the nation's power corridor — envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-kilometre-long Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, a new prime minister's residence and prime minister's office, and a new vice president's enclave. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-project-on-schedule-despite-rains-omicron-outbreak-puri-1072064.html
17-01-2022||Oasis||Mundane techniques: Futile in spirituality||Mundane is everything pertaining to the physical reality around us, as opposed to spiritual. It relates to our daily chores like waking up in the morning to everything we do until we sleep. For most, life is a struggle from where they want to escape. In spite of several disappointments, we continue our chase of the mirage called happiness. Spiritual is everything relating to the human spirit or soul as opposed to physical things in the realm of the mundane. It comprises of a feeling, sense or belief that there is something greater, more valuable and satisfying than this physical world and sensory experience. The spiritual dimension of maintaining connectedness with God gives us a feel of a higher sense of purpose, contentment, peace, hope, and meaning. It brings into our lives, wholeness and balance among the physical, emotional, social and spiritual aspects.     Besides enlightenment of the mind and salvation from the mundane bondage, some of the important benefits of spirituality are perennial harmony and serenity within the soul, greater physical and psychological well-being, ability to manage difficulties calmly, optimism, compassion, and self-actualization,  accompanied by high self-respect and esteem.          Compelled by the push of the mundane and the pull of the spiritual life, many people rightly look up to pursuing and practising spiritual life to find peace and serenity. Chasing happiness through success, wealth, name and fame are the primary drivers of our mundane activities. The tools we use are generally positives like the acquisition of knowledge, hard work, goal setting, strategy, planning, organizing, leading, controlling and other principled or honest methods.   The negatives are scheming, cheating, cunning, conniving, manoeuvring and other devious or dishonest methods. We cannot hoodwink, tempt or win over God with these skills. What matters in spirituality is the realisation of Truth through bhakti, pure heart and total surrender. Bhagavad Gita chapters on Sankhya Yoga and Bhakti Yoga mention the way of life we should adopt to stay nearer and dearer to God to attain salvation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/mundane-techniques-futile-in-spirituality-1072088.html
17-01-2022||Opinion||Elections are as sacred as Sankranti||Elections are as sacred to India's democracy as ritual observance is to India's pious. Campaigns are super-spreader events, and so is the Gangasagar Mela, where tens of thousands of the devout travel from across the remotest locations to take a dip and wash away their sins. Just as Sankranti cannot be postponed, neither can the elections. Both are sacred in their own ways. There may be no perfect solution to the problem of people gathering in large numbers for the public performance of piety or politics in pandemic times. Banning the public from political events, as the Election Commission has decided to do, is to curtail and therefore deny to the citizen the opportunity to participate in the democratic process. Using the pandemic as a reason to curb public meetings for fear that these have the potential to turn into super spreaders by increasing the rate of transmission and putting the imperfect healthcare system under greater stress is a high handed decision antithetical to the spirit of democracy and participation. That the Election Commission seems oblivious of the implications of its decisions, and political parties are willing to go along with exposes collusion between the political establishment and the institutions of State to chip away at the right of citizens to freely participate in the democratic and political process. Those clamouring for postponement of elections, be they local government or state assembly polls, are making a judgment that effectively disregards the sanctity of the elected process. The process, once begun, is difficult to reverse for many reasons, not least of which is the paramount concern about the term of the government and the complications that would follow if that term were to be extended. The argument as it is framed in public debates seems to point to a consensus that elections are a necessary but not very important evil and can be put on hold till "things" are better. The demand for a postponement was raised during the eight-phase West Bengal elections in May last year. It is being raised again in West Bengal as four municipalities head for elections. The seven-phase Uttar Pradesh elections are prompting calls for a rethink about the schedule. The Election Commission has put on hold public campaigning, and already complaints have been filed against the Samajwadi Party for its January 14, ostensibly virtual, but actually physical, meeting to celebrate the party's success in wooing OBC and Dalit heavyweights from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The pandemic has thrown up challenges, the solutions to which must be always imperfect. Elected governments, local to national, have a best before date and keeping to the timeline cannot become a political negotiation between incumbents and challengers, with the Election Commission of India or the State Election Commissions playing favourites in the expectation of rewards at a later point. The call to defer the date of elections, once they have been announced, is like shouting to shut the gates after the horse has bolted. The process of holding elections in India has its own complexities and without taking these into account, calls for postponement sound like ill-considered irresponsible noise by people who should know better, especially as most of them, including the lawyers, tend to belong to the political class, anyway. The announcement of every election in India comes with a condition - the Model Code of Conduct, under which the usual acts of government are suspended for the duration of the polls and other than routine administrative and police work, almost everything comes under scrutiny and supervision of the election authority. The code was put in place to prevent misuse of power. The code itself is powerful, and once it is invoked, revoking it is infinitely complicated. Once elections are scheduled, the incumbent government effectively becomes an interim arrangement till the new government is elected and appointed. Halting the process would mean that the state government would be neither a full-fledged incumbent nor a caretaker. Political parties and influential persons with opinions that they freely air have a responsibility to think harder before proposing a measure that is fraught with difficulties. In practical terms, the difficulties of putting off an election once it is announced seem far greater than getting the election over and installing a new government. If the elections in the five states heading for the polls in February-March are postponed, the first question that would demand an immediate answer would be what happens to the budgets for 2022-2023? In pandemic times, there is any number of urgent decisions that have to be taken to safeguard the public interest. How easy would it be for caretaker governments operating indefinitely under the Model Code of Conduct to do what it must? At another level, the demand for postponement is both mischievous and dangerous. The political establishment and public opinion makers knew well in advance that the pandemic was not over. They also knew that a new variant that was highly transmissible was spreading rapidly across the globe. They also knew the approximate date for the announcement of the elections to the five states. If indeed the political class and public opinion makers were genuinely concerned about the effects of campaigning and polling in pandemic times, should they not have initiated a democratic debate on the scheduling of elections long before the Election Commission made the announcement? There is a difference between faking concern and genuine concern. There is a difference between scoring politically and avoiding making mischief. The postponement of elections, before or after it is announced by the Election Commission, is not a demand that responsible political parties ought to ever raise. If at all such a decision has to be taken because of dire circumstances, then it is for the Election Commission to invite political parties to a discussion on it. The implication of a postponement is that some other arrangement has to be put in place for the government of the state to continue to function. Under the Constitution, there is only one mechanism available, and that is the controversial and draconian provision under Article 356, otherwise known as President's Rule, whenever "a situation has arisen in which the government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution." The provision gives the president the power to govern. Since presidents do not govern, the power is appropriated by the Union Home Ministry. Deferring an election mid-way through the process invites the danger of the government of the state being supplanted by the Centre. A deferment mid-way would set a precedent, and that would be infinitely more dangerous to the idea of democracy and elections. Stalling the process of free and fair choice through elections because political parties want to score points and skew the proceedings is not an option that should ever be considered as a means of containing a known and ongoing public health crisis. Postponement is not the only foolproof means to safeguard citizens' right to life in pandemic times. The State is duty-bound to protect the citizen's life, but there is no foolproof method of doing so in Covid times. A postponed election is not a guarantee that elections will not trigger waves of infection in the future, so long as there is a pandemic raging. The best that the Election Commission can do is convince political parties to follow the rules and minimise the risk because there is no way in which risk can be eliminated. The public performance of piety and the public performance of politics share the imperatives of all performances – an actor and an audience. Visibility as an essential in the performance of crowdsourcing is so crucial for communication even when social media and its multiple platforms almost instantly disseminate well and ill-considered content from political leaders that elections without the audiences are simply not an option. Tampering with elections can never be an option in a democracy because elections are not a necessary evil but as fundamental a right of citizens as the right to life. Flawed as the election process may be, irrelevant as it is for those who do not vote out of cynical disregard, it is the only process that millions of Indians have to exercise the power of choice and hold power to account. The act of voting is as sacred as the Sankranti. If the state, in this instance, West Bengal, can arrange to reduce risks to pilgrims at Gangasagar, the Election Commission can find ways to reduce the risk to voters and hold elections on schedule without distracting and inappropriate discussions. (Shikha Mukerjee is a journalist based in Kolkata)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/elections-are-as-sacred-as-sankranti-1071839.html
17-01-2022||Opinion||UP Polls: Modi's election to win or lose, not Yogi's||Till the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentary board succumbed to the pressures of those deserting the party, there was great merit in the argument that most who have left were to be denied a ticket to contest the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls by the party leadership. The BJP top brass believes that anti-incumbency against the party can be smothered as they continue to enjoy support from castes whose leaders may have left them. It is also convinced Prime Minister Narendra Modi's charisma is enough to help the party win the polls - UP Chief Minister Adityanath Yogi did not matter. Both these assumptions will be vigorously challenged in the forthcoming election. Modi, not Yogi, is BJP's UP face Similarly, when the Kashi Vishwanath temple's exteriors were redone, after pulling down hundreds of old houses and temples and the ghats redesigned, it was Modi again on whom cameras spent copious time when he walked down to the holy Ganges river and took a leisurely dip in its cold waters. No one was in sight, least of all the hapless Adityanath, who is now facing the opprobrium of his disgruntled party workers, some of whom have deserted the BJP. More would have gone if there was an assurance from Akhilesh Yadav that they would be given tickets and accommodated in the Samajwadi Party (SP).  Modi again took the credit for providing free rations to the poor - a freebie that could get the BJP re-elected. "No one's name is really discussed in our neighbourhood except for Modi's. We do not talk about Yogi, Behenji (BSP chief Mayawati) or Akhilesh, but about Modi and debate here is whether he will give us free rations after March 2022," informed a domestic worker in Lucknow.  Then there was a campaign by the PM to show that all the vaccines being administered free to people was due to his benevolence. In a certain way, all these actions that Modi and his government has taken seek to diminish Chief Minister Adityanath and every other minister or legislator of the party. By this logic, how does it matter if you have Tweedledee or Tweedledum as ministers or MLAs, claim Modi supporters. The exit of non-Yadav OBC leaders  But this was not so in 2017 when the BJP assiduously extricated many non-Yadav Other backward Castes (OBC) leaders from the embrace of the SP and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Some 100 odd defections were carefully organised by Amit Shah, keeping in mind their caste profile to fill up the gaps in the party. These included many unknown vote gatherers who make a difference between victory and defeat in elections. Several of them are not the people that any party parades in front of the cameras but are anonymous influencers and give heft to a leader. That's why a leader's defection is not complete until they also bring along their aides and followers. Recognising their worth, many who crossed over with their leaders have been looked after well by the party bosses. In other words, the party leadership has managed to cannibalise the support that these leaders bring in and dump their leaders after use. The farming factor There's another issue where people that have been on the wrong side of the horns of the snorting bulls and cows could be ambivalent about who is responsible for their misery. A section of the OBC's - Khatiks - who grow vegetables for a living have suffered from the government's obsession to ban beef and allow the stray cows to meander in towns and villages. Any physical assault on the animal is forbidden and could attract severe penalties and state-supported anger of the cow vigilantes. There are many horror stories of the havoc that footloose cows and their calves have caused to people's lives. Villagers living near the Nepal border have even herded them stealthily in the dark of the night to the neighbouring country, believing that no harm will come to them from fellow Hindus. However, these voices from the hard-pressed rural communities would have been silent if not for the raw courage displayed by the farmers of western UP, who had supported the BJP since the communal violence of 2013 that rocked this region and extracted the Jat community from their traditional voting options. For three elections - 2014, 2017 and 2019 - they mostly voted for the BJP. The farm agitation and the manner in which the central government made them agitate for about a year before it meekly submitted to their demands has made them angry. Here, Adityanath was not involved. Firstly, Jats have seemingly patched up with Muslims that farmed and worked alongside them in the fertile verdant lands of western UP. The BJP had made the Muslim vote irrelevant after they stopped voting with Jats after the Muzaffarnagar carnage. If indeed this born again social coalition stays together, it will have a far-reaching impact on other parts of the state. Like it has been the practice past few elections, the first phase of polling will take place in western UP and how the voters interpret the pattern of voting will have a bearing in other phases too. Be that as it may, the BJP is no pushover. People recognise that all the factors that brought it to power in 2017 simmer quietly even now. Akhilesh Yadav's love for his caste brethren at the expense of other castes when it comes to appointing them to key positions and the political space that he would extend to minorities at a time when the Sangh Parivar has communalised the environment could be an imponderable that has not been factored yet. What it means is that the elections are far closer than previously understood, and it will be a bigger test for PM Modi than the tonsured monk that hopes to win back the state. (The author is the Editor of 'Hardnews' magazine) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-modis-election-to-win-or-lose-not-yogis-1071851.html
17-01-2022||Opinion||Modi factor versus 'Uttarakhandiyat' in the hill state||Uttarakhand has assumed significant political importance for both the principal political rivals in the state, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress. The BJP is banking on the electorate to give it an unprecedented second successive victory in the state, which would help vindicate its development and nationalism narrative across the country. The Congress is hopeful winning Uttarakhand would help its struggle for survival. The BJP's soft religious push, in a way, emanates from Kedarnath, Badrinath and the two other Hindu shrines in the state. For the Congress, its ability to make the Narendra Modi factor and the BJP's development narrative secondary to the state's local issues in the upcoming polls could help decide its poll strategies in other states. 'Uttarakhandiyat' In line with this approach, the face of the state Congress, former chief minister Harish Rawat, has coined the word "Uttarkhandiyat", and the party is going all out to make it an election focussed on local issues. As defined by Harish Rawat, "Uttarakhandiyat" means mandua (a cereal grown in the hills), ganna (sugarcane), and shilp (the state's art, culture and cottage industry), and these are prerequisites for the state's economic growth.  Other local issues that the Congress has highlighted are the creation of districts such as Didihat, Yamunotri, Kotdwar and Ranikhet, better infrastructure development in the new summer capital of Gairsain and scholarships for students. "Our main issues are unemployment, inflation, corruption, women's safety and poor condition of the farmers. The state saw three chief ministers in a short span of ten months, but there was no development in the last five years of the BJP government," said Mathura Dutt Joshi, general secretary (organisation) of the state unit of the Congress.  The immediate challenge for the Congress in Uttarakhand is to rein in factionalism in its state unit. Party leaders have recognised this is a do-or-die battle for the Congress and agreed in principle to rise above factionalism to distribute party tickets only to winnable candidates. BJP's troubles On the contrary, the ruling BJP has reasons to bank on the popularity of Prime Minister Modi for its success. Modi has maintained a close link with the hill state. Before the Election Commission announced the poll dates, Modi had already visited different parts of Uttarakhand - Kedarnath on November 5, Dehradun on December 3 and Haldwani on December 30. In his public meetings, the PM emphasised that this decade belonged to Uttarakhand given the speed of its infrastructure development, such as better rail and road connectivity in the hills. Modi reminded people of important projects like the all-weather road, Rishikesh-Karnprayag railway line and Kedarnath reconstruction. The last five years have not been an easy ride for the BJP in power. The party had to change three chief ministers in a short span of four months. Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, which came into existence during the tenure of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, was recently withdrawn by the current chief minister, Pushkar Singh Dhami. The priests of the shrines had staged protests against the Devasthanam Board for the last two years. The BJP accepted their demands and withdrew the law to control 51 temples across the state, including Kedarnath and Badrinath.  The BJP's other challenge is to limit the political damage it faced in the wake of the farmers' agitation in the Terai belt, particularly the Udham Singh Nagar area. Udham Singh Nagar is politically significant as it sends nine MLAs to the 70-member Legislative Assembly of the state. Chief Minister Dhami represents the Khatima seat of the same district. In the meantime, former minister Yashpal Arya and his MLA son Sanjeev Arya, popular among the Scheduled Caste voters in the state, particularly in the Kumaon region, have deserted the BJP and joined the Congress. Yashpal Arya had joined the BJP ahead of the 2017 assembly polls.  The advantage for the BJP in this hill state is its good organisational support base. Nearly 5,000 workers are conducting door-to-door campaigns every day in different parts of the state to reach out to voters, especially beneficiaries. The party has strengthened its social media cells armed with data, particularly the beneficiaries of the Centre and state government welfare schemes. The source of trouble for both the Congress and the BJP is the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) entry into state politics. The AAP has fielded its candidates on all 70 seats. But it would be too early to predict its fate in the upcoming polls. The AAP is expanding its organisational base and receiving a good response in some of the pockets in the state. (Namita Singh is a journalist based in Dehradun) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modi-factor-versus-uttarakhandiyat-in-the-hill-state-1071878.html
17-01-2022||Opinion||Swachh toilets, on whose land?||The Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) that was launched on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on October 2, 2014, perplexes me with some pertinent questions regarding its implementation. The immediate question is how the construction of household/community toilets, a major component in the objectives of the mission, has been achieved in instances where the status of land tenure is insecure. Even if there are no land tenure security issues, how has the mission addressed the issue of land and space constraints? Invariably, the social discourse around gender, class and caste lines cannot be dismissed for implementing a mission of such a great scale and intensity. Lastly, has the government ensured a roadmap for objective-based monitoring and evaluation so that the objectives of the mission are not only limited to just achieving the targets? The SBM-Urban was launched in the year 2014 with a five-year target to ensure hygiene, waste management and sanitation by 2019. The estimated cost of its implementation was pegged at Rs 62,009 crore. If one looks at the progress, the mission has achieved more than what was set as the target for its successful implementation. For instance, the mission has constructed more than 62 lakh individual toilets which is much more than the target of 58 lakh. Similarly, more than 6 lakh community and public toilets have been constructed against the target of 5 lakh. Moreover, out of the total 4,557 cities, 4,371 have been declared open defecation free (ODF). The incredulous achievement of the mission is baffling on various grounds. The first concern that appears to be missing in the guidelines of the mission is the issue of land tenure security. The guidelines of the mission mention that the “beneficiary households will be targeted irrespective of whether they live in authorised/unauthorised colonies or notified/notified slums… tenure security issues are to be de-linked with benefits”. Access to secure land is the most imperative challenge in urban areas due to the complexity of land tenure, scarcity of land, soaring land prices, land mafia and grabbing. The majority of the population in urban areas is forced to live in informal land settlements and slums thus facing the continuous threat of demolition and eviction. It is extremely baffling to understand how the mission has delinked the issue of land tenure security. Second, the issue of dwindling land space in urban settlements is another concern that policymakers have not been able to address. In the six major metros of the country (Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru) approximate 48% of the residents have been migrants as per the census 2011 estimates. The impact of inward migration for better livelihood and employment opportunities on land has been immense and the unalarming growth of migrants also leads to an increase in the number of informal settlements that grow around railway tracks and congested lanes with dwindled land space. Third, how has the mission been able to overcome the social skirmishes around caste, class and gender lines? In a structurally biased society, gender, class and caste play important roles in getting access to livelihood, resources and basic facilities like drinking water, sanitation, housing, drainage etc. These factors stop women from accessing clean, sanitary and hygienic facilities. Lastly, has the Union government ensured a roadmap for objective-based monitoring and evaluation? Out of the 4,371 towns declared as ODF, it is important to introspect whether they can really be classified as ODF and whether they have been able to overcome the issues as discussed. When I visited various slums in Odisha as part of the RMIT University-Centre for Land Governance research study, I was astonished to see most of the slums constructed under SBM-U with an estimated cost of Rs 5.5 lakh per toilet lying dilapidated and unused within just six months of construction. The mission in its guidelines highlights that it will undergo third party evaluation and impact evaluation studies but categorically limits the evaluation during the course of its implementation to effect mid-term correction and align the mission to achieve its objectives. The objectives of the SBM-U only limit themselves to achieving the targets with a lack of holistic planning and due diligence for monitoring and evaluation. (The writer is Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, St. Xavier's College, Jaipur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/swachh-toilets-on-whose-land-1072094.html
17-01-2022||Panorama||'Forest Report misses the forest for the trees'||Ritwick Dutta is an environmental lawyer and founder of Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE) that received the Right Livelihood Award, 2021 (also called the ‘Alternative Nobel Prize’) for innovative legal work empowering communities to protect their resources in the pursuit of environmental democracy in India. He has been involved in environmental litigation for the last two decades. Dutta spoke to DH’s Kalyan Ray on the State of the Forest Report released by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change last week. Excerpts: The new State of the Forest report shows a drop of 1,582 sq km of moderately dense forest, but gain in dense forest (501 sq km) and open forest (2600 sq km). What does it mean? Contrary to the title – India State of the Forest Report – this document is not about forests. It misses the forest for the trees. It does not distinguish between natural forest and tree cover in the form of tea, coffee, coconut, palm, sugarcane and fruit-bearing tree plantations. Even agroforestry in the form of eucalyptus, bamboo, poplar or acacia is being counted as forest whereas these types of trees/plantations are clearly excluded even from the dictionary meaning of forest as mandated by the Supreme Court and various expert committees set up by state governments. If one goes by the definition of forest as per the ISFR, the outcome can be dangerous. By simply planting oil palms or coconut on agricultural land or degraded forest, the forest cover can be shown to have increased.  The report shows a gain of more than 500 sq km of dense forests – does natural forest grow so fast? If not, what do you think those canopies are? As far as the increase in the dense forest is concerned, the report carries little meaning given the fact that even a mango orchard can have a density of more than 40% or even 70%. An increase in the open forest could be a result of deforestation of dense forest areas or even felling or pruning of horticultural trees. It is impossible to come to any conclusion based on such data. The ISFR does not make any distinction between the type of trees and encompasses all types of land irrespective of their ownership and land use. Thus all the tree species along with bamboo, fruit trees, coconut and palm trees have been termed as forest cover’. The 500 sq km could possibly be a coconut or mango plantation and not ‘forest’ at all. Do you want to mean that the quality of Indian forests can not be determined from the biennial report? Even within recorded forest areas (Reserved Forest, Protected Forest and Protected Areas), it is not possible to know about the quality of forest cover from the report, which clearly states: Agricultural crops like sugarcane, cotton etc adjacent to forest and occurrence of weeds like lantana within forest areas causes mixing of spectral signatures and often make it difficult to interpret and delineate the forest cover precisely’. To put it bluntly, the FSI Report is not worth the paper on which it is printed if it can’t distinguish natural forests from cotton and sugarcane fields. The report also shows a drop in tree cover compared to what was achieved in the 2017-19 cycle – what do you think could be the reason as the government has dedicated funds (CAMPA) and programmes for afforestation? The report gives generalised reasons for such a decrease. No effort has been made to find the exact cause of the same. It would have made sense to compare areas where CAMPA funds have been spent in afforestation and the impact of such an effort. Why is it that the forest loss is the maximum in the North East? Can shifting cultivation – a traditional practice – be blamed always? Unfortunately, the report does not identify the reason behind such a decrease. It only lists the reason for the forest loss without examining the gravity of the problem and the damage caused. It states that with respect to the North East, the loss of forest cover and deterioration of forest canopy ‘may be attributed’ to ‘shifting cultivation, felling of trees, natural calamities, anthropogenic pressure and developmental activities’. This conclusion shows the casual manner in which a scientific exercise has been conducted. ‘Felling of trees’ is part of the shifting cultivation; which in turn is part of the anthropogenic pressure. Similarly, development activities lead to the felling of trees which is also a part of the anthropogenic pressure. It was imperative for FSI to have undertaken a detailed analysis of the case of deforestation, given that ISFR is always projected as a report card on India’s performance on increasing forest cover. Has the government forgotten about the people living in forests? Is the Forest Rights Act being implemented properly? We must move away from the obsession with ‘dense’ or ‘open forest’. We have moved from looking at forests as a source of ‘timber’ but now seeing them as ‘carbon sink’. In this journey, both people and wild species have been forgotten. Open and scrub forests don’t mean they are of no consequence –they sustain grazing communities, provide firewood and can be used to produce medical herbs and other biological resources. It was imperative for FSI to have done an assessment of the Forest Rights Act and its impact on the regeneration of forests. Unfortunately, a significant part of the report has been devoted to the assessment of forest cover in tiger reserves and lion habitats. Such assessment should be part of the Annual Tiger Estimation Report. Also, if at all wildlife areas were to be mapped, it should have been done for Elephants, given that a significant elephant population exists outside Protected Areas and face a severe anthropogenic threat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/forest-report-misses-the-forest-for-the-trees-1072089.html
17-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Waiting for 'acche din' in banking||There are generally three categories of people in relation to completing any task: The cool ones who glide through, the waders who pass the muster and the flounderers, for whom, come what may, the task remains a mystery. During my stint as a banker, all these categories of staff were seen in relation to the operation of computers. I have seen the manual stage in the early 90s and the stand-alone PCs in each department, then the LAN computer network with each branch an island, generating activity reports and sending them to the head office, and finally, the core banking solutions where all branches became interconnected and reports were downloaded from the head office. The internet, mouse and cursor were alien to most of the earlier staff. But valiantly they tried to adapt, with gaffes as collaterals and laughter as bonus. The cool ones were much in demand as the flounderers depended on them to do their work. The former lot soon found it difficult to maintain their poise as the work burden piled upon them. Their efficiency proved to be their yoke, and they ended up putting in long hours, and stress became their companion. Voluntary retirements by such cool ones were not uncommon. This was more than a decade ago.  The current generation in the banking domain is facing another genre of music, that of mergers. Apart from the new software, or an updated one, to learn and adapt to, a section of the staff is battling with the seeming refugee status, if they have belonged to the merged-name-lost bank. I have the disrepute to be a retired officer of such a bank and my branch now seems alien to me. Most of the staff at the branch are from the dominant bank, and although I am treated cordially, the euphoria ends there. The database has become huge and system glitches are extremely common. Internet banking operation has been my forte, but ever since the merger, access and operations have stopped due to “technical” issues, and despite their best, no staff has been able to help me out. Nowadays I hand out cheques for third party payments, like in the pre-online days. I have the dubious distinction of being the customer of yet another merged bank, where even a cheque book is hard to get and the reply each time is, “Wait another month! It is too early for enquiry”. Regarding the online banking issue, the staff sent me an email id that did not respond to queries, and when I questioned them about this, a troubleshooting toll-free number came my way. It has been like hitting a brick wall, as the number seems to be manned by raw hands who end up giving me the same unresponsive email id every time. I am waiting patiently for the “acche din aayenge” prophecy to come true.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/waiting-for-acche-din-in-banking-1072095.html
17-01-2022||Second Edit||Stake in Voda-Idea:It’s complicated||It is no big surprise that the central government has now become the largest shareholder in one of the country’s three major private telecom majors, Vodafone-Idea (V-I). The company did not have any good option other than offering the stake to the government, and the government could not but accept it. The company is weighed down by a debt of about Rs 2 lakh crore by way of interest on the deferred payments for spectrum and adjusted gross revenue. As it could not even think of repaying the debt, it went for the option of converting it into equity. The government now owns a 35.8% stake in V-I. The company has said this does not amount to giving management control to the government and that the government would not interfere in its operations. But the news led to a run on the company’s shares in the market. The government was in a difficult situation because it could not allow the company to collapse and leave the telecom market to a duopoly of Reliance Jio and Airtel. Its own share in the market with BSNL and MTNL is quite low. Neither Vodafone India nor the Birlas, who held VI as a joint venture, wants to spend more on the company through capital infusion. No outsider will bring any capital into VI in that situation. India’s telecom sector, which was once very attractive and had grown fast, is no longer so alluring for various reasons. But it is important that the sector, which has a crucial role in the economy and the lives of people, recovers and becomes healthy. The moot question is whether VI’s decision will help the sector to move in that direction. But the government should consider its rescue act as a stop-gap arrangement. It has been stated that it does not amount to nationalisation. The government is, in fact, trying to sell its stake in many companies. It is also clear that it cannot efficiently manage a telecom company, or any company, going by its track record, especially when there is a conflict of interest. The company is no longer looking into an abyss now, and is in a position to plan and work for recovery. It should be able to invest in new technologies, improve network quality, and take steps to expand its customer base. Once the finances improve and VI establishes itself on a better footing, the government should exit it. Salvaging a private company with taxpayers’ money is not a good precedent. The government should ensure that its multiple presences – in V-I and through BSNL/MTNL — does not complicate the working of the telecom sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/stake-in-voda-ideait-s-complicated-1072091.html
17-01-2022||South||Noted environmentalist M K Prasad passes away||Noted environmentalist Prof M K Prasad, a prominent figure in the historic grassroot level movement to save the evergreen tropical rain forests in Kerala's Silent Valley from destruction, passed away on Monday morning, his colleagues said here. He breathed his last at a private hospital here while undergoing treatment for Covid related complications, they said. Prasad, 89, is survived by his wife and two children. His cremation was held at a crematorium in Ravipuram here. An all-time source of energy for environmental activists, Prasad gave effective leadership to a progressive people's science movement called "Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishath" (KSSP). As the lead activist of KSSP, Prasad was a guiding force behind the national movement against the state government's move to set up a hydro-power project in Silent Valley in Palakkad district in the 1970s. Under the leadership of Prasad, KSSP effectively worked on the ground and aroused public opinion on the requirement to save Silent Valley. Bowing to unrelenting pressure from ecologists, the government was forced to abandon the project. The struggle was called off in 1983 after Prime Minister Indira Gandhi assured that Silent Valley forests will be protected. The Silent Valley forests were declared as a national park by the Union Government on November 15, 1984. Prasad, who held various academic positions in Kerala, including the post of Pro Vice Chancellor of Calicut University and Principal of Maharaja's College, Ernakulam, has also authored numerous books in Malayalam on environmental issues and popular science. He also chaired the All India People's Science Network (AIPSN), an all-India consortium of people's science movements. Prasad also served on the United Nations Millennium Ecosystem Assessment Board for five years. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the demise of Prasad recalling his contributions as a leader of ecological movements. Former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh and Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly V D Satheesan also condoled the demise of Prasad. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/noted-environmentalist-m-k-prasad-passes-away-1071968.html
17-01-2022||South||Kerala gangster kills youth, abandons body in front of police station||A 19-year-old man was killed by a gang and the body was abandoned in front of a police station by the gang leader at Kottayam district of Kerala on Monday. The police suspect that it was an act of show of strength by a notorious person of the locality identified as Jomon K Jose, who was later nabbed by the police. The deceased was identified as Shan Babu, 19. The incident triggered criticism against the police as the mother of the deceased alleged that though she alerted the police on Sunday night that her son was abducted, the cops failed to prevent the murder. But the police denied the allegation of inaction. Jose was said to have carried Babu's body on his shoulder and abandoned it in front of the Kottayam East police station during the early hours of the Monday. There were injury marks on Babu's body. District police chief D Shilpa said that the incident seemed to be a show of strength by Jose as he had lost prominence among the gooda gangs in the district as he was banned from entering the district by invoking provisions of the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA). He was learnt to have obtained a relaxation in the ban recently from the appeal committee of the KAAPA by citing that he was the lone breadwinner of his family. Police said that over a dozen criminal cases were pending against the accused. The present murder was also suspected to be part of the rivalry among the drug trafficking rackets in the district. Opposition Congress alleged that the police was failing to curb the anti-social elements. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gangster-kills-youth-abandons-body-in-front-of-police-station-1071992.html
17-01-2022||South||Despite immense wealth, Kerala's Padmanabhaswamy temple faces financial shortfall||The Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple in Kerala is considered to be one of the richest temples with valuables worth around Rs.1 lakh crore in its chambers, but the temple is going through an acute financial crisis and is now seeking assistance from the state government. Though the temple administration sought the assistance of Rs 52 crore from the government, they have received Rs 2 crore so far as refundable assistance. Various Hindu outfits were even trying to trigger a political row over it against the Left-front government in Kerala. A temple official told DH that the government already credited the amount and now it was for the temple trust to take further decisions on the matter. The fall in pilgrims due to Covid-19 had led to the financial crisis of the temple. The temple requires around Rs 1.25 crore for meeting the monthly expenses for rituals and the wages of around 200 employees. But owing to the pandemic the monthly revenue was much lower. The temple remained closed for devotees for several months. Hence the temple executive officer wrote to the government seeking financial support of Rs 52 crore a few months ago. During the last two months, the temple was learnt to have received considerable revenue owing to a spurt in pilgrims due to the Sabarimala pilgrimage season. A large number of pilgrims from other states who come down for the pilgrimage used to visit the Padmanabhaswamy temple too. But as the Sabarimala pilgrimage ends this week and the Covid-19 scenario worsening again, the temple authorities are concerned. Various Hindu outfits were trying to politicise the Left-front government's denial of financial assistance. The Vishva Hindu Parishad leaders alleged that the government was showing neglect towards Hindu worship centres even as it was attempting to take control over them. The remark was a reference to the earlier stand of the Left-front government that the Travancore Royal family had no special rights over the temple. However, the Supreme Court had upheld the rights of the royal family. A trust headed by the head of the Travancore royal family is in charge of the administration. The temple's treasures came to light in 2011 after a Supreme Court-appointed committee examined the temple chambers. The treasures which included stones, ornaments, antiques and vessels were considered to be worth Rs 1 lakh crore. One of the temple chambers, which is close to the sanctum, was not opened as the royal family strongly objected, citing mystical reasons. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-immense-wealth-keralas-padmanabhaswamy-temple-faces-financial-shortfall-1072004.html
17-01-2022||South||BJP takes offence to Tamil satire TV show 'insulting' PM Modi||A satire by kids as part of their performance in a reality show telecast on a popular Tamil entertainment channel has the Tamil Nadu BJP fuming with its leaders taking objection to the content saying they “belittle” Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  In the show telecast on Zee Tamil, two kids acting as a King and minister talk about an imaginary country ‘Sindhia’, where its ruler had declared a war on black money which ended in failure, which the BJP interprets as a direct attack on demonetisation.  The minister also talks about how unpopular the King is in some parts of his country, especially the Southern region, and that people would have been happier if he had never attained the throne. Video clippings of the satire have now gone viral on social media, especially on the micro-blogging site, Twitter, since Sunday.  Several leaders of the Tamil Nadu BJP demanded action against Zee Tamil, the judges on the show and others who were involved in directing and producing the show. As a result, the Union Ministry for Information and Broadcasting on Monday evening issued a notice to Zee Entertainment based on a complaint with regard to the show and asked the channel to respond by seven days.  It was Tamil Nadu BJP President K Annamalai who first took objection to the satire, saying the content had insulted Prime Minister Modi. He said in a tweet on Sunday night that Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting L Murugan had assured necessary action on the matter as the satire show “belittled” Modi.  Soon, Twitter was dotted with messages attacking Annamalai and BJP for taking satire “too seriously.” Many Twitter users wanted to know why the BJP was insinuating that the satire was targeted at Modi when the kids did not mention his name in the show.  They also attacked the BJP for its “double-standards” on freedom of speech, pointing to the party’s criticism of the ruling DMK when it arrested YouTuber Maridhas for his comments on the crash of the Indian Air Force’s chopper in Tamil Nadu on December 8.  “I thought these were fictional characters... @annamalai_k says this is @narendramodi ji and @nsitharaman ji (the characters in the video).  What makes him think so?” Tamil Nadu Congress Committee General Secretary Lakshmi Ramachandran asked and shared the video clip.  In a letter to Zee Entertainment, C T R Nirmal Kumar, President of Tamil Nadu BJP IT Wing, demanded a public apology from the channel, producer of the show and mentors of the children for “deliberately making obnoxious comments” about the Prime Minister and sacking of the person responsible for the content.  He also said young children cannot be used to push “someone’s political agenda.”  “It is evident that the channel made no effort to curtail this blatant misinformation passed casually and that too through young children. In an effort to outrun their fellow participants, these children just do what is told to them,” Nirmal Kumar said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-takes-offence-to-tamil-satire-tv-show-insulting-pm-modi-1072023.html
17-01-2022||South||Include TN tableau in Republic Day celebrations: Stalin to Modi||Terming as “unacceptable” the Centre rejecting all seven designs of the Tamil Nadu government’s tableau on freedom fighters from the state, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Monday demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention in including the tableau for the Republic Day parade. Stalin wrote to Modi after news started trickling in that the tableau from Tamil Nadu was rejected which would mean Karnataka’s tableau will be the only one from southern India. Stalin said TN had proposed “Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle” as the theme, depicting renowned freedom fighters from the state. “…the representatives of the State appeared before the Expert Committee for selection for tableaux thrice. In the first meeting, the Expert Committee expressed satisfaction about Tamil Nadu’s theme. The design depicted freedom fighters of Tamil Nadu during the British Raj in the front and during the East India Company’s period at the back,” Stalin said. The design had V O Chidambaranar (VOC), the famous freedom fighter who founded the Swadeshi Steam Navigation Company in 1906, legendary poet Subramania Bharathi, Rani Velu Nachiyar and Marudhupandiyar brothers (known as Maruthu brothers). “Exclusion of the tableau of Tamil Nadu will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu. That the committee chooses to ignore and reject all the seven designs shown to it as per the modifications suggested by its members is unacceptable,” Stalin said in his letter. Terming the rejection as a “matter of grave concern”, the Chief Minister demanded the Prime Minister’s intervention in including the tableau of Tamil Nadu in the Republic Day Parade 2022 in New Delhi. The issue led to a political controversy with leaders from DMK and Congress terming the BJP government at the Centre as an “insult to people of Tamil Nadu.” The state’s tableau had been part of the Republic day celebrations for five years under the Modi government in 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/include-tn-tableau-in-republic-day-celebrations-stalin-to-modi-1072033.html
17-01-2022||South||Kerala's Covid surge continues; film festival postponed||As the Covid surge in Kerala continues, state capital Thiruvananthapuram has more reasons to worry as the district was witnessing the maximum number of cases, followed by Kochi. While the total active cases in Thiruvananthapuram was over 25,000 by Monday, in Kochi it was close to 25,000. The International Film Festival of Kerala, scheduled to be held in Thiruvananthapuram from February 4 to 11, is also postponed indefinitely. Meanwhile, the daily TPR in the state further increased to 33% on Monday as 22,946 more fresh cases were confirmed. The total active cases also went up to 1,21,458. Health department sources said that between January 10 to 16 there was a 182% increase in number of active cases compared to the previous seven days. Even as only 3.7% of the total infected persons now required hospitalisation, compared to that during the previous week, there was a 160% increase in those requiring hospitalisation. Around 4,500 persons are now in hospital for Covid treatment. An evaluation by the health department also found that many of the infected were unvaccinated. Among the 22,946 cases confirmed during the last 24 hours, 6,984 were not vaccinated. So far 99.86% of those above the age of 18 took the first dose and 82.33% took booth doses. Among those in the 15-17 age, 47.46% already took first dose. From Wednesday onwards, vaccination camps for students would be organised at schools also. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-surge-continues-film-festival-postponed-1072058.html
17-01-2022||State||Kids die after getting Measles-Rubella vax; Bommai seeks report||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday sought a report from the Belagavi deputy commissioner on the death of three children after they were administered the Measles-Rubella vaccine.  “Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has sought a comprehensive investigation report on the case related to death of three children in the limits of Salahalli Primary Health Centre in Ramdurg taluk of Belagavi district,” the chief minister’s office said.  “The Chief Minister has sought a detailed report from the Deputy Commissioner on the case as it is said that the children died after they were administered the Rubella injection usually given for Diarrhea,” the statement said, adding that Bommai spoke to the DC over the phone on this.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kids-die-after-getting-measles-rubella-vax-bommai-seeks-report-1072086.html
17-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 34,047 fresh Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Sunday reported 34,047 new cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.29%, as experts predicted a Covid peak only in February. The state's current positivity rate rose to 19.2% due to the drop in the number of tests from 2.18 lakh on Saturday to 1.76 lakh. This also reflected in the daily caseload of Bengaluru, which reported 21,071 cases, a decline of 5% from Saturday's 22,284. However, even at the maximum capacity of 2.2 lakh tests per day, it would be difficult to detect all the cases. Therefore, the peak as such may be a long plateau of high number of cases. Sources noted that some urban centres, especially Bengaluru, could see a plateau-like peak, even as the test positivity rate will continue to rise. The test positivity rate is a metric of adequate testing, and as per the World Health Organisation (WHO) must be 5% or lower. However, in the last seven days, Karnataka’s TPR was 12.68%, while Bengaluru Urban’s positivity rate was 16.83%. In comparison, a fortnight ago, the TPR was 3.91% and 6.10% respectively. “As per available evidence, the peak of the wave in the city will still happen in the last week of January, following which it will start to peak in the rest of the state sometime in the first or second week of February. Only after this will we see a decline of cases over three to four weeks,” said Dr C N Manjunath, a member of the State Covid-19 Task Force and nodal officer for testing. He pointed out that Bengaluru Urban is lagging behind Mumbai and Delhi by about two to three weeks and the stabilisation of cases in these cities means that Bengaluru Urban could also start to register a similar trend from the tail end of January. Amid concerns that ICMR’s new testing guidelines will also trigger a reduction in case numbers, Dr Manjunath noted that individual districts and zones have been granted the freedom to adopt their own testing strategy. The BBMP concurred. “The ICMR guideline says don’t test asymptomatic or contacts," said Dr A S Balasundar, Chief Health Officer (CHO), Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). "We are not testing asymptomatics because that would necessitate screening many more lakhs of people per day, which is not possible. At the same time, we are continuing to test primary contacts of known Covid-19 cases because we want to clamp down on the spread.”  City's share In the meantime, Bengaluru Urban’s daily share in the state’s caseload, which was at 86% on January 6, has already started to fall. But to read this as a sign of the burden of disease moving to other districts could be premature. Dr Manjunath said that Bengaluru Urban will continue to dominate in the number of new cases for the rest of January. “Yes, the case share is moving from the city to other districts but this is not necessarily because the infections in the city are going down but more so because cases are rising in other districts,” he said Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-34047-fresh-covid-19-cases-1071809.html
17-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to review Covid-19 curbs today||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka said Monday that experts are divided on whether or not Covid-19 curbs should be relaxed, even as he hinted that the government is in favour of giving citizens some leeway.  “A decision will be taken on what more can be provided for citizens by taking precautions,” Ashoka said ahead of a meeting Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has convened later today.  Bommai is scheduled to take stock of the Covid-19 situation with experts. “There are two opinions among experts. Some say cases are decreasing. Others say we should wait and watch. That’s why we’ve called a meeting with experts,” he said. “We also want to relax curbs, but if things go wrong then none of the people seeking relaxation will take responsibility. It is the government that gets blamed,” he said.  Ashoka pointed out that Covid-19 cases are coming down in some states. “We also don't want a lockdown or curfews. But, protecting the lives of people is the government's responsibility. Whatever we decide is in the interest of people. It's not a question of government revenue. The more we open up the more revenue we get. But, to keep people safe, we have imposed the weekend curfew, night curfew and curbs on schools,” he said.  To a question on Maharashtra not having a curfew despite a high caseload, Ashoka said: “If cases are more in Maharashtra, can we also allow cases to increase here? Just for the sake of helping someone do business, we can’t play with the lives of people.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-review-covid-19-curbs-today-1071895.html
17-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Interstate Water Disputes Act creating more disputes: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday asked the Centre to revisit the Interstate River Water Disputes Act saying the law “creates more disputes than resolving them”. Bommai said this at the inaugural of the PM Gati Shakti southern zone conference chaired by Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari. “There are some legal interventions that are necessary. Our irrigation projects are delayed, bogged down by the Interstate Water Disputes Act. In fact, it creates more disputes than resolving them. Time has come to revisit this,” Bommai, a former water resources minister, said. Bommai’s argument comes at a time when Karnataka is pushing for clearances on the Mekedatu project that Tamil Nadu has opposed. The state is also locked horns with Maharashtra, Goa and Andhra Pradesh when it comes to inter-state water disputes. Bommai called for removal of “multifold” levels of dispute resolution. “...especially on the basis of maximum utility of a river basin capacity and using technology, giving away all political considerations, a win-win situation for all riparian states can be the solution,” he said. The CM also told the Centre that a common set of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rules should be formulated instead of each state with a coastline having its own. “This is necessary for all-round development of India’s coastline.” Earlier, Bommai lamented that “some basic impediments” need to be removed, referring to problems caused during environmental and forest clearances. “We also need to relax certain rules so that more investments can come through for infrastructure development,” he said. Further, Karnataka pitched for upgrading the Bengaluru-Mysuru-Hyderabad route into a high-speed rail line. “453 km can be upgraded and this will bring new economic activity between the two states,” Bommai said. Bommai told Gadkari that Karnataka will have regional airports at Ballari, Shivamogga, Vijayapura and Hassan. “For tourism, heliports at Chikmagalur, Madikeri and Hampi are coming up,” he said. “Hampi, which is a Unicef site, Badami and Vijayapura can be one circuit. Mysuru, Shravanabelagola, Belur and others can be another circuit. These should be on the national tourism map,” he said. Raising the much-awaited suburban rail project for Bengaluru worth Rs 15,000 crore, Bommai said: “Bengaluru is an international city that contributes 40% of our IT/BT exports. It needs better infrastructure. The suburban rail project needs impetus and speed.” On highway development, Bommai said Karnataka has proposed upgrading 6,433 km of SH to NH. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/interstate-water-disputes-act-creating-more-disputes-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1071900.html
17-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt expects Covid-19 wave to peak by Jan 25, rules out lockdown||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai decided to wait till Friday to decide on whether or not Karnataka should continue with a weekend curfew, even as the government ruled out any possibility of a full-fledged lockdown.  "There won't be a lockdown," Revenue Minister R Ashoka said, briefing reporters after Bommai’s meeting with the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee.  The third wave of Covid-19 may peak around January 25 after which there will be a decline in the number of cases, Ashoka said, quoting experts and comparing the trend with Maharashtra and Delhi.  “In the first wave, there was a peak in four months whereas the second wave peaked in three months. This time, it will peak in about a month’s time. Even if you take Maharashtra and Delhi as yardsticks, cases have started declining,” he explained. “So, our estimation right now is that there will be a peak on January 25, plus or minus two days. After that cases will come down, experts have said in their report,” he said.   “In Friday's meeting, the government will take a call on the weekend curfew and night curfew,” Ashoka said.  Earlier in the day, Ashoka said experts were divided on the extension of curbs. He also indicated that the government was not keen on extending curbs, but it was obliged to only because of the rising cases.  As for the hotel industry protesting the weekend curfew, Ashoka said the government cannot relax norms only in the interest of one section of the industry. "If cases spread, it is the government's responsibility. We are answerable to the citizens. We will have to make a decision in the larger interest of the state," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-expects-covid-19-wave-to-peak-by-jan-25-rules-out-lockdown-1071983.html
17-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||In Karnataka, only the western side of the mountain is green||Eighteen districts of Karnataka have less than 15 per cent of their total geographical area (GA) under forest cover, as per the India State of Forest Report, 2021 complied by the Forest Survey of India (FSI). While the FSI report paints a rosy picture of the state as one of the top five states to increase its forest cover (by 155 sq km) compared to 2019. However, more than half of its 30 districts do not even have 50 per cent of the forest cover targets set by the government. The state government has set itself an ambitious target of covering every district with at least 33 per cent green cover. A total of 38,729.99 sq km of land (which is 20.19 per cent of state GA) is covered with forest patches in Karnataka. Vijaypur, which is blessed with two major rivers (Krishna and Bhima), has just 0.26 per cent of its total landmass under green cover, while Raichur (0.52 per cent), Koppal (0.65 per cent), Kalaburagi (1.78 per cent), Bidar (1.79 per cent), Yadgir (2.79 per cent), Gadag (3.03 per cent), Bagalkot (3.93 per cent), Bengaluru rural (6.49 per cent), Chitradurga (7.20 per cent), Belagavi (8.68 per cent), Ballari (8.72 per cent), Dharwad (8.80 per cent) and Kolar (9.64 per cent) have less than 10 per cent of its total area under tree cover. Except for Chitradurga and Belagavi, none of the above-mentioned districts has made any substantial increase in their green cover over the last two years. Tumakuru added the highest area of 39.03 sq km under forest cover compared to its 2019 tally of 1,323.07 sq km; Chitradurga added 30.39 sq km and Belagavi added 24.06 sq km of forest land. Udupi, the biggest loser Udupi (63 per cent), which is the fourth greenest district in the state lost nearly 26.65 sq km of forest cover due to various development work. This was followed by Kodagu, the greenest district (with 79.42 per cent of its GA under green cover), lost nearly 5.47 sq km of forest land in the last two years according to the report. Uttara Kannada, which saw a spate of development works, however, continues to be the second greenest district of the state and added another 7.19 sq km to its forest cover between 2019 and 2021. Kalaburagi based Economist Sangeetha Kattimani said forest cover directly has an impact on the human resources development and GDP of the country. “Study from various institutes have shown that greater the green cover, better the human performance across the various sector. It is really a worrying factor that majority of the Kalyan-Karnataka and Kittur-Karnataka districts have little forest cover and their performance in various human development index is at the bottom of the heap,” she said. Speaking to DH, Vijaypur District Forest Officer Sareena Sikkaligar said one of the major reasons for low forest cover in the district is the lack of forest land. “We have only 0.17 per cent of total GA under forest department. Every time we take up afforestation on revenue or wasteland, the public and revenue officials remove the saplings. As we do not have jurisdiction over those land, the district continues to have the least forest cover,” she said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-karnataka-only-the-western-side-of-the-mountain-is-green-1072027.html
17-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs in Covid-19 27,156 cases, 14 deaths||Karnataka has logged 27,156 new Covid cases on Monday, after the second weekend curfew. Also, 14 Covid deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Officials said that total active cases in the state stood at 2,17,297. The positivity for the day stood at 12.45 per cent. As a result of the weekend curfew, the cases came down to 15,947 in Bengaluru Urban district. The total positive cases in the city stood at 14,32,754. A total of 4,888 people have been discharged from hospital while five deaths were reported in Bengaluru, taking the total Covid deaths to 16,458. The Omicron cases jumped to 766 on Monday and 2,956 Delta cases reported so far in the state. Apart from Bengaluru, the cultural capital of state Mysuru recorded the most number of cases (1,770). Tumakuru (1,147), Hassan (1,050), Mandya (917) and Dharwad (784) reported the most number of cases in the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-in-covid-19-27156-cases-14-deaths-1072070.html
17-01-2022||West||BJP MLA Nitesh Rane's anticipatory bail plea rejected in alleged attempt to murder case||The Bombay High Court on Monday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of BJP MLA Nitesh Rane in an alleged attempt to murder case registered in Sindhudurg.  Nitesh is the son of Narayan Rane, who is minister of Micro, Small and Medium enterprises (MSME) in the Narendra Modi government.  The junior Rane was booked for allegedly assaulting Santosh Parab, a Shiv Sena worker. On December 18, 2021, Parab, a Kankavli resident, had filed a police complaint alleging that he was assaulted by Nitesh.’ A case was registered against him under sections 307 and 120 (B) read with 34 of the Indian Penal Code. Earlier, the Sindhudurg district court has rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Nitesh.  Rane’s counsel Niteen Pradhan had argued that the FIR was registered with the sole aim of preventing Rane's participation in the Sindhudurg Co-operative Bank district elections that were to be held on December 30, 2021. Maharashtra government’s special counsel Sudeep Pasbola opposed the bail plea. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-mla-nitesh-ranes-anticipatory-bail-plea-rejected-in-alleged-attempt-to-murder-case-1071873.html
17-01-2022||West||Former Maharashtra minister N D Patil passes away||Prof N D Patil, a progressive and rational face of Maharashtra - who had been a former co-operation minister and spearheaded several agitations including anti-toll campaign, passed away on Monday. He was 93. The former minister of co-operation was a leader of the Peasants and Workers Party. Born on 15 July, 1929, in Dhavali a small village in Valava in Sangli, Narayan Dyandeo Patil, after passing the matriculation examination, joined Kolhapur at Rajaram College. He received an M.A. degree in Economics from Willingdon College, Sangli. He also completed LL.B from Pune University. He worked as a professor at Chhatrapati Shivaji College, Satara. He was also the Chief and Rector of the ‘Earn and Learn Scheme’. In 1960, he worked as principal at K.B.P College, Islampur. While working at Shivaji University, he has served as a member of various committees like the First Advisory Committee. He was a member of the Senate. He is also former Dean of sociology Department, Shivaji University Kolhapur. From 1959, he was the member of the managing council of Rayat Shikshan Sanstha Satara. He also worked as Chairman of the Sanstha during the years from 1990 to 2008.  He was a member of the Maharashtra Legislative Council for 18 years. He has also served as the secretary general of PWP. Between 1999-2002, he was the convenor of the coordination committee of the erstwhile Congress-NCP-led Democratic Front government, of which PWP was a constituent. Patil had also headed the legal committee appointed by the Maharashtra government on the issue of the boundary dispute with Karnataka. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-maharashtra-minister-n-d-patil-passes-away-1071882.html
17-01-2022||West||Powerloom unit gutted in major fire in Bhiwandi; none hurt||A powerloom factory was gutted in a major fire in the wee hours on Monday at Bhiwandi city in Thane district of Maharashtra, a civic official said. Nobody was injured in the incident. He said that the blaze erupted at the factory located in the Khadipar locality around 1.30 AM. Two fire engines of the Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC) were rushed to the spot. The fire was finally doused after five hours around 6.30 AM, the official said. The cause of the fire was not known immediately. Finished goods and raw material stored in the factory became fodder for the fire which gutted the entire unit. An industrial hub, Bhiwandi is known for its textile industry which boasts of the highest concentration of power looms and handlooms. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/powerloom-unit-gutted-in-major-fire-in-bhiwandi-none-hurt-1071887.html
17-01-2022||West||Maharashtra govt gives forest status to Dharavi mangroves||The Maharashtra government has decided to protect as reserve forest another 25 hectares of mangroves at Dharavi, considered to be Asia’s largest slum in Mumbai, even as environmentalists have been raising their voice against destruction of mangroves and land grab. A good beginning has been made now in accordance with the Bombay High Court order to protect the mangroves, but the government still has miles to go, NatConnect Foundation director B N Kumar said in a statement.  The State Forest department has declared as protected forest about 53% of the 32,000-hectare mangroves. About 16,000 hectares of mangroves has been categorised as private property which leaves about 3,000 hectares under government control that need to be declared as forest. NatConnect has appealed to the government to take under its control even the so-called privately owned mangroves since the sea forest is natural heritage and must be protected to save the coastal areas from tidal water attacks. Mangroves also serve as rainforests, carbon sinks, and breeding grounds for a variety of aquatic life other than hoisting hundreds of species of birds, butterflies, reptiles and animals. For instance, the Mangrove Society of India has reported that the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Bullet train project will directly impact 177 species of resident and migratory birds, otters, turtles, fish, crabs, oysters, wild boar, monkeys, flying fox, fishing cats, civets, mongoose and wild cats. “Though there have been reports of increase in the density of mangroves, the actual cover in terms of area has been under tremendous pressure due to large scale destruction, particularly in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR),” said Kumar. Meanwhile, activists Naresh Chandra Singh and Jyoti Nadkarni have brought the government’s attention to the burial of mangroves and landfill on them at Kharghar in Navi Mumbai. The mangroves, under the control of the city planner City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) are yet to be transferred to the Forest Department for conservation, they said. State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray last week instructed CIDCO, country's largest container port JNPT and government officials to expedite the transfer of mangroves to the Forest Department for protection and conservation. CIDCO has handed over just 219 hectares out of hundreds of hectares under its control and the delay is only encouraging land grabbers to destroy the sea forests, Uran-based traditional fishing community forum member Dilip Koli said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-gives-forest-status-to-dharavi-mangroves-1071917.html
17-01-2022||West||Sharad Pawar takes metro rail ride in upcoming project in Pune||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Monday inspected the work of the metro rail project for the PCMC-Swargate corridor here in Maharashtra, Metro Rail authorities said. In a trial run, Pawar travelled in the metro rail to and fro Phugewadi and Pimpri Chinchwad metro stations, a distance of around 7 km on one side. "Pawar ji was apprised about the project by Metro Rail authorities at the Phugewadi metro station, where he was given information about various features at the station. He traveled from Phugewadi to the PCMC station and back again to Phugewadi along with Brijesh Dixit, Managing Director, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd," said a Metro Rail official. Maha Metro is developing two metro lines in Pune. The 16 km-long PCMC-Swargate corridor will have 14 metro stations when completed. The official said that the Phugewadi-Pimpri Chinchwad stretch will be made operational on priority. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-takes-metro-rail-ride-in-upcoming-project-in-pune-1071930.html
17-01-2022||West||Goa Raj Bhavan shuts down for public after staffers contract Covid||The Raj Bhavan in Goa has been closed for visitors until January 23 after several staffers at the Governor's official residence tested positive for Covid-19, an official communique said on Monday. "In view of rising Covid-19 cases and many staff of Raj Bhavan testing positive, it has been decided that the Raj Bhavan will remain closed to visitors for one week until January 23, 2022," the statement said. "All letters, files and correspondence will be received only at the main gate. In case of any exigencies or urgent matters, the visitors/public may contact the office at Raj Bhavan for further guidance in the matter," it added. Goa has been witnessing a steep rise in Covid cases over the last few weeks. The state presently has 18,597 active Covid cases. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-raj-bhavan-shuts-down-for-public-after-staffers-contract-covid-1071953.html
17-01-2022||West||Maharashtra govt SC to recall order on re-notification of OBC seats||The Maharashtra government on Monday asked the Supreme Court to recall of its order directing the State Election Commission (SEC) to renotify 27 per cent seats reserved for OBC in the local body polls, as general category only. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar agreed to examine the plea on Wednesday. Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, representing the state government, asked the bench to hear the state government’s application for recall of the court's order. On December 15, the Supreme Court ordered the state election commission (SEC) and the state government to convert 27 % reserved seats for OBC into general category, for zila parishad and panchayat samitis, and issue fresh notification. On December 6, the Supreme Court stayed the Maharashtra government decision to grant 27 per cent reservation for OBCs, which was brought by an ordinance, in the local body elections until further orders. It had said the OBC quota could not have been implemented without setting up a Commission and without collecting data regarding inadequacy of representation local government wise. A batch of pleas have been filed in the top court challenging the state government’s ordinance to provide 27 per cent reservation for OBCs. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-sc-to-recall-order-on-re-notification-of-obc-seats-1071985.html
17-01-2022||West||Peak of third Covid wave seems to be over in Mumbai||The peak of the Omicron-triggered third wave of Covid-19 pandemic seems to be over in the financial capital of Mumbai even as Maharashtra experienced a drop of nearly 10,000 cases on Monday. During the day, the state recorded 31,111 cases and 24 deaths taking the progressive total to 72,42,921 and 1,41,832, respectively. The active cases in the state now stands at 2,67,334, according to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department. On Sunday, the state recorded 41,327 cases - and the drop on Monday was 10,216. Mumbai recorded 5,956 cases while the same for the larger Mumbai metropolitan region was 12,885 cases. “The test positivity rate in Mumbai is down to around 13 per cent now. So it's certain that Mumbai has crossed the peak of the third wave of Covid-10 orchestrated by the Omicron variant,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, the secretary general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/peak-of-third-covid-wave-seems-to-be-over-in-mumbai-1072069.html
