18-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||178 cops on Mekedatu padayatra duties contract Covid||As many as 178 policemen have contracted coronavirus in Kolar district. Most of them were deployed for security duties for the Mekedatu foot march organised by the Congress party recently. Some showed symptoms for Covid-19 after they returned from duties. The test results of these policemen were positive for the virus. They are in home isolation.  In Madhugiri in Tumakuru district, 24 students of Chirec Public School, studying in Classes 8 and 9 have tested positive. As many as 324 children in the district tested positive. As many as 52 children have been hospitalised. A total of 14 students of Jnana Surya High School of Belakawadi village in Malavalli taluk in Mandya district tested positive.  A total of 40 more students from Kittur Rani Channamma Residential Sainik School for Girls tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. So far, 234 persons in the school have tested positive including 13 staff members.  In Malebennur in the Davangere district, a total of 18 students tested positive. Twenty-seven students tested positive at Hungund and Ilkal taluks in Bagalkot district.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/178-cops-on-mekedatu-padayatra-duties-contract-covid-1072115.html
18-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Promise not kept but Mysuru man rebuilds gutted library||Syed Ishaq, whose library was gutted in a fire mishap last year, has rebuilt the library with funds raised from donors. The library will be reopened to the public on January 26, to mark Republic Day. Ishaq has constructed the library building at a cost of Rs 4 lakh and the structure will be declared open by children of the local Kannada medium government school. At present, Ishaq has managed to place 1,800 books in the library and professors of the University of Mysore have promised to donate 6,500 books, said Ishaq. A massive fire destroyed a couple of thousand books, including Kannada copies of Bhagwad Gita and Quran, on April 9, 2021. Following the incident, the Mysuru City Corporation, in association with the Department of Public Libraries, had decided to rebuild the library at Rajeev Nagar. But the authorities failed to keep the promise. Thus, Syed, with the support of donors, rebuilt the library.  Fateen Misbah, a software engineer, had launched an online campaign to raise funds and 1,260 persons had donated funds amounting to Rs 20 lakh. But the funds were returned as government bodies came forward to help rebuild the library. Expressing his displeasure, Syed said the government has not released a single rupee. “I managed to construct the building with the help of donors. Congress leader B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan donated Rs 2 Lakh, MP Pratap Simha gave Rs 50,000 and Minister S T Somashekar gave Rs 25,000 and a few books. In all, I have received Rs 3.45 lakh,” he said. Syed has spent Rs 54,000 to get an electricity connection to the building, which has two fans. The library needs furniture and a rack to display books. But, no funds are available for the purpose, he said. However, an official said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic and due to shortage of funds, the works were not taken up. “We will definitely support the good cause and provide necessary facilities to the library in the days to come,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/promise-not-kept-but-mysuru-man-rebuilds-gutted-library-1072117.html
18-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Kerala govt created unnecessary row over Narayana Guru, says BJP Minister||Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V Sunil Kumar said that an unnecessary row has been created by holding forth the name of Narayana Guru tableau by the Kerala government.  The Minister said "all the states and Union Territories send proposals for the tableau every year. However, only 12 state tableaux are considered for the Republic Day parade. All the states and Union Territories are not given permission to participate. The tableaux from all the states participate once in three years," said the Minister.  Further, he said that the tableau from Kerala had taken part in 2018 and 2021. As per the tradition, 12 states that had taken part in the parade last year, were not given permission this year. Still the Kerala government has raked a controversy by holding forth the issue of Narayana Guru, alleged Sunil Kumar.  "It is not right on the part of the Kerala government to create a controversy by placing the issue of Narayana Guru. The Kerala government through its Communist ideology had been following anti-Hindu policy which has been proved through its stand on Hindu temples and murder of Hindu activists. We need not learn the preachings of Narayana Guru from Communists. Narayana Guru will be remembered by all," said Sunil Kumar.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kerala-govt-created-unnecessary-row-over-narayana-guru-says-bjp-minister-1072204.html
18-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga schools to remain shut till January 23||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S  Eshwarappa stated that all schools will remain closed for classes 1 to 9 in Shivamogga city from January 19 due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in educational institutes and will resume on January 24. A holiday has been declared in schools for three days from January 19 to 21 and classes will be suspended on Saturday due to the weekend curfew. This is a precautionary measure as over 208 students belonging to 45 schools in Shivmaogga city had tested positive for Covid-19, the minister said. "We will review the situation on January 23 against and will take suitable steps," he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-schools-to-remain-shut-till-january-23-1072230.html
18-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||29 migrant workers from UP test Covid-positive in Kodagu||As many as 29 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh have tested positive in Madikeri city of Kodagu district which borders Kerala, officials said on Tuesday. The authorities have isolated the workers who tested positive. Officials said that the construction site where they worked has been sealed off. The workers had arrived in the district recently and were working at a construction site near St Michael School. Few workers had developed symptoms of fever and tested for Covid-19 at the District Government Hospital. After they tested positive, all the 150 workers who worked at the site were tested. As of now, 29 have tested positive and results are yet to come for many of the workers. A team from the department of health has screened all the workers. Only two workers have developed symptoms and all others are asymptomatic. The contractors and building owners were instructed to provide necessary facilities and ensure that before commencement of work everyone should get negative report. District Health Officer Venkatesh visited the spot and inspected the arrangements. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/29-migrant-workers-from-up-test-covid-positive-in-kodagu-1072353.html
18-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Newborn sambar deer dies of shock after being separated from mother ||The unfortunate death of a 15-day-old sambar deer, which strayed into Salamara village in Saluru gram panchayat limits of Thirtahalli taluk after being separated from its mother, has triggered a controversy. Villagers have alleged that the Forest Department officials’ apathy was the reason for its death. If the officials had released it into the forest area, the animal would have joined its mother, they argued. However, forest officials defended that it died of shock. According to villagers, the sambar deer came rushing towards the village on January 16 night around 10:00 pm after dogs started chasing it. They informed the Forest Department officials immediately. The team of officials rushed to the spot and tied it with a rope to ensure that dogs do not attack it and decided to bring a veterinarian the next day. But it died in the wee hours of Monday. Thirthahalli Range Forest Officer Anil told DH that deer is a highly sensitive animal and it has to be handled with much care. “Our staff rushed to the spot on Sunday night and saw it. But it was frightened. They spoke to the veterinarian over the phone and decided to treat it the next day as there was no injury. “Unfortunately, it died. Our staff had good intentions and there was no negligence at all. It can’t be handled like a dog or any other animal. If we had released it, dogs might have killed it. So, we tied it with a rope to ensure its safety.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/newborn-sambar-deer-dies-of-shock-after-being-separated-from-mother-1072437.html
18-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Swami Vivekananda deliberately secularised, says Tejasvi Surya||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Monday said the identity of Swami Vivekananda has been “hijacked” and “deliberately secularised”, linking this to how kids end up wearing t-shirts of Cuban military leader Che Guevara for being a youth icon. Surya was speaking at the valedictory of a week-long Twitter Spaces discussion on Vivekananda hosted by the BJP Yuva Morcha.  “Many of our icons have been hijacked for vested interests. Ambedkar is an example of this. Vivekananda has been secularised so much that his identity ends with his quote, ‘Arise, awake, and stop not till the goal is reached’,” Surya, the Bangalore South MP, said.  “Vivekananda is portrayed more like a management coach. This has been a very strong attempt all these years with Ambedkar, Aurobindo, the selective quoting of Gandhi. But, the country’s population is slowly coming out of this amnesia,” he said.  “Instead of Vivekananda, Che Guevara is presented as a youth icon. Kids wear his t-shirts without knowing the genocide he supported,” Surya, the Yuva Morcha national president, said.  To a question on including the Hindu monk in curriculum, Surya said nothing stops people from accessing the works of Vivekananda, Savarkar, Aurobindo and the likes. “There’s a sense of intellectual laziness in this country that was deliberately created,” he said.  Surya scoffed at attempts to secularise Vivekananda so as to suppress how he was the first proponent of Hindutva.  The BJP leader quoted Vivekananda on the importance of reason, which he said is the answer to all acts of fanaticism. Nothing can compare with relying on something as old as human reason than depending on a religious book to justify fanatic actions, Surya said while quoting Vivekananda.  To a question on religious unity, Surya pointed at Vivekananda’s idea of Advaita Vedanta. “Advaita means there’s no two; just one. That’s the core message of Bharatiya Chintan (thought). When there can’t be two and there’s only one entity, how can there be any difference? It sees the absolute unity in divinity in all beings. Man and woman, Vivekananda says there’s no difference. Likewise with religion, rich-poor and so on,” he said.  ‘BJP-led govt in Tamil Nadu’ When a BJP IT Cell member asked him a question on Tamil Nadu, Surya said that the saffron party will form a government in the southern state in the next ten years. “In less than ten years, we will see a BJP-led nationalist government in Tamil Nadu that will represent the nationalist sentiments of the Tamil people,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/swami-vivekananda-deliberately-secularised-says-tejasvi-surya-1072138.html
18-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Elections in five states to delay Karnataka Cabinet reshuffle||The keenly-awaited Cabinet expansion or rejig may be delayed until late March as the BJP high command is caught up with polls in five states, including the crucial Uttar Pradesh. According to BJP leaders, though the Cabinet exercise was promised soon after the Sankranti festival, it will now be at least a month late. Speaking to DH, BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar confirmed that elections in five states have delayed the Cabinet expansion. “Now it will be taken up only after polls are completed in Uttar Pradesh and other states,” he said. To a question, he said that the Cabinet expansion was imminent “but only after elections”. The expansion or reshuffle of the Bommai Cabinet is significant as Karnataka faces elections 13 months from now.  The BJP is looking at bringing in fresh faces into Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet by ensuring a balance in regional and caste representation. At present, Bommai has four berths vacant in the 34-member Cabinet.  Complaints that a few regions and districts are over-represented in the Cabinet will be among the issues that the high command is expected to address during the reshuffle, sources say. There is also speculation that several senior ministers will be dropped to make room for young legislators. Ever since it came to power in 2019, the BJP has faced disgruntlement within as several MLAs remain unhappy about “migrant” ministers - those who joined the party from the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/elections-in-five-states-to-delay-karnataka-cabinet-reshuffle-1072147.html
18-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||After Mekedatu, Karnataka Congress to take up foot march for implementation of Mahadayi project||The Karnataka Congress, which has organised Mekedatu padayatra (foot march) despite curfew orders, is all set to launch another foot march demanding implementation of the Mahadayi project. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Executive President Sathish Jarakiholi has made an announcement in this regard on Tuesday in the state's Belagavi district. The neighbouring state of Goa is objecting to the implementation of the project. "We are discussing the implementation of the Mahadayi project in the platforms of the party. Once the Covid pandemic subsides, a foot march demanding implementation of Mahadayi project would be taken up," he said. The padayatra would be taken up from the Nargund in Gadag district to the birthplace of Mahadayi River near Kankumbi in Belagavi district. The blueprint for the padayatra would be ready soon. Padayatra's demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project was a success. The foot march has successfully got the attention of the government on the issue, he said. The sharing of the waters of the river Mahadayi is a cause of disputes between the states of Karnataka and Goa. The Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal (MWDT) is a tribunal that adjudicates the dispute over River Mahadayi water allocation. The Karnataka government proposes to divert some water from the Mahadayi River to the Malaprabha River basin as part of the Kalasa-Banduri Nala project. In August 2018, Mahadayi Water Tribunal verdict permitted Goa to use 24 tmcft (excluding the 9.395 tmcft prevailing uses), Karnataka to use 5.4 tmcft (including 3.9 tmcft for export outside the basin) and Maharashtra to use 1.33 tmcft for consumptive purposes. Karnataka approached the Supreme Court alleging injustice was done in allocation of water to the state. The Central government had issued a gazette notification on February 27, 2020, permitting the Karnataka state to draw 13.42 tmcft of water from the Mahadayi River out of which 8 tmcft is for power generation. The Kalasa-Banduri Nala project was undertaken by the government of Karnataka to improve drinking water supply to the districts of Belagavi, Bagalkot, Dharwad and Gadag. It involves building across Kalasa and Banduri, two tributaries of the Mahadayi river to divert 7.56 TMC of water to the Malaprabha river, which supplies the drinking water needs of the said 4 districts, i.e., Dharwad, Belagavi Bagalkot and Gadag. This project had been on paper for decades and the Karnataka government decided to implement it during then Congress Chief Minister SM Krishna's regime. Clearance for the project was received from the Centre in 2002. The project, however, soon ran into trouble when the then BJP government of Goa headed by Manohar Parrikar raised objections to the project claiming that the project would harm Goa's flora and fauna. Following this, the then National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government which was in power at the Centre put on hold its approval and funding of the project. Karnataka and Goa have since then been at loggerheads over the project. The project which had been put in abeyance for four years was revived after H D Kumaraswamy became the Chief Minister. In September 2006, the coalition government in Karnataka headed by Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy decided to go ahead with the construction work. It was inaugurated on September 22 at Kanakumbi in Khanapur Taluk of Belagavi district. The Goa government, however, soon moved the courts and brought a stay on the construction work. The matter is now before the Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal. The Congress state unit which has gained momentum after organising a foot march on the controversial Mekedatu project in south Karnataka is all set to launch another movement in north Karnataka region. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/after-mekedatu-karnataka-congress-to-take-up-foot-march-for-implementation-of-mahadayi-project-1072317.html
18-01-2022||National||Setback for AAP in Gujarat as prominent leader quits in election year||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Gujarat on Monday received a major blow with three of its leaders including Surat-based prominent businessman Mahesh Savani resigning from the party. While Savani hasn't categorically denied joining the BJP, two of his party colleagues joined the BJP. The reason is said to be the party's internal rift, which has not gone well among many leaders. There is speculation over another prominent figure leaving the party in the near future. The setback came barely a month after AAP had taken the ruling BJP by surprise by storming its headquarters in Gandhinagar on December 20, demanding action against officials in the recruitment scam. The Gandhinagar police had arrested over 90 party workers that included all top leaders such as state president Gopal Italiya, Isudan Gadhvi, among others. Apart from Savani, folk singer Vijay Suada, party's incharge of north Gujarat, Nilam Vyas from Ahmedabad, also resigned. Suada and Vyas joined BJP in a function held at the party's headquarters in Gandhinagar in the presence of state president C R Paatil. Savani has hinted that he may join BJP in the coming days. Savani, a real estate developer who is known for his social work, told reporters in Surat that he resigned due to "personal reasons" as he wasn't able to find time for his philanthropic work. He said, "There is a limit to how I work... due to lack of time for family, social work and my health, I decided to quit. I will join any party that works for the welfare of people." Savani is known for his various social works including marrying off orphaned girls at mass weddings. Savani was close to BJP until the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but distanced himself after he was denied a ticket. Savani's exit is considered to be a big jolt for Arvind Kejriwal's party, which is eying big in the upcoming Assembly election to be held at the end of this year. The diamond city, Surat, is the first place in Gujarat where AAP tasted its first electoral success by winning 27 seats, out of 120, in Surat Municipal Corporation last year. The party ousted Congress and placed itself as the principal opposition party in the civic body. AAP is said to be eyeing to position itself as a "principal opposition party in the state." When contacted, Gopal Italia, AAP's state president, told DH, "It is sad that some of the colleagues have left. There is nothing we can do to stop those who are in a hurry. The party is with the people and our struggle for their welfare will be continued. We are here to fight the might of the BJP and we know that there is a lot of struggle in the way. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/setback-for-aap-in-gujarat-as-prominent-leader-quits-in-election-year-1072110.html
18-01-2022||National||DH Toon | Backward classes 'spend half their budget' on feeding politicians ahead of polls||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had a meal at a Dalit household on January 14 and said during the Samajwadi Party rule it was "social exploitation" and not "social justice", whereas the BJP government was working for the development of every section of society without any discrimination. Adityanath's visit to the Dalit family in Gorakhpur came a little before Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan and Dharam Singh Saini, who resigned from the government accusing it of being anti-Dalit, gathered at the Samajwadi Party office in Lucknow to take up its membership in the run-up to the assembly polls beginning February 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-backward-classes-spend-half-their-budget-on-feeding-politicians-ahead-of-polls-1072151.html
18-01-2022||National||With 2.38 lakh new infections, India's daily Covid-19 cases dip||India on Tuesday reported a slight dip in daily Covid-19 cases with 2,38,018 new infections, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  Meanwhile, 310 persons succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 48,6,761. The active Covid-19 cases now stand at 17,36,628. Currently, India has 8,891 confirmed cases of Omicron. India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage exceeds 158.04 crore, as nearly 80 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours.  Meanwhile, the unregulated sale and use of home-testing kits, the results of many of which are being insufficiently reported to the authorities, prompted the Karnataka government to issue a circular on Sunday. However, it was released to the media on Monday.  This aims to document how many kits are being sold in the state and how many buyers are testing positive. More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-238-lakh-new-infections-indias-daily-covid-19-cases-dip-1072168.html
18-01-2022||National||Records show Bihar doctor took 5 Covid vaccine shots, probe ordered||The Bihar government has ordered an investigation after records showed that a Patna-based civil surgeon was administered five shots of the Covid-19 vaccine. The civil surgeon, Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, however, said she had taken the jab thrice as per rules. Singh also claimed that someone else managed to get vaccine shots using her PAN card details, and called for a probe. According to the CoWIN portal, she received the first dose on January 28, 2021 and was fully vaccinated by March last year. Government records showed Singh was also jabbed on February 6, 2021 using her PAN card information, and for the fourth time on June 17 that year. She then took a precautionary dose on January 13, 2022. Patna District Magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh on Monday said the administration has started an investigation. “Strict action will be taken against those found guilty,” he said. Earlier this month, an 84-year-old man in the north Bihar district of Madhepura caused a flutter with the claim that he has taken a dozen shots of the coronavirus vaccine. “I have used my Aadhaar card and my voter ID card on different occasions to get myself registered… Every single dose has helped relieve my chronic back pain. I have never caught a cold since I took the first shot 11 months ago,” the octogenarian Brahmadeo Mandal had said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/records-show-bihar-doctor-took-5-covid-vaccine-shots-probe-ordered-1072188.html
18-01-2022||National||MP minister calls Modi 'incarnation of God like Lord Ram and Lord Krishna'||Madhya Pradesh Agriculture Minister and BJP leader Kamal Patel termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi an "incarnation of God", saying he was born to end the atmosphere of despair, like Lord Ram and Lord Krishna, created due to the rise in "atrocities" committed by Congress, corruption, and the destruction of the country's culture. Speaking to reporters in Harda on Monday, Patel said that the tasks accomplished by PM Modi like leading India on the path of becoming "Vishwa Guru", ridding the country of corruption, and ensuring the public welfare wouldn't have been accomplished by an ordinary person. “ Whenever any crisis descended upon India and tyranny increased, then it is said in our religion and culture that God takes avatar in a human form,” Patel said. He said Lord Ram had taken avatar in a human form and established 'Ramrajya' by killing demon Ravan and defeating other evil powers, and protecting the people. When Kansa's atrocities increased, Lord Krishna took birth and ended his cruelties thus giving relief to the common people, the minister said. “Similarly, when atrocities of Congress increased..corruption, casteism rose, the culture of the country was destroyed and an atmosphere of despair was prevailing all around, then Narendra Modi was born to end it,” Patel said. He said India is becoming a "Vishwa Guru" under the leadership of PM Modi who has given a corruption-free government and also ensures the welfare of the common people. “These are impossible tasks which a common person is not able to accomplish. It could have happened in 60 years, if possible. So, PM Narendra Modi ji is an 'Avatari Purush' (incarnate) and did impossible works. He is the incarnation of God,” Patel said. Interestingly, Patel had last November suggested that Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is incarnate of tribal icon Tantya Bhil, known in the tribal narrative as Indian "Robbin Hood". “Tantya Mama used to facilitate marriages of girls. Our 'mama' (as CM Chouhan is fondly called) also does the same. Tantya Mama used to loot the rich and distribute the wealth among the poor. Our CM does not loot, but collects taxes from the rich and spends it for the poor. In a way, we can say that Tantya mama took rebirth as our CM Shivraj,” he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-minister-calls-modi-incarnation-of-god-like-lord-ram-and-lord-krishna-1072189.html
18-01-2022||National||Centre won't reconsider West Bengal, Tamil Nadu tableaux for Republic Day parade||The decision to not include the tableaux of Kerala, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu at the Republic Day parade will not be revised, senior officials of the Defence Ministry said on Tuesday and noted that a total of 12 states have been selected to display their models. The remarks by the defence ministry officials came amidst ongoing controversy over the tableaux exclusion, prompting West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin to seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi's immediate intervention. Some leaders of the non-BJP ruled states also alleged that the exclusion was an "insult" by the Centre. Reacting to the controversy, a senior defence ministry official said, "it is not possible to accept requests from these three states' and polite responses have been sent to their CMs explaining the long process of selection of tableaux." "It is not possible to revise or reconsider the decision as Tableau making process is a very long process and an expert committee takes these decisions sufficiently in advance," the official added. Officials said tableaux of Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will be shown at this year's parade. Moreover, tableaux of nine ministries and departments of the Central government will be shown at this year's parade, they stated. These nine tableaux would be Education and Skill Development, Civil Aviation, Communications and Posts, Home Affairs, Housing, Textiles, Law and Justice, Jal Shakti and Culture, they added. Therefore, a total of 21 tableaux would be shown at this year's parade, they added. Overall, there were 56 proposals to show tableaux this year, they said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-wont-reconsider-west-bengal-tamil-nadu-tableaux-for-republic-day-parade-1072199.html
18-01-2022||National||Supreme Court to hear plea seeking to de-register parties failing to disclose criminals cases of candidates||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to consider a plea for urgent hearing by a PIL for a  direction to the Election Commission to de-register a political party which failed to publish on its website reasons for selecting a candidate with criminal antecedents within 48 hours on its website in spirit of the top court's previous directions. BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay mentioned his plea before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana for urgent hearing. The bench, however, asked the petitioner if the court can prevent those having pending criminal cases from filing nominations. The petitioner said the political parties were violating two judgements by the top court. The plea, filed on Monday, contended the poll panel should take actions, including contempt against the parties, which violated the directions issued by the Supreme Court on September 25, 2018 and February 13, 2020. It said that the immediate cause of filing the petition arose after Samajwadi Party, which is a registered and recognised political party, fielded notorious gangster Nahid Hasan from Kairana but neither published his criminal records in electronic, print and social media nor the reason of his selection within 48 hours. "Nahid Hasan is in custody under the Gangster Act imposed on him around 11 months ago and he is the first candidate to file nomination in the first phase of Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections," his plea said.  On February 13, 2021, Shamli Police imposed the Gangster Act on Nahid Hasan, the two-time MLA from Kairana. He has multiple criminal cases against him and is the mastermind behind the Hindu exodus from Kairana. There are many criminal cases including fraud and extortion, pending against him and he was declared a fugitive by Special MLA-MP Court, his plea claimed. "There are precedents for this court to give directions to the EC to preserve purity of elections and protect fundamental rights. In ADR case, the court directed EC to call for information on affidavit from each candidate, inter alia, listing offences with which he is charged, assets of himself and his family by issuing necessary orders in exercise of power under Article 324 of the Constitution," the plea pointed out. The petition also stated that permitting criminals to become legislator interfered with the purity and integrity of the electoral process; violated the right to choose freely the candidate and amounted to a subversion of democracy, a part of the basic structure; and, finally, was antithetical to the rule of law. Criminalisation of politics in India has only grown. National Election Watch and Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) has analysed the sworn affidavits of 539 out of 542 MPs of the present Lok Sabha, which revealed that 233 (43%) MPs have declared criminal cases against themselves, it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-seeking-to-de-register-parties-failing-to-disclose-criminals-cases-of-candidates-1072200.html
18-01-2022||National||FM Sitharaman to address presser at 4:30 pm today||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will address a press conference at 4:30 pm today (January 18) on "an important economic issue".  "FM Nirmala Sitharaman will address press conference today on an important economic issue, 18th Jan, at 4.30 pm in Delhi," an advisory released by the Centre read.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-sitharaman-to-address-presser-at-430-pm-today-1072202.html
18-01-2022||National||SC grants Poonam Pandey protection from arrest in pornography case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted interim protection from arrest to Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey in a pornography case in which businessman Raj Kundra was also an accused. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B V Nagarathna issued notice to the Maharashtra government on a petition filed by her. The court directed that no coercive action should be taken against the actor for now. The actor, in her plea, questioned the validity of the Bombay High Court's order of November 25 last year rejecting her petition for anticipatory bail. She contended that her anticipatory bail plea was rejected though she had participated in the investigation and provided all the information. She also claimed no offence, even prima-facie, was made out against her. A complaint was filed by Madhukar Keni on October 31 with Nodal Cyber Police Station against Raj Kundra, Poonam Pandey, Sherlyn Chopra and various others under Sections 292 of the IPC, Sections 67 and 67A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and under Sections 3 and 4 of Indecent Women Representation Act, 1986. The complainant alleged that websites broadcasting/exhibiting indecent video, audio files having lascivious, lustful, offensive sexual desire messages and videos are openly available through the internet. Various Over-The-Top (OTT) Platforms viz Hotshots, Alt Balaji, Kooku, Primeflix, Flizmovies, Banana Prime were roped in as accused. It has been submitted that OTT Platforms are used for the purpose of illegal financial gains and to get benefits through mobile applications.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-poonam-pandey-protection-from-arrest-in-pornography-case-1072209.html
18-01-2022||National||Over 1.47L kids orphaned due to Covid since April 2020: NCPCR||Since April 1, 2020, 1,47,492 children have lost their parents due to Covid-19 or other reason, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) data showed. After including 10,094 orphans in need of care and protection, a total of 1,36,910 children lost their parents, 488 were abandoned, pushing the total to 1,47,492, the Commission informed Supreme Court on the basis of data uploaded by states and union territories on its 'Baal Swaraj Portal-Covid care' up to January 11. The commission further said that out of 1,47,492 children, there are 76,508 boys, 70,980 girls and four transgender. It said that the maximum number of children are between the age group of eight to 13 years (59,010), followed by children in the age group of 14 to 15 years (22,763) and age group of 16 to 18 years (22,626) and four to seven years (26,080). "Maximum of the children are with their single parent -1,25,205, while 11,272 children are with family members, followed by 8,450 with guardians," it said. In the backdrop of the pandemic, the Supreme Court on Monday directed all district magistrates (DMs) to engage with District Legal Service Authority (DLSA), and voluntary organisations to rehabilitate children in street situations. A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and B V Nagarathna said: "we direct all DMs to involve DLSA and voluntary organisations in the identification of children on streets without any further delay". The bench added that immediate steps are required to provide shelter to children in street situations by the central government and state governments. It emphasised that children should be shifted to shelter homes and also directed the DMs to upload the information at all stages on the web portal of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The bench further added that state governments and union territories (UTs) should engage with authorities concerned to identify and rehabilitate children, without any further delay. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-147l-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid-since-april-2020-ncpcr-1072210.html
18-01-2022||National||India to provide assistance to the families of two Indians killed in UAE: Envoy||India has said that it will provide “whatever assistance" is possible to the families of the two Indian citizens killed in a suspected Houthi drone attack near the Abu Dhabi airport that sparked multiple explosions in the United Arab Emirates' capital. Two Indians and a Pakistani national were killed and six others injured in Monday's attack claimed by Houthi rebels in Yemen. The explosions were caused by "small flying objects", possibly drones, that hit three petroleum tankers in Abu Dhabi. Speaking to The National newspaper on Monday, India’s Ambassador to the UAE, Sunjay Sudhir, said the Indian government would provide “whatever assistance is possible” to the families of the two deceased Indian citizens. The Indian embassy is yet to announce the names of the two Indians killed in the attack. Meanwhile, messages of condemnation and solidarity have poured in from various quarters, a day after the drone attack. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia called Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. The Saudi Crown Prince expressed his deepest condolences for the deceased and his wishes for a speedy recovery for the injured. Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs also condemned the attack in “the strongest terms.” The UAE reserves the right to respond to these terrorist attacks and criminal escalation,” a statement from the UAE’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation said. Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed said that the drone attacks, which struck Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) fuel facilities and the airport, will not go unpunished. The UAE has been part of a Saudi-led military campaign against the Houthi rebels in Yemen since 2015. Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed also received a phone call from King Abdullah of Jordan, during which he condemned the Houthi attack on facilities and civil areas in the UAE. The King affirmed Jordan’s support for the UAE in facing threats to its security and expressed his condolences. US Secretary of State,Antony Blinken also called Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed to affirm the US’ condemnation and denunciation of the terrorist attack of the terrorist Houthi militia on civil areas and facilities in the UAE.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-provide-assistance-to-the-families-of-two-indians-killed-in-uae-envoy-1072214.html
18-01-2022||National||Significant percentage of India's workforce considering changing jobs in 2022: LinkedIn||Notwithstanding the pandemic, India's workforce is optimistic about the future of work, and a significant percentage of professionals are considering changing their jobs this year, according to a report. LinkedIn, the leading online professional network, on Tuesday launched new job-seeker research, which revealed that 82 per cent of professionals in India are considering a job change in 2022. Based on the responses of 1,111 professionals in India, the survey showed that professionals are leaving their current jobs due to poor work-life balance, not enough money, or greater career ambitions. When looking for new roles in the new year, professionals in India said flexible working arrangements will be the top priority. "The pandemic has spurred people to rethink their careers and look for new job opportunities to meet their renewed purpose and priorities in life. "As confidence in new opportunities grows, it is evident that the Great Reshuffle in India is clearly being led by job seekers, and talent is in the driver’s seat right now - with flexibility as their no. 1 priority today," said Ankit Vengurlekar, India Managing Editor, LinkedIn News. Vengurlekar further said that "our Jobs on the Rise list shows that the demand for tech-savvy talent is growing hotter across the IT, healthcare, and business development sectors". LinkedIn's research further revealed that professionals in India are confident about their job roles, careers, and overall job availability getting better in 2022. But, despite this confident outlook, around 71 per cent of professionals said they question their abilities at work more now than before the pandemic, while 63 per cent stated they suffer from imposter syndrome. "This self-doubt seems to be a byproduct of working in isolation for nearly two years as 33 per cent of professionals say the pandemic has negatively impacted their confidence at work," the report said. The top reasons that can convince professionals in India to stay with their current employer in 2022 include better salary, more appreciation, and improved work-life balance. According to the survey, working women (37 per cent) are 1.3x more likely to quit their current job due to poor work-life balance, when compared to working men (28 per cent). They are also more likely (49 per cent) to say they will remain with their current employer if they get better pay when compared to working men (39 per cent), it added. To help job-seekers identify the fastest-growing opportunities in India, LinkedIn has launched the second edition of the annual ‘Jobs on the Rise 2022 India list’. To put together this year’s rankings, LinkedIn looked at their platform data to identify job titles experiencing the highest growth rates from January 2017 through July 2021. With businesses looking to further evolve their digital footprint in 2022, the list spotlights a growing demand for highly skilled IT workers (Site Reliability Engineer, Data Science Specialist, Machine Learning Engineer) and business development talent (Affiliate Marketing Specialist, Business Development Representative, Strategy Associate). The list also revealed that the healthcare sector is looking to fill vacancies for Wellness Specialists and Molecular Biologists who can mitigate the Covid-19 crisis and help businesses and communities to shelter from the pandemic. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/significant-percentage-of-indias-workforce-considering-changing-jobs-in-2022-linkedin-1072229.html
18-01-2022||National||Covid effect: Only 5-8K people to be allowed at Republic Day parade this year||The number of people that would be allowed to attend the Republic Day parade this year would be curtailed by 70-80 per cent to approximately 5,000-8,000 due to the ongoing wave of Covid-19, senior officials of the defence ministry said on Tuesday. Approximately 25,000 people were allowed to attend the last year's parade. Moreover, the decision on whether chief guests will come or not for this year's parade is yet to be taken by the Ministry of External Affairs, the officials mentioned. There was no chief guest at the parade last year. Officials said the aim is to keep the people away and maintain social distancing at all times so that the parade should not become a super spreader event. Therefore, the numbers have been significantly curtailed, they added. While the exact number is yet to be decided, it would be anywhere between 5,000-8,000 people this year, they mentioned. People would be encouraged to watch the parade on TV and livestreaming, they stated. The decision regarding chief guests is being handled by the Ministry of External Affairs and we will wait for their decision in this regard, the officials said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-effect-only-5-8k-people-to-be-allowed-at-republic-day-parade-this-year-1072231.html
18-01-2022||National||Over 50 lakh healthcare, frontline workers taken precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Over 50 lakh healthcare, frontline workers and citizens aged 60 years and above have been administered the precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine since January 10, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday. With the administration of nearly 80 lakh vaccine doses in a span of 24 hours, the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 158.04 crore as per provisional reports till 7 am. "Another Day, Another Milestone Over 50 lakh healthcare & frontline workers and citizens aged 60 years or above have received precaution Dose, since 10th January. I request all those who are eligible to get their precaution dose at the earliest," Mandaviya tweeted. Another Day, Another Milestone 💉 Over 5️⃣0️⃣ lakh healthcare & frontline workers & citizens aged 60 years or above have received Precaution Dose, since 10th January. India began administering precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers, frontline workers including personnel deployed for election duty and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities from January 10 amid the country witnessing a spike in coronavirus infections fuelled by Omicron variant of the virus. Hoever, the countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16, 2021 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1, 2021. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.  The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination has commenced from January 3 this year for adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-50-lakh-healthcare-frontline-workers-taken-precaution-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-1072234.html
18-01-2022||National||Why only 19 female candidates out of 400 in NDA: SC seeks Centre's response||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to explain why only 19 women candidates would be admitted in the National Defence Academy (NDA) out of 400 seats in 2023.  A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh told Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, representing the Centre, that the government needs to clarify why only 19 women candidates have been fixed for the year 2023, according to the notification issued by UPSC. The bench asked the central government to bring on record the total number of women candidates, along with the overall tally, who took the NDA examination in 2021 and entrance tests for Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) and Rashtriya Military School (RMS). "The figure is the same as for the 2021 test. Last year, you said that it was due to infrastructure problems that the intake of women will be less. Now, again for the year 2022, you have proposed to take the same number of women candidates. Why have you fixed this figure? You have to explain this. 19 seats cannot be for all times to come. It was only an ad hoc measure," the bench told Bharti. The apex court gave three weeks to the Centre to file an affidavit and asked the parties to file their rejoinder two weeks thereafter and listed the matter for further hearing on March 6. At the outset, senior advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma, appearing for petitioner Kush Kalra, said they have filed an additional affidavit stating that on November 14, 2021, the NDA exam was held and 8,009 candidates qualified for the Service Selection Board test and medical tests, out of which 1,002 candidates were women and 7,007 men. He said that as per the information made available in the advertisement issued by UPSC and by the government, NDA will take in 400 cadets in the current NDA-II 2021 intake. Of these, 208 candidates, including 10 women, will go to the Army. The Navy will take in 42 candidates including 3 women, while the IAF will admit 120 candidates, of which 6 will be women. Thus, the total number of women to be inducted into the NDA in June 2022 is 19, Sharma said. He added that surprisingly, in the examination notice dated December 22, 2021, issued by UPSC for the NDA-I 2022 examination to be held on April 10, 2022 (induction on January 2, 2023), out of a total of 400 vacancies, the number of vacancies for women in the Army is shown as 10, Navy 3, and Air Force 6 (two each in flying, ground duties [tech] and ground duties [non-tech]. Sharma said that it can be seen from the reading of the Examination Notice December 22, 2021, that the number of women candidates to be inducted in January 2023 continues to remain at 19. He said that in the affidavit dated September 20, 2021, filed by the Centre, it has been categorically stated that necessary steps will be in place by May of this year itself (2022). Furthermore, for the first time, it is mentioned that the intake in the Naval Academy is for 30 male candidates only. The said restriction is arbitrary, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-only-19-female-candidates-out-of-400-in-nda-sc-seeks-centres-response-1072251.html
18-01-2022||National||Supreme Court asks Centre to frame model scheme for community kitchens||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to frame a model scheme for opening community kitchens across the states, wondering if it was believable that no death was reported due to starvation. The top court also asked why political parties, which announced freebies during elections, did nothing against the malnutrition. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said the states should file a reply in two weeks on malnutrition and starvation deaths. The court took into consideration a submission by Attorney General K K Venugopal who said that no starvation death has been reported by the states. "States have reported no deaths due to starvation, is it believable," the bench asked him. “Can we afford to take that there is no starvation death in the country," the court asked further, emphasising the need to end hunger. Hearing a plea by Arun Dhawan and others related to subsidised canteens across the states and union territories, the bench, comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli told Venugopal that the Union government should give the latest data on starvation deaths.  The bench said that central government should frame a model scheme for community kitchens and leave it on state governments to implement it.  The court clarified that it didn't mean that a universal scheme should be framed, as there was no straitjacket formula to address the issue, but at least government can frame a model scheme. The Centre can explore possibility of providing additional food grains to the state governments and they can take care of logistics, it added. The court also said States may have to tweak the model scheme to suit local food habits. It also referred to Indira canteen scheme launched by the Karnataka government. Venugopal, for his part, said that not a single state government has reported starvation death, but pointed at news report claiming that a starvation death was reported in Tamil Nadu since the doctors did not find food in the body of the 5-year-old child in the post mortem.  He cited scarcity of funds for the operationality of community kitchens scheme across the country, to address hunger and malnutrition, saying the Centre was already funding 131 welfare schemes.  The petitioners counsel Ashima Mandla asked the court to set up an expert committee in the matter to formulate scheme for community kitchens across the country.  The court fixed the matter for further hearing after three weeks.     Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-frame-model-scheme-for-community-kitchens-1072252.html
18-01-2022||National||Centre flags decline in Covid testing, asks states to increase it||With more than 300 districts reporting around 10 per cent test positivity, the Union Health Ministry has asked the states to enhance Covid detection, alerting the states on the possibility of missing out new Covid clusters and hotspots due to limited tests. The directive comes a week after ICMR announced broadening of the testing strategy due to the highly transmissible Omicron variant, doing away with the requirement of testing the asymptomatic contacts of Covid positive patients unless those individuals belong to the ‘at risk” category. But in a letter sent to the states on Monday, a senior ministry official said the states should read the ICMR advisory on “targeted testing” along with earlier health ministry guidelines that advised strategic and focused testing among people who are vulnerable, living in closed surroundings or in densely populated areas. "In order to ensure that an effective track of the spread of the pandemic is kept and immediate action is initiated, it is incumbent upon all states and UTs to enhance testing,” Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary in the ministry wrote to the states on Monday. Experts too favour an increase in tests, notwithstanding some of the merits in the ICMR’s advice on targeted testing. “To reduce testing or restrict it, after two years of the pandemic, is essentially admitting defeat and letting the infection run through the population, a strategy that carries its own risks. We have tested in larger numbers before and should certainly be doing better now, so many months after the second wave,” Gautam Menon, a professor of physics and biology at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai and Ashoka University told DH. Ahuja said testing remained a key strategy for pandemic management due to (1) identification of new clusters and hotspots, which could facilitate immediate containment and isolation, limiting the spread of the infection and (2) prevention in disease progression to a severe category by strategic screening of those who are at high risk and vulnerable as well as in areas where the spread is likely to be higher. As on Tuesday, 314 districts reported a test positivity of more than 10 per cent, while 150 have a positivity between 5-10 per cent. However, in big cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata, there is a dip in Covid positive cases since last week along with a decline in testing numbers. Bengaluru, on the other hand, reported an all time high of more than 25,000 cases after the number of tests remained more or less at the same range – between 80K and 115K per day and shot up to over 127,000 on Jan 17. “The advantage of testing is people who test positive can be induced to isolate and will modify their behaviour accordingly, especially if they are in contact with people who are vulnerable. It's the elderly, unvaccinated and immunocompromised who are at most risk,” said Menon, who is tracking the Covid-19 pandemic for the past two years. Without disclosing the names of the states or the number of tests, Ahuja said in her letter that the records kept by the ICMR were showing a drop. While several scientists, public health experts and epidemiologists support ICMR’s targeted testing strategy, they said such a strategy might work for the highly transmissible Omicron variant but would not hold waters for other variants. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-flags-decline-in-covid-testing-asks-states-to-increase-it-1072254.html
18-01-2022||National||Revised clinical guidance for Covid patients suggest test for TB, other conditions if cough persists||The Union health ministry has advised Covid patients to go for tests for tuberculosis and other conditions if cough persists for more than two-three weeks. The revised 'Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult Covid-19 Patients' issued by AIIMS, ICMR-Covid-19 National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group (DGHS) under the health ministry on Monday underlined there is no evidence of injectable steroids benefitting Covid patients not requiring oxygen supplementation or in continuation after discharge. Anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy, such as steroids, can have the risk of secondary infection like invasive mucormycosis, when used too early, at higher dose or for longer than required, they highlighted. If cough persists for more than two-three weeks, one should opt for investigation for tuberculosis and other conditions, the revised guidelines stated. The revised guidelines continue to recommend emergency use authorization (EUA) or off-label use of remdesivir in patients with "moderate to severe" disease and those with no renal or hepatic dysfunction within 10 days of the onset of any symptom. It warned against use of the drug for patients who are not on oxygen support or in home settings. According to the guidelines, EUA or off-label use of the tocilizumab drug may be considered for use in the presence of severe disease, preferably within 24 to 48 hours of onset of severe disease or intensive care unit (ICU) admission. Tocilizumab may be considered for patients with significantly raised inflammatory markers, and not improving despite use of steroids with there being no active bacterial, fungal or tubercular infection, they stated. Coronavirus patients have been classified into those affected by mild, moderate and severe disease, the guidelines stated. Injection methylprednisolone 0.5 to one mg/kg in two divided doses, or an equivalent dose of dexamethasone, can be given usually for a duration of five to 10 days in moderate cases, the guidelines stated. The same drug in two divided doses of one to two mg/kg can be given for same duration in severe cases. "Inhalational budesonide (given via metered dose inhaler/dry powder inhaler) at a dose of 800 mcg BD for five days can be given in mild cases if symptoms (fever and/or cough) are persistent beyond five days of disease onset," it was stated in the guidelines. According to the guidance note, upper respiratory tract symptoms without shortness of breath or hypoxia has been categorised as mild disease and have been advised home isolation and care. Those suffering from mild Covid should seek medical attention if they have difficulty in breathing, high grade fever, or severe cough lasting for more than five days. Those having breathlessness with SpO2 fluctuating between 90-93 per cent, can get admitted to a ward, and they will be considered moderate cases. Such patients should be given oxygen support and awake proning should be encouraged in all patients requiring supplemental oxygen therapy, in sequential position changes every two hours, the guidelines stated. Respiratory rate over 30 per minute, breathlessness or SpO2 lower than 90 per cent on room air should be considered as severe disease and such patients have to admitted to an ICU as they will need respiratory support, they said. Such patients should be put on respiratory support. Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) -- helmet or face mask interface depending on availability -- may be considered in those with increasing oxygen requirements if work of breathing is low. High flow nasal cannula should be considered in patients with increasing oxygen requirements. Intubation should be prioritised in patients with high work of breathing if NIV is not tolerated and institutional protocol for ventilatory management should be used when required, the new guidelines stated. Those aged above 60 years, or those having cardiovascular disease, hypertension and coronary artery disease diabetes mellitus and other immunocompromised states, such as HIV, active tuberculosis, chronic lung, kidney or liver disease, cerebrovascular disease or obesity are at high risk for severe disease and mortality, the guidelines stated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/revised-clinical-guidance-for-covid-patients-suggest-test-for-tb-other-conditions-if-cough-persists-1072258.html
18-01-2022||National||More MPs participated Parliamentary panel meets after special allowance withdrawn: RS study||Several leaders have claimed that the discontinuance of special allowance could be the reason for low attendance in Parliamentary committee meetings but a study by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat has found that it is not the case. An analysis by the Secretariat on the instructions of Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has found that the attendance has actually increased in 2019-20 despite the Covid-19 outbreak and when the allowances were not in place in comparison to 2016-17 when special allowance in the form of 25% of airfare as extra monetary benefit was in place. The special allowance was discontinued from 1 April, 2018. The study was conducted as a section of MPs and leaders referred to the withdrawal of special allowance and its possible impact on attendance during meetings they had with Naidu. The issue also came up for discussion during a meeting with floor leaders during the last year's Winter Session, following which he had directed the Secretariat to empirically examine the impact of withdrawal of special allowance to MPs on attendance. Between mid-September 2016 and mid-September 2017, the study showed, the average attendance in 119 meetings of eight Parliamentary Standing Committees under the Rajya Sabha was 47.64%. It increased to 48.79% for 119 meetings during 2019-20 when such allowance was not allowed. Sources said 2016-17 was chosen as the reference year for assessing the impact of meeting allowance because it was available for only six months in 2017-18. During 2018-19, all the eight committees of Rajya Sabha reported low attendance, perhaps, due to the Lok Sabha elections in the first half of 2019. The increase in attendance was despite the onset of COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020 and its peaking six months later in September. The study, however, noted that the attendance fell marginally to 44.59% for 136 meetings during September 2020 and September 2021, while attributing it to the second wave during 2021. The analysis also showed that four committees -- Transport, Tourism and Culture; Health and Family Welfare; Education, Women, Child Development, Youth Affairs and Sports and Commerce have improved attendance during 2019-20 over that of 2016-17. Three committees -- Home Affairs, Science and Technology and Law and Justice have maintained attendance for 2016-17. Only the committee on Industry showed decline in attendance. Naidu, who had earlier written to party floor leaders, has been regularly reviewing the functioning of eight committees under Rajya Sabha and urged MPs to ensure  attendance of 50% and average duration of 2 hours 30 minutes per each meeting. Following his nudge, the average duration of meetings of the eight committees has increased from 1:48 hours in 2016-17 to 2:06 hours in 2019-21. The Committee on Home Affairs reported the highest increase of 49 minutes per meeting followed by Commerce 48 minutes; Education 42 minutes; Transport 35 minutes and Industry 13 minutes. The Committees on Science and Technology and Health & Family Welfare maintained the status quo. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-mps-participated-parliamentary-panel-meets-after-special-allowance-withdrawn-rs-study-1072265.html
18-01-2022||National||Third wave of Covid-19 may peak in next three weeks: Report||The third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to peak much earlier than anticipated and may take a maximum of three more weeks, even though the share of rural districts in new caseloads has increased significantly since December, says a report. The optimism comes from the massive decline in new caseloads in the top 15 districts which had the maximum infections, SBI Research said in a report on Tuesday. Infections in the top 15 districts have declined to 37.4 per cent in January, from 67.9 per cent in December. The report, however, admitted that 10 of these top 15 districts are major cities and among them Bengaluru and Pune still have higher infection rates. The overall share of rural districts in new cases has increased to 32.6 per cent in January, from the lowest of 14.4 per cent in December, the report noted. In comparison to the US, this is too low, where the new cases have soared by 6.9 times even though it has double-vaccinated over 80 per cent of its eligible population. Another point of optimism stems from the fact that India has fully vaccinated 64 per cent of the eligible population, while 89 per cent of the eligible population have been given the first dose. Currently the 7-day median average of vaccination is 70 lakh. Rural vaccination share in total vaccination is now at 83 per cent, indicating that the rural populace may be largely protected in the current wave. Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, MP, Telangana and Uttarakhand have already vaccinated more than 70 per cent of their eligible population with double doses. However, Punjab, UP and Jharkhand are still lagging. Significantly, new cases in Mumbai seem to have peaked (20,971 cases on January 7) but cases in other districts (Bengaluru, Pune, etc) are showing an increase in daily new numbers. So, if other districts also implement strict measures and control the spread, then the national peak may come within two-three weeks from now, Soumyakanti Ghosh, the chief economic advisor at SBI said in the report. The rural caseload is led by Andhra, Bihar, Himachal, Jammu & Kashmir, Odisha and Rajasthan, and rural vaccination is lower in Arunachal, Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-wave-of-covid-19-may-peak-in-next-three-weeks-report-1072274.html
18-01-2022||National||4 poll-bound states' tableaux in Republic Day parade||As a row continued to unfold between the Centre and several states over inclusion in the Republic Day parade tableaux, states that were selected include the poll-going states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Goa. The UP tableau will highlight the Kashi Vishwanath Dham temple as well as the state’s One District One Product (ODOP) scheme. The Uttarakhand tableau will focus on the state’s development schemes, while the Goa tableau will celebrate the symbols of Goan heritage. Punjab’s tableau will focus on the state’s contribution to the freedom struggle. Several states which did not make it to the list have aired their disappointment. In reply, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh wrote to them saying that an expert committee makes the decisions. “The experts’ committee examines the proposals on the basis of theme, concept, design and its visual impact before making its recommendations. As per the time slot allotted for tableaux in the overall duration of the parade, shortlisting of tableaux is done by the committee,” Singh wrote. In all, 12 states made the cut. Other states include the BJP-ruled states of Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, and Karnataka, as well as Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Meghalaya. Arunachal’s tableau will commemorate the Anglo-Abor War of 1894, documenting the resistance of the Adi tribe, also known as Abor, against the British Empire. Chhattisgarh will highlight its cow dung procurement scheme Godhan Yojana, and Haryana will celebrate the state’s contribution to sports. In addition, tableaux by nine ministries and government departments have been selected. This includes one by India Post on women empowerment of the ministry of communication, another on the National Education Policy by the education ministry, while another on the CRPF by the home ministry. Water sanitation ministry’s tableau will be on Jal Shakti Mission, culture ministry’s will be on the 150’s anniversary of freedom fighter Aurobindo, and the aviation ministry will highlight steps to encourage the common man to fly. In addition, housing and urban development will have a tableau on Subhash Chandra Bose, the law ministry will have one on the Lok Adalat system, and the textile ministry on the theme of ‘shuttling to the future’. To be selected, states and government departments have to send in proposals in drawings, and then build a 3D model. In this year’s call of applications by the defence ministry on September 27, 2021, the ministry said that typically six or seven rounds of selection takes place. “Final selection does not guarantee movement on Rajpath in the final parade, if it has not been created in terms of the final approved version,” the application stated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-poll-bound-states-tableaux-in-republic-day-parade-1072282.html
18-01-2022||National||No curbs on using PM's name, photo in PM CARES Fund: PMO tells Bombay HC||The Prime Minister's Office on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court there was no restriction on the use of the prime minister's name and photograph as well as the image of the national flag and emblem for the PM CARES Fund. In an affidavit submitted before a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M S Karnik, PMO Under Secretary Pradeep Srivastava said the PM's photograph, name and national emblem were also used in the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF). The affidavit was filed in response to a petition filed by Congress worker Vikrant Chavan seeking deletion of the prime minister's name and photograph from the PM CARES Fund. It had also sought the deletion of images of the national flag and emblem from the official website of the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund. The plea claimed the usage of the prime minister's photograph and the image of the national flag and emblem were in violation of the Constitution as well as The Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act. In its affidavit, the PMO said, "I say that PM CARES Fund and PMNRF are both chaired by the Prime Minister. As the name, photograph of Prime Minister and National Emblem are being used for the PMNRF, they are also being used for the PM CARES Fund." It said the Flag Code of India, 2002, which brings together all laws, conventions, practices and instructions regarding display of the national flag, provides that there shall be no restriction on its display by general public, private organizations, educational institutions and so on, except to the extent provided in Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act. As per the affidavit, the prime minister is the chairperson (ex-officio) of PM CARES Fund and the Minister of Defence, Minister of Home Affairs and Minister of Finance are ex-officio trustees. "All the trustees of the PM CARES Fund act in a pro-bono capacity. The composition of the Board of Trustees consisting of holders of public office ex-officio is merely for administrative convenience and smooth succession to the trusteeship," the PMO affidavit said, and sought that Chavan'a petition be dismissed. The HC bench on Tuesday posted the matter for further hearing after three weeks. The PM CARES Fund was set up on March 27, 2020 as a public charitable trust in order to extend support and relief for a public health emergency or any other kind of emergency or calamity. Chavan's plea had said the trust does not discharge any governmental or sovereign functions, nor was it a Government of India fund, and the amount collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India. Stating that it would be improper for the trust to use the name of the prime minister or his photograph and the image of the national flag and emblem on its official website, the plea had sought deletion of the same. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-curbs-on-using-pms-name-photo-in-pm-cares-fund-pmo-tells-bombay-hc-1072286.html
18-01-2022||National||India extends $500 million line of credit to help Sri Lanka purchase fuel||India on Tuesday announced a $500 million credit line to help Sri Lanka purchase petroleum products as the island nation struggles with a massive fuel and energy crisis. The Indian High Commission here said External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has agreed to offer critical support and the $500 million credit line in a letter to Sri Lankan Foreign Minister G L Peiris. Sri Lanka is currently facing a severe foreign exchange shortage with falling reserves. This has led to the currency losing value, making imports costly. The country is grappling with a shortage of almost all essentials, including fuel. The state power utilities are unable to run turbines and power cuts are imposed at peak hours. Power Minister Gamini Lokuge was supposed to hold talks with the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) on Tuesday as part of a desperate measure to tide over the crisis. However, those talks are said to have fallen through. "The IOC said they are unable to supply fuel to Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) because they do not have extra supply," Lokuge said. The CEB Engineers' Union on Tuesday said the island is expected to endure power-cuts of upto 4 hours daily. Meanwhile, the state fuel entity has stopped oil supplies as the electricity board has large unpaid bills. The only refinery was recently shut as it was unable to pay dollars for crude imports. Early this week, the Indian government announced a billion dollar assistance package in addition to other balance of payment support to Sri Lanka. The billion dollar loan credit facility is to be used to avert a food crisis while allowing for the import of items and medicines. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-extends-500-million-line-of-credit-to-help-sri-lanka-purchase-fuel-1072290.html
18-01-2022||National||Over 23K candidates appearing fro GATE demand postponement of exam citing Covid-19||Over 23,000 candidates appearing for the GATE examination in February have joined a petition demanding the exam be postponed in view of the third wave of Covid-19. The Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) is an examination that primarily tests the comprehensive understanding of various undergraduate subjects in engineering and science for admission to the masters programme and recruitment by some public sector companies. This year the exam is being conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur from February 4-13. "With the current third wave, Covid-19 due to its new variant Omicron has spread severely in several states, cities. Several studies including one done by IIT Kanpur predict that the peak of the 3rd wave is expected in early February and the wave will end by April. Therefore, the peak is most likely to coincide with the usual exam dates of GATE," the petition read. "If the exam dates are not postponed, the candidates appearing for GATE 2022 run an imminent risk of getting infected and spreading it thereby getting threat to their life as well as their family member's lives," it added. There was no response from the IIT Kharagpur on the issue. The result of the exam is scheduled to be declared on March, 17. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-23k-candidates-appearing-fro-gate-demand-postponement-of-exam-citing-covid-19-1072295.html
18-01-2022||National||Obscene remarks made against Muslim women on Clubhouse app, DCW seeks FIR||The Delhi Commission for Women on Tuesday sought immediate registration of an FIR against people who allegedly made obscene remarks against Muslim women on audio-chat application Clubhouse. "Someone tagged me on Twitter the detailed audio conversation on the Clubhouse app which targeted Muslim women and girls and made disgusting sexual comments against them," DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, demanding a punitive action against the alleged persons. On Monday, a video of a Clubhouse conversation on the topic 'Muslim gals are more beautiful than hindu gals' went viral on social media. In the said conversation, the participants were allegedly heard making obscene, vulgar and derogatory remarks targeting Muslim women and girls. The Commission asked the police to register an FIR immediately and arrest the accused participants. "The Delhi Police has been given five days to submit a detailed action taken report to the Commission," Maliwal said. "First Sulli deals, then Bulli bai and now indecent sexual remarks against Muslim girls on the Clubhouse app! How long will this go on?," the DCW chief asked through social media. Maliwal further stated that she feels outraged over the fact that such incidents are increasing in the country. "Strongest action needs to be taken against the culprits and that's why I have issued a Notice to Delhi Police seeking immediate FIR and arrests in the matter," the DCW chief added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/obscene-remarks-made-against-muslim-women-on-clubhouse-app-dcw-seeks-fir-1072307.html
18-01-2022||National||Three Maoists killed in exchange of fire with security forces in Bijapur||At least three Maoists were killed in an exchange of fire with security forces along the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border on Tuesday morning. According to Sangram Singh Patil Ganapatrao, superintendent of police, Telangana's Mulugu district, two of the slain Maoists are male and one female. The police are ascertaining their identity. “It was a joint operation of the Telangana, Chhattisgarh police and the CRPF based on the information about Maoist movement and activities in the border forest areas,” Patil told DH. The incident occurred at about 7 am in the forests of south Bijapur district close to the Telangana border. A constable with Greyhounds (Telangana's elite anti-Maoist commando force) was injured in action and was shifted to Hyderabad for better medical care and is stated as out of danger. In a similar joint operation that took place last month, six Maoists, including four women, were killed in south Chhattisgarh forests. The Telangana police have, in recent months, stepped up its vigil in the districts bordering Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh based on inputs that Maoists could be regrouping, planning to carry out activities like attacks on the security forces. The Telangana police has in recent months stepped up its vigil in the districts bordering Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh based on inputs that Maoists could be regrouping, planning to carry out activities like attacks on the security forces. In its 2021 round-up report, the Telangana police department said that it thwarted the “desperate efforts of CPI (Maoist) to revive the insurgent movement in Telangana.” Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-maoists-killed-in-exchange-of-fire-with-security-forces-in-bijapur-1072310.html
18-01-2022||National||WFH has put working women under 'triple burden': Kovind||Work from home during the Covid pandemic has its benefits but it has also put working women under a "triple burden", says President Ram Nath Kovind. In a letter to young Indians published in the Manorama Yearbook 2022, he says women already have the double burden of paid work and "unpaid work", that is, domestic responsibilities. "On top of that, as children attend school from home, their learning has to be supplemented by the parents, and that task usually falls on the mother," Kovind writes in the letter, titled "Arise, The Future Beckons". "The new stress on family time should be welcome for male employees, so that they can share some of the responsibilities of their partners. In any case, studies show that hard work in itself can be even counterproductive and as the number of hours spent on work goes up, productivity comes down in some instances," he writes. The President also says that the pandemic has taught us "exactly those lessons that will come handy for climate action". The pandemic has been an unprecedented crisis, but it may as well be just a warning of a far bigger crisis that is looming over the horizon. "Climate change is no longer a matter of scientific research and policy discussions; its impact is already tangible, and we are fast running out of time to keep global warming within feasible limits," he writes. The decade of the 2020s, he says, could turn out to be the most decisive point. "The situation is dire and pessimism won't be out of place, but I remain hopeful." Kovind's hope stems from the fact that "we have seen what we are capable of when our collective existence was threatened by the coronavirus. COVID-19 has shown what humankind can do if all nations join hands and are guided by nothing other than concern for our common future coupled with respect for science". On career opportunities, he writes: "As average Indians in your twenties, the question of career is bound to be uppermost in your minds. Under social imperatives or under peer pressure, many of you often equate a 'career' with a 'job', preferably with the assurance of its continuity till superannuation. That is understandable. India's bureaucracy and public sector both require talented, hardworking youngsters." But a job, Kovind says, need not mean a government or public-sector one only. "Our private sector has contributed immensely to the creation of wealth for all, and it would also need talent to take India's economy to new heights". He stresses that a career need not mean a job. "In the new century, many of our deeply held notions of 'work' were anyway undergoing changes, and COVID-19 only hastened that process. It forced movement restrictions and lockdowns on us, paralysing economies around the world. As a result, there were job losses and salary cuts, but there was also a rise in the 'gig economy'," he says. He then goes on to say that in this "brave new world, a brave new breed of youngsters is seeking neither jobs nor the financial security of the routine nine-to-five work but a rightful recognition of and remuneration for their unique talents, for their creative vision, for their skills". "Instead of safety, their preference is for flexibility. Instead of closing their options, they are exploring more alternatives," he writes. Along with the gig economy, another trend in recent years, according to Kovind, is work-life balance -- a phase when hard work alone was of paramount importance is over in many nations, organisations and sectors. Besides featuring important happenings of 2021, the yearbook also has articles by the likes of Shashi Tharoor, Suresh Prabhu and Paranjoy Guha Thakurta among others. Chief Editor Mammen Mathew says the yearbook is "power-packed in more than 25 sections with interesting articles by eminent writers that capture the new trends".  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wfh-has-put-working-women-under-triple-burden-kovind-1072315.html
18-01-2022||National||Rajnath Singh writes to Tamil Nadu, West Bengal CMs over Republic Day tableau row||As a row continued to unfold between the Centre and several states over inclusion in the Republic Day parade tableaux, defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and West Benal to highlight the selection process. In his letters to TN CM M K Stalin and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Singh said that an expert committee makes the decisions. “The experts’ committee examines the proposals on the basis of theme, concept, design and its visual impact before making its recommendations. As per the time slot allotted for tableaux in the overall duration of the parade, shortlisting of tableaux is done by the committee,” Singh’s letter said. However, among the 12 states that made the cut include the poll-going states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa. Singh also said that the respective states were included in the parade in previous years. “This is also to bring to your kind information that during the last few years, tableau from the state of Tamil Nadu has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021,” Singh said in his letter to Stalin. “West Bengal's tableau has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021," the letter to Banerjee read. Several states which did not make it to the list have aired their disappointment. Stalin earlier said that it was an “insult” to the people of Tamil Nadu that the state’s tableau was not being selected. Bannerjee had written to PM Modi saying that she was “shocked” at Bengal’s exclusion. “It is even more baffling for us that the tableau was rejected without assigning any reasons or justifications,” she wrote. Bengal’s tableau celebrated icons like Rabindranath Tagore, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo. Delhi’s tableau, too, did not make it to the cut. The government said that there will be no review of the process. On twitter, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the government received 56 proposals, of which 21 were shortlisted. She also said that the CPWD’s tableau will commemorate the life of Subhash Chandra Bose. The UP tableau will highlight the Kashi Vishwanath Dham temple as well as the state’s One District One Product (ODOP) scheme. The Uttarakhand tableau will focus on the state’s development schemes, while the Goa tableau will celebrate the symbols of Goan heritage. Punjab’s tableau will focus on the state’s contribution to the freedom struggle. In addition, tableaux by nine ministries and government departments have been selected. This includes water sanitation ministry’s tableau on Jal Shakti Mission, culture ministry’s commemoration of the 150th’s anniversary of freedom fighter Aurobindo, and housing and urban development will have a tableau on Subhash Chandra Bose. Congress’s Tamil Nadu in-charge Manickam Tagore said that the state’s tableau featuring “Rani Velunachiyar on a horse and Bharati with turban” was rejected on various grounds. He said that various reasons were given; officials were told that if a state makes it to the cut three years in a row will not be selected. “The defence minister must institute an impartial inquiry,” he said. Congress Assam president Bhupen Borah tweeted that it was an insult to Assam that the state’s tableau on freedom fighter Kanaklata Barua was not selected. “It’s a big insult to Assam and northeast … Perhaps, her case was not approved by the RSS,” Borah tweeted. Other states include the BJP ruled states of Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, and Karnataka, as well as Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Meghalaya. Arunachal’s tableau will commemorate the Anglo-Abor War of 1894, documenting the resistance of the Adi tribe, also known as Abor, against the British Empire. Chhattisgarh will highlight its cow dung procurement scheme Godhan Yojana, and Haryana will celebrate the state’s contribution to sports. Other ministries tableaux include the aviation ministry’s highlighting the steps to encourage the common man to fly, the law ministry’s tableau on the Lok Adalat system, and the textile ministry on the theme of ‘shuttling to the future’. Apart from that, one by India Post on women empowerment of the ministry of communication, another on the National Education Policy by the education ministry, while another on the CRPF by the home ministry. To be selected, states and government departments have to send in proposals in drawings, and then build a 3D model. In this year’s call of applications by the defence ministry on September 27, 2021, the ministry said that typically six or seven rounds of selection takes place. “Final selection does not guarantee movement on Rajpath in the final parade, if it has not been created in terms of the final approved version,” the application stated. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-writes-to-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-cms-over-republic-day-tableau-row-1072321.html
18-01-2022||National||Opposition finds pattern in central agencies’ action in election season||A raid by Enforcement Directorate (ED) of a relative of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in a money laundering probe in the sand mafia case on Tuesday has once again put the spotlight on the actions of central agencies during election season with the Opposition pointing out to similar actions in the past few years under Narendra Modi government. In the run up to the latest edition of polls, an MLC of Samajwadi Party, who is into business in Kanpur, was raided while some close Akhilesh Yadav aides also bore the brunt of the agencies. There were similar actions or registration of cases or summoning for questioning by central agencies before the Lok Sabha elections and polls to states like Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, as well as during political crisis situations. "Conducting an ED raid is BJP’s favourite weapon because they themselves have things to hide. Not everyone is like you. We have #NoFear. #BJPFakeRaid," top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday.  Conducting an ED raid is BJP’s favourite weapon because they themselves have things to hide. The leaders who faced action during poll season include NCP chief Sharad Pawar and his nephew Ajit Pawar, National Conference patriarch Farooq Abdullah, Congress' Kamal Nath and DK Shivakumar, aides of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister's daughter Senthamarai, top DMK MP Kanimozhi, Trinamool Congress General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel among others. The run up to Assembly elections in April-May 2021 saw a number of actions ranging from searches to filing of cases and summoning for questioning. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and now party General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee's wife and in-laws were summoned in a coal theft case in February 2021 while leaders and ministers like Partha Chatterjee, Madan Mitra, Kunal Ghosh and Vivek Gupta were summoned in other cases. In April 2021 as the campaigning was on, Income Tax authorities searched the residence of DMK chief MK Stalin's daughter Senthamarai's residence following "complaints" of cash distribution. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, top DMK MP Kanimozhi, Stalin's sister, also faced a raid at her residence. The ED had then brought Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in its line of fire claiming that one of the gold scam accused has said that the smuggling was done with the knowledge of the CPI(M) leader.  Pawar had faced an ED case in connection with Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank case just a month before the Maharashtra Assembly election along with his nephew in September 2019. Karnataka Congress president Shivakumar faced trouble in August 2017 when he hosted Gujarat Congress MLAs before Rajya Sabha elections to ensure Ahmed Patel's victory. Just before the Karnataka elections, a case was also filed by the Income Tax Department which eventually led to his arrest in 2019 by the ED. Abullah's properties were attached by the ED when the Jammu and Kashmir District Development Council elections were being held. When Sachin Pilot raised a banner revolt against Gehlot and appeared to be switching sides to the BJP, which he eventually did not, the agencies conducted searches at the premises of Chief Minister's brother in a 2013 case as well as that of his close aides. Just before the Chhattisgarh Assembly elections, a case was slapped against Baghel in the CD scandal case while Haryana Congress leader and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Hooda too faced trouble. Months before the Andhra Pradesh Assembly elections, then TDP MP Y S Chowdhury's firms were raised but he joined the BJP after the Lok Sabha and Assembly polls in 2019. Another TDP MP CM Ramesh, who was also facing cases, also switched sides along with Chowdhury.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-finds-pattern-in-central-agencies-action-in-election-season-1072325.html
18-01-2022||National||Government suspends GAIL director Ranganathan after CBI arrest||The government has suspended ES Ranganathan, Director (Marketing) of GAIL (India) Ltd, after his arrest by the CBI over allegedly taking bribes to give discounts to private companies buying petrochemical products from the state-owned gas utility. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas on January 17 issued orders suspending Ranganathan from service, pending probe, official sources said. Ranganathan, who was appointed Director (Marketing) of GAIL in July 2020, was to superannuate in May next year. The CBI had on Friday evening started searches in connection with discounts that Ranganathan had allegedly promised to private companies in exchange for a bribe of Rs 50 lakh. On Saturday, it searched Ranganathan's residence in Noida and his office at GAIL's headquarters at Bhikaji Cama Place. The office was sealed and Ranganathan was questioned. While CBI had arrested some persons of the private companies on Saturday itself, Ranganathan was arrested on January 16 after obtaining requisite sanctions, sources said. Subsequent to his suspension, the ministry on Tuesday issued an order giving "additional charge of director (marketing) to MV Iyer, Director (Business Development), GAIL for a period of three months from January 18, 2022 or till appointment of a regular incumbent to the post, or until further orders, whichever is the earliest." GAIL in a regulatory filing on Tuesday said it has complied with the ministry order and entrusted an additional charge of the post of Director (Marketing), GAIL to Iyer. On Monday, the company had informed the stock exchanges that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered an FIR against Ranganathan and other private persons on charges of criminal conspiracy, demand and obtaining undue advantage by public servant, taking undue advantage to influence public servant, bribing public servant etc. "Further, CBI searched at the premise(s) of Shri ES Ranganathan, Director (Marketing) of the Company and other private persons in connection with the said case," it had said adding Ranganathan has also been arrested in connection with the said case. "Company is not aware of any information other than those published or reported in the media," it had said. "At this stage no estimated financial impact or estimated amount can be ascertained." The CBI had last week stated that it had unearthed the alleged bribery scam involving Ranganathan, middlemen, and businessmen and arrested five individuals on Saturday. The central agency had conducted searches at eight locations including the office and residence of Ranganathan, sources said. "Cash of Rs 1.29 crore (approx), and gold jewellery and other valuables (having app value of Rs 1.25 crore) recovered during searches from the premises of said accused (Ranganathan)," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi had said on Sunday. It alleged that Ranganathan was collecting bribes from prospective beneficiaries of discounts to private companies buying petrochemical products marketed by the Maharatna PSU. Ranganathan, it alleged, was "indulging into corrupt and illegal activities in criminal conspiracy" with middlemen Pawan Gaur and Rajesh Kumar who is also director of Rishab Polychem Pvt. Ltd based at Bahadurgarh Road, Delhi. Kumar and Gaur allegedly acted as Ranganathan's middlemen by taking bribes from the private companies buying petrochemical products marketed by GAIL, the FIR alleged. Based on information of one such bribery exchange, the CBI teams had conducted a trap operation in which two middlemen Gaur and Kumar were nabbed with the bribe amount of about 10 lakh which was collected on behalf of Ranganathan, the CBI had alleged. Later, Nair, Gupta and Bansal were also taken into CBI custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-suspends-gail-director-ranganathan-after-cbi-arrest-1072328.html
18-01-2022||National||SP MLA Pinki Yadav, others booked for violating model code, Covid guidelines||Samajwadi Party MLA from Asmoli Pinki Yadav and dozens of unknown people have been booked for allegedly violating the Election Commission's Model Code of Conduct and coronavirus guidelines, police said Tuesday. Superintendent of Police Chakresh Mishra said that Yadav was addressing a crowd of 50-60 people in Atrasi village Monday evening where the participants were neither wearing masks nor maintaining safe distance among themselves. The Election Commission has suspended physical election rallies in five poll-bound states including Uttar Pradesh in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sp-mla-pinki-yadav-others-booked-for-violating-model-code-covid-guidelines-1072329.html
18-01-2022||National||Mamata Banerjee expresses concern over amending IAS (Cadre) Rules, writes to PM||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has expressed reservations against an amendment in the IAS (Cadre) Rules 1954, proposed by the Centre. The proposed change “unilaterally mandates the state government to make such number of officers available for deputation as prescribed under Central Deputation Reserve”, Mamata stated in a letter she wrote to Prime Minister Modi.   A change has been proposed in Rule 6 of the IAS (Cadre) Rules that concerns ‘Deputation of cadre officers’. Administrative sources add that with the change made, it will be possible for the central government to post on central deputation any IAS official working in the state, with the state having a limited say. The states will have to agree to nominate a certain number of officers for central deputation.  The chief minister’s letter states, “By insisting on officers to be made available for deputation through the proposed amendment, not only will the administration of states be affected but also it would become impossible to assess and plan the administration of a state by engaging such officers who form part of the Central Deputation Reserve, fraught with the uncertainty of their sudden deputation by the Centre.” The amended rules, as stated in the chief minister’s letter, suggest that if there is a disagreement between the Centre and the state, the Centre gets to decide and the state will have to oblige in a given time frame. “By the proposed amendment, a proviso is also sought to be inserted proposing, inter alia, that in case of a disagreement between the Central Government and the State Government, the matter shall be decided by the Central Government and the State Government shall give effect to the decision of the Central Government within a specific time,” Mamata has stated. Mamata has urged the Centre to reconsider the proposed amendment, which, as being considered, is likely to "affect the state-Centre positions in terms of taking such decisions". The proposed amendment, according to the chief minister, “seems to make a permanent dent in the spirit of cooperative federalism”. “I would beseech you to consider that the reciprocal spirit of interactive and consultative give and take, designed in the existing framework, should not be replaced by unilateralism,” the chief minister has urged, requesting PM Modi to withdraw, or not give effect to the proposed amendment. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-expresses-concern-over-amending-ias-cadre-rules-writes-to-pm-1072334.html
18-01-2022||National||Bharat Biotech receiving reports that 15-18 age group being administered vaccine other than Covaxin||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said it is receiving several reports that children in the age group of 15-18 years are being administered Covid-19 vaccine other than Covaxin. Requesting health workers to be vigilant and ensure that only Covaxin is administered to that particular age group, Bharat Biotech in a Twitter post said its vaccine is the only approved Covid-19 jab to be administered to children in the age group between 15 and 18. "We have received several additional reports of individuals in the 15-18 year age group being administered unapproved Covid-19 vaccines," the company said. In a statement, the vaccine major noted that all adverse events after vaccinations are reported to the Ministry of Health and AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) centres across the country. Bharat Biotech also has extensive pharmacovigilance programmes to receive and investigate AEFI's, it added. "We reject such misinformation and disinformation (related to vaccination for 15-18 age group), especially during this pandemic. Reporting on medicine, science, vaccines, pharmaceuticals, public health, etc, to be based on scientific data and analysis, not based on political, financial, or ideological motives or speculation," it said. Fake news and false narratives result in increasing the levels of anxiety for adults and children during these stressful times and should be avoided, the company stated. Covaxin received approval based on thorough clinical trial evaluation for safety and immunogenicity in the 2-18 years age group. Currently, it is the only Covid-19 vaccine in India approved for children, it added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-receiving-reports-that-15-18-age-group-being-administered-vaccine-other-than-covaxin-1072340.html
18-01-2022||National||Pakistan's ISI planning UAE-like drone attack in India?||The Indian intelligence agencies have found that Pakistan is purchasing Chinese drones to use them for the purpose of smuggling arms and drugs into the country, sources said. Sources in the security agencies said that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) is purchasing drones from China for terrorist groups Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). Pakistan can also execute drone attacks in India like the one in Abu Dhabi on Monday which killed two Indian nationals, the sources said. After receiving the crucial inputs, the security agencies have stepped up their vigil and have spoken to the law enforcement agencies in various states regarding this. Since the Republic Day is round the corner, Delhi Police have been specifically briefed about the inputs. A document has been accessed by IANS, which confirms ISI's conspiracy. "ISI can execute drone attacks like the one in Abu Dhabi on Monday which killed two Indians. We are suspecting that a few famous personalities can be targeted with drone attack by terrorist outfits backed by the ISI," said a source. "The inputs have been received from a reliable source. They indicate that ISI has procured very sophisticated, customised drones from China, which are water-resistant and capable of operating even during rains. These drones can fly up to 800m AGL (actual ground level) and 15-20 km one side. It has been further learnt that the ISI has provided these drones to terrorist groups (LeT and JeM) to use them against India by smuggling arms and narcotics into the country," the source said. After receiving the inputs, the Border Security Force (BSF) has been informed. In Punjab, the BSF had earlier spotted a few drones, some of which were gunned down by the force. The drones were used for the purpose of smuggling of arms and drugs by Pakistan-based handlers. The agencies have specifically alerted the states after the drone attack in Abu Dhabi regarding possible similar attacks in the country. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-isi-planning-uae-like-drone-attack-in-india-1072351.html
18-01-2022||National||SC questions rationality of suspending 12 BJP MLAs from Maharashtra Assembly for one year||The Supreme Court on Monday questioned the rationality of suspending 12 BJP MLAs from Maharashtra Assembly for one year, saying this would be dangerous for democracy for resulting in deprivation of representation to their constituencies. "There should be some purpose of suspension and the purpose is with regards to the session. It should not travel beyond that session. Anything other than this would be irrational," a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said. The bench also referred to the Parliamentary law which required that a constituency can't go unrepresented beyond six months and the role of Election Commission comes into play in such circumstances. "In case of suspension, there will not be an election but if a person is expelled then election will be conducted. Another is danger to the democracy. Suppose there is a slender lead of the majority, and 15-20 people are suspended, what would be the fate of democracy," the bench asked senior advocate C A Sundaram, appearing for Maharashtra. The counsel emphasised on the limited scope of judicial review of the decision on punishment by the Assembly. The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar, said there has to be some rational and constitutional principle behind suspension as  houses meet in sessions.  The court was hearing the plea by 12 BJP MLAs against their suspension for one year on July 5. On January 11, the court had said suspension of the MLAs for allegedly misbehaving with the presiding officer in chair, both inside and outside the Assembly, was “worse than expulsion”. The court had then expressed an inclination to interfere with the resolution passed by the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-questions-rationality-of-suspending-12-bjp-mlas-from-maharashtra-assembly-for-one-year-1072352.html
18-01-2022||National||Bengaluru, Gurugram among 11 winners of govt's 'Streets for People Challenge'||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Tuesday said 11 cities, including Bengaluru, Gurugram and Aurangabad, have been selected as the winners of the 'Streets for People Challenge' for their pilot projects to make roads more pedestrian-friendly. In a statement, the ministry said that under the challenge, 38 cites had piloted re-imaginations of an important street each by prioritising them for pedestrians. Eleven cities have been selected by a jury panel for the next phase of scale-up and will be awarded Rs 50 lakh each by the ministry, the statement stated. Kochi, Kohima, Nagpur, Pimpri Chinchwad, Pune, Udaipur, Ujjain and Vijayawada are the remaining eight cities. While Bengaluru has been selected for creating public spaces in residential area with involvement of resident welfare association, the project of Gurugram has been selected for pedestrianising markets and school zones by involving citizens. The ministry also announced 10 winners of the pilot stage of the 'Nurturing Neighbourhoods Challenge' that is aimed at shaping early childhood-friendly neighbourhoods in Indian cities. According to the statement, the challenge was also started in November 2020 and included 70 pilot projects by 25 cities. Under the challenge, Bengaluru has been selected for enhancing the safety of an anganwadi to foster independence in toddlers, refurbishing common areas, toilets and play spaces with child-specific design standards, it stated. Indore has been selected for its pilot project to provide a neighbourhood park previously inaccessible to young children and revamping it with lighting, plants and recycled and natural materials. The remaining eight city winners are Hubballi-Dharwad, Jabalpur, Kakinanda, Kochi, Rourkela, Kohima, Vadodara and Warangal. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-gurugram-among-11-winners-of-govts-streets-for-people-challenge-1072363.html
18-01-2022||National||SC says courts deciding rape cases in haste a 'disturbing trend'||The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed concern over the "disturbing tendency" of trial courts deciding cases involving rape and murder charges in haste as it commuted the death sentence of a man, convicted for raping and killing a 11-year-old girl, to 30 years imprisonment. A bench, headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao and comprising Justices B.R. Gavai and B.V. Nagarathna, said: "It is travesty of justice as the appellant was not given a fair opportunity to defend himself. This is a classic case indicating the disturbing tendency of trial courts adjudicating criminal cases involving rape and murder in haste. It is trite law that an accused is entitled for a fair trial which is guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution." Noting that the trial court passed the order of conviction and sentence on the same day, Justice Rao, who authored the judgment on behalf of the bench, said: "The object and purpose of Section 235 (2) CrPC is that the accused must be given an opportunity to make a representation against the sentence to be imposed on him. A bifurcated hearing for convicting and sentencing is necessary to provide an effective opportunity to the accused." The bench added that adequate opportunity to produce relevant material on the question of death sentence should be provided to the accused by the trial court. The judgment came on an appeal filed by Bhagwani, whose appeal challenging the death sentence awarded by the trial court was dismissed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court. The top court noted that the accused was 25 years old on the date of commission of the offence and belongs to a Scheduled Tribes community, eking his livelihood by doing manual labour. It added that no evidence has been placed by the prosecution on record to show that there is no probability of rehabilitation and reformation of the accused and the question of an alternative option to death sentence is foreclosed. "The appellant had no criminal antecedents before the commission of crime for which he has been convicted. There is nothing adverse that has been reported against his conduct in jail. Therefore, the death sentence requires to be commuted to life imprisonment," noted the bench, sentencing him to 30 years imprisonment for committing rape and murder of a hapless girl. The incident occurred in April 2017 and the other accused Satish died during the pendency of his appeal. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-says-courts-deciding-rape-cases-in-haste-a-disturbing-trend-1072366.html
18-01-2022||National||Bombay HC commutes Gavit sisters' death sentence to life in kidnapping, murder cases||In a significant development, the Bombay High Court on Tuesday commuted the death sentence to life imprisonment to two sisters who were responsible for kidnapping 13 minors and murdering at least 5 of them during the early nineties. The two convict sisters – Seema Mohan Gavit (39) and Renuka Kiran Shinde (45), currently lodged in the Yerawada Central Prison in Pune, will have to undergo the life sentence till the end of their natural life. The prime accused in the case – their mother, Anjanabai Gavit, passed away in 1998. A division bench comprising Justice Nitin M Jamdar and Justice Sarang Kotwal noted that the sister’s review plea seeking to commute capital punishment to life imprisonment has seen an “inordinate delay”. Holding that the crime was inhuman, the bench noted: “...the nature of the injuries suffered by some of the children were so severe that only an extremely depraved mind could have perpetuated such brutal killings…” However, on the appeal of the sisters and the delay on part of the government, the justices noted: “…due to the casual approach of the officers of the Respondent- State, the mercy petitions were not decided for seven years, ten months and 15 days… Though the procedure for deciding the mercy petitions mandates speed and expediency, the State machinery showed indifference and laxity at each stage of processing the files. That it took seven years only for the movement of files for such a grave issue is unacceptable when electronic communications were available to be used.” In 2001, the step-sisters were convicted and awarded the death penalty by the Kolhapur Sessions Court for kidnappings of 13 children and killing 5 of them brutally. The death sentence was later confirmed by the Bombay High Court in 2004 and then the Supreme Court in 2006 and after the rejection of their appeals for pardon and commuting the death sentences to life from both the governor and the President, they moved to the Bombay High Court. The sister's counsel Aniket Vagal pointed out that the delay was attributable to the executive including the governor and the Maharashtra government, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the President. However, the Centre’s counsel Sandesh Patil denied any delay on part of the Union government.  The heinous crimes have shaken Maharashtra. The two sisters – Seema and Renuka – were assisted in the crime by their mother Anjanabai Gavit and Renuka's husband Kiran Shinde. Anjana died in custody while Kiran turned an approver. They used to force children to beg, commit petty thefts and pick-pocketing. The children were starved, to force them to commit crimes. After having sufficiently used the children in crime, they banged their heads against walls and killed them. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-commutes-gavit-sisters-death-sentence-to-life-in-kidnapping-murder-cases-1072387.html
18-01-2022||National||Jaishankar calls attack in Abu Dhabi 'unacceptable'||India on Tuesday condemned the drone attack on a fuel storage facility near the airport in the capital of United Arab Emirates and called it “unacceptable”, even as it swung into action to repatriate the mortal remains of its two citizens killed in the incident. “Conveyed our strong solidarity with UAE in face of such unacceptable acts,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar posted on Twitter, after talking to Emirati Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed over phone. Zayed called Jaishankar to express condolence for the death of two citizens of India in the drone attack carried out by the Houthi rebels of Yemen on a fuel storage facility of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) near the airport of the capital city of the UAE. “Deeply appreciate receiving a call from UAE FM @ABZayed. He expressed condolences for the Indian lives lost in the terror attack in UAE yesterday,” the External Affairs Minister tweeted. Conveyed our strong solidarity with UAE in face of such unacceptable acts. The Embassy of India in Abu Dhabi meanwhile initiated the process of repatriating the mortal remains of the two deceased citizens of the country. It posted on Twitter on Tuesday that the identities of the two had been established and its officials were in touch with the family of the deceased. “The mission is working closely with UAE authorities, including ADNOC, for early repatriation of (the) mortal remains (of the two Indians),” it added. The Indians killed in the incidents were employees of the ADNOC. Two of the six injured were also citizens of India, but they were already discharged from the hospital after medical treatment. “Our Embassy is working with UAE authorities to provide the fullest support to families of the deceased,” Jaishankar tweeted after speaking to Zayed. A Pakistani employee of the ADNOC was also killed in the incident. New Delhi is also trying to ensure the release of seven Indians, who are among the 11 sailors held hostage by the Houthis on board the UAE-flagged cargo vessel Rwabee seized by the rebels on the Red Sea off the coast of Yemen on January 2. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-calls-attack-in-abu-dhabi-unacceptable-1072396.html
18-01-2022||National||Republic Day parade, Beating Retreat ceremony to sport new look with drones, scrolls||Around 25,000 people had attended the parade last year, which happened towards the end of the first Covid-19 wave. Botlab, a startup incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, will undertake the synchronised flight of 1,000 drones during the Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29. This will make India the fourth country after China, Russia and USA to operate a swarm of 1,000 unmanned aerial vehicles. Defence Ministry sources on Tuesday said that for the first time, dedicated seats will be kept for commoners like autorickshaw drivers, construction workers, healthcare workers and frontline staff to witness the parade as well as the Beating Retreat — a military tradition dating from the days when troops disengaged from battle at the sunset. The parade will start at 10.30 am — instead of the usual 10 am — for better visibility during the fly-past at the end involving 75 aircraft. The IAF’s latest acquisition, Rafale fighter jets, will be part of the show. The new-look Central Vista will also be thrown open to the public. Fighter jets like Rafale, Sukhoi and Jaguar, helicopters like Mi-17, ALH and Apache, and vintage transport aircraft Dakota will take part in the fly-past, which will comprise 15 breathtaking formations. There will be 10 huge hand-painted scrolls, each having a breadth of 75 mt and a height of 15 mt, along the Rajpath highlighting the contribution of unsung heroes of the freedom movement and India’s cultural heritage. The scrolls have been created by more than 500 artists in two separate camps at Bhubaneswar and Chandigarh in partnership with the National Gallery of Modern Arts that will showcase them in different parts of the country after the national parade, and finally preserve them. There will be 10 giant LED screens — five each on both sides of the decked-up Rajpath. They will show curated films before the parade and telecast the parade for better viewing once it starts. A new addition during the Beating Retreat ceremony will be the projection mapping on the parapets of the iconic North and South Blocks as the dusk descends. Defence Ministry sources said henceforth, the Republic Day-Beating Retreat ceremony will be celebrated for a week beginning with the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on January 23 and ending on the Martyr’s Day on January 30 when Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-parade-beating-retreat-ceremony-to-sport-new-look-with-drones-scrolls-1072397.html
18-01-2022||National||Over 50% in 15-18 age group vaccinated with first dose: Govt||Over 50 per cent teenagers in the 15-18 age group have been vaccinated with the first dose of vaccine. Since the beginning of inoculation drive for this age bracket, a total of 3,71,13,119 teens have received their first dose of vaccine, as per the CoWIN portal. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted: "Big day for India's fight against Covid-19! Over 50 per cent of our youngsters between 15-18 age group have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Well done, my Young Friends! Your enthusiasm for vaccination is inspiring people all over India." As Covid-19 cases began to surge in India, the nationwide drive to vaccinate teenagers in this age group of 15-18 years began on January 3. As of now, only Bharat Biotech's indigenously-made 'Covaxin' is available for vaccinating this age bracket. A total of 3,84,60,528 adolescents of this age group has registered for the vaccine so far. As per the Health Ministry data, a total of 10,40,627 teens of this group have received their first dose on Tuesday by 7 p.m., which is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late on Thursday. Meanwhile, India has also administered over 56 lakh precaution doses among the healthcare workers, frontline workers and 60 plus populations since the beginning. The drive for precaution dose started on January 10 this year. With over 65 lakh vaccine doses administered till 7 p.m. on Tuesday, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 158.74 crore. It includes over 56 lakh Precaution Doses for the identified categories of beneficiaries. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-50-in-15-18-age-group-vaccinated-with-first-dose-govt-1072411.html
18-01-2022||National||Vijay Mallya may be evicted from London home; Swiss bank UBS to takeover||Embattled businessman Vijay Mallya on Tuesday lost a legal battle to hold on to his plush London home after a British court refused to grant him a stay of enforcement in a long-running dispute with Swiss bank UBS. The 18/19 Cornwall Terrace luxury apartment overlooking Regent’s Park in London, described in court as an "extraordinarily valuable property worth many tens of millions of pounds", is currently being occupied by Mallya’s 95-year-old mother Lalitha. Delivering his judgment virtually for the Chancery Division of the High Court, Deputy Master Matthew Marsh concluded there were no grounds for him to grant further time for the Mallya family to repay a GBP 20.4-million loan to UBS – the claimant in the case. "The claimant’s position was a reasonable one… further time is not likely to make any material difference," Deputy Master Marsh ruled. "I would also add from my review of the correspondence, I can see no basis whatever for the suggestion that has been made that the claimant has misled the first defendant [Vijay Mallya]… in conclusion, I dismiss the first defendant’s application,” he said. The judge also declined permission to appeal against his order or to grant a temporary stay of enforcement, which means UBS can proceed with the possession process to realise its unpaid dues. "I will refuse permission to appeal and therefore it follows that I will not be granting a stay," said Marsh. Mallya’s barrister, Daniel Margolin QC, indicated that the 65-year-old businessman plans to pursue an appeal before a High Court Chancery Division Judge as it has "serious consequences" for his clients, including Mallya’s elderly mother who currently resides at the address. Meanwhile, Fenner Moeran QC made it clear that UBS intends to proceed with the enforcement order without delay. The case relates to a mortgage taken out by Rose Capital Ventures, one of Mallya’s companies, with the former Kingfisher Airlines boss, his mother Lalitha and son Sidhartha Mallya listed as co-defendants with right of occupancy of the property. In May 2019, Judge Simon Barker had handed down a consent order allowing the family to retain possession with a final deadline of April 30, 2020, granted for repayment of the loan. That deadline failed to be met and with special rules in place over the Covid-19 pandemic period, UBS was legally unable to pursue enforcement until April 2021. When the bank sought a court order for enforcement in October last year, Mallya filed an application of stay on the grounds that the bank had placed “unreasonable obstacles” in his path to repay the sums through family trust funds. His legal team also produced a non-binding letter claiming a company was willing to acquire the property, which would help pay off the loan. However, Deputy Master Marsh concluded that the letter was of “limited assistance” and expressed “real doubts about the bonafide of that offer”. Under the May 2019 order, UBS had been granted an “immediate right to possession” and Mallya and the co-defendants were not permitted to make any further applications to “postpone or suspend the date for giving up possession”. The court order also forbade any further claims arising out of the bankruptcy proceedings against Mallya by a consortium of Indian banks led by State Bank of India (SBI), proceedings which concluded in a bankruptcy order in July last year. Meanwhile, Mallya is wanted in India to face charges of fraud and money laundering amounting to an alleged Rs 9,000 crores related to loans made to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. The former United Breweries chief remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved following separate extradition proceedings. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vijay-mallya-may-be-evicted-from-london-home-swiss-bank-ubs-to-takeover-1072427.html
18-01-2022||National Politics||Kejriwal attacks Channi over illegal sand mining following ED raids||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday attacked his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi over illegal sand mining following ED raids at several places, including the premises of a person said to be a relative of the chief minister. “It is sad that a relative of chief minister is being raided for (illegal) sand mining,” said Kejriwal after landing at the airport here. He said AAP leader Raghav Chadha had even shown how illegal sand mining was taking place in Channi's own assembly constituency – Chamkaur Sahib. “Despite uncovering it, the chief minister did not take action and even tried to justify it. It is clear that he (CM) and his family are involved in illegal sand mining. What can be expected for Punjab’s future from a person whose family is involved in illegal mining,” he said. “We have been repeatedly saying that in his (Channi) cabinet, there are people who are involved in illegal sand mining and Channi sahab himself is giving patronage to them,” alleged Kejriwal. “Why Channi sahab did not throw them out from the cabinet? Why he kept them in the cabinet,” he asked. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided multiple locations in poll-bound Punjab as part of a money laundering probe against the 'sand mafia' and companies linked to alleged illegal sand mining in the border state, officials said. They said at least 10-12 locations in the state, including in Chandigarh and Mohali, are being covered by the officials of the central agency and the action is being undertaken under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Premises linked to a person identified as Bhupinder Singh alias Honey are also being covered. He is stated to be a relative of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Opposition parties have earlier linked Channi with the dealings of Singh which the former had denied. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kejriwal-attacks-channi-over-illegal-sand-mining-following-ed-raids-1072213.html
18-01-2022||National Politics||Even teleprompter could not take so many lies: Rahul Gandhi's dig at Modi over Davos speech gaffe||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to restart his Davos Agenda address, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday took a swipe saying "even the teleprompter could not take so much lies", even as BJP leaders pointed to a "technical glitch'' at event organiser World Economic Forum's end. There was no official reaction from the government or the WEF on the incident. Several Congress leaders and social media users claimed that it was a "teleprompter gaffe" as Prime Minister Modi had to pause and then restart his special address to the World Economic Forum's online Davos Agenda 2022 summit, but BJP leaders and many others pointed out that it was a technical glitch due to which the WEF people were not able to patch the PM and requested him to start again. In an apparent dig at Prime Minister Modi, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, "Even the teleprompter could not take so much lies." इतना झूठ Teleprompter भी नहीं झेल पाया। Fact-checking website Alt News co-founder Pratik Sinha said it is unlikely that the prime minister had a teleprompter gaffe.  "If you look at the WEF version of the recording of his speech, someone in the background says, 'Sir, aap unse ek baar pooche ki sab jud gaye kya' (Sir, ask them once if everyone is connected). This portion is not clear in the video live-streamed on PM's YouTube channel." "After this, the PM questions if he and the interpreter can be heard properly, to which (WEF executive chairman) Klaus Schwab responds stating that he can. "However, Schwab interrupts the PM's speech to give a brief introduction. The PM repeats the whole speech again," Sinha said, recounting the events from Monday evening during the prime minister's address. However, several Congress leaders took a dig at the prime minister over the incident. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Teleprompter se bhashan chal sakta hai, shasan nahin. Kal ye poore desh ki samajh mein aa gaya (You can give a speech but not rule using a teleprompter. The whole country understood this yesterday). The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, shared the video of the prime minister taking a pause in his speech, calling him the "teleprompter guy". Youth Congress tweeted, "Failed to address after teleprompter stopped working, PM Modi failed to represent the country on World Economic Forum!". In a tweet, BJP leader Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga slammed those criticising the PM. "Don't those getting excited at the tech glitch not realise that the problem was at WEF's end? They were not able to patch PM, so requested him to start again, which is evident in the way Klaus Schwab said that he will again give a short introduction and then open up the session," he said. Several other BJP leaders cited the same reason for the incident and some posted a video from the WEF's YouTube channel, showing the sequence of events.  According to the video and pointers along with it shared by BJP leaders, Prime Minister Modi's speech started abruptly from the middle without English interpretation. The prime minister was interrupted by the co-ordinator who asked him to check if all had been connected, Schwab then started the official session and Modi again started his speech with English interpretation being shared. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/even-teleprompter-could-not-take-so-many-lies-rahul-gandhis-dig-at-modi-over-davos-speech-gaffe-1072250.html
18-01-2022||National Politics||Don't go to media if you want to stay in govt: JD(U) to allies||Facing criticism, the JD(U) has threatened its alliance partners in Bihar to avoid giving statements to the media over liquor ban or pull out of the government. Dr Sanjiv Kumar, a JD(U) MLA, on Tuesday said that leaders of alliance partners should interact with the Chief Minister on any issue, especially on the liquor ban before going to the media. "We have an alliance of four parties in Bihar. It is obvious that the ideology and agendas of all the parties would not be the same. If we have any differences, we should sit together and discuss with the Chief Minister before going to the media," Kumar said. "The decision of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is final. He always looks for the development of Bihar. If any party has a different opinion from the Chief Minister, they are free to take decisions. No one will stop you if you want to separate from the alliance. Staying in the government and also criticising its decisions will not be tolerated anymore," Kumar said. Following the liquor tragedy in Nalanda on Saturday that claimed 13 lives so far, BJP and HAM in particular are criticizing the Nitish Kumar government for the poor implementation of the liquor ban in Bihar. BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal has opened a front against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. He said that the nexus of senior officers, police and mafias are responsible for poor implementation of the law. Jitan Ram Manjhi, former chief minister of Bihar and president of HAM has already said: "If PM Narendra Modi would withdraw three farms law, why CM Nitish Kumar has made liquor ban a prestige issue. He can withdraw this law as well." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-go-to-media-if-you-want-to-stay-in-govt-jdu-to-allies-1072260.html
18-01-2022||National Politics||Liquidation of Devas to begin soon says FM; tears into UPA for perpetrating a fraud on people||She said it was a fraud on the people of India and a fraud against the country by the Congress-led UPA and that a liquidation process for Devas will begin soon, with a liquidator already appointed. "The Congress government didn't appoint any arbitrator after Devas went for international arbitration showing that it didn't have the intent to challenge the fraud," Sitharaman said.  “The master game players in this are the Congress and with this Supreme Court order, we are able to see that... The Supreme Court order shows how the UPA government indulged in wrong practices. The Antrix-Devas deal was against national security. Now it should be Congress’ turn to answer how the Cabinet was kept in dark and how this kind of fraud was perpetrated on the people of India. They have no moral right to speak about crony capitalism," the minister said. Antrix-Devas satellite deal was signed in 2005 between Isro’s commercial arm Antrix and a Bangalore based start-up Devas Multimedia. the deal was later cancelled in 2011 by the UPA government itself citing security reasons but in between Devas went to international courts and tribunals claiming damages to the tune of $563 million. The deal was, however, closed on January 1 when the Supreme Court ordered the liquidation of the startup. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/liquidation-of-devas-to-begin-soon-says-fm-tears-into-upa-for-perpetrating-a-fraud-on-people-1072275.html
18-01-2022||National Politics||ED is 'election department' of BJP: Congress on raids in Punjab||The Congress has expressed unhappiness over ED raids on a close relative of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The party on Tuesday slammed the BJP for misusing the government agency and said it is ready battle it out in Punjab and would tell people how the BJP is trying to harass the country's only Dalit Chief Minister. The Congress will address press conferences in the entire state beginning Wednesday in Chandigarh with Navjot Singh Sidhu, Randeep Surjewala and Harish Chaudhary expected to address the first one. The Congress alleged that ED stands for 'Election Department' of the BJP. Addressing a press conference in New Delhi, Randeep Surjewala said, "The BJP is working with prejudice and taking revenge against only Dalit Chief Minister in the country Sardar Charanjit Singh Channi." The party wants to take on the BJP politically as it is linking the whole episode to Dalit and issue of Punjab's pride as Dalit's population in Punjab is significant to which AAP is also targeting. The ED team conducted the first raid at the residence of Honey which is at Homeland Heights early Tuesday morning. No one was allowed to leave the house. The ED was scanning various documents and computers. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ed-is-election-department-of-bjp-congress-on-raids-in-punjab-1072276.html
18-01-2022||National Politics||Congress, SP competing over who can target Hindus more: BJP||The BJP alleged on Tuesday that its rivals Samajwadi Party and the Congress appeared to be in a competition over who can spew more venom against Hindus and protect those who do so. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited Islamic cleric Maulana Tauqeer Raza Khan's support to the Congress in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls and the SP nominating several Muslims allegedly accused of involvement in riots and making communal remarks to attack these parties. Khan had recently made a speech targeting Hindus, Patra said and noted the Congress had allied in the past with parties that draw its support from Muslims in states like Kerala, Karnataka and West Bengal and were accused of making communal remarks aimed at the majority community. The SP has also given tickets to people like Nahid Hasan, an MLA currently in jail, and Muharram Ali, accused of stoking riots, Patra said. These developments have exposed both parties for their promotion of "radical syndicates", he said. The BJP spokesperson also cited Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole's comments against Prime Minister Narendra Modi to say that it shows the breach in Modi's security in Punjab was not a coincidence but an experiment at the behest of top leaders in the opposition party. Patole had said he can beat up and abuse Modi but later claimed that he was not referring to the prime minister. To a question on the Aam Aadmi Party declaring its MP Bhagwant Mann as its chief ministerial candidate in Punjab, the BJP spokesperson took a jibe. AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal named Mann as the party's chief ministerial face like a governor and Mann also acted as if he was taking oath for the post, he said. Patra also dismissed the Congress allegation of politics behind the Enforcement Directorate's raids on multiple locations in poll-bound Punjab, saying law will take its own course and this should not be seen through the prism of politics. In some cases, he said, Punjab Police had filed FIRs and even Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu had demanded action against sand mafia, which has been targeted by the ED. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-sp-competing-over-who-can-target-hindus-more-bjp-1072279.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Antilia bomb scare case: Sachin Waze moves Delhi HC||Former Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze Monday approached the Delhi High Court seeking to quash the sanction granted to prosecute him under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in connection with industrialist Mukesh Ambani's Antilia bomb scare case. The plea came up before a bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani which asked the counsel for Waze to place before it copies of relevant judgements being relied upon by him and listed the matter for further hearing on January 24. The Centre raised preliminary objections to the maintainability of the petition on the ground that it should have been filed before Bombay High Court as everything related to the case happened in Mumbai. Advocate Puneet Bali, representing Waze, submitted that the Delhi High Court has territorial jurisdiction over the issue as the sanction order was passed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), which is located in the national capital. The plea, filed through advocate Chaitanya Sharma, sought to strike down section 15(1) of the UAPA, relating to the terrorist act, claiming that it is ultra vires of Article 14 (equality before law) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the constitution. It also sought to quash and set aside the sanction order of September 2, 2021, passed by the Centre and grant consequential reliefs. The MHA had given the sanction for prosecution of Waze in September last year in the case of an SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai and the murder of businessman Hiren Mansukh. According to a release of NIA, the charge sheet was filed under various provisions of the IPC, including murder, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping, and negligent conduct with respect to explosive substances and under the provisions of the UAPA, Explosive Substances Act, and Arms Act. The SUV was found near Antilia on February 25, 2021. Mansukh, who had claimed that the vehicle had been stolen from his possession, was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5 last year. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/antilia-bomb-scare-case-sachin-waze-moves-delhi-hc-1072125.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Terrorists hurl grenade towards Police Control Room in Srinagar||Terrorists Monday hurled a grenade towards the Police Control Room here but there was no damage done in the attack, police said. "At about 1945hrs, unknown terrorists hurled a grenade towards PCR Kashmir. However, in this terror incident no one was injured," a police spokesman said in a statement. He said the area outside PCR Complex, which is located near the Civil Secretariat, has been cordoned off and a search operation was underway. "Police has registered a case in this regard under relevant sections of law and investigation is in progress. Officers continue to work to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime," he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-hurl-grenade-towards-police-control-room-in-srinagar-1072126.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi tableau unlikely to be part of 2022 Republic Day parade||The Republic Day parade this year is unlikely to have a tableau from Delhi, official sources said on Monday. However, there was no version available from the Delhi government on the matter. "There will be no tableau from Delhi in the Republic Day Parade 2022. The reason is not known," an official said, adding that this year, 'Delhi-City of Hopes' was chosen as the theme for the tableau. In 2020, too, there was no tableau of Delhi in the Republic Day parade. Last year, Delhi's tableau had participated in the parade on Rajpath where the city government had displayed its Chandni Chowk Redevelopment model to portray the amalgamation of architectural heritage of the Walled City of Shahjahanabad with modern infrastructure. Sources in the central government said a total of 56 proposals had come from states and central ministries. Out of these, 21 were shortlisted and a similar process of selection is adopted every year, they said. The tableau proposals received from various states and central ministries are evaluated in a series of meetings of an expert committee comprising of eminent people in the field of art, culture, sculpture, music, architecture and choreography among others, the sources said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-tableau-unlikely-to-be-part-of-2022-republic-day-parade-1072136.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||ED raids house of Punjab CM's nephew in sand mining case ahead of polls; Congress cries foul||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday conducted raids at the premises of a relative of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in a five-year-old illegal sand mining case, triggering a political war with the Congress pointing fingers at a “vindictive” BJP using agencies to target the "only Dalit Chief Minister in the country" in a five-year-old case during election season. The agency conducted searches at around a dozen locations in Chandigarh and Mohali belonging to people, including those owned by Bhupinder Singh alias Honey, a relative of Channi, in connection with 'sand mafia' and companies linked to alleged illegal sand mining in Punjab. The ED raids came after taking cognizance of a 2018 FIR filed by Punjab Police against companies and people linked to illegal sand mining. Truck drivers and other operatives allegedly involved in extraction and transportation of sand were named as accused in the FIR. Officials said Honey's links with one Kudratdeep Singh, who is allegedly involved in the case, are being investigated by the agency. Both Channi and Honey had earlier denied any wrongdoing. The raids have attained a political colour as Punjab is going to Assembly polls on February 20 and Congress is hoping to retain power in the border state where AAP is posing a challenge to the ruling party. The BJP had faced criticism for the raids by ED, CBI and Income Tax Department during the election season earlier with the Congress alleging that the ED has now become "Election Department" of the saffron party. Channi described the raids as an attempt to put pressure and target him and his ministers. "When there were polls in West Bengal, such attacks took place on Mamata Banerjee's relatives. Now, in the same pattern in Punjab, ED is trying to put pressure on, giving trouble," Channi said. "Not just on the ministers, chief minister, but pressure is being created on every Congress worker. Such an atmosphere is not good for democracy. When elections are near, they thought about conducting ED raids," he added. Congress Chief Spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told a press conference in Delhi that the BJP's attempt to "scare the only Dalit Chief Minister in the country" will not work. He also accused Kejriwal of working in cahoots with the BJP to attack Channi and Congress. He said none of Channi's relatives were named in the FIR in 2018 and Channi's relative was targeted after claiming that he is a friend of one person mentioned in the FIR. "We have seen this tactic of the ruling BJP to use the ED against us from Gujarat to the North East. But we are not the ones to be scared or who will bend," he said. AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal attacked Channi over the raids and said it was "sad that a relative of the Chief Minister is being raided". Kejriwal said AAP leader Raghav Chadha had even shown how illegal sand mining was taking place in Channi's own assembly constituency. “Despite uncovering it, the chief minister did not take action and even tried to justify it. It is clear that he (CM) and his family are involved in illegal sand mining. What can be expected for Punjab’s future from a person whose family is involved in illegal mining,” he said. "These are baseless allegations. This also shows how AAP and BJP are working together. When none knew about the raids, Kejriwal came up with his reaction, the first one to do. Both the AAP and BJP are hand in glove to defeat the Congress and we see them together in Goa, Uttarakhand and Punjab," Surjewala said. Congress Punjab in-charge Harish Chowdhury said, "this is not Amarinder Singh. This is Charanjit Singh Channi. He is not the one who one can scare. These are fake raids. No Congressperson is linked to it." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-raids-house-of-punjab-cms-nephew-in-sand-mining-case-ahead-of-polls-congress-cries-foul-1072180.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19: Why Delhi hospitals still testing generously going against ICRM guidelines||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recently came out with revised Covid-19 guidelines asking asymptomatic patients in hospitals to not be tested for the virus. The new guidelines by ICMR say, “asymptomatic patients undergoing surgical/non-surgical invasive procedures including pregnant women in/near labour who are hospitalised for delivery should not be tested unless warranted or symptoms develop”. While testing has dipped in the national capital since the advisory was released, the same is not the case in healthcare centres. Several Delhi hospitals are continuing with testing during admission of a patient to curb potential transmission inside hospitals and as doctors want to prevent negative surgical outcomes in a person actively carrying Covid-19. A senior administrator from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said that they had to implement the rules stated by the ministry, but doctors of the hospital have a different story to tell. “Unless it is an emergency life-threatening condition, we do test the patients before any procedures. The patients are also tested before they are moved from one ward to the other. There is no work-around. Even an asymptomatic person can give the infection to the other sick patients in a ward and then we do not know who will get a severe disease. Not to mention healthcare workers getting exposed,” the doctor told the publication. At another hospital in the capital, Safdarjung, rapid antigen tests are being conducted on those seeking admission. If they test positive, they are being shifted to the isolation ward, and if they are symptomatic despite testing negative, they are being kept in the suspect block of the same building. Asymptomatic persons testing negative are moved to other blocks. Check out DH's latest videos on Coronavirus:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-why-delhi-hospitals-still-testing-generously-going-against-icrm-guidelines-1072185.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Nitish Kumar government likely to relax liquor prohibition law||Facing criticism over poor implementation of the liquor ban, the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar is likely to give some relaxation to the violators. According to a top official of the JDU, the state government is ready to review this issue and a proposal is likely to be put on table in the upcoming budget session of the Bihar Vidhan Sabha. As per the proposal, the violators who are caught in drunken state can be let off after paying penalty on the spot. Though, it is not applicable on repeat offenders. A person repeatedly violating the norms of liquor prohibition law would be liable to face jail term. Such a relaxation would allow liquor consumption at home and would also promote the home delivery concept, which is already popular among habitual drinkers in Bihar. The JDU official further said that the vehicle used for smuggling of liquor could be released after paying a fine. He said that the Chief Minister is under huge political pressure after a series of spurious liquor tragedies in different districts in the last four months that have taken the lives of more than 80 persons and many others have lost their eyesight. Reacting to it, Danish Rizwan, the chief spokesperson of HAM said: "Chief minister Nitish Kumar, instead of bringing amendment or review of liquor prohibition law, should do a survey on this issue. If common people of the state are satisfied with the amendment or review, our party will not go against it. If people of Bihar are in favour of withdrawal of the liquor ban, we also respect that decision." The liquor tragedies occurred in Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, Bettiah, Samastipur, Vaishali, Nawada and now CM's district Nalanda. This issue is severely affecting Nitish Kumar government especially after its alliance partners BJP and HAM are extremely vocal. They want a review of the liquor prohibition law. The liquor ban was enforced in Bihar in April 2016. The government also came under criticism by the Patna High Court recently. The court said a large number of liquor related cases are pending which has led to a huge burden on the judicial system. Keeping this in view, the Nitish Kumar government should establish more courts in all 38 districts for speedy trials of liquor related cases. Though, this would not be the first case of amendment in liquor prohibition act. In 2018, the state government made a provision to grant bail to normal offenders at the police station level. The offenders have to pay Rs 50,000 as fine. In case of offenders unable to give a penalty, they would be liable to face jail term. Under the liquor prohibition law, the maximum jail term is 10 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-kumar-government-likely-to-relax-liquor-prohibition-law-1072191.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Why ED is raiding house of Punjab CM Channi's nephew||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday morning carried out raids at ten different locations belonging to Punjab Chief Minster Charanjit Singh Channi's nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey. And behind the raids is a two-year old FIR. The raids were conducted in connection with a Prevention of Money Laundering case pertaining to illegal sand mining in Punjab. Punjab Police on March 7, 2018 had lodged a case against more than ten accused in illegal mining case. The ED initiated a money laundering probe on the basis of this FIR which has been accessed by IANS. The FIR was filed under several sections of the IPC. The ED found that money was being laundered by the accused involved in the case and they started probing the matter. A source said that the ED team is still conducting raids at different premises including the residence of Bhupinder Singh Honey which is at Homeland Heights. The ED team reached there early Tuesday morning. No one was allowed to leave the house. The ED was scanning the various documents and computers. The political parties in Punjab had earlier accused the Chief Minister many times over illegal mining in his own constituency. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had tweeted several times regarding the ongoing illegal sand mining racket. He had tweeted that Punjab CM Channi was not doing anything to stop it. Local police were already looking into the matter. And on the basis of the local police probe, the ED initiated a money laundering probe. As of now, the ED has not made any statement regarding the ongoing raids. The sources said that once the raids are over, only then the probe agency will release any statement. During the raid the ED recorded the statements of those who were present at the house of Honey, the nephew of the Chief Minister. A large number of people had gathered outside the house and local police were called to avoid any untoward incident. Further probe in the matter is underway. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-ed-is-raiding-house-of-punjab-cm-channis-nephew-1072212.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||BJP takes dig at AAP for procuring 1 electric bus in 7 years||As Delhi gets its first electric bus, BJP took a dig at the Aam Aadmi Party-led state government for procuring just a single bus during their last seven years of rule. "It took 7 years to buy 1 electric bus by AAP government which resulted in Delhi breathing bad air," BJP MP Manoj Tiwari said on Tuesday. Tiwari blamed the Kejriwal-led government of being "visionless" and "department less". He urged the people of Delhi to look after their well-being as air pollution during winters is dangerous. Terming it a "beginning of a new-era in the transport sector of Delhi", Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had flagged off the first electric bus on Monday. "We aim to bring in 2,000 electric buses in the coming years. Since 2011, not a single new bus had been procured by the DTC; this is the first new bus being added to its fleet in a decade. The public should also contribute to this war against pollution by switching their vehicles to electric," he said as he flagged off the bus from the Indraprastha depot. While launching the environment-friendly bus, Transport Minister Shri Kailash Gahlot said that along with promoting environment-friendly transport, the government was committed to providing a world class and smooth transport service to the people of Delhi. These state-of-the-art buses are 100 per cent electric with zero tailpipe emissions. They are among the 300 electric buses that will be inducted under DTC. The total fleet of 300 buses will run from Mundela Kalan (100 buses), Rajghat (50) and Rohini Sector 37 (150 buses). The electric air conditioned buses have kneeling ramps for differently abled passengers, and special pink seats for women passengers. They are also equipped with CCTV cameras, connected to a two-way Central Command and Control Centre (CCC) at Kashmere Gate, 10 panic buttons in each bus and a hooter. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-takes-dig-at-aap-for-procuring-1-electric-bus-in-7-years-1072220.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Army's help brings major improvements in govt school in J&K's Poonch||Just three kilometers from the Line of Control (LoC), a government school with an enrolment of over 200 students in Mendhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district has witnessed major improvements – thanks to the local army unit which has come forward to help the youngsters to achieve their dreams. The endeavour of Mendhar Gunners under the aegis of White Knight Corps has been to bring the school at par to national standards despite the school being on the LoC and amid the Covid-19 restrictions, Jammu-based Army PRO Lt Col Devender Anand said. Government High School, Dharana, located in the serene hills of the Mendhar is far away from the hustle and bustle of Poonch city where children can easily absorb knowledge and grow in all aspects of life, he said. The students from this school generally come from impecunious families whose primary occupation is daily labour, which had wide implications on the students like lack of exposure to the modern outside world, the officer said.  Lt Col Anand said Mendhar Gunners, the local Army unit on regular interaction with the locals, discerned the issue at hand and immediately sprung into action to assist. "Our school is along the LoC but we are being provided with all those facilities which are available in all city schools, for example, we have a library with all kinds of study material and volleyball courts to play during our games period, which is something we all look forward to,” 15-year-old Fathima, a student of class nine, said. The ambience of the school is best described as calm, spacious with good amenities and utilities in a visually appealing landscape. The sprawling campus is lush green and welcoming. The process of teaching-learning unfolds with the tweeting of birds with a visual treat of butterflies and peacocks! Students can also take short treks in the orchards around the campus. The Army officer said Mendhar Gunners carried out beautification of the school by painting the walls with educative paintings and symbols of national pride. "Students being from the hilly area are sturdy and have special interest in sports. Army assisted the school with Volleyball, Kho-Kho and Badminton courts along with the necessary sports equipment,” he said. Lt Col Anand said the same was followed by conduct of tournaments of volleyball and kho-kho along with friendly matches of badminton as a first exposure to the sport though admired but rarely played in this remote part of the country. He said the Army has helped equip the school with modern facilities which only city schools have.  "The Army through Mendhar Gunners is making all possible efforts to ensure that no barrier comes in the way of the education of these students while expanding horizons in all fields, like by putting up posters in the campus related to human body parts to generate interest in the subject of biology,” he said. Referring to the recent landmark verdict by Supreme Court shattering the glass ceiling wherein girls were allowed to take the NDA examination for admission to the National Defence Academy, the army officer said a motivational lecture to join NDA for girls of the school was organized with an aim to guide them to join the best military training academy in the country which evoked great response by the girl students. Post historic Olympic Gold medal victory by Subedar Neeraj Chopra in Javelin, the students showed exuberance in picking up sports to represent both state and the nation, he said. Furthering this aim of motivating youth to take up sports as a profession and to inculcate the value of sportsmanship, Lt Col Anand said Mendhar Gunners conducted various sports competitions for kho-kho, badminton and volleyball. Students with clamor for soft skills were engaged with drawing and painting, dance and public speaking events, he said, adding the students standing out with their performance were rightfully rewarded to motivate them to achieve greater goals. The events organised were based on the theme of national integration to groom the youngsters into patriotic citizens of the great nation, he said. He said the tree plantation drive was also organised to make the young students realize the importance of preserving the environment. “The area being remote is surrounded by dense forests. The students were therefore made to feel proud of the biodiversity of their surroundings and to take a resolve to protect the same,” he said. He said the Army also organized a medical and Covid-19 vaccination camp with an aim to provide basic medical facilities and free Covid vaccination to the local populace. The officer said the Army, maintaining its ethos and tradition, reached all out to the far-flung area to provide all possible assistance to the people. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/armys-help-brings-major-improvements-in-govt-school-in-jks-poonch-1072221.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Five Naxals killed in separate encounters in Chhattisgarh; one jawan injured||At least five Naxals, including two woman, were killed in two separate encounters with security personnel in Sukma district and the forests along the Chhattisgarh-Telangana border on Tuesday morning, police said. In the Suka district, a dreaded woman ultra, carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh on her head, was gunned down during the gunfight between Naxals and the personnel belonging to the District Reserve Guard (DRG) from Sukma, Dantewada and Bastar, an official said. Another skirmish broke out between Naxals and security personnel in the forests along the border of Chhattisgarh and Telangana in the morning hours. "A team of special anti-Naxal Greyhounds unit of neighbouring Telangana police had launched a counter-insurgency operation along the forest of Bijapur (Chhattisgarh) and Mulugu (Telangana) districts after receiving inputs about the movement of Maoist leader Sudhakar along with 40 armed Naxal cadres in the area," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. A joint team of District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from Bijapur was also out on the operation to cordon off the area, he added. “Around 7 AM, the Greyhounds team got engaged in a gunbattle with ultras in a forest near Semaldodi village (Bijapur) and Penugolu village (Mulugu). Later, the bodies of four ultras were recovered from the spot,” he said. A Greyhounds jawan sustained injuries, following which he was airlifted to Warangal and admitted to a hospital, the IGP added. The search operation was still underway in the area, located over 450 km away from the Chhattisgarh capital. In the Sukma district, woman Naxal, identified as 'Munni', was killed in the encounter with security personnel. Superintendent of Police Sunil Sharma had told PTI this morning that personnel belonging to the District Reserve Guard (DRG) from the Sukma, Dantewada and Bastar, participated in the operation. Acting on specific input about the presence of top Divisional Committee Members of CPI (Maoist) along with 35-40 cadres in the forest on the tri-junction of three districts, security forces from three areas had launched the operation there on Monday night, he said. At around 6:45 am, the gunfight broke out between ultras and one of the patrolling teams on Marjum hills under Tongpal police station limits. “So far, the body of one ultra identified as Munni, an area committee member of Maoists, carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh on her head, was recovered from the spot," Sharma said. No security personnel was injured, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-naxals-killed-in-separate-encounters-in-chhattisgarh-one-jawan-injured-1072235.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Army rescues 30 civilians trapped in avalanches in J&K's Tangdhar||Amid fresh snowfall and two avalanches, the Indian Army and General Reserve Engineer Force (GREF) have rescued 30 civilians stuck on the Chowkibal-Tangdhar road in Kashmir, officials said on Tuesday. "As soon as the information of civilians getting stuck closer to Khooni Nala and SM Hill on NH 701 reached the troops at NC pass, two rescue teams comprising avalanche rescue teams from Indian Army and a team of GREF were mobilised for rescuing the civilians who were stuck in their vehicles," army said. "Despite adverse weather conditions compounded by twin avalanches, 14 civilians were rescued and brought to Neelam and 16 civilians to NC pass, which is also commonly known as Sadhna pass. All the rescued civilians were provided food, medical care and shelter for the night." Army said 12 vehicles were later retrieved during the day on Tuesday post avalanche and snow slides clearance from the road. "GREF played a difficult but stellar role in snow clearance amidst dangerous conditions. The entire effort took about five to six hours," the army said. Pertinently last year also civilians were rescued by the troops near Khooni Nala, closer to NC pass, as the area is prone to avalanches and snow slides. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-rescues-30-civilians-trapped-in-avalanches-in-jks-tangdhar-1072239.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Bhopal hosts cricket tournament for Vedic pandits with Sanskrit commentary||Two men clad in traditional dhoti and kurta run as fast as they can while an excited commentator discusses the likely outcome of the ongoing game on the ground in fluent Sanskrit. This setting might mislead one into believing that some ritual is underway but the two men are players trying to score a quick run during a cricket match. Welcome to the cricket tournament being held for Vedic pandits on the Ankur ground in Bhopal to mark the birth anniversary of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. "Players in this tournament are those who perform rituals as per the Vedas," Sanskriti Bachao Manch's state president Chandrashekhar Tiwari told PTI on Tuesday. "This is the second year of this tournament in which participants, who are Vedic pandits, play while wearing traditional dhoti (or Mundu) and kurtas. They speak to each other in Sanskrit. The match commentary is also in Sanskrit," he said. He said the goal of organising the four-day tournament is to promote the ancient Sanskrit language and sportsmanship among the Vedic family. Apart from cash prizes for winning teams, players are being honoured with Vedic books and a 100-year panchang (almanac). When asked about the challenges of playing cricket in traditional attire, Tiwari said, "No problem is faced during fielding in the dhoti-kurta attire. I also hit sixes and fours during Monday's match". He said teams from various Vedic institutions are participating in this tournament. Tiwari said that one such tournament with commentary in Sanskrit was played in Kashi.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhopal-hosts-cricket-tournament-for-vedic-pandits-with-sanskrit-commentary-1072240.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||ED raids an attempt to pressurise me before polls: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that there was an attempt to put pressure and target him and his ministers as the polling day drew near, hours after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided multiple locations in the state as part of a money laundering probe against the "sand mafia" and companies linked to alleged illegal sand mining. Premises linked to a person, identified as Bhupinder Singh alias Honey, are also being covered under the ED raids. He is stated to be a relative of Chief Minister Channi. "When there were polls in West Bengal, such attacks took place on Mamata Banerjee's relatives. Now, in the same pattern in Punjab, ED is trying to put pressure, give trouble. An attempt is being made to create all kinds of pressure," Channi alleged while interacting with reporters. "Not just on the ministers, chief minister, but pressure is being created on every Congress worker. Such an atmosphere is not good for democracy. When elections are near, they thought about conducting ED raids. But we are ready to bear all pressure, all troubles which they give. We will carry on with our electioneering and they will not succeed...," Channi said, hitting out at the BJP-led government at the Centre. When asked at how many places have been raided, Channi replied, "What I have heard so far is through TV (channels) and media, I don't have concrete information. But ultimately, it is an attempt to target me and my ministers." The ED action, sources said, has been initiated after taking cognisance of a 2018 FIR of the Punjab Police against some companies and individuals alleged to be involved in illegal sand mining in the state. When asked to comment on this, Channi said, "In 2018, I was not chief minister. As you are saying it is based on 2018 FIR, what is my connection with that, at that time I was not even chief minister. But somehow or the other, they have to target me and my ministers and attempt to put pressure, but let me say this that Punjabis never come under pressure." Asked if he sees political vendetta behind the raids, Channi told reporters, "You know what all programmes happened during the past few days, and you and people know that very well...now this attempt to put pressure on me and the Punjab Congress will not succeed." At least 10-12 locations in the state, including Chandigarh and Mohali, are being covered by the officials of the federal agency and the action is being undertaken under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Opposition parties have earlier linked Channi with the dealings of Bhupinder Singh alias Honey, which the former had denied. Voting for 117 assembly seats in Punjab is slated on February 20. Earlier in the day, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal attacked his Punjab counterpart over illegal sand mining following the ED raids. "We have been repeatedly saying that in his (Channi) cabinet, there are people who are involved in illegal sand mining and Channi sahab himself is giving patronage to them," alleged Kejriwal whose Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is among the main contenders in the Punjab polls. "Why Channi sahab did not throw them out from the cabinet? Why did he keep them in the cabinet," the AAP leader had asked.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-raids-an-attempt-to-pressurise-me-before-polls-channi-1072241.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi: Sub-conventional aerial platforms banned ahead of Republic Day||Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Tuesday announced a ban on the use of sub-conventional aerial platforms in the national capital for the period of 27 days from January 20 in view of Republic Day celebrations. "....I hereby prohibit flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para-gliders, para-motors, hang gliders, UAVs, UASs, microlight aircraft, remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small size powered aircraft, quadcopters or para jumping from aircraft etc. over the jurisdiction of the National Capital Territory of Delhi on the occasion of Republic Day Function-2022," read an order by the Delhi Police chief. He further said the decision was taken as per report that certain criminal or anti-social elements or terrorists inimical to India may pose a threat to the safety of the general public, dignitaries and vital installations by the use of sub-conventional aerial platforms. "This order shall come into force with effect from 20-01-2022 and shall remain in force for a period of 27 days i.e. up to 15-02-2022 (both days inclusive) unless withdrawn earlier," Asthana added. The Delhi Police has intensified security arrangements in the national capital keeping in view the upcoming Republic Day on January 26. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi district) Deepak Yadav told IANS that adequate arrangements have been made in and around the RajPath on Republic day. "Around 300 cameras with face-recognition facilities have been installed around the Rajpath to thwart any threat beforehand," Yadav said. Notably, just 4 days ago, the National Security Guard and the Special Cell of Delhi Police on January 14 averted a major terror attack in the city by timely defusing a 3-Kg IED which was placed at a crowded market by unidentified anti-national elements. The NSG conducted a controlled explosion of the recovered IED, saving several lives that could have been snuffed out if the bomb had not been found and defused in time. Meanwhile, the Intelligence agencies have also sounded an alert that the Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) has activated its terror outfits to execute more terror activities in India. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sub-conventional-aerial-platforms-banned-ahead-of-republic-day-1072244.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi under high security cover after intel inputs of possible terror attack on Republic Day||Ahead of Republic Day, the Delhi-National Capital Region has been put under a "very high-security" cover after police received inputs from Intelligence agencies about a possible terror attack, officials said on Tuesday. Operation of sub-conventional aerial platforms, including UAVs, paragliders and hot air balloons, over the national capital has been prohibited in the city from January 20 in view of Republic Day celebrations, according to a Delhi Police order issued on Tuesday. The order shall come into force from January 20 and remain in effect till February 15. The order has been issued by Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana in the wake of reports of the possibility of certain criminal or anti-social elements or terrorists posing a threat to the safety of the general public, dignitaries and vital installations, it said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said in view of Republic Day, the security has been tightened with the entire area where the celebration would take place being placed under multiple CCTVs fitted with facial recognition software. All units of the Delhi Police, including local police, Special Cell, Special Branch, Traffic, SWAT (all-woman Special Weapons and Tactics) and teams from the National Security Guard will also be part of deployment besides the paramilitary forces, he said. "Anti-drone arrangement systems have been put up at two different locations. Police personnel will also be deployed on high rise buildings for extra vigil. There's also an air defence gun to keep a watch and tackle any hostile aircraft,” the DCP said. “Only those who are completely vaccinated will be allowed to attend the event. No children are allowed. Around 14,000 invitees have been allowed this year out of which around 4,000 tickets have been issued for public," the officer added. Patrolling teams along with PRAKHAR vans with attached cameras will also be part of the security wing, he said. According to Delhi Police, there is a three-layered security system in place and the force is always alert and undertakes anti-terror measures especially ahead of any event of national importance. "We are focusing on anti-terror and sabotage activities. Although it is a usual protocol, we do it especially ahead of any event of national importance. With the upcoming Republic Day event, we have intensified our activities and deployed extra manpower," another senior police officer said. Citing the recent security breach of Prime Minister Modi’s convoy in Punjab, the Delhi Police officers said that the force is extra vigilant to ensure no such incident happens in the national capital. "As the prime minister’s security is of paramount importance, we have intensified our vigil and deployed extra manpower to ensure no such (Punjab) incident is repeated. We have also received intelligence inputs that there are chances of a possible terror or drone attack," the officer said. In the wake of the recent drone attack in Abu Dhabi in which two Indians and a Pakistani national were killed as well as the recovery of IEDs in Punjab and Ghazipur, the possibility of a threat to the prime minister cannot be ruled out, the officer added. Meanwhile, the personnel have been asked to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour and follow all guidelines while ensuring there is no compromise on the security aspect, police said. The Republic Day celebrations will now begin every year from January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Subash Chandra Bose, government sources said on Saturday. This is in line with the Modi government's focus on commemorating important aspects of India's history and culture, they said, noting it had earlier started celebrating Bose's birth anniversary as 'Parakram Divas'. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-under-high-security-cover-after-intel-inputs-of-possible-terror-attack-on-republic-day-1072259.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Editors Guild anguished by shutting down of Kashmir Press Club||"Deeply anguished" at the shutting down of the Kashmir Press Club, the Editors Guild of India on Tuesday said the action sets a "dangerous precedent" at a time the space for media freedom and civil society has been steadily eroding in the region with journalists facing intimidation from terror groups as well as the government. In a statement, the Guild said the shutting down of the Club is the "latest act in a sequence of disturbing events", wherein the re-registration of the Club was first arbitrarily put in abeyance followed by the shocking breach of institutional norms when a group of people, with the active support of state police and CRPF, took over the office and management of the Club. The government action, which includes reverting the land back to the Estates Department, has "effectively dismantled" an "important journalistic institution" in a region that has "seen the worst kind state heavy-handedness" against any independent media. The Kashmir Press Club was established in 2018 and has more than 300 members. "Space for media freedom and active civil society has been steadily eroding in the region. Journalists frequently face intimidation from terror groups as well as the state. They are also charged under heavy penal laws, and are routinely detained by security forces for reporting or for their editorials," the statement said. The statement cited the killing of Rising Kashmir editor Shujaat Bukhari, registration of a case against Peerzada Ashiq for a report he filed in The Hindu, charging of UAPA against freelance photographer Masrat Zahra, sealing of Kashmir Times, detaining The Kashmir Walla Editor-in-Chief for the third time in March 2021 and arrest of Sajad Gul for posting a video of a protesting family on social media. It also referred to an advisory forbidding journalists from reporting live encounters on the "specious plea that it is 'likely to incite violence' or that it can promote anti-national sentiment". In a state ridden with such excesses against the media, Kashmir Press Club was an important institution for fighting for protection and rights of journalists. It also remained open through the lockdown, giving journalists access to important facilities like the internet for filing their work, as well as workshops for training young journalists. The shutting down of the Club, therefore, sets a dangerous precedent for media freedom. The Guild reiterated its demand that status quo before the January 14 order of Registrar of Societies be restored with respect to the functioning of the Club, and that the state works towards building and protecting the space for a free press. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/editors-guild-anguished-by-shutting-down-of-kashmir-press-club-1072283.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi HC raps UP police over 'complete forgery' of documents||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said there was “complete forgery of documents” by Uttar Pradesh police personnel who arrested two residents here without informing the local police and kept them in illegal custody for two days. Justice Mukta Gupta noted that as per the inquiry carried out by the Uttar Pradesh Police, the call data record of the erring officials revealed that the two arrested persons — who were the brother and father of a boy who got married to a girl against her family's wishes — were taken away from Delhi to Shamli in UP where they were shown to be arrested after two days and sent to jail following the failure of “talks” between the families. The judge stated that “laxity” in investigation was not the same as “forgery” which is an offence and had it not been for the timely intervention, the two arrested persons would be languishing in jail. “From 6th to 8th (of September 2021), they (arrested persons) were in illegal custody. FIR was registered after they were taken away. It is complete forgery of documents. A to Z, every document is forged,” the court remarked. “They should have told Delhi Police. They can't put people (in custody) and show arrest wherever they want,” it said. The petitioner couple had moved the high court claiming that they married of their own volition in July last year, contrary to the wishes of the girl's family and were now getting repeated threats from them. During the proceedings, it was revealed that the father and brother of the boy were taken away by UP Police and for more than one month their whereabouts were not known. Delhi Police had then informed the court that the boy's family members had been arrested by UP Police in relation to a complaint made by the girl's mother under Section 366 IPC (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) and no intimation of their arrival was made to local station here. Justice Gupta emphasised that when the FIR itself disclosed that the girl in question was a major, the UP Police officials concerned should have first ascertained her will instead of taking action against the boy's family. Additional Advocate General for Uttar Pradesh Garima Prashad ensured the court that erring officers will not be spared and appropriate action will be taken. The court closed the case and said that in view of the stand taken by the AAG, no more orders were required to pass in the matter. It also appreciated the inquiry undertaken by UP Police and granted liberty to the petitioner boy's family to take recourse to law against the concerned persons. On October 26, the court had issued notice to UP Police on the petition while stating that it was trite law that persons under the jurisdiction of Delhi Police could not be apprehended by them without intimation to the local police. It was “unfortunate” that even without finding the facts and whether the parties were major or minor, arrests were made by UP Police, the judge had observed. On October 28, the court had pulled up UP Police for the arrests and said that such illegal acts were not permissible and would not be tolerated here. “I will call for CCTV. I will direct departmental enquiry if I see UP police arresting from Delhi... I want all CCTV footage and vehicle number. If I see Delhi UP police entering, I will take action. We will not permit this. You can't do illegal acts here,” the court had said. The court had sought an affidavit from the SHO on the manner in which the two persons, now in judicial custody in UP, were arrested and directed that appropriate action be initiated in view of the girl's stand that she eloped from her paternal house to get married to the man. In November, Uttar Pradesh Police had told the court that it has formed a special investigative team to look into the arrest of two city residents and the case against the arrested persons stood closed. The court was also informed that the responsible officials were suspended. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-raps-up-police-over-complete-forgery-of-documents-1072354.html
18-01-2022||North and Central||ED seizes Rs 6 crore in cash during raids against illegal sand mining in Punjab||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday seized Rs 6 crore in cash, including Rs 4 crore from the premises linked to a nephew of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, during raids against illegal sand mining operatives in the border state, officials said. The search operations at a dozen locations in Mohali, Chandigarh, Ludhiana and Pathankot began early morning with an armed CRPF escort and were underway. Sources said out of the total seizure of about Rs 6 crore in cash, about Rs 4 crore has been seized from the Ludhiana premises of Channi's nephew Bhupinder Singh alias Honey. Channi has told reporters that the raids were an attempt to put "pressure" on him and his ministers as the polling day drew near. He said relatives of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee were raided during the assembly polls in that state and the "same pattern" is being followed by the ED in Punjab to "pressure" him, his ministers and Congress party members. Voting for 117 assembly seats in Punjab is slated on February 20. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-seizes-rs-6-crore-in-cash-during-raids-against-illegal-sand-mining-in-punjab-1072364.html
18-01-2022||Opinion||Yogi's win would change BJP's internal matrix||Good governance is about managing the aspirations of the largest possible chunk of the citizens. It entails ensuring the satisfaction of not only the majority but also some sections of the minorities.  If judged through this lens, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's challenge is to prove that he has performed in the last five years. No other criteria will help the 49-year-old monk, for any hysteria is transient and does not yield much result in a democracy. Adityanath has the enviable distinction of being the first Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief minister of Uttar Pradesh to have ruled a full five-year term. This February will decide whether he is a performer. One after another, ministers and MLAs leaving the BJP is an ominous sign for Adityanath, but Mamata Banerjee proved in the West Bengal Assembly election in May 2021 that such desertions do not mean much if the leader is popular. Such popularity is directly related to the fulfilment of the people's aspirations. The point here is that 'aspirations' are a mixed bag and not solely about economic development. Bihar under Lalu Prasad slipped on economic parameters, but he is still popular because he stood as a messiah of the other backward castes (OBCs). Present-day Bengal is also losing the battle for economic development, as evident from its falling contribution to the nation's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), but people have faith in Mamata Banerjee for other reasons, one of those being fulfilling the aspirations of women. For Adityanath, it's been different. Being the first saffron-clad chief minister of UP, he, of course, had to fulfil the cultural aspirations of Hindus. But Hindu is not a monolithic identity, and being the dominant majority, Hindus do not prefer to do tactical voting like Muslims. So Adityanath had to be attentive to the socio-cultural-economic aspirations of the different castes within the umbrella. Further, as he indicated, the aspirations of the 'peaceable' Muslims were his concern, too. If he has performed accordingly in the last five years, he will win. Critics had tried to paint Adityanath in the single colour of a saffron leader. But religiosity is not necessarily an antonym of peaceful development. Sweden is often described as the ideal nation-state, but it had the Lutheran Church of Sweden as its state religion till 2000. The official religion of the United Kingdom is Christianity, and so also of different other countries. Thus, it is not religiosity that matters. The clinching factor is performing 'rajadharma' that entails protecting all innocent people and ensuring fulfilling the aspirations of the citizens. Still, if Adityanath loses, much will be lost for the Hindutva forces, for it will be the defeat of a saffron-clad symbol of new age Hindutva. It will be proven that even wearing saffron is not sufficient for winning an important election in India. It makes Adityanath's ride burdened with much extra baggage. However, suppose Adityanath were to lead the BJP to a comprehensive win. It will be proof that he has succeeded in maintaining the subtle balance between serving Hindutva sentiments expected from a monk and the secular demands of society. It will elevate his image, making him the next-gen topmost leader of his party. Of immense significance is that if it happens, it will occur when a vacuum is being created in the BJP's leadership amidst its falling popularity, as evident from Narendra Modi's withdrawal of the farm laws. The Centre's failures on several fronts along with insensitive decisions - exemplified by insincere demonetisation, sudden lockdown in 2020 without giving any chance to the hapless migrant workers to return home, and failure to contain inflation - could make its life more difficult in the coming days. At this juncture, there is no leader other than Adityanath in the BJP who has the charisma required to take the party to new heights. If he wins this tough election, he could, in the post-2024 scenario, emerge as a threat to Modi's preeminence in the BJP. So, if Adityanath manages to scrape through, it would cause much heartburn in the BJP, for the whole matrix in the saffron camp will start changing. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), of which Adityanath was never a member, will be forced to project him as the new icon of Hindutva, just like it projected Modi two decades ago after the Gujarat riots. However, the advantage for Adityanath will be that he will not emerge out of the mesh of violence and hatred but through democratic means. (The writer is a journalist and author based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/yogis-win-would-change-bjps-internal-matrix-1072155.html
18-01-2022||Opinion||Dining with Dalits: Mere 'noblesse oblige'||The Punjab election has been postponed so that Ravidassias get to vote. The original election date, February 14, coincided with the Dalit sect's annual week-long pilgrimage to Banaras to celebrate the birth anniversary of Swami Ravidas. That meant they would not have been able to vote in an election where, for the first time, a Dalit is Chief Minister. This was an unthinkable situation for Charanjit Singh Channi. Like all politicians, he too had sought the blessings of the head of the Ravidassia's largest dera, but unlike the others, the CM also showered his largesse on the latter: withdrawal of criminal cases against Ravidassias, a Rs 25 crore advance for a Ravidas Research Centre, and finally, a written request to the Election Commission (EC) to postpone the election. That's what it means to have one of your own in power. The importance of being Dalit when elections are around the corner came through in another poll-bound state last week when front page photographs showed Yogi Adityanath dining in a Dalit home. The host, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker, revealed that it was a tradition for the head of the Gorakhpur math to dine with Dalits. Since he became CM, Adityanath had not been following this custom as regularly as he used to, but all their problems were resolved at the math, he added. One problem that hasn't been resolved at the math is the disbursal of the Post-Matric Scholarship for Scheduled Castes (SC)/Scheduled Tribes (ST) students, a gateway to higher education for them. Only 10 per cent of eligible SC students in Uttar Pradesh have received it in the last academic year. With elections just a month away, the Centre, which contributes 60 per cent of the funds for this crucial scholarship, has requested the EC to allow it to release the pending amount, despite the Model Code of Conduct having come into place. In making this irregular demand, the Centre has one saving grace: it has asked for permission to release funds not just for UP but for nine states, in some of which not a single student has received the scholarship. These include Punjab and poll-bound Uttarakhand. In Punjab, to add insult to injury, the Post-Matric Scholarship is at the centre of a Rs 64 crore scam. Unearthed in 2020, no one was punished for it by then CM Amarinder Singh. Today, under the first Dalit CM, the former minister indicted for it has been given a ticket to contest again. "Dalit empowerment", or the lack of it, is ostensibly the driving force behind the big political shifts currently taking place in Punjab and UP. But ask these states' Dalit students what it means to not receive the Rs 18,000 per annum scholarship. A measly sum by most standards, but for those eligible for it, mostly first-generation learners, it means easing the burden their parents bear to send them to college. The scholarship is only for those whose parents have an annual income of Rs 2.5 lakh, i.e., a little over Rs 20,000 a month. Such earnings are mostly in the unorganised sector, hit the hardest in the last two years by the pandemic. A survey across six states by the National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights on the pandemic's effect on Dalit students showed that 68 per cent felt they would have to discontinue their studies due to lack of money and food insecurity, and 22 per cent had had to take up a job, half of whom had no option but to do manual labour. But who cares for these details? Not the politicians whose hearts bleed for Dalits in UP and Punjab; in fact, no one in power anywhere. The 14 states that have not disbursed even a single scholarship in the last academic year include both Opposition and BJP-ruled states; in the rest, of the 61.3 lakh students identified for it, just 4.09 lakh received the scholarship. The Centre is as much to blame: before it woke up to the possibility of winning over an important vote bank by releasing Rs 200 crore in delayed scholarship funds, it had spent more than twice that amount on the Central Vista through the pandemic. At any rate, since 2017, the Centre's allocation for this lifeline to education for those historically deprived of it has been declining. The feudal concept of 'noblesse oblige' sums up our politicians' attitude to Dalits: dine with them occasionally; bathe with them in the four-yearly Kumbh; let them enjoy their annual pilgrimage - all so that they keep you in power. But are Dalit youngsters, for whom lack of access to education often leads to suicide, going to be content with these crumbs? (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/dining-with-dalits-mere-noblesse-oblige-1072160.html
18-01-2022||Opinion||A brief history of women in UP polls||Before the rise of Indira Gandhi in the Congress and national politics, there was Sucheta Kripalani (nee Majumdar). She was married to Gandhian socialist Acharya (JB) Kripalani - a staunch critic of Nehruvian socialism who later joined C Rajagopalachari's Swatantra Party. Sucheta Kripalani, however, continued in the Congress and was a minister in the Uttar Pradesh government. In autumn 1963, the Kamaraj Plan kicked in, and like many party stalwarts, UP chief minister Chandra Bhanu Gupta was asked to relinquish office. To spite Jawaharlal Nehru's and his chief tormentor in state politics, Chaudhary Charan Singh, Gupta hoisted a rank outsider Sucheta Kriplani as the chief minister of UP. It was under her leadership that the Congress contested the 1967 elections in the state. In a big jolt to the grand old party, the Congress failed to win a majority in UP for the first time since Independence. More surprising was the sharp drop registered in the number of women MLAs, with only six female candidates emerging victorious in 425 constituencies for which elections were held. To date, the 4th UP assembly has the record for lowest representation of women lawmakers. Strong woman leadership at the top does not necessarily translate into equitable participation in political processes, especially when winnability is the chief criterion in candidate selection.  Even during Indira Gandhi years, women representation in the UP assembly remained woefully low. The sharpest rise was registered in 1985 under Rajiv Gandhi's leadership when 31 women MLAs were elected. The 1990s saw the weakening of the Congress and the rise of the Mandal parties. The women representation again turned south to 10 in 1991 and 14 in the 1993 Assembly polls in UP. The decade also witnessed the rise of the second most influential woman politician in the heartland politics, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati. In the 1996 elections, the first after her ascension as the chief minister of UP, 20 women candidates won their elections, taking the cumulative tally of women MLAs in 13 assemblies between 1952 and 1996 to 223. Data shows that an overwhelming majority of these women lawmakers were from the upper castes or those whose close relations had been active in electoral politics. The Other Backward Caste (OBC) representation was surprisingly low - about half of the Scheduled Castes (SCs). Amongst Dalit women lawmakers, almost 85 per cent belonged to Jatav or Pasi communities - the numerically dominant sub-groups amongst the SCs. In 2007, three fewer women MLAs (23) were elected to the assembly than the previous one, but the elections ended a protracted political uncertainty in UP as voters obliged Mayawati with a majority government. However, women's participation and representation in UP assembly elections have picked up in the last decade. The 2012 UP polls, in many ways, was a watershed when the polling percentage of female electors surpassed male voters for the first time. The increase indicated women emerging as a separate constituency in the heartland states. Thirty-five women were elected to the assembly, breaking the earlier record of 30 seats in 1985. This trend was repeated five years later when female voters participation further improved to 63 per cent compared to 59 per cent polling by males. A new record was set, with electors returning 43 women candidates to the state assembly. In absolute numbers, 84 lakh more male electors cast their votes in the 2002 state elections than women voters. This difference had narrowed down to less than 47 lakhs by 2017. This increase in women participation and representation has also engendered studies on comparative assessment on the performance of women lawmakers vis a vis their male counterparts. Research shows women legislators raise economic activity in their constituencies 1.8 percentage points more than their male counterparts. Male legislators are three times more likely to have criminal charges against them, and female MLAs are more likely to oversee the completion of centrally sponsored schemes like Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. The rise in women electors in UP politics as a differentiator is real and perceptible. As a distinct and discernible pressure group, they are forcing political parties to reach out to women both in terms of offering larger representation and policy formation. Women MLAs in UP Assembly: 2017 - 43, 2012 - 35, 2007 - 23, 2002 - 26, 1996 - 20, 1993 - 14, 1991 - 10, 1989 - 18, 1985 - 31, 1980 - 23, 1977 - 11, 1974- 21, 1969 - 18, 1967 - 6, 1962 - 20, 1957 - 18, 1952 - 20 More women electors voting than males (in terms of percentage) 2002: Female 50.25 per cent; Male 56.72 per cent  2007: Female 41.92 per cent, Male 49.35 per cent 2012: Female 60.28 per cent, Male: 58.68 per cent 2017: Female: 63.31 per cent, Male 59.15 per cent (Source: Election Commission of India) (Sumit Pande is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-brief-history-of-women-in-up-polls-1072183.html
18-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu's active Covid-19 cases breach 1.5 lakh mark||Tamil Nadu on Monday reported a marginal dip in fresh Covid-19 infections with 23,443 cases but the active cases breached the 1.50 lakh mark and fatalities were 20, a health bulletin said. The active cases, including isolation, climbed to 1,52,348 while 13,551 patients were discharged with the new cases including people from other states and abroad. On Sunday, Tamil Nadu had logged 23,975 fresh cases and active cases stood at 1,42,476. Health Minister Ma Subramanian told reporters on Monday that while fresh infections have presently seen a dip, there is scope for some increase after 'Pongal' holidays. While 1,40,268 samples were tested in Tamil Nadu on Monday, the minister said such levels of testing every day (approximately 1.50 lakh samples) is the highest in the country. Relatively, though the fresh virus cases may have risen recently, hospitalisation is less and the infections are mostly mild that does not warrant being admitted to hospital, he noted. In Tamil Nadu, 1.91 lakh beds are available and the occupancy right now is only 8,900, he said, adding that everything is available be it beds or facilities like oxygen or requisite medicine. While 29,63,366 people have tested positive for coronavirus as on date, as many as 27,74,009 people have recovered from the infection so far and 37,009 is the total count of deaths in the state till date, the Covid-19 health bulletin said. Pongal holidays end on Monday, which began with 'Bhogi' celebrations on January 13.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-active-covid-19-cases-breach-15-lakh-mark-1072135.html
18-01-2022||South||Chandrababu Naidu tests positive for Covid-19||Former Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, who was seen as being more careful with Covid-19 than other politicians, has been infected by the virus. The TDP chief revealed it through a tweet on Tuesday morning. “I've tested positive for Covid with mild symptoms. I have quarantined myself at home and taking all the necessary precautions. I would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest. Please be safe and take care,” Naidu said. AP chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy wished Naidu a speedy recovery.  Naidu's son and TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh had tested positive a day before. The former minister is “asymptomatic and is fine but will be in self-isolation until recovery.” Naidu has been busy attending various party-related activities in Vijayawada. He also took part, though wearing a mask, in the funeral procession of a party activist who was hacked to death in Guntur district last week. The TDP alleges the involvement of YSRCP men in the murder. Several other politicians like YSRCP minister Kodali Nani are also infected by Covid-19, at a time when the virus is surging through in the state. On Tuesday, AP health authorities reported 6,996 new Covid-19 cases, the highest so far this season, when 38,055 samples were tested. The state had reported such figures over seven months ago, during the second wave last year. The current positivity rate is 18.3 percent. Meanwhile,night curfew has been imposed in AP from Tuesday. On the other side, Telangana, public health director Dr Srinivasa Rao, the nodal officer for Covid-19 is also infected by the virus. Suffering mild symptoms, Rao is under treatment in a hospital. Telangana recorded 2,983 new cases on Tuesday, when 1,07,904 samples were tested. The K Chandrasekhar Rao government is ready to impose any restriction, stating that the “Corona situation is under control in the state.” “We are ready to face any situation that may arise,” said Telangana health minister Harish Rao. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chandrababu-naidu-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1072165.html
18-01-2022||South||Actor Dileep's anticipatory bail plea hearing deferred||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday posted for January 21 the hearing of the anticipatory bail plea of actor Dileep in the actress abduction case. When the matter came up for hearing this morning, the prosecution sought more time to complete the probe in the light of fresh developments and the court posted the case for Friday. This is the third time that the court is postponing the plea in the wake of fresh developments and as on the previous two occasions, the court ordered that there should be no arrest of the actor, till then. On Monday, the High Court allowed the prosecution to re-examine three and summon five new witnesses in the ongoing trial in the case. All these fresh twists and turns surfaced early this month after film director Balachandra Kumar made fresh statements related to the case. The court proceedings were progressing smoothly for Dileep till Kumar made an appearance and spilled the beans saying that the actor soon after being released on bail saw the visuals of the actress who was kidnapped being physically attacked by her tormentors. Until this time it was only the trial court had seen it. Kumar made more disclosures before the police and also a magistrate. Based on these disclosures, the police probe team registered a fresh case and sensing that he might be arrested, Dileep sought an anticipatory bail. Dileep was arrested in 2017 and lodged in prison in a case related to a gang sexually assaulting a frontline heroine of South Indian movies and filming the scenes. After two months in jail, he was released on bail. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actor-dileeps-anticipatory-bail-plea-hearing-deferred-1072193.html
18-01-2022||South||Is Vijayan eyeing the CPI-M general secretary post?||With the West Bengal unit of the CPI-M literally wound up and at Tripura things not appearing not that rosy, Kerala is the only state where they reign supreme. Ever since Pinarayi Vijayan assumed office as Chief Minister in 2016, he has become the undisputed word in his party, and hence the talk -- is he eyeing the post of general secretary? The 76-year-old Vijayan by now has re-written quite a few unwritten laws in his party and this has taken place on account of his iron grip over the party that he has today. This, however did not come overnight. Instead, he built it brick by brick when he was the state secretary in Kerala for the longest term which ended after 17 years at the top in 2015. And when he laid down office as the state secretary, practically every known leader in the party became his ardent fan, and when he took over as Chief Minister in 2016, even though the assembly election was de-facto led by his arch rival VS Achuthanandan, in a fine stroke with the help of the national unit of the party, he took over as Chief Minister. A media critic on condition of anonymity said the biggest makeover in the Kerala unit of the party that he has undertaken is, till VS Achuthanandan was the chief minister (2006-2011), it was the CPI-M state secretary who always reigned supreme and when Vijayan took over as chief minister in 2016, he became the last word, with the state secretary becoming just a figurative head. "To speculate, if he will take over as the general secretary at the moment is a bit premature. The Party Congress is scheduled to be held at his home turf Kannur in April this year. The present incumbent Sitaram Yechuri technically can continue for another 3-year term. There is no doubt that Vijayan today is the last word in the party. With the party' state conference to be held at Ernakulam next month, already murmurs have begun at some of the recently held district party meetings, if Vijayan is eyeing the post of the general secretary," said the critic who did not wish to be identified. Vijayan presently is in the US and admitted to the Mayo Clinic, seeking medical treatment for an undisclosed ailment and is scheduled to return on January 29. Why the tongues have started wagging is because the Party Congress which elects the new general secretary is being held at KannurL Moreover his second term as Chief Minister began in May last year and it has by now had a bumpy ride, and one will have to wait for a while, if the speculation is to be a reality, or otherwise. "But, do not forget, a lot of conventions in the CPI-M in recent times have been thrown out of the window," added the critic. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-vijayan-eyeing-the-cpi-m-general-secretary-post-1072198.html
18-01-2022||South||20 injured as under-construction building collapses in Kerala||At least 20 people were injured, few of them seriously, after a building under construction in nearby Kaithapoyil in this north Kerala district collapsed on Tuesday morning. According to police sources, the multi-storied building was under construction in the Markaz Knowledge City. Police and Fire and Rescue officials were swung into action to rescue the labourers, who were engaged in the concreting of the first floor of the building. Sources said three workers, who were seriously injured, have been shifted to Kozhikode medical college hospital. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/20-injured-as-under-construction-building-collapses-in-kerala-1072207.html
18-01-2022||South||KCR goes for makeover of government schools in Telangana; to introduce English medium education||After Jaganmohan Reddy in Andhra Pradesh, now K Chandrasekhar Rao wants English medium instruction introduced in the government schools across Telangana. And on the lines of 'Mana Badi Nadu Nedu', a mission mode approach in Andhra Pradesh to transform the government school infrastructure, the TRS government is bringing in a Rs 7,289 crore scheme. The Rao Cabinet has approved the programme named 'Mana Vooru Mana Badi' to create better infrastructure facilities and impart quality education in the government schools. 'Mana Vooru Mana Badi' would cover 26,065 schools run by the state government and local bodies and would benefit 19.84 lakh children. Under the programme, all the schools would be provided with new classrooms in place of dilapidated ones, compound walls, furniture, green chalkboards, drinking water, toilets with running water facility, kitchen sheds, dining halls and digital education facilities. To be implemented as the flagship education sector programme, 'Mana Vooru Mana Badi' would cover all the schools in three phases, in three years, similar to the plan underway in neighbouring AP. The Rao Cabinet which met on Monday also stressed the need to introduce English medium education in the state-run schools. “There is an increasing demand for English medium education in the rural areas too. As parents are also willing to send their children to government schools if English medium instruction is provided, the Cabinet approved English medium introduction and development of necessary infrastructure,” a CMO official said. Teachers would be trained accordingly, school environments would be made attractive for children, with improved mid-day meal programme, in order to offer a learning environment on par with corporate schools. Education department officials were instructed to draw an action plan. The TRS ministers also discussed the resentment among the parents over the huge fees charged in the private educational institutions. The Cabinet has decided to bring in new legislation in the next Assembly session to regulate fees in private schools, junior and degree colleges from the coming academic year. A Cabinet sub-committee formed under the chairmanship of Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy would formulate the necessary plan of action. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kcr-goes-for-makeover-of-government-schools-in-telangana-to-introduce-english-medium-education-1072298.html
18-01-2022||South||Women officers played key role in Sabarimala pilgrimage coordination||While the entry of two middle-aged women to the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala three years ago had led to a law and order breakdown in the state, during this ongoing pilgrimage, two middle-aged women officers have been playing key role in ensuring a smooth pilgrimage amidst grim situations like Covid pandemic and rough weather alerts. Divya S Iyer, a 2014 batch IAS officer, who is the collector of Pathanamthitta district where the temple is situated, and district police chief R Nishanthini, a 2008 batch IPS officer, have been playing key role in coordination of the pilgrimage that began in November and ends on January 20. The two officers restricted their visit only up to Pampa, the starting point of the trekking path, up to where women are allowed as per beliefs and traditions. Active involvement of the district collector in the pilgrimage coordination even received much attention with her Ayyappa keerthana recital at Pumba on occasions like the arrival of 'Thanka Anki' (golden ornaments) procession from Aaranmula temple to the hill shrine went viral on the social media. Iyer told DH that it was an unique and challenging experience as she could coordinate the arrangements at Sabarimala Sannidhanam by not visiting there, that too at challenging situations like rough weather alerts and Covid pandemic. The wide CCTV coverage helped her monitor the arrangements at Sannidhanam by sitting at her office. An additional district magistrate, Arjun Pandiyan, was posted exclusively for Sabarimala as she could not visit the Sannidhanam premises. "I am quite happy over the positive feedback that the devotional atmosphere at Sabarimala could be restored as the temple was witnessing unfortunate developments over the last few years," said Iyer who had visited the temple along with her father when she was a child. Incidentally, Health Minister Veena George, who is the minister from Pathanamthitta district, is in her forties and that could be the reason why she also did not visit the temple to review the arrangements, said a temple official. During the 2018-19 pilgrimage there was serious law and order breakdown not just at Sabarimala, but across the state, with widespread protest by Hindu outfits against the entry of women in the 10-50 age group subsequent to a Supreme Court order. But the SC order of 2018 lifting the restrictions on women between the age of 10 and 50 (considered as menstruating age) to the hill shrine was later sent for review by a larger bench by the Constitution bench of the apex court. Hence the state government decided not to implement the 2018 order allowing women of all ages to the temple until further orders from the SC. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/women-officers-played-key-role-in-sabarimala-pilgrimage-coordination-1072303.html
18-01-2022||South||Government medical college surgeon in Kerala held with MDMA||A house surgeon at the government medical college hospital at Thrissur district in Kerala was held with MDMA and LSD stamps on Tuesday. Aqil Mohammed Hussain, 24, of Kozhikode, revealed to authorities that at least 15 physicians used to ingest the synthetic drugs. 2.78 grams of MDMA and one LSD stamp were seized from him. Additionally, used vials of hashish oil were discovered in a doctor's room in a private hostel near the medical campus. According to Thrissur district police superintendent Aadhithya R, a search was initiated at the hostel after a tip-off about substance abuse. Further inquiry was being conducted. According to police sources, Hussain was also suspected of being engaged in the sale of synthetic narcotics. Even during the police search, many calls requesting drug availability were alleged to have been received on Hussain's phone. The phone would be examined. He was suspected to be sourcing the synthetic drugs and hashish oil from Bengaluru and Visakhapatanam. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/government-medical-college-surgeon-in-kerala-held-with-mdma-1072309.html
18-01-2022||South||Covid hits Kerala government as surge continues||The Covid surge in Kerala appears to have hit the state's administration with a minister, many in the government secretariat, doctors and police personnel getting infected. A nursing officer on Covid duty has also died in the state. Government sources said that a Covid review meeting scheduled to be held on Thursday might decide to impose stringent restrictions. With 28,481 fresh cases on Tuesday, the active cases in the state increased to 1.42 lakh. On Tuesday the daily test positivity rate in the state was 35 per cent. Around 120 Covid clusters were spotted in the state and 63 more Omicron cases were confirmed. In state capital Thiruvananthapuram, the TPR was around 48 per cent. The district administration warned of stringent action against social distancing violation and gatherings beyond the prescribed limits. Education Minister V Sivankutty, many in the office of the Chief Minister and other ministers and many other employees in the government secretariat were tested positive. Many doctors and around 500 police personnel were reported to be infected. A 45-year-old nursing officer at a government hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, identified as Saritha, died following Covid infection. She was said to have comorbid factors. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-hits-kerala-government-as-surge-continues-1072338.html
18-01-2022||South||Bank loan fraud: ED arrests MD of Hyderabad firm||The promoter and managing director of a Hyderabad-based company has been arrested under the anti-money laundering law in connection with a bank loan fraud of Rs 402 crore, where a consortium of public sector banks was allegedly cheated, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Tuesday. Avasarala Venkateswara Rao of Servomax India Private Limited (SIPL) was arrested on Monday. He was produced before a special court that deals with cases lodged under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Tuesday. The court sent Rao to judicial custody for 14 days. The ED, in a statement issued here, said Rao was arrested "for indulging in the offence of money laundering and for causing a loss of around Rs 402 crore to a consortium of public sector banks by indulging in various fraudulent practices". The ED case of money laundering was filed after taking cognisance of a 2018 FIR lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against the accused. The ED said SIPL had taken loans from the consortium of banks and Rao was the promoter-cum-key managerial person who was responsible for the entire business operations. "He indulged in fraudulent transactions and the loan amounts were not repaid and the consortium of banks suffered an NPA of Rs 402 crore. "SIPL had circulated loan amounts to various related entities to inflate its books of accounts to become eligible for higher loans and had issued LCs (letters of credit) to related entities without any real purchase of goods and which ultimately devolved, causing losses of Rs 267 crore to the banks," the agency said. The ED said its probe established that Rao indulged in "benami" transactions and "diverted" loan funds for personal benefits. "Rao used a web of more than 50 entities to route proceeds of crime and layer the same. "He was non-cooperative during the investigation and was not supplying documents of his own business entities on one pretext or the other," the ED alleged. Once the loan accounts became non-performing assets (NPAs), Rao used his own shell entity (with his employee as its controlling director) to initiate the CIRP (corporate insolvency resolution process) by "fraudulently" declaring it to be a creditor by passing bogus journal entries. "He even managed to get his own person appointed as IRP for some time. He has also managed to retain the brand name of 'Servomax' illegally and even during the CIRP, he controlled the website of the company and diverted work orders to his related entities," the ED alleged. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bank-loan-fraud-ed-arrests-md-of-hyderabad-firm-1072365.html
18-01-2022||State||Narayana Guru tableau row: Joshi says precedent followed, but lies spread||Charging that the Communist government in Kerala which once broke the state of Narayan Guru is playing politics over the issue of excluding Kerala's Sree Narayana Guru tableau from Republic Day parade, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday stated that that Kerala's tableau was excluded as per the unwritten precedent of giving chance to a state once in three years. "It is a big lie that the tableau was dropped because it is of Sree Narayana Guru, and the Centre also did not ask Kerala to bring a tableau of Shankaracharya. Big lie is being spread mentioning the Cenrte just for politics. Congress leaders like Siddaramaiah should also verify the facts before making any statement," Joshi said. Among 36 states and union territories, the practice is to select 12 tableaux every year. Each state usually gets a chance once in three years, except in case of some special occasion. This precedent started when the Congress itself was in power, and we did not made it. Kerala presented its tableau in 2018 and 2021, and naturally it could not get the chance this time, and they did not comply to some rules also, Joshi noted. We did not reject the tableau because it is if Sree Narayana Guru, and we also did not instructed for Shankaracharya tableau from Kerala. We respect both great personalities. Those who are giving wrong statements on this issue should rectify that, Joshi added. On UP polls Commenting on Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, Joshi said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath suppressed goonda raj there, and people there are with Yogi and Modi. A few leaders leaving or joining the party would not have impact on the entire results of the polls. he said, mentioning the suspension of Harak Singh Rawat. Yogi Adityanath changing his constituency was not at all discussed, and he just said that the party's central leadership would decide. He is contesting from his home constituency of Gorakhpur, Joshi said. All surveys and our internal survey are showing that we are ahead in terms of Assembly elections of five states, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/narayana-guru-tableau-row-joshi-says-precedent-followed-but-lies-spread-1072217.html
18-01-2022||State||Seer calls for demolition of Jamia Masjid in Srirangapatna, held||Seer Rishi Kumara Swami of Arsikere-based Kalika Mutt in Hassan has stoked another controversy by calling for the demolition of Jamia Masjid in Srirangapatna town in a video uploaded on his Facebook account, claiming that it is a Hanuman temple. The seer was arrested on Tuesday in Chikkamagaluru for the post after a complaint by Yathiraj, a security guard of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The Jamia Masjid, which also houses a Madarasa, is conserved and maintained by the ASI. Rishi Kumara had courted arrest earlier for his controversial statements on varied issues. He is also a singer and has also acted in a feature film and has participated in a television reality show. The video had been shot on Sunday by one of the seer's assistants. In the video, he states that the sculpted pillars on the outer wall of the Masjid belong to a temple. “The building of a temple in Srirangapatna has been converted into a mosque. Hindus should wake up now. This is one of the mosques that should be demolished soon like the Babri Mosque of Ayodhya,” he says in the video. After his arrest, Kumara Swami asserted that he stands by his words and claimed that the structure is a temple and not a mosque. “This structure should be demolished like the Babri Mosque. Pro-Hindu organisations should join hands and stay united until a Hanuman temple is constructed in Srirangapatna,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/seer-calls-for-demolition-of-jamia-masjid-in-srirangapatna-held-1072225.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||'Grama One' offering govt services for citizens to be launched in 12 Karnataka districts on Republic Day||The Grama One project of the state government, which will offer services of various departments in rural areas, will be launched in 12 districts on January 26, Republic Day. According to a release from Chief Ministers’ Office, around 3,000 Grama One centres will be launched. The districts where the project will be launched are Bidar, Koppal, Ballari, Belagavi, Haveri, Vijayapura, Davangere, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Chikkamagaluru, Udupi and Kodagu. Bommai, who chaired a virtual meeting to review preparations for its implementation, said that Grama One centres will come up in all districts in the coming days. All services of prominent departments should be made available at these centres, he told officials. Around 100 services from departments such as Revenue, Food and Civil Supplies, Health and Family Welfare, and Labour will be made available at Grama One centres. Such centres will be equipped with internet connections. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/grama-one-offering-govt-services-for-citizens-to-be-launched-in-12-karnataka-districts-on-republic-day-1072114.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Announce KPSC results soon: Suresh Kumar||Former minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai asking him to announce the results of state civil service examinations in the first few months of this year at least. The examinations were notified by the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) in 2017 for 106 posts, after which preliminary examinations were held on August 24, 2020. Main examinations were held on February 2021, he said. “Though main exams were held 11 months ago, the results are not out or according to insider information even evaluation had not started,” he said. Such attitude by KPSC was cruel to talented students who awaited a favourable result, he said. Among the reasons for the delay in results, he said, was that KPSC did not have a full-time examination controller. The officer in charge was not keen on announcing the results according to a prominent personality in KPSC, Kumar wrote. He accused KPSC of failing to provide officials for state administration on time.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/announce-kpsc-results-soon-suresh-kumar-1072119.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to regulate sale of self-test Covid-19 kits||The unregulated sale and use of home-testing kits, the results of many of which are being insufficiently reported to the authorities, prompted the government to issue a circular on Sunday. However, it was released to the media on Monday. This aims to document how many kits are being sold in the state and how many buyers are testing positive. When asked about the matter, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar had said that he would consult with experts to determine “what measures the government can take to get reporting of the test results.” Another health official had also said he would check with his team about introducing a system of checks to regulate the kits. In Karnataka, authorities have little idea of how many RT-PCR, RAT self-testing kits are being sold in the state on a daily basis -- which the circular acknowledges. Ravindra Kumar M J, secretary, Bengaluru Chemists and Druggists Association, suggested that on an average, about 12,000 kits are being sold in the city alone. Amid the lack of concrete information, the curricular notes that the Department of Health and Family Welfare has instructed the Karnataka State Drug Control Department to “take suitable action.” Carrying and forwarding agents and distributors have to now record details of how many kits they have received and sold. Furthermore, the Drug Control Department has to ensure that kits are not misused. “Medical shop owners have to note down the following details of buyers of such kits: their name, their home address and mobile number,” the circular states. Those selling the kits have to also inform the buyers that they have to download the respective app of the manufacturer and upload their test reports. “If (buyers) test positive they have to inform the nearest government hospital or their doctor.” The officers have been instructed to collect data about the sale of these kits from medical shop owners every day by 6 pm. Kumar noted that it is relatively easy for the association to start cataloguing sales because they have a system of collecting data, but added that only about 60% of medical stores are computerised. “The rest are still using paper billing and phone calls. But they can start uploading the required data using WhatsApp if necessary,” he said. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-regulate-sale-of-self-test-covid-19-kits-1072120.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC begins live streaming of proceedings||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday started live streaming of court proceedings on YouTube. Two division benches streamed the live proceedings that registered over 4,000 views. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and another division bench headed by Justice S Sujatha live-streamed the proceedings. The proceeding before court hall number 1, headed by the Chief Justice, was viewed by around 2,600 persons, while the proceeding before court hall number 3, headed by Justice Sujatha, was viewed by around 1,600 persons. The rules for live streaming of court proceedings were notified with effect from January 1, 2022.  The rules titled – Karnataka Rules on Live Streaming and Recording of Court Proceedings, 2021 – will apply to the high court and to the courts and tribunals over which it has supervisory jurisdiction. The rules stated that there will be a delay of 10 minutes in streaming, which may be changed as per the direction of the court. The notification has listed types of cases excluded from the category of live streaming. These cases include, matters such as matrimonial cases (including transfer petitions arising there under), cases concerning sexual offences, including proceedings instituted under Section 376 of IPC, cases concerning gender-based violence against women, Pocso Act as well as Juvenile Justice Act matters and in-camera proceedings. On HC YouTube page The live streaming of high court proceedings can be viewed on Karnataka High Court’s YouTube page – High Court of Karnataka Official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-begins-live-streaming-of-proceedings-1072121.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Measles-Rubella vax deaths: 'Shots given 2 days late, stored in home fridge'||A day after the death of three infants (aged 13-17 months) on receiving their first dose of Measles-Rubella (MR) vaccine in Belagavi district’s Ramdurg taluk, the health secretary said the vaccine vials have been sent to Central Drug Laboratory in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh for investigation. He said a preliminary investigation showed that it is a case of procedural lapse. Both the Auxilliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) who administered the vaccine and the pharmacist (who was supposed to ensure the cold chain) have been served with show-cause notices by the state wing of the National Health Mission. The Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) is still awaiting the post mortem report of one baby girl, who was brought there after she developed septicemia (blood poisoning) on receiving the vaccine shot. Blood, stool and urine samples of the other babies have also been sent for forensic testing. Meanwhile, advisor to the Centre’s Reproductive and Child Health wing Dr Pradeep Haldar said the MR vaccine vial once opened has to be used within four hours or discarded, if not used within the stipulated time. “Around 42 crore children have been given the vaccine in India after its launch in 2017. It is a safe vaccine,” he said. The deceased children have been identified as Chetan Pujari (13 months), Pavitra Hulgur (13 months), and Madhu Kargundi (17 months).  Belagavi District Health Officer Dr Shashikant Muliyal told DH, “In all, 21 children were administered the vaccines that are part of the national immunisation programme, out of whom four children were administered the MR vaccine. Two hours after receiving the MR vaccine, the three kids suffered giddiness, vomiting and loose motion. The fourth child is recovering at BIMS. The other 17 children are fine. If found guilty, criminal cases will be filed against the health staff who are responsible for this.” Principal Secretary (Health) T K Anil Kumar told DH, “Initial findings suggest it was a procedural lapse and that the cold chain had not been maintained properly. We’ve sent show-cause notices to both the nurse and the pharmacist.” District Immunisation Officer Dr Ishwar Gadad told DH, “Vaccines that were supposed to be administered on January 10 were given on January 12. The vials were stored in a household fridge, which is not allowed.”  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/measles-rubella-vax-deaths-shots-given-2-days-late-stored-in-home-fridge-1072128.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||'Closing schools should be measure of last resort'||Private school managements have urged the state government to consider closing down schools after taking into account the taluk-wise test positivity rate (TPR). The Recognised Unaided Private Schools Association (RUPSA) on Monday urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to consider the closure of schools based on the cases reported at taluk levels, instead of considering the positivity rate at the district. As deputy commissioners are empowered to take a decision in this regard, around six districts, including Bengaluru Urban, have announced the closing of schools following a surge in Covid numbers. But going by the taluk-wise data, some taluks have very few Covid-19 cases, said Lokesh Talikatte, president, RUPSA. "We have been urging the government since the beginning to consider the closure of schools as a last resort. When malls, cinema halls, parks, and wedding halls are permitted to function, why not schools? Closure of schools should be the last option the government should consider as children are safe on campuses," said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. "The closure of physical classes for almost two years has hit the child's learning ability. We even requested the government to frame a separate set of guidelines for schools and allow them to function," Kumar said.   'Keep health minister out of these decisions' Meanwhile, the associations have said the health minister should not be allowed to decide on the functioning of schools and colleges. "We request the Chief Minister to let the education department, experts, and the minister concerned to take decisions when it comes to the closure of schools and colleges. The health minister should not be allowed to decide on this matter," Kumar said. As of now, offline classes for grades 1 to 9 have been suspended in Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi, Mysuru, Mandya, Dharwad, and Ballari. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/closing-schools-should-be-measure-of-last-resort-1072139.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, Karnataka wants Elon Musk's Tesla||Karnataka on Tuesday joined a growing list of Indian states wooing Tesla’s billionaire founder Elon Musk to start a manufacturing unit.  “With over 400 R&D centres, 45+ EV startups & an EV cluster near Bengaluru, Karnataka has emerged as EV hub of India. Mr Elon Musk, Karnataka would be an ideal destination to set up Tesla plant. Bengaluru is already Tesla’s maiden address in India,” Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said in a tweet.  With this, Karnataka has joined Telangana, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab and Tamil Nadu in inviting Musk to India after the Tesla CEO tweeted that there are challenges with entering the country.  "Still working through a lot of challenges with the government," Musk tweeted. Musk was replying to a Twitter user, who asked: "Yo @elonmusk any further update as to when Tesla's will launch in India? They're pretty awesome and deserve to be in every corner of the world!" In January last year, Tesla registered its subsidiary Tesla India Motors and Energy Private Ltd in Bengaluru. The then Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had tweeted that the electric car giant would open its R&D unit in the state capital. But, the tweet was quickly deleted. In February 2021, Yediyurappa had said in a statement: “American firm Tesla will open its electric car manufacturing unit in Karnataka.” While the Texas-based company has been intending to sell its “eco-friendly” cars in India for some time now, the high import duties India levies on fully assembled cars is stated as a deterrent.  The duty on completely built EVs costing $40,000 or less is 60% while it would shoot up to 100 per cent for anything costlier. Tesla understandably thinks the premium price could dissuade the cost-conscious Indian consumer. And given the fledgling state the electric vehicle environment is in the country, Tesla, analysts believe, would opt to test the market first with exported cars coming with an attractive rate tag. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-karnataka-wants-elon-musks-tesla-1072222.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Pralhad Joshi wants Karnataka weekend curfew to be relaxed||Expressing his personal view that economic activities should continue, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday said that there was no need for lockdown and called for a relaxation of weekend curfew. With vaccinations being conducted on a large scale and medical infrastructure upgraded, Joshi felt there was a need to relax curbs in Karnataka. "This is my personal opinion. Weekend curfew has to be relaxed as the economic activities should go on. People should adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour, while the government should also enforce the norms properly," he said. "Total lockdown was imposed in 2020 as medical infrastructure was not equipped and vaccination had not come. Now, there is no need for total lockdown, and the Centre has asked states to have micro-containment zones wherever cases are more. More focus should be given to tracking and tracing cases," he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pralhad-joshi-wants-karnataka-weekend-curfew-to-be-relaxed-1072226.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt warns medical professionals of action for spreading misinformation on Covid||The Karnataka government has warned certain medical practitioners of action for allegedly spreading misinformation pertaining to the Covid-19. In a statement on Tuesday, the Commissionerate of Health and Family Services said some medical practitioners were allegedly giving incomplete, inaccurate and unsubstantiated information about Covid-19. "Such misinformation leads to confusion in public at large on the prevailing Covid scenario in the State and encourages them to deviate from well laid out guidelines issued by the health and revenue authorities," the statement said. Asking the medical professionals to exercise utmost care and caution while communicating with public on Covid-19, the Commissionerate asked them to refer to the government guidelines, circulars and orders thoroughly before appearing on any media or social platform. "Any misinformation or non-factual data on Covid-19 shared on such platforms would be deemed as an offence and necessary action would be initiated as per section 54 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and section 4(K) of Karnataka Epidemic Disease Act, 2020," the commissionerate warned in its statement. According to health officials, a few doctors recently appeared in some news channels and allegedly gave statements contrary to the facts and had the potential to trigger panic among people about Covid-19. The warning came at a time when the daily when the state witnessed fresh 34,047 cases and 13 deaths on Sunday and 27,156 infections and 14 fatalities on Monday.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-warns-medical-professionals-of-action-for-spreading-misinformation-on-covid-1072270.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S) puts off water campaign citing Covid-19||The HD Deve Gowda-led JD(S) on Tuesday decided to postpone its statewide Janata Jaladhaare water campaign that was to start on January 26 due to the Covid-19 situation. The regional party's decision comes even as the BJP government had to forcefully stop Congress' Mekedatu foot march following a rap from the High Court.  As part of Janata Jaladhare, JD(S) had plans of collecting water from 51 river sources across the state and travelling with these samples to 180 taluks for 20 days, creating awareness about water rights among people.  "Considering the increase in Covid-19 cases, we have decided to not hold the campaign until the pandemic subsides," JD(S) Legislature Party leader HD Kumaraswamy told mediapersons on Tuesday.  Nonetheless, the party will distribute handbills about its contribution to the development of water resources during the HD Deve Gowda regime, especially in North Karnataka. These pamphlets will also appeal to people to vote for the party in the upcoming Assembly polls and explain how the JD(S) plans to complete the pending irrigation if voted to power, Kumaraswamy said.  Kumaraswamy held the party's decision in contrast with Congress' stand to conduct its foot march amid the pandemic. "We are responsible elected representatives. We are in no haste to take up our party organisation work while cases are spreading," Kumaraswamy said. He had earlier labelled the Congress foot march as a "fair" in the name of Mekedatu.  "The Congress has now woken up to the issue of water rights after governing the country for so many decades," he said mockingly. "It was the same Congress which used police force against farmers protesting for Mahadayi water."  The JD(S) leader charged both national parties for failing to make use of the state's water resources. "They start talking about it when the elections are near and then do nothing when they come to power." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jds-puts-off-water-campaign-citing-covid-19-1072284.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||2 cops deputed for Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai's security held for peddling drugs||Two policemen posted on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s security duty were caught trying to extort money from a drug peddler a stone’s throw away from the CM’s house in RT Nagar. The two were arrested on January 13. The incident came to light on Tuesday, when they got bail.  The two, head constable Shiva Kumar and constable Santosh Naukar, caught the drug peddler Akhil Raj and another person in Akhil’s house near Koramangala on January 13. Since the policemen had to report to duty at the CM’s house, they took Akhil and the other man with them to RT Nagar. According to sources, the police control room received a call around 5 pm on January 13 about an autorickshaw parked suspiciously in RT Nagar with four men in it just 100 metres from Bommai’s house.  A Hoysala vehicle rushed to the spot and found the two policemen in uniform with Akhil and the other man in the auto. The four tried to flee but were caught with the ganja. Akhil told the police the policemen were demanding money from him to let him go with the ganja.  The two policemen were suspended. RT Nagar head constable Kumar in his complaint said all the four persons were trying to sell the ganja.  DCP (North) Patil Vinayak Vasanthrao said one more peddler is involved in the case.  According to sources Akhil had allegedly paid them Rs 15,000 but the policemen were demanding Rs 1 lakh. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-cops-deputed-for-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommais-security-held-for-peddling-drugs-1072313.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||In a massive jump, Karnataka reports 41,457 new Covid-19 cases; 25,595 from Bengaluru alone||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 41,457 cases, the biggest single-day surge so far in the current wave, while Bengaluru inched closer to breaking its own pandemic record set last year by clocking 25,595 fresh infections.  The huge spike of 14,301 cases in the state’s tally (Karnataka on Monday reported 27,156 cases) in less than 24 hours pushed the positivity rate from 12.45% to 22.30%.  The state also reported 20 deaths, of which Bengaluru accounted for seven. “As revealed by experts in their reports, we are moving towards the peak of the third wave. We may even report 1.2 lakh cases on a single day according to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) Report,” said Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. But there is a silver lining to this surge, according to Sudhakar. “What is comforting is that the case numbers will come down at the same speed as they are increasing now. By February second or third week, the cases may decline gradually,” he said, adding that fresh cases are rising steadily in rural parts of Karnataka. But hospitalisation and mortality rates are still low, both in Bengaluru and Karnataka, he added. “In the last 24 hours we have done 1,85,872 tests and we are planning to scale this up to two lakh cases on a daily basis,” Sudhakar said.  The highest single-day spike during the second wave in Bengaluru was reported on April 30, 2021, when the city recorded 26,756 cases with a positivity rate of 41.61%. By then, the city was conducting 64,288 tests. Similarly, Karnataka had reported its highest one-day surge on May 5, 2021, when 50,112 cases were logged with a positivity rate of 32.28%. Cases in the BBMP limits saw a week-on-week increase of 250%, which is in line with other major cities in the country, said BBMP officials. The officer attributed the surge to increased movement of people. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-a-massive-jump-karnataka-reports-41457-new-covid-19-cases-25595-from-bengaluru-alone-1072339.html
18-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai pulls up districts lagging in Covid vaccinations, sets deadline||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday gave until the end of the month for districts lagging behind in Covid-19 vaccination coverage to pick up pace. In a meeting with the deputy commissioners and other officials of 18 districts, Bommai asked all the districts whose vaccine coverage is lower than the state average to be on par by January-end. According to data available with the health department, the state average for first dose vaccine coverage as on date is 99.6 per cent, 83.3 per cent for second dose and 62 per cent when it comes to those aged 15-17 years. In the meeting, Bommai gave a list of measures for the district administrations to take, to successfully cope with the Covid third wave that is expected to peak by January 25. He asked the DCs to ensure that all houses in rural areas have access to health kits and those under home isolation are well taken care of. The DCs and District Health Officers (DHOs) must visit taluks and monitor medicine distribution. A separate SOP has to be drafted to ensure that doctors and nurses visit homes in rural areas, he said. That apart, Bommai stressed on the need for increasing OPDs in both private and government hospitals in Bengaluru. A special plan must be drafted to create awareness about vaccines among factories that bring labourers from outside Karnataka, he added. Meanwhile, Health Minister K Sudhakar who spoke to reporters after the meeting said the CM had also directed to set up war rooms in all districts to coordinate tele-triaging efforts. Bommai also asked officials to open more fever clinics and establish sufficient Covid Care Centres to sustain infrastructure when there is a further rise in cases, Sudhakar said. Compared to the first wave and the second wave, the third wave is spreading four times faster. However, it will also subside equally fast. The government believes that the third wave will subside by the end of February, according to Sudhakar. Low booster coverage Health Minister K Sudhakar expressed disappointment that only 39 per cent of frontline workers have taken the booster dose so far. The government will campaign for the next week to ten days, he said. Bengaluru alone saw 25,595 cases on Tuesday, while the rest of the state recorded 16,000 cases. "This means that even in rural areas the cases are increasing," he said, urging frontline workers to take the booster dose at the earliest. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-pulls-up-districts-lagging-in-covid-vaccinations-sets-deadline-1072392.html
18-01-2022||West||'Secret' meeting between Param Bir and Waze: Navi Mumbai police issue show cause notice to four cops||Navi Mumbai police issued a show-cause notice to four police officials in connection with the alleged 'secret' meeting between former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze last November, an official said on Tuesday. The duo had met in a room adjacent to the chamber of Justice Chandiwal (retd) Commission in a building in south Mumbai. The one-member panel is probing allegations of corruption levelled against then state home minister Anil Deshmukh by Param Bir Singh after the latter was removed as Mumbai police commissioner. The four personnel of Navi Mumbai police's Local Arms Unit had escorted Vaze from the Taloja Jail to a hearing before the commission in south Mumbai when he and Singh managed to speak to each other in private. "The show-cause notice has been issued by DCP, Headquarters, who probed the issue. Once he gives the report, we will take necessary action," said a top Navi Mumbai police officer. The four personnel to whom the notice was issued include a police sub-inspector and three constables, he said. Vaze is currently lodged in the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai in connection with the 'Antilia' security scare case in which an explosives-laden SUV was found parked outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani last February. Vaze is also the prime accused in the Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran murder case. "After the information of the meeting between Singh and Vaze came to light, senior officials of the Mumbai Police visited the spot and informed the Navi Mumbai Police. We took serious note of the incident and an inquiry was ordered against the four police officials for the violation of protocol while escorting the accused person," the official said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/secret-meeting-between-param-bir-and-waze-navi-mumbai-police-issue-show-cause-notice-to-four-cops-1072195.html
18-01-2022||West||Gujarat govt approves project for additional Narmada water supply to Kutch district||The Gujarat government approved a project worth Rs 4,369 crore for the use of additional one million acre feet of the Narmada river water for the border district of Kutch, it was informed on Tuesday. The administrative approval to carry out works worth Rs 4,369 crore has been sanctioned keeping in view the present operation of the Kutch branch canal – which is a part of the Narmada main canal, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a release. "Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel has sanctioned projects worth Rs 4,369 crore for phase-I works for the use of additional one million acre feet of Narmada water for the border district of Kutch in the state," it said. The river water will be diverted to 38 small and medium irrigation schemes through a proposed 337.98-km pipeline to irrigate around 2.81 lakh acres of land, covering 77 villages in six talukas of the Kutch district, as per the release. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-approves-project-for-additional-narmada-water-supply-to-kutch-district-1072223.html
18-01-2022||West||Trucks collide on Mumbai-Nashik route; traffic held up for five hours||A collision between a gas tanker and truck resulted in a traffic snarl on Mumbai-Nashik bypass road in Maharashtra's Thane district in the early hours of Tuesday, a civic official said. Local firemen, personnel from the disaster management cell and traffic police rushed to the spot and the vehicular movement was affected for five hours, the official said. The incident took place around 3.30 am, when a gas tanker collided with a truck coming from the opposite direction at Mankoli, said Santosh Kadam, chief of the regional disaster management cell (RDMC). Drivers of both the vehicles were injured and rushed to a local hospital, where they were undergoing treatment, he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police Traffic Balasaheb Patil said the highway has been since been cleared for traffic and the vehicular movement was restored. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trucks-collide-on-mumbai-nashik-route-traffic-held-up-for-five-hours-1072238.html
18-01-2022||West||BMC christens penguin chick, tiger cub at Byculla Zoo||The historic Byculla Zoo in Mumbai now has two new attractions - Veera and Oscar. Veera is a male Royal Bengal Tiger cub while Oscar is a Humboldt Penguin chick - both born in the zoo last year.   Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar named the penguin chick Oscar, while the tiger cub was christened as Veera. Mumbai Zoo’s director Dr Sanjay Tripathi too was present. The Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan and Zoo or the Mumbai Zoo is one of the oldest zoos in India. Spread over 50 acres, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation-owned zoo is popularly known as Byculla Zoo or Rani Baug. Notably, a pair of Bengal tigers Shakti and Karishma were brought to the Byculla Zoo from Aurangabad’s Siddharth Garden Zoo on February 12, 2020. The cub Veera was born on November 14, 2021. Oscar was born to the Humboltd penguins Mr Molt and Flipper on August 18, 2021 and is the third penguin chick to be born in the Mumbai Zoo. Eight Humboldt penguins – Donald, Daisy, Popeye, Olive, Flipper, Bubble, Mr Molt and Dory – were brought here from Seoul in South Korea, on July 26, 2016. However, Dory could not survive and died on October 23, 2016, because of a bacterial infection. A baby penguin born to Mr Molt and Flipper, born in August 2018, had died a week after birth.  A male penguin chick, named Oreo, was born to Humboldt penguins Donald and Daisy on May 1, 2021.  Another penguin chick was born to Flipper, the oldest female among the Humboldts, and Mr Molt, the youngest male in the zoo, on  August 19, 2021 - which now has been named Oscar. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-christens-penguin-chick-tiger-cub-at-byculla-zoo-1072249.html
18-01-2022||West||Most deaths, serious Covid patients linked to non-vaccination: Goa CM||Most patients who have developed serious Covid-related complications or have died post-infection are those who are either totally unvaccinated or have taken a single jab of the Covid vaccine, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after a conducting a review of the Covid scenario in the coastal state, Sawant also said that while the state had achieved 110 per cent coverage of the first dose and 98 per cent of the second vaccination dose, unvaccinated persons continued to add to the tally of Covid-related deaths and health complications post infection. "Those who have died have not been vaccinated. Out of the six deaths yesterday, five patients had not taken a single Covid vaccine dose. All eligible persons should take vaccines," the Chief Minister told a press conference on Tuesday. "Out of the 16 Covid patients who are serious, 13 have not taken vaccines. Three others have taken only a single dose. I want to inform people that those who are not vaccinated are developing complications. Those who are not vaccinated should get themselves jabbed. Follow Covid norms. Only if we follow them, will our positivity rate decline," Sawant further said. Earlier on Tuesday, Sawant, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane and top health department officials in the state reviewed the Covid scenario in the state, even as Goa logged a 41 per cent plus infection rate on Monday, the highest yet in the third wave. Goa has a total of 21,957 active cases, while 3,563 persons have died due to Covid related complications since the outbreak last year. Earlier, Sawant also said that while more than 100 per cent of the state's population had been vaccinated, those who had preferred to stay unvaccinated were a disservice to their community. "We have vaccinated 100 per cent of the population. But there are those who are insisting on not being vaccinated, we are seeing the ill effect of such an attitude now. My request to all is to get vaccinated as soon as possible," Sawant said, urging persons eligible for vaccination to get jabbed as soon as possible. Sawant also said that in view of the increasing number of Covid cases, the Goa government had started Covid casualty facilities in the state's district hospitals, which would operate 24x7. According to Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, who also briefed the media, the health authorities were treating all Covid cases in the state as deemed Omicron cases. "We are assuming that these are Omicron cases. We are not waiting for genome testing. We are following the protocol which is in place in the rest of the country," the Health Minister said. "Even if you have a slight flu or body ache please go and get yourself tested for Covid, because once you know you have Covid, then the medication can start and we can keep you safe. if it is absolutely mild, you can do your home isolation...," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/most-deaths-serious-covid-patients-linked-to-non-vaccination-goa-cm-1072326.html
18-01-2022||West||3 naval personnel dead, 11 injured in explosion onboard INS Ranvir||In a shocking and unfortunate incident, three Indian Navy personnel were killed and 11 others were injured following an explosion on board guided-missile destroyer ship INS Ranvir in the Mumbai harbour on Tuesday. The explosion took place in the “internal compartment” of the vessel at the Naval Dockyard.* However, the situation is now under control.  INS Ranvir is fourth of the five INS Rajput-class destroyer ships and is a very potent platform - used for anti-aircraft and anti-submarine roles, besides being part of aircraft-carrier task force.  “Three Naval personnel succumbed to injuries caused by an explosion in an internal compartment onboard INS Ranvir,” a Defence Ministry spokesperson said.  The ship's crew responded immediately and brought the situation under control.  “No major material damage has been reported,” the spokesperson said.  INS Ranvir was on cross coast operational deployment from the Visakhapatnam-headquarter Eastern Naval Command from November, 2021 and was due to return to base port shortly.  A Board of inquiry has been ordered to investigate the cause of the explosion in the "internal compartment". The rank and the names of personnel who died in the incident is not yet known.  “The immediate cause is not yet known. A probe has already been ordered,” an official of the Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command said.  INS Ranvir was commissioned on October 28, 1986. The Rajput-class guided missile destroyers are modified versions of Soviet Kashin-class destroyers known as Kashin-II class.  The Rajput-class were the first to deploy BrahMos supersonic cruise missile systems. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-naval-personnel-dead-11-injured-in-explosion-onboard-ins-ranvir-1072355.html
18-01-2022||West||Gujarat reports highest single-day Covid-19 tally since pandemic broke out||Gujarat on Tuesday reported 17,119 Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the highest daily total since the pandemic broke out here in March 2020. A day earlier, the state had recorded 12,753 cases. The fresh cases took the total number of active in the state to 79,600, out of which 113 patients were on ventilators. Ten more people succumbed to the virus, increasing the death toll to 10,174, according to data released by the state health department. The state had reported a little over 14,000 cases, the previous highest in April 2021, during the devastating second wave. On that day, over 170 patients had died. Similarly, Ahmedabad city also reported its highest ever single-day cases with 5,997. In April last year, the city had reported 5,740 cases. Meanwhile, the Ahmedabad municipal corporation announced that it would give an iPhone each to five students for taking vaccines through a lucky draw. In a press release, the civic body stated that five students, in the age group of 15 to 18, will receive the expensive phone on January 26 on the occasion of Republic Day. The announcement is part of promoting the vaccination drive for students. In Ahmedabad, till Tuesday, 1.80 lakh persons aged between 15 and 18 were vaccinated. The state government, in a statement released late in the evening, said that the chief minister Bhupendra Patel held a "high-level meeting with senior officers and experts doctors, who are part of a special task force" set up to check virus spread. Officials attributed the sudden rise to large gatherings during Uttarayan celebration and kite flying on January 14. In the meeting, the task force emphasised on strictly adhering to social distancing norms, wearing masks and hygiene. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-highest-single-day-covid-19-tally-since-pandemic-broke-out-1072357.html
18-01-2022||West||SC cancels bail of man accused of hatching conspiracy to kill wife for insurance money||The Supreme Court on Tuesday cancelled bail of a man accused of hatching a conspiracy for killing his wife in a road accident to claim insurance money of Rs 60 lakh in December 2020. A bench of Justices M R Shah and Sanjiv Khanna quashed the Gujarat High Court's order, saying the order allowing release of accused Lalitbhai Ganpatji Tank was not sustainable in law as well as facts. The top court said the High Court has not at all considered the material or evidence collected during the course of the investigation like the call details records of the husband with other co-accused and simply observed that it was a case of circumstantial evidence.  "Merely because the prosecution case rests on circumstantial evidence cannot be a ground to release the accused on bail, if during the course of the investigation the evidence/material has been collected and prima facie the complete chain of events is established," the bench said. The court also pointed out the High Court had noted that the accused had deep roots in society. "In a case of hatching conspiracy to kill his wife and looking to the seriousness of the offence, this can hardly be a ground to release the accused on bail," the top court added. It also relied upon the police charge sheet which revealed that the accused took the accidental insurance policy jointly with his wife on September 29, 2020, of Rs 60 lakhs.  On December 26, 2020 at 7:00 am, he took his wife to Hanumanji Temple within limit of Bhildi police station in Banaskantha on foot and as he got the chance in the way, he made phone call to the co-accused Kirtikumar Kanaji to finalise the plan. Kanaji made phone call to another co-accused Mahesh (driver of the Swift Car) and thereafter the co-accused Mahesh hit the deceased Daxaben by the said car and committed murder from the back side so as to make it look as an accidental death. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-cancels-bail-of-man-accused-of-hatching-conspiracy-to-kill-wife-for-insurance-money-1072422.html
