19-01-2022||Comment||Anticipating the Budget: Challenges galore||Usually, speculation on the Union budget dominates the discussion in the media in January. However, this year, concerns about the exponential spread of the virus has relegated everything else to the background, as it did last year, too.  Nevertheless, it is important to think about the measures the government could initiate to enable the economic recovery process, provide relief to victims, and advance reforms to put the economy at least on the pre-pandemic growth trajectory. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s challenge this year is particularly formidable as the depressing domestic environment, thanks to the third wave of the pandemic, seems to be putting a check on economic revival. This continues to demand enormous diversion of resources for relief and rehabilitation, and constrains the resources for providing stimulus through increased infrastructure spending. The finance minister will present the budget when both domestic and international economic environments look uncertain. At the domestic level, the first advance estimate of GDP has pegged the growth at 9.2%, which is lower than the 11% growth projected in the Economic Survey and the RBI’s estimate of 9.5%. Even this growth looks optimistic because advance estimates are made by projecting the actual trend in leading indicators of economic activity in the last 6-8 months. This did not consider the economic impact of the third wave, which has led to restrictions on economic activities in the states in varying degrees. There have also been production constraints caused by the non-availability of semiconductors, supply shortages in coal and power outages hampering the full recovery of both industry and service sectors. In the final count, the actual growth might turn out to be lower, at 8.5-9%. Even if we assume that GDP will grow at 9.2% in absolute terms, at Rs 1,47,53,535 crore, we would have barely surpassed the GDP level of 2019-20 by just 1.2%. What is more, the services sector’s gross value added (GVA) in the current year is estimated to be lower than the 2019-20 level by 0.8%, mainly due to the continued contraction in contact-intensive sectors like trade, hotels, transport, storage and communication by 9.3% and the construction sector, which barely surpassed the 2019-20 level. Thus, the recovery process has been staggered, and with rising Omicron cases, the outlook does not look very promising. The international environment is not favourable either, and monetary policy, which has been doing the heavy lifting for economic revival so far, seems to have run out of steam. The expectation of rate increase by the US Fed and in other advanced economies is likely to accentuate capital outflow and put pressure on the exchange rate, current account deficit and prices. Of course, the impact may be less than that of the 2013 taper tantrum, but the stress will be real. In addition, there will be pressure on prices due to the lagged effect of wholesale prices on the consumer price index, rising input costs, semiconductor shortage, and supply bottlenecks. The RBI has already been mopping up surplus liquidity through variable repo rate auctions and it looks like interest rates are set to increase sooner than expected. Thus, there are questions about RBI’s capacity to aid the recovery process in the next fiscal. In formulating the budget, it is the estimate of GDP at current prices that forms the basis for making revenue, expenditure and deficit projections. The estimate of 17.6% growth in nominal GDP will help the finance minister to determine the fiscal space for public spending by taking into consideration the fiscal consolidation plan. It was widely expected that the fiscal deficit estimate of 6.8% for the current fiscal is likely to be breached. This is because the government has already sought supplementary demands amounting to Rs 3.2 lakh crore. Although tax revenue is likely to exceed the budget estimate by over Rs 1 lakh crore, realising Rs 1.75 lakh crore through disinvestment looks doubtful. The budget for FY22 had projected the nominal GDP growth at 14.4% and the estimated 17.6% growth provides some cushion for the current year and, more importantly, helps in setting the expenditure as well as fiscal consolidation targets higher for the next year. With the spill-over of disinvestment proceeds to the next year, progress in asset monetisation and continued buoyancy in tax revenues, we may expect the fiscal deficit targeted at a little over 6% for the next fiscal, and this will help to stick to the consolidation path to reach the targeted fiscal deficit of 4.5% in 2025-26.    On tax policy, there may not be any significant changes in this budget, except for some attempts to weed out some tax concessions and exemptions. Changes in GST are in the domain of the GST Council. It would have been preferable to reverse the trend in increasing protection by reducing the import duties to make the economy more competitive, but with the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ chorus, that is not likely to happen. There may be an expansion in the production-linked incentives to select sectors. On the expenditure side, large allocations will have to continue for both health and MGNREGS. Surely, with the elections in some important states on the horizon and in the background of farmers’ agitation, it would not be surprising to see significant allocation to food and fertiliser subsidies. As mentioned earlier, capital expenditure may see a marginal rise, depending on the expectations from monetisation of assets.   The macroeconomic stance taken in the budget will be extremely important.  Given the prevailing pandemic situation and elections round the corner, it remains to be seen what reforms will be carried forward in the budget. These are hard times and doing the tight rope walk between increasing expenditure to save lives and livelihoods, containing the deficit towards fiscal consolidation, and providing signals and directions to aid the recovery process will be a challenge never seen before. (The writer is a former Director of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy and was Member, Fourteenth Finance Commission. Presently he is the Chief Economic Adviser, Brickwork Ratings)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/anticipating-the-budget-challenges-galore-1072403.html
19-01-2022||First Edit||Marital rape is rape, treat it as crime||The ongoing case in the Delhi High Court challenging the legal exception for marital rape has brought into focus the issue of sexual crimes within the family, especially marital rape. The question by a judge about why the law should treat complaints of sexual violence by a married woman and a sex worker differently received some adverse attention. The criticism was that it equated marriage with prostitution. But this is wrong, and the point that was probably sought to be made was that law should respond equally to complaints from women, whatever be their profession or station in life. Only those who view marriage as a relationship that gives the legal right to a spouse to force oneself on the other without consent would want the exception for marital rape to stay.   Consent is a crucial element that determines the legality or even the legitimacy of individual and social dealings and interactions. Women own their bodies, whether they are married or unmarried, and so their consent is required for sex. Sex without consent becomes a violation of their body, and marriage does not make a difference to this. If domestic violence is a crime, marital rape is more so. The Verma Committee, whose report led to changes in rape laws, had said that the relationship between the victim and the offender is immaterial, and consent should be the deciding factor in such cases. It is because the wife is considered as the husband’s property that marital rape was not considered an offence. It should be viewed as an offence against women’s rights, including privacy, their autonomy, will and physical integrity, and the law should be freed from the traditional framework of family, customs and patriarchy. It should also be noted that most countries consider marital rape a crime. India is in a minority of 32 countries where it is legal.  It is wrong to argue that criminalising marital rape would hurt the institution of marriage. Marriage itself must be a matter of mutual consent, and so should all that it involves. There have been different judicial views on the matter. The Chhattisgarh High Court recently ruled that forced sex within the marriage is not rape. Other High Courts have also held similar views because the exception exists in law as Exception 2 to IPC Section 375. Strangely, the government told the Delhi High Court that "what may appear to be marital rape to an individual wife may not appear so to others.” This is an absurd argument. What matters is what the woman thinks, not what someone else does. The exception must be struck down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/marital-rape-is-rape-treat-it-as-crime-1072400.html
19-01-2022||In Perspective||The criminalisation of faith, love and charity||The ironically titled ‘Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021’ seeks to protect the ‘freedom of religion’ by criminalising conversions which are done by ‘misrepresentation, force, fraud, undue influence, coercion, allurement and promise of marriage’.  The criminalisation of conversion by allurement and conversion by the promise of marriage are the unconstitutional heart of an unconstitutional bill. Allurement has been defined very broadly to include the offer of ‘gifts or gratification in cash or kind’ as well as ‘employment or free education.’ Philanthropic activities, be it the running of schools or vocational centres, can easily be tarred as criminal activities being done for the purpose of conversion. This is not a figment of the imagination if we see the recent shocking incidents of right-wing forces making a forcible entry into Christian-run schools and disrupting Christmas celebrations, alleging conversion. The Bill further states that the burden of proof will be on the ‘person who causes the conversion’. Simply put, this means that the person who intrudes into a school alleging conversion has to be believed and the police will have to register an FIR. During the trial, the person against whom the charge of conversion by allurement is alleged, has the burden of proving that he or she did not do any conversion. This reversal of the burden of proof goes against the fundamental tenet of criminal law that a person is innocent until proven guilty. This reversal of the burden of proof, combined with the broad definition of ‘allurement’, makes every Christian institution offering services, be it schools, vocational centres, hospitals or social service organisations, vulnerable to false charges and harassment. The Bill also targets love marriages, especially if they are across lines of religion, by criminalising conversion with the ‘promise of marriage’. The criminalisation of conversion with the ‘promise of marriage’ violates a core aspect of the Constitution, namely the right to marry the person of one’s choice and to have the faith of one’s choice. This is violative of the constitutional recognition of the sanctity of individual choices. In Shafin Jahan vs Asokan, the Supreme Court asserted the freedom of choice of the individual over ‘social approval’ and stated that ‘neither the State nor the law can dictate a choice of partners as this forms the essence of personal liberty under the Constitution’. The Bill finally drops the pretence that it is only concerned with illegal conversions by going on to restrict the right to convert with bureaucratic and police regulations. Under Section 8, the one who desires to convert as well as the one performing the conversion must submit a form to the District Magistrate 30 days in advance. The District Magistrate will then notify the proposed conversion on the notice board of the office of the Tahsildar, calling for ‘objections’, and if there are objections, he will then do an inquiry with regard to ‘genuine intention, purpose and cause’ of the conversion’. The police are then empowered to take action based on the finding by the Tahsildar. The requirement of notice for conversion is itself a violation of the constitutionally recognised right to privacy, which was laid down by a nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court in Puttaswamy v Union of India.   This Bill must be resisted by all who believe that charity ought not to be criminalised, that love across lines of religion is nothing other than the fulfillment of the constitutional promise of fraternity, and that the freedom to choose one’s religion is a core freedom which accrues to all persons by virtue of being human.  (The writer is a founding member of the Alternative Law Forum, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-criminalisation-of-faith-love-and-charity-1072402.html
19-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Complete first dose of vaccination by month end, CM Bommai tells Dakshina Kannada admin||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has directed the Dakshina Kannada administration to ensure complete Covid-19 first dose vaccination in the district by the end of this month. Special emphasis should be given to areas where the vaccination drive was slow, including Ullal, Kotekar, Someshwar and other areas by holding special vaccination camps. He was interacting with deputy commissioners and other senior officials of 18 districts through a virtual meeting. He expressed displeasure over the delay in the vaccination drive. DK district has achieved 96% success in the first dose of vaccine. Community leaders and local leaders should be contacted to complete the vaccination drive, he said. "The officials should identify those who remained unvaccinated and visit their houses to convince them to get inoculated", the Chief Minister said and called upon the officials to accept the challenge of completing 100% vaccination. He said that the district has achieved only 81% progress in completing the second dose of vaccine. Priority should be given to reach the target. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that efforts will be made to reach 100% in vaccination drives by reaching out to the unvaccinated with the help of elected representatives, religious leaders and MLAs.Health Minister Dr Sudhakar said the officials should contact those who have availed the first dose to remind them of the second dose of the vaccine. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/complete-first-dose-of-vaccination-by-month-end-cm-bommai-tells-dakshina-kannada-admin-1072509.html
19-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||KVIC unveils the unique ‘Khadi Kiosk’ in Mangaluru||Celebrating India’s rich legacy of art and craft, the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) unveiled the unique ‘Khadi Kiosk’ on the ground floor of the domestic security hold area (SHA) of Mangaluru International Airport (MIA). In a true reflection of indigenous cottage industries artefacts, the 'Khadi Kiosk' promises to showcase authentic khadi and village products to all travellers. With a ‘Khadi Kiosk’ also present at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport in Ahmedabad, the store will shortly be seen at Lucknow’s Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport too. It will promote khadi and hand-crafted village products for over a month. What’s more, the specialised team of Khadi and Village Industries Commission will guide travellers on making the perfect selection available at the nearest authorised outlet of the brand. Dharmesh Mehta, terminal in-charge and Jyoti Naik, district officer, Khadi and Village Industries Board jointly inaugurated the 'Khadi Kiosk' in the presence of Senthilkumar Ramaswamy, deputy director, state office, Khadi and Village Industries Commission.  Ramaswamy said the Khadi and Village Industries Commission, through the special showcase, endeavours to create enhanced awareness and a glimpse into the fine craftsmanship which India has to offer.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kvic-unveils-the-unique-khadi-kiosk-in-mangaluru-1072512.html
19-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Renal transplant gives new lease of life to girl with cardiac problem||A 23-year-old girl hailing from Bantwal received a new lease of life with successful kidney transplant amid the Covid-19 pandemic, at Yenepoya Medical College Hospital in Deralakatte. The dreams of a young lecturer who was the sole breadwinner of the family was devastated when she was diagnosed with cardiac, renal failure and blood disorder. There was backward flow of blood in her heart which was making any major surgery difficult to be performed on her, said Dr Altaf Khan, urologist at the Yenepoya Medical College Hospital. She was on dialysis which was making it difficult for her to attend work. Though she had visited various renal transplant centres, all rejected her case owing to the prevalent cardiac and blood disorder. When she visited Yenepoya Medical College, she was evaluated by a team of doctors including nephrologists, urologists, cardiologists, cardiothoracic surgeon and anaesthesiologists. She was transplanted with a kidney donated by her mother. After successful transplant, she is relieved of her kidney, cardiac and haematological problems and now she is back to work, said Dr Khan. Nephrologist Dr Santhosh Pai said in this particular case dialysis was also difficult on the patient as her blood was getting clot. The renal transplant was the only option available to her. “Transplant during the Covid-19 pandemic was a challenge as we had to isolate the patient completely to avoid any contraction with the Covid-19 infection.” He further said that cadaveric renal transplant has come down drastically during the Covid-19 pandemic. People can register for cadaveric transplant at the Yenepoya Hospital. About 50 patients have registered so far. For registration they have to get a dialysis record, and other documents as prescribed by the government. Due to availability of advanced medical equipment, more than a dozen successful renal transplant surgeries were performed during the past one year, said Urologist Dr Mujeeburahiman. “Prior to the renal transplant of the young woman, we had consulted cardiac surgeons, cardiothoracic surgeons from various parts of the country to elicit opinion before going ahead with the renal transplant,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/renal-transplant-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-girl-with-cardiac-problem-1072544.html
19-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Elephant dies of illness in Karnataka||An elephant that had strayed out of the forest and collapsed near Kudurehundi Halla near Hediyala village in the taluk succumbed on Wednesday. The female elephant was provided treatment by the Forest department. Despite continuous treatment by veterinarian Dr Wasim on Tuesday, it failed to respond and succumbed.  The elephant was suffering from age-related illness, it is said. The carcass was buried at the same spot. Post mortem was conducted and the exact reason for the death will be known after the report is available, the officials said. Deputy Conservator of Forest Ravikumar, Hediyala Range Forest Officer Manjunath and others were present. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-dies-of-illness-in-karnataka-1072705.html
19-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Bengaluru man drowns in River Kaveri||A Bengaluru-based man drowned in River Kaveri while swimming, near Hemmige bridge in Talkad, Mysuru district, on Tuesday evening. The deceased is Shanmukaswamy (33), a resident of Guttahalli in Bengaluru. According to family sources, Shanmukaswamy had come to see his pregnant wife at Jalahalli under Talkad hobli. He, along with family members, had come to the river. Shanmuka got into the river for bathing, when he was dragged by the force of the water and drowned, family members said. Talkad Police have registered a case. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bengaluru-man-drowns-in-river-kaveri-1072716.html
19-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||No need for weekend curfew, says Siddaramaiah||With varied opinions about the weekend curfew in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah opined that it is not possible to check the spread of Covid by imposing a weekend curfew. The government can control the spread only by ensuring that the vaccines are administered and Covid guidelines are imposed strictly. Speaking to reporters in Srirangapatna, Mandya district, on Wednesday, he said, “Congress has not violated the Covid norms. It is the BJP men who are widely violating the guidelines. Minister Umesh Katti’s statement that wearing mask should not be made mandatory is ridiculous. He is not fit to be a minister and to be a part of the government”. Reacting to the seer’s statement that the mosque in Srirangapatna should be demolished for a temple, Siddaramaiah said, “Let the mosques be wherever they are. No mosque should be demolished for building a temple”. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-need-for-weekend-curfew-says-siddaramaiah-1072706.html
19-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Republic Day tableau row: MP Pratap Simha criticises Siddaramaiah||MP Pratap Simha slammed Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah for criticising the Union government for dropping a Republic Day tableau, depicting 19th-century social reformer Sree Narayana Guru. Addressing media persons, on Wednesday, the MP said, the selection is totally transparent and there is no politics in the process. "Siddaramaiah is making statements for political benefits. But it will not work. The theme for the tableaux for the Republic Day parade are ‘India@75-Freedom Struggle’, ‘Idea @75’, ‘Achievements @75’, ‘Actions @75’ and ‘Resolve @75’ and the authorities have selected the best tableaux," he said. Simha said, only 21 tableaux will be part of the parade. Out of them, nine are from the Union Ministries and the remaining are for 29 states and seven Union territories. Thus, only 12 states get the opportunity. Siddaramaiah must understand the selection process, he said. The MP asked, why did not Siddaramaiah remember the stalwarts during his rule from 2013 to 2018. “Siddaramaiaha never remembered warrior Onake Obavva and Sangolli Rayanna, saint-poet Kanaka Dasa and Krishnaraja Wadiyar who established the University of Mysore. He only remembered Indira Gandhi and Tipu Sultan,” the MP said. In 2014, Siddaramaiah sent Tipu's tableau for the parade and also named the canteen after Indira Gandhi. But, he never remembered others, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/republic-day-tableau-row-mp-pratap-simha-criticises-siddaramaiah-1072717.html
19-01-2022||National||US man ends WW-II suspense at 13,000 feet in Arunachal||On Jan 6, 1945, as World War II was raging, William K. Scherer, a 1st Lt. in the US Army Air Corps, was returning from Kunming in China to Chabua in Assam when his aircraft disappeared over Arunachal Pradesh. The aircraft, which had four crew and nine passengers, was not found. For the Scherer family in New York, there was no closure. But on December 19, 2021, something unexpected happened on the icy heights of Arunachal. An intrepid researcher and his team stumbled upon metallic parts on a snow-clad mountain at Dapha Bum inside Namdapha National Park/Tiger Reserve. It was C-46A#42-9621, the very aircraft that carried William Scherer on that fateful day 76 years ago. Days later, in the first week of Jan 2022, William's son Bill Scherer, a retired police detective in New York, received news about the find; phone calls followed. It was hard to believe but it was true. Now, Bill is finally relieved and has some hope of performing the last rites of his father. The man behind the effort is Clayton Kuhles. An independent researcher from the US, Kuhles's non-profit organisation MIA Recoveries, Inc has so far helped family members of at least 27 US soldiers who had gone missing in action during the WW-II, including India.  "It was an extremely difficult expedition," Kuhles said in an email to DH about the aircraft hunt that was launched after Bill reached out to him five years ago. Kuhles along with tribal hunters belonging to the Lisu community had trekked for eight days before they located the remains of the aircraft at an altitude of 13,000 feet. "We set up a camp at Dapha Bum after wading across the Dihing and Namdapha rivers. The river depth was chest-deep in some locations, making these river crossings extremely dangerous while carrying heavy packs. My Lisu team members wanted to flee downslope when it started snowing." The Scherer aircraft was returning from Kunming to Chabua after offloading supplies when it disappeared reportedly due to bad weather. According to Kuhles, it is not the only one. More than 500 US aircraft and 1,200 personnel reportedly disappeared in the China-Burma-India theatre, of which over 400 personnel are still missing in Northeast India, mainly in Arunachal Pradesh.  The majority of the episodes that led to the disappearance of 400 Americans in India during World War II are believed to have occurred over parts of Arunachal since the main air re-supply route from India to China during the conflict. Kuhles, however, did not find any human remains in the aircraft but said the "Lisu hunters reported seeing human remains amongst the wreckage during the previous summer". "Now the family can request the US government to recover the remains," Kuhles said. For Bill, the discovery of the remains of the aircraft finally ended the suspense of his father. "We have been eagerly waiting for recovery of the mortal remains for decades now," Bill Scherer told DH in an email. Kuhles said the crewmen and the passengers who were in the aircraft included: 2nd Lt. Sydney L. Murphy (pilot), 2nd Lt. Delmar K. Brown (co-pilot), Cpl. Alvin P. Palecek (radio operator), Pfc. Edmund T. Murphy (flight clerk) and 1st Lt. William K. Scherer, 2nd Lt. Carl D. Moyes, T/4 Prayor D. Collings, T/4 O. G. Dishman, T/4 Robert F. Sherman, Sgt. Raymond F. Brunner, Sgt. J. V. Dolton, Sgt. Kenneth Hart (all passengers).  Gary Zaetz, president of Families and Supporters of America's Arunachal Missing in Action, told DH on Tuesday that the government of India now has the responsibility to make sure that the crash site is searched and the remains be returned expeditiously to their families in the US. The details of his mission and the identified aircraft will soon be posted on his website, www.MIArecoveries.org, said Kuhles. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-man-ends-ww-ii-suspense-at-13000-feet-in-arunachal-1072442.html
19-01-2022||National||Chirag Paswan demands President Rule in Bihar||Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) chief Chirag Paswan on Tuesday yet again demanded imposition of President's rule in Bihar, claiming that law and order in the state had collapsed. Paswan urged Governor Fagu Chauhan to recommend President's rule in Bihar in view of what he said was inability of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to administer the state. Citing the recent hooch tragedy in Nalanda district that claimed 11 lives, Paswan, in his letter to the Governor, said, “state enforcement agencies, including police, are responsible for such tragedies. The CM holds the home department (portfolio) also but he failed (in his duties)... He also failed in effectively enforcing the prohibition law in the state”. "There is nothing called law and order in the state so there is no other option but to impose President Rule in Bihar," he maintained. The district administration has confirmed the deaths of 11 people in Nalanda district from the consumption of poisonous liquor. “So far, 11 people have died in this entire case. Although the post-mortem report has not come yet, prima facie it appears that everyone has consumed illicit liquor”, said a senior police official of the district. Meanwhile, Paswan also wrote a letter separately to the state CM and demanded that the government must pay a compensation of Rs 25 lakh each to the families of those who lost their lives in the Nalanda hooch tragedy and government jobs for their children. Earlier too, Paswan had made similar demands for the imposition of President's Rule in Bihar in 2016 alleging a continuous slide in law and order in the state under the Nitish Kumar-led government. The law and order situation in Bihar has become even worse than “jungle raj” of 1990s, he had claimed. In October 2021 just ahead of by-polls in the state, Paswan had slammed Nitish Kumar for his remark that RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav can get him shot and claimed that the "deteriorating" law and order situation in the state has created a fear psychosis among people. Yadav had commented that he would ensure "visarjan" (political end) of Nitish Kumar in the October 30 by-elections in Bihar, following which the JD(U) leader retorted that the former can get him shot but cannot do anything else. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chirag-paswan-demands-president-rule-in-bihar-1072461.html
19-01-2022||National||Lawyers can attend court proceedings through phone, assures CJI||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has assured that lawyers can attend the proceedings through their mobile phone if they do not have a laptop or desktop, according to the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA). The Chief Justice of India, however, requested the members of the bar that the mobile phone should be stationed and placed in such a manner that the face of the lawyer is visible and the voice is audible. This came a day after the CJI expressed unhappiness over disruptions during virtual hearings due to the use of mobiles.  Later, the apex court registry, through a circular, asked the advocates and litigants to use a desktop or the laptop with a stable internet connection to join proceedings conducted through video conferencing. Earlier in the day on Tuesday, the Executive Committee of the Supreme Court Bar Association held a virtual meeting with the Chief Justice of India and four senior-most judges.  "During the Couse of the meeting, the issue of usage of mobile phone for attending the court proceeding was discussed. The Chief Justice assured the Executive Committee that it is only an advisory for uninterrupted Court Proceeding and in case any lawyer does not have a Laptop/Desktop, he/she can attend the proceeding through the mobile phone," the SCBA said in a press statement. However, the Chief Justice of India has requested the members of the bar that “in case of using the mobile phone for attending the court proceedings, the mobile phone shall be stationed and placed in such a manner that the face of the lawyer is visible and the voice is audible.” "The Judges have assured that the issue of muting/ unmuting of the lawyers will be looked into and necessary measures will be taken to streamline the system,” the statement read.  The SCBA said that the CJI also assured that the oral mentioning is already available in all courts and in case any lawyer needs to mention any matter before any Bench, they may contact the court master in the morning. A notification dated January 17 had advised the lawyers and litigants to join the virtual proceedings through a single device either a laptop or a desktop. “All advocates, party-in-person must also join the VC hearings preferably using a headset enabled microphone and audio system... Please also close all background applications running on your devices for best VC experience,” the notification had read.  The circular was issued after the hearing in as many as 10 cases was to be adjourned by the bench headed by the CJI as the lawyers were either inaudible or invisible or both.   The bench was irked over frequent disruptions as the lawyers or litigants were mostly joining the proceedings through phones using mobile data and even observed that it may have to ban participation through mobiles. “Lawyers are appearing using their mobile phones and are not visible. We may have to ban this mobile business. Mr counsel, you are now practising in the Supreme Court and appear regularly. Can't you afford to have a desktop to argue,” the CJI had observed in one of the cases. During the hearing of another case, the bench took note of poor internet connectivity at the lawyer's end and said, “We have no energy to hear cases like this. Please devise a system by which we can hear you. Ten matters are over like this and we are shouting." The top court has been hearing cases through video-conferencing since March 2020 due to the pandemic and has been relaxing or tightening the conditions from time to time keeping in mind the changing pandemic situation. The apex court, on January 2, took note of a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country and decided to hear all matters in virtual mode, and from January 7, the benches are sitting at the residential offices of the judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-can-attend-court-proceedings-through-phone-assures-cji-1072462.html
19-01-2022||National||DH Toon | What made Modi speechless at Davos Agenda address?||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to restart his Davos Agenda address, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday took a swipe saying "even the teleprompter could not take so much lies", even as BJP leaders pointed to a "technical glitch'' at event organiser World Economic Forum's end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-what-made-modi-speechless-at-davos-agenda-address-1072464.html
19-01-2022||National||R-Day functions should not be platform for political campaigning: Odisha SEC||With the imposition of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) for the ensuing panchayat elections in Odisha, the State Election Commission (SEC) on Tuesday said that the approaching Republic Day functions should not be a platform for political campaigning. After receiving complaints from various quarters about the attendance of political dignitaries in the Republic Day celebrations, the SEC opined that there is no objection to the chief minister, cabinet ministers and ministers of state participating in the functions. However, their speeches should confine to extolling the achievements of freedom fighters and martyrs in securing freedom of the country, glorification of the nation, and so on, it said, adding that under no circumstances should the event become a platform for political campaigning or for highlighting the achievements of the state government. The commission has also decided that there shall be no tableau highlighting the achievements of the state government or departments during the celebrations. The SEC, however, has no objection to the organisation of cultural functions in connection with Republic Day celebrations. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-day-functions-should-not-be-platform-for-political-campaigning-odisha-sec-1072465.html
19-01-2022||National||Air India to curtail or revise US flights due to 5G internet deployment ||Air India said on Tuesday it will curtail or revise its flights to the US due to deployment of 5G internet there from January 19.  US aviation regulator Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had on January 14 said that “5G interference with the aircraft's radio altimeter could prevent engine and braking systems from transitioning to landing mode, which could prevent an aircraft from stopping on the runway”.  Therefore, a group of US-based airlines said on Monday in a letter to FAA that 5G internet deployment could cause “catastrophic” aviation crisis.  The group comprises airlines such as United Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Airlines and FedEx.  Apart from Air India, United Airlines and American Airlines are the other two carriers that operate flights between India and the US.  The airlines group said that 5G should be implemented everywhere in the US except within two miles of airport runways of affected airports.  Air India tweeted on Tuesday: “Due to deployment of 5G communications in USA, our operations to USA from India stand curtailed/revised with change in aircraft type from January 19, 2022.” “Update in this regard will be informed shortly,” it added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-to-curtail-or-revise-us-flights-due-to-5g-internet-deployment-1072466.html
19-01-2022||National||India reports 2.82 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 441 deaths||With 2,82,970 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,79,01,241, which includes 8,961 cases of the Omicron variant, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The active cases have increased to 18,31,000, the highest in 232 days. The active cases stood at 18,95,520 on May 31 last year. The death toll has climbed to 4,87,202 with 441 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. There has been an 0.79 per cent increase in Omicron cases since Tuesday, the ministry said. Experts said it is not possible to undertake genome sequencing of each and every sample but stressed that the current wave is largely being driven by the Omicron variant. The active cases comprise 4.83 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 93.88 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 44,952 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 15.13 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 15.53 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,55,83,039, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.29 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 158.88 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.         India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 441 new fatalities include 122 from Kerala, 53 from Maharashtra  and 34 from West Bengal.          A total of 4,87,202 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,885 from Maharashtra, 51,026 from Kerala, 38,465 from Karnataka,  37,038 from Tamil Nadu, 25,425 from Delhi, 22,984 from Uttar Pradesh and 20,155 from West Bengal.           The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-282-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-441-deaths-1072493.html
19-01-2022||National||Prime Minister Modi greets NDRF on Raising Day||Lauding the National Disaster Response Force on its Raising Day on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it is at the forefront of many rescue and relief measures, often in very challenging circumstances. The NDRF's courage and professionalism are extremely motivating, he said, noting that disaster management is a vital subject for governments and policymakers.   In addition to a reactive approach, where disaster management teams mitigate the situation post disasters, the country also has to think of disaster resilient infrastructure and focus on research in the subject, Modi tweeted. "India has undertaken an effort in the form of the 'Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure.' We are also working on further sharpening the skills of our NDRF teams so that we can save maximum life and property during any challenge," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-modi-greets-ndrf-on-raising-day-1072504.html
19-01-2022||National||SC voices displeasure on less number of applications for ex-gratia for Covid-19 victims||The Supreme Court on Wednesday voiced displeasure over delay in payment of ex-gratia to the kin to Covid-19 victims, and pulled up Chief Secretaries of Andhra Pradesh and Bihar for processing less number of applications than the actual deaths. A bench of Justices M R Shah and Sanjiv Khanna said concerned authorities are not taking its directions seriously, despite repeated orders against delay in compensating the victims' families. In several states, since the number of claim applications filed for Covid death is less than official deaths, the court said the governments were not taking proactive steps and it may have to take help of State and District Legal Services Authority to reach out to victims' families for disbursement of compensation. “Not making payment to eligible claimants would tantamount to disobedience of our earlier order,” the bench said. Hearing a plea filed by Gaurav Bansal, the court sought personal presence of Andhra Pradesh and Bihar chief secretaries. It noted that Andhra Pradesh has recieved 49,292 applications, 31,000 were found eligible and 6,000 were rejected. The Chief Secretary said if it is found that the rejection has been incorrect, state would reach out all those claimants and give them opportunity to remove defects. He also assured the court that the state shall ensure that not a single claimant who is eligible of compensation shall be deprived of it. With regard to Bihar, the court noted out of 13,250 deaths recorded, 11,000 claims were recieved. "Compared to other states, applications seem to be on lower side. Looking into the peculiarity of the state, more effort is needed by state of Bihar to reach the eligible persons kin, or family members of the ones who succumbed to Covid-19," the bench said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-voices-displeasure-on-less-number-of-applications-for-ex-gratia-for-covid-19-victims-1072513.html
19-01-2022||National||Ban on international flights extended till February 28 amid Covid-19 surge||India will keep scheduled international passenger flights suspended till February 28, aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Wednesday. However, flights under the air bubble arrangement will not be affected. As per the previous order, the ban was to be in place till January 31.  Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the country, the DGCA had on December 1 decided not to resume scheduled international flights from December 15, less than a week after announcing that it would restart the services.  More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-on-international-flights-extended-till-february-28-amid-covid-19-surge-1072523.html
19-01-2022||National||Al-Qaida’s links with Pak-based terror groups like LeT, JeM continue to strengthen: India at UN||Al-Qaida’s linkages with UNSC proscribed Pakistan-based terror groups like LeT and JeM has continued to strengthen, India’s envoy to the UN has said, underlining that the recent developments in Afghanistan have only served to re-energise the terrorist group. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told the International Counter-Terrorism Conference 2022 organised by the Global Counter-Terrorism Council on Tuesday that the Islamic State (ISIS) has changed its modus operandi with its core focus is now on regaining ground in Syria and Iraq, and its regional affiliates are strengthening their expansion, especially in Africa and in Asia. “Similarly, al-Qaida remains a major threat and recent developments in Afghanistan have only served to re-energise them. Al-Qaida’s linkages with Security Council proscribed terrorist entities like Lashkar e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed has continued to strengthen. Its regional affiliates in Africa continue to expand,” he said. Tirumurti, who is also the Chair of the UNSC Counter-terrorism Committee for 2022, said that in the global counter-terrorism domain, the 9/11 terrorist attacks in 2001 had proved to be a “turning point in our approach towards terrorism.” The September 11 attacks highlighted that the threat of terrorism is grave and universal and can only be defeated by the collective efforts of all UN member states, he said. Tirumurti also said that terrorism in one place can directly impact peace and security in another. “Consequently, the era of classifying terrorists as “your terrorist” and “my terrorist” was over. Terrorism in all its forms and manifestations is to be condemned and there cannot be any exception or justification for any act of terrorism, regardless of motivations behind such acts, and wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed,” he said, adding that the menace of terrorism should not be associated with any religion, nationality, civilisation or ethnic group. Tirumurti underlined that the global fight against terrorism is as strong as the weakest link in the global chain of member states, and the Security Council’s Counter-Terrorism Committee plays a very important role in identifying such weak links and strengthening them, including by facilitating necessary capacity building. India on Tuesday also termed as “dangerous” the tendency of several UN members, driven by their political, religious, and other motivations, to label terrorism into categories such as racially motivated violent extremism and right-wing extremism, saying this will take the world back to the pre-9/11 era of labelLing them as “your terrorists” and “my terrorists”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/al-qaida-s-links-with-pak-based-terror-groups-like-let-jem-continue-to-strengthen-india-at-un-1072530.html
19-01-2022||National||INS Ranvir blast: Mumbai Police registers accidental death case||Mumbai Police registered an accidental death case in connection with the explosion on-board the Indian Naval Ship (INS) Ranvir at the Naval dockyard the day before in which three Navy personnel were killed and 11 injured, an official said on Wednesday. Three separate ADRs (Accidental Death Reports) have been registered at the Colaba police station in south Mumbai, he said. The deceased trio is identified as Master Chief Petty Officer (MCPO) First Class Krishan Kumar, MCPO Second Class Surinder Kumar and MCPO Second Class A K Singh. INS Ranvir is a destroyer ship. A Board of Inquiry has been instituted to investigate the cause of the incident, the Navy had said. The postmortem of three bodies was conducted at state-run JJ Hospital, the police official said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-ranvir-blast-mumbai-police-registers-accidental-death-case-1072532.html
19-01-2022||National||Noted criminal lawyer Shrikant Shivade dead||Noted criminal lawyer Shrikant Shivade, who had handled high-profile cases involving Bollywood actors Salman Khan and Shiney Ahuja, and represented two accused in the 2 G spectrum case, died in a private hospital here in Maharashtra on Wednesday due to prolonged illness, sources close to his family said. He was 67. Advocate Shivade was diagnosed with leukaemia (blood cancer), they said. A law graduate from the Indian Law Society, Shivade represented actors Salman Khan in the 2002 hit-and-run case, and actor Shiney Ahuja, who was booked in a rape case in 2009. He had represented two accused in 2 G spectrum cases and had also appeared for Peter Mukerjea in the Sheena Bora murder case. He had also represented diamond merchant Bharat Shah. The celebrity lawyer is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter, and mother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noted-criminal-lawyer-shrikant-shivade-dead-1072535.html
19-01-2022||National||More compensation claims than Covid deaths in multiple states: Report||Data on Covid deaths filed by states in the Supreme Court shows that more people claimed compensation in some states than the official death toll issued by them. While the Gujarat government has told the Supreme Court that it had so far sanctioned the compensation of Rs 50,000 each to 68,370 claims filed by the kin of patients who died due to coronavirus infection in the state, the report says the number of claims received from the state is 89,633 against the official toll of 10,094. Telangana has received 29,000 claims against the official death count of 3,993 deaths, while Maharashtra has 2.14 lakh claims against the official toll of 1.41 lakh. On the other hand, as per the data compiled by the Centre, the number of claim applications is less than the number of officially declared deaths in various other states, including Assam, Haryana, Karnataka, Punjab and Rajasthan. The report says the Supreme Court has a more liberal guideline for what comprises a Covid death, mandating that all fatalities, including those by suicide, recorded within 30 days of a person testing positive for the disease be treated as such. The SC verdict expanding the ambit of Covid deaths came on a petition by social activist Gaurav Bansal for payment of Rs 50,000 compensation to families of victims, the report said. Meanwhile, the court on Wednesday pulled up state governments for failing to disburse claims to the next of kin of Covid-19 victims and issued a show-cause notice to the Andhra Pradesh chief secretary as to why contempt action be not initiated against him. The apex court asked the chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh and Bihar to remain present virtually at 2 PM on Wednesday and explain why disbursals -- Rs 50,000 ex-gratia for Covid-19 death -- have been so few in their states. The top court said that it rejects the death toll given by Bihar, and said that these are not actual but government figures. “We are not going to believe that only 12,000 people died in the state of Bihar due to Covid. We want your chief secretary to be here virtually at 2 PM,” the bench told the counsel appearing for the Bihar government. It had noted that some states have not given wide publicity by giving full details of the portal in advertisements in newspapers, particularly in vernacular ones, and local channels. With agency inputs. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-compensation-claims-than-covid-deaths-in-multiple-states-report-1072537.html
19-01-2022||National||Young, youthful India is showing the way in Covid vaccinations: PM Modi||With over half of the 15-18 age group taking the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Wednesday that "young and youthful" India is "showing the way."  He also stressed that it was important to observe all Covid-19 related protocols. Modi tweeted, "Young and youthful India showing the way! This is encouraging news. Let us keep the momentum. It is important to vaccinate and observe all COVID-19 related protocols. Together, we will fight this pandemic."   Young and youthful India showing the way! This is encouraging news. Let us keep the momentum. He was reacting to Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya's tweet on Tuesday which said it was a "big day" for India's fight against the pandemic as over 50 per cent of youngsters between 15 and 18 years have received their first dose of vaccine. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/young-youthful-india-is-showing-the-way-in-covid-vaccinations-pm-modi-1072538.html
19-01-2022||National||Has third Covid-19 wave peaked? Experts are not so sure||Even as India continues to reel under the daily spike in Covid-19 numbers, experts and medical researchers say that the current wave of infections may decline faster than the previous waves citing fewer hospitalisations and increased awareness among the people. However, they are unsure as to whether the infections in the current wave have peaked. Pointing out that different regions are at different stages of the pandemic, due to an array of local factors — international arrivals, curbs in place, mask discipline — experts cautioned that it might be unwise to assume that the worst has passed. Concerning Delhi and Mumbai, which have reported the highest number of Covid-19 infections, fuelled by the Omicron variant, experts said that the decline in numbers may have to be studied for a few more weeks before making assumptions over the peak of the infection wave. Dr Samiran Panda, the head of the epidemiological department, Indian Council of Medical Research, said that case trends cannot be established in a few days and that decline has to be tracked over weeks. Panda said that the Omicron variant has become the major strain and accounts for nearly 80 per cent of the cases, while the rest mostly pertained to the Delta variant. A report published by SBI Research stated that there is reason for optimism as India is faring better than the USA, which has reported an increase in caseload by around seven times despite double-vaccinating 80 per cent of its population. The SBI report stated that infections in the top 15 districts have declined to 37.4 per cent in January, from 67.9 per cent in December. However, the report stated that 10 of these top 15 districts are major cities and among them, Bengaluru and Pune still have higher infection rates.  The Pune district administration recently said that Pune is at least three weeks behind Mumbai in terms of the pace of infection. Hence, the Pune administration too is apprehending a peak by the last week of January. Panda said that the Covid-19 could become endemic in India after March 11, provided certain conditions are met. An endemic disease is constantly present in a population or region with relatively low spread. It is different from a pandemic, which is characterised by a sudden increase in cases. Panda said that mathematical projections show the Omicron wave will last for three months, starting December 11, in India. “We will see some respite March 11 onwards,” he was quoted as saying. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/has-third-covid-19-wave-peaked-experts-are-not-so-sure-1072554.html
19-01-2022||National||Covid-19 situation under control in Mumbai, no reason to panic: BMC to HC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday informed the Bombay High Court that the current Covid-19 situation in the city and its adjoining regions was "under control" and there was no reason for citizens to panic. Senior counsel Anil Sakhre told the bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M S Karnik that Mumbai was witnessing a gradual decline in COVID-19 cases in the current third wave of the pandemic. As per the data available till January 15, there were 84,352 active cases in the city, of which 7 per cent of patients needed hospitalisation, 3 per cent needed oxygen support and 0.7 per cent required ventilator support, Sakhre told HC. The counsel submitted a detailed note on behalf of the civic body with details of active cases, oxygen supply, stock of medicines, hospital beds available etc. "We have adequate oxygen supply; hospital beds are available. There is no reason for any panic," Sakhre said. The bench then asked if the civic body was saying that the situation in Mumbai was totally under control? To which, the senior counsel replied in the affirmative. "Yes, everything is in control now. Cases are coming down. The number of positive cases had peaked at 20,000 around January 6 to January 9. But on January 15, the cases had come down to 10,000 and for the last three days, they have come down to 7,000," Sakhre said. The civic body made the submissions while the court was hearing public interest litigation on several issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic and the management of the state's resources for controlling the same. The petitioner's counsel Atharva Dandekar told the court that while the BMC seemed to have risen to the occasion and was doing a fine job at managing the infections in the city, the state government must also submit details of positive cases, resources available etc., for the entire state. The bench agreed with Dandekar's submission and directed that the state must submit these details by January 25. The High Court also directed the civic body to update its note and submit the same by January 25. The PIL will be further heard on January 27. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-situation-under-control-in-mumbai-no-reason-to-panic-bmc-to-hc-1072564.html
19-01-2022||National||PM to launch 7 initiatives dedicated to Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav by Brahma Kumaris||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at the national launch ceremony of 'Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav se Swarnim Bharat Ke Ore' on Thursday via video conferencing, his office said. The programme will unveil year-long initiatives dedicated to Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav by the Brahma Kumaris, which include more than 30 campaigns and over 15,000 programmes and events, the Prime Minister's Office said. Prime Minister Modi will deliver the keynote address at the national launch ceremony of 'Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav se Swarnim Bharat Ke Ore' on January 20 at 10:30 am. During the event, the prime minister will flag off seven initiatives of Brahma Kumaris. These are 'My India Healthy India'; Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Self Reliant Farmers; Women: Flag Bearers of India; Power of Peace Bus Campaign; Andekha Bharat Cycle Rally; United India Motor Bike Campaign; and green initiatives under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. In the 'My India Healthy India' initiative, multiple events and programmes will be held in medical colleges and hospitals with a focus on spirituality, well-being and nutrition, the statement said. These include organisation of medical camps, cancer screening, conferences for doctors and other health care workers, among others, it added. Under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat: Self Reliant Farmers', 75 farmer empowerment campaigns, 75 farmer conferences, 75 sustainable yogic farming training programmes and several other such initiatives for the welfare of farmers will be held. Under the 'Women: Flag Bearers of India', the initiatives will focus on social transformation through women empowerment and empowerment of girl child, the statement said. The 'Power of Peace Bus Campaign' will cover 75 cities and tehsils and will carry an exhibition on the positive transformation of today's youth, it said. The 'Andekha Bharat Cycle Rally' will be held to different heritage sites, drawing a connection between heritage and environment. The 'United India Motor Bike Campaign' will be held from Mount Abu to Delhi and will cover multiple cities. The initiatives under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan will include monthly cleanliness drives, community cleaning programmes and awareness campaigns, the statement said. During the event, a song dedicated to Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, by Grammy Award winner Ricky Kej, will also be released. Brahma Kumaris is a worldwide spiritual movement dedicated to personal transformation and world renewal. Founded in India in 1937, Brahma Kumari movement has spread to over 130 countries. The event is being held on the occasion of the 53rd ascension anniversary of Pitashree Prajapita Brahma, founding father of Brahma Kumaris. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-launch-7-initiatives-dedicated-to-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-by-brahma-kumaris-1072567.html
19-01-2022||National||I&B Ministry shares meme on Allu Arjun's 'Pushpa' to spread Covid-19 awareness||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Wednesday shared a cheeky meme modelled on superstar Allu Arjun's blockbuster "Pushpa: The Rise" to reiterate Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The picture, posted by the ministry's Twitter page '#IndiaFightsCorona @COVIDNewsByMIB' which shares updates on Covid-19, featured Arjun's titular character wearing a photoshopped mask in a still from the Telugu movie. To fit the context of the meme, the popular dialogue of the film, "Pushpa, Pushpa Raj... Main jhukega nahi (I am Pushpa, Pushpa Raj... I won't back down)" was changed to, "Delta ho ya Omicron, main mask utaarega nahi (Whether it is the Delta variant or Omicron, I won't remove the mask". The tweet further stated that the country's fight against Covid-19 was ongoing and people should continue wearing their masks, sanitise their hands, maintain social distance and get fully vaccinated. The action thriller opened theatrically in December to a thunderous response and was also released in dubbed versions including Hindi, Malayalam, Tamil and Kannada. Written and directed by Sukumar, "Pushpa: The Rise" also features Rashmika Mandanna and Malayalam cinema star Fahadh Faasil in his Telugu debut. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday, the country reported 2,82,970 new coronavirus infections in a day, taking India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,79,01,241, which includes 8,961 cases of the Omicron variant. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ib-ministry-shares-meme-on-allu-arjuns-pushpa-to-spread-covid-19-awareness-1072572.html
19-01-2022||National||SC to consider hearing PIL challenging use of EVMs in polls||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to consider listing of a PIL challenging the constitutional validity of a provision of the Representation of People Act which had led to the introduction of electronic voting machines (EVMs), instead of ballot papers, for polls in the country. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana heard the submissions of lawyer M L Sharma, who filed the plea in his personal capacity, and said that he would consider listing of his case. Sharma said Section 61A of the Representation of People Act, which permitted the use of EVMs, was not passed by Parliament and hence cannot be imposed.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-hearing-pil-challenging-use-of-evms-in-polls-1072574.html
19-01-2022||National||SC to consider hearing plea seeking welfare measures for migrant workers during third Covid wave||The Supreme Court Wednesday said it would consider listing for hearing the fresh plea of activists seeking implementation of an earlier order on ensuring food security and other welfare measures for migrant workers who are again in distress in the third Covid-19 wave triggered by Omicron variant and consequential curbs imposed in parts of the country. “Let me see,” Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana told advocate Prashant Bhushan who sought urgent hearing on an interim application filed by three activists, Anjali Bharadwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar, in a 2020 suo motu case. “This is the food for the migrant labourers matter. The directions were issued by this court in the suo motu petition relating to delivery of dry ration and as well as the community kitchen etc. Ultimately seven months have elapsed and no directions have not been implemented and now again because of this Omicron and the curbs like lockdown, the migrant labourers are again facing the severe crisis,” Bhushan argued. The activists, in the fresh plea, have sought directions to the Centre to file a status report with respect to compliance of the directions given in the judgment delivered in June last year. The plea seeks compliance with the direction by which the authorities were asked to undertake an exercise under the National Food Security Act, 2013 to re-determine the total number of persons to be covered under the free ration scheme. It has sought details of foodgrains provided by the Centre to the states for implementing the food schemes for migrant workers. The top court, on June 29 last year, had issued a slew of directions to authorities on a plea of the activists seeking welfare measures for migrant workers and had ordered states and Union Territories (UTs) to frame schemes for providing free dry ration to them till the pandemic lasts, while the Centre will have to allocate additional foodgrains. The bench had also termed as “unpardonable” the Centre's “apathy and lackadaisical attitude” towards creating National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW) and ordered its commencement by July 31, last year so that all migrant workers are registered and welfare measures extended to them during Covid distress. The verdict had come on the plea of the activists seeking directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers and other welfare measures for migrant workers who faced distress again due to curfews and lockdowns in various parts of the country during the second wave of Covid-19. The plea was filed last year during the second Covid-19 wave in a pending suo motu case of 2020 in which the top court had taken cognizance of problems and miseries of migrant labourers and had passed a slew of directions. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-hearing-plea-seeking-welfare-measures-for-migrant-workers-during-third-covid-wave-1072600.html
19-01-2022||National||2 IndiGo planes avert mid-air collision over Bengaluru airport; DGCA to probe, take strict action||Two IndiGo planes averted mid-air collision over the Bengaluru airport just after their take-off on the morning of January 9, senior officials of aviation regulator DGCA said on Wednesday. The incident was not logged in any logbook and it was not reported by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) either, they said. Meanwhile, DGCA chief Arun Kumar told PTI that the regulator is investigating the incident "and shall take strictest action against those found delinquent". IndiGo and the AAI did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on this matter. Officials of Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said that the two IndiGo planes -- 6E455 (Bengaluru to Kolkata) and 6E246 (Bengaluru to Bhubaneswar) -- were involved in 'breach of separation' at Bengaluru airport. Breach of separation happens when two aircraft cross the minimum mandatory vertical or horizontal distance in an airspace. Both these aircraft departed from the Bengaluru airport within a span of approximately 5 minutes on the morning of January 9, the officials mentioned. "Both aircraft after departure were on converging heading i.e. moving towards each other. Approach radar controller gave diverging heading and avoided mid-air collision," one of the officials noted. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-indigo-planes-avert-mid-air-collision-over-bengaluru-airport-dgca-to-probe-take-strict-action-1072601.html
19-01-2022||National||Centre extends tenure of National Commission for Safai Karmacharis till 2025||The Cabinet on Wednesday announced an extension to the tenure of the National Commission for Safai Karmachari for three more years. The current commission’s tenure was up to March 31, 2022.  Making the announcement I&B minister Anurag Thakur said that the tenure of the current commission is now extended to March 31, 2025.   “The commission gives recommendations to the government about welfare programmes of Safai Karamcharis, they evaluate existing welfare measures, and look at grievance cases so that Safai Karamcharis can lead a dignified life,” Thakur said. The implication of the move will cost approximately Rs.43.68 crore. The Commission was formed in 1993 as per the provisions of the NCSK Act 1993 initially for the period of three years, till 1991. The validity of the Act was initially extended upto March 31, 2002 and then again to February 29, 2004.   The Commission was disbanded in 2004. “After that the tenure of the NCSK has been extended as a non-statutory body from time to time through resolutions,” a government release said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-tenure-of-national-commission-for-safai-karmacharis-till-2025-1072602.html
19-01-2022||National||Cabinet approves Rs 1,500 crore infusion in IREDA||The Union Cabinet Wednesday approved equity infusion of Rs 1,500 crores in Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited (IREDA) to enable IREDA to lend loans up to Rs 12,000 crore in the renewable sector. Announcing the decision of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, Union Minister Anurag Thakur said the decision will also help the public sector unit (PSU) to create a renewable energy capacity of 3,500 to 4,000 MW. “Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited plays a big role in the field of renewable energy. This agency was established to finance renewable energy. Its portfolio has increased from Rs 8,800 crore to Rs 28,000 crore in the past 6 years," Thakur said. IREDA was set up in 1987 to work as a specialised non-banking finance agency for the Renewable Energy sector. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-rs-1500-crore-infusion-in-ireda-1072612.html
19-01-2022||National||SC tells Maharashtra govt to provide info on OBCs to Backward Classes Commission||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Maharashtra to furnish data and information related to Other Backward Classes with the Maharashtra State Backward Classes Commission for the purpose of determining their representation in local bodies. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar said that the panel may submit the interim report if so advised to the concerned authorities within two weeks after receipt of information or data from the state government. The court passed its order on an application filed by the state government to permit the election on the basis of information and data already available with the state with regard to OBCs. On December 15, the Supreme Court ordered the state election commission (SEC) and the state government to convert 27 per cent reserved seats for OBC into general category, for zila parishad and panchayat samitis, and issue fresh notification. On December 6, the Supreme Court stayed the Maharashtra government decision to grant 27 per cent reservation for the OBCs, which was brought by an ordinance, in the local body elections until further orders. It had said the OBC quota could not have been implemented without setting up a Commission and without collecting data regarding inadequacy of representation local government wise. A batch of pleas have been filed in the top court challenging the state government’s ordinance to provide 27 per cent reservation for OBCs. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-tells-maharashtra-govt-to-provide-info-on-obcs-to-backward-classes-commission-1072647.html
19-01-2022||National||5G scare: Air India cancels 8 US flights; DGCA working to overcome situation||Air India cancelled eight flights on India-US routes from Wednesday onwards due to deployment of 5G internet in North America which could interfere with aircraft's navigation systems. Meanwhile, DGCA chief Arun Kumar told PTI that the Indian aviation regulator was working "in close coordination with our carriers to overcome the situation" that has arisen due to 5G internet's deployment in the US. US aviation regulator Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had on January 14 said that "5G interference with the aircraft's radio altimeter could prevent engine and braking systems from transitioning to landing mode, which could prevent an aircraft from stopping on the runway".  Altimeter measures height of the aircraft above the ground. The band on which altimeter works is close to that on which 5G system works. Total three carriers -- American Airlines, Delta Airlines and Air India -- currently operate direct flights between India and the US. American Airlines and Delta Airlines did not respond to PTI's queries regarding this matter.  Air India stated on Twitter that it won't be operate eight India-US flights on Wednesday "due to deployment of the 5G communications in the US".  These eight Air India flights were: Delhi-New York, New York-Delhi, Delhi-Chicago, Chicago-Delhi, Delhi- San Francisco, San Francisco-Delhi, Delhi-Newark and Newark-Delhi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5g-scare-air-india-cancels-8-us-flights-dgca-working-to-overcome-situation-1072654.html
19-01-2022||National||Remarks against Muslim women: Delhi Police writes to Clubhouse app||The discussion was held on Monday afternoon on the audio platform, where account holders can discuss issues in groups. Delhi Police's action came after Delhi Commission for Women wrote to it demanding action against some people who made "obscene comments against Muslim women" on the app.  सुल्ली बाई, फिर बुल्ली बाई और अब क्लब्हाउस ऐप पे मुस्लिम लड़कियों के ख़िलाफ़ अभद्र यौन टिप्पणी! ऐसा कब तक चलेगा? The Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) of Delhi Police's Special Cell registered the case under 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings) and 354 A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code. The incident came to light after some videos of the discussion "Muslim Gals are more beautiful than Hindu Gals (sic)' were posted on the social media. The discussion were sexually derogative and communal in tone. This case comes two weeks after the surfacing of Bulli Bai App where doctored photographs of Muslim women were uploaded and auctioned. Five youths were arrested -- three by Mumbai Police and two by Delhi Police. One of the arrested was the creator of a similar app, Sulli Deals, six months ago. Officials said police are trying to identify those who were participants in the discussion. The DCW in its notice has said that it has taken sou-moto cognisance of cases where Muslim women were being referred to in a disparaging way. "In the said conversation, the participants are clearly heard making obscene, vulgar and derogatory remarks targeting Muslim women and girls. The Commission took strong note of the case and has sought from Delhi police urgent and strict action against the persons involved," it said. DCW chief Swati Maliwal tweeted, "Sulli Bai, then Bulli Bai and now indecent sexual remarks against Muslim girls on the Clubhouse app! How long will this last?" Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remarks-against-muslim-women-delhi-police-writes-to-clubhouse-app-1072669.html
19-01-2022||National||Activists move SC for providing rations under NFSA||Activists Harsh Mander, Anjali Bhardwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar have approached the Supreme Court for directions to the governments to take steps to redetermine the total number of persons to be covered under rural and urban areas of the National Food Security Act. Advocate Prashant Bhushan mentioned the plea before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana, and comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Justice Hima Kohli for urgent hearing. The bench said it would consider listing it. The plea, among others, sought directions to the Union government to file a status report with respect to the directions contained in the judgment of June 29, 2021 specifically details of food grains provided to state governments in order to implement schemes for providing rations to migrant workers, including details of states which sought additional foodgrains, details of quantity provided etc. The application also sought directions to all state governments to immediately implement the direction to bring in place an appropriate scheme for distribution of dry ration to migrant workers without insistence on furnishing of identity proof. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activists-move-sc-for-providing-rations-under-nfsa-1072678.html
19-01-2022||National||Govt expert panel recommends regular market approval for Covishield, Covaxin||A regulatory expert panel on Wednesday recommended granting regular licence for Covishield and Covaxin instead of emergency use authorisation after more than a year of their use in India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme. “The SEC (subject expert committee) of CDSCO has recommended upgrade of the (regulatory) status of Covishield and Covaxin from restricted use in emergency situations to grant of new drug permission with conditions in the adult population,” the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation said in a tweet. “The Drugs Controller General of India will evaluate the recommendations and give its decision,” it said. Significance unclear The significance of the decision is unclear at the moment as the Covid-19 vaccination in India is fully controlled by the Centre. There are, however, speculations that a regular licence may pave the way to improve the availability of the two vaccines in the market in future as India plans to expand its booster campaign. India has so far administered more than 159 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, of which 137 core plus is Covishield and 21.75 crore is Covaxin. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-expert-panel-recommends-regular-market-approval-for-covishield-covaxin-1072702.html
19-01-2022||National||Marital rape: Misalignment in IPC sections 377 and 375, says Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said there was an anomaly and misalignment in the erstwhile Section 377 of the IPC, which was decriminalised by the Supreme Court in 2018, and the rape law that protects a husband from prosecution for a non-consensual sexual act, including unnatural sex, with his wife. The high court made the observation while hearing of a batch of pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape. A bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar will continue to hear the submissions on Thursday. During the hearing, Justice Shakdher said, “Before decriminalisation of Section 377 (punishment for unnatural sex) of the IPC, and I am talking about heterosexual couples, wasn’t there misalignment in section 375 and section 377. It is ironic that it continued in happy marriages and no one complained”. The judge further said, “Apart from the fact that anal sex is part of sexual act and therefore, if there is consent that is not rape. But in section 377, prior to the Supreme Court judgement, that anomaly remained. Could he then say that there was consent.” The court was referring to Section 375 of the IPC which says a man is said to commit rape if he “penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person; or inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person.” Under the exception given in Section 375 of the IPC, sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape. On the court’s observation, amicus curiae and senior advocate Rebecca John said it no longer attracts section 377 of the IPC. It is open to plead consent. “When we look at an exception, we cannot let an absurdity to prevail,” she said. Another amicus curiae and senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao had earlier told the court that apprehensions of misuse and protection of the institution of marriage cannot be a ground to sustain the marital rape exception in the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He had said that there was always a possibility of misuse of criminal offences and had the object of the legislation been to protect the institution of marriage, wives would not have been given the power to prosecute husbands for any offence including lessor sexual offences. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Centre, had told the court that an “informed consultation process” to examine the issue of criminalising marital rape has been “fast-tracked”. On January 17, the court had asked the Centre to clarify its in-principle position on the issue of criminalising marital rape after the government sought time to formulate and place its “considered stand”. The Centre, on January 13, had told the high court that it was considering a “constructive approach” to the issue and has sought suggestions from several stakeholders and authorities on comprehensive amendments to the criminal law. The bench is hearing PILs filed by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women's Association, a man and a woman seeking striking down of the exception granted to husbands under the Indian rape law. Rao had earlier submitted that a married woman could not be denied the right to prosecute her husband if she believed that she was raped and in case of denial of a conjugal relationship, the remedy before the spouse is to file a plea for restitution and “not force himself upon her”. The central government, in its earlier affidavit filed in the case, has said that marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing the husbands. The Delhi government has told the court that marital rape was already covered as a "crime of cruelty" under the IPC. The petitioners have challenged the Constitutionality of the marital rape exception under section 375 IPC (rape) on the ground that it discriminated against married women who are sexually assaulted by their husbands Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/marital-rape-misalignment-in-ipc-sections-377-and-375-says-delhi-hc-1072703.html
19-01-2022||National||'No funds': Realities of India's Covid-19 vaccine funding||The Department of Biotechnology has disbursed less than 15 per cent of its Rs 900 crore fund on Covid-19 vaccine development promised more than a year ago while multiple government research agencies say they haven’t received any funding from a Rs 100 crore corpus set up under the PMO during the first wave of the pandemic. The Union Health Ministry, Indian Council of Medical Research and DBT said they didn’t receive any money from a Rs 100 crore PM-CARES (Citizens Assistance Relief in Emergency Situations) fund as announced by the government way back in May, 2020. The Rs 100 crore fund for vaccine development was a part of a Rs 3,100 package under PM-CARES to purchase 50,000 ventilators and undertake relief measures for migrant workers, who were affected the most during the lockdown period. A top official told DH that the PM CARES fund could be given to the industry as well but since neither the industry nor the PM CARES come under the ambit of the RTI, it would be difficult to know the recipients of the money unless the PMO discloses. A few months down the line, the Union government launched Rs 900 crore Mission Covid Suraksha to back indigenous vaccine development through the Department of Biotechnology. Launched in November 2020, the first phase of the project was valid for 12 months. But 14 months later, just about Rs 116 crore has been disbursed to five companies engaged in Covid-19 vaccine development whereas Rs 78.96 lakh was given to Faridabad-based Translational Health Science and Technology Institute for supportive R&D. This has been disclosed by Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) – a wing of the DBT - to the transparency activist Commodore Lokesh K Batra responding to his RTI query. Those who have received the funding are Biological E Ltd (Rs 22.50 crore), Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd (Rs 22.50 crore), Cadila Healthcare Ltd (Rs 40 crore), Bharat Biotech (Rs 23.73 crore) and Genique Lifesciences (Rs 6.47 crore). Government sources told DH that funds were released following a “milestone approach” in which achievement of a company (fund recipient) is reviewed after each milestone before releasing the next installment. “We have committed Rs 900 crore,” said a BIRAC official. India has so far used Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik-V vaccines in one of the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination programmes in which nearly 160 crore doses have been administered. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-funds-realities-of-indias-covid-19-vaccine-funding-1072723.html
19-01-2022||National||Govt drops plans to host Central Asian leaders as chief guests on Republic Day in view of the Covid-19||The Narendra Modi government has dropped its plan to host the leaders of the five Central Asian nations as the chief guests on the occasion of Republic Day in view of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi will instead hold a virtual summit with the presidents of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan on January 27. Though the government had originally planned to host the Central Asian leaders as the chief guests, it had to drop the plan in view of the surge in the SARS-CoV-2 infections. The last Republic Day was also celebrated with no foreign leader being invited to be the chief guest in view of the pandemic. The virtual summit Prime Minister will hold with the presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan on January 27 will be the first engagement of its kind between India and the Central Asian countries at the level of the leaders. “The first India-Central Asia Summit is a reflection of India’s growing engagement with the Central Asian countries, which are a part of our extended neighbourhood,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi on Wednesday. The Prime Minister and his counterparts from the five nations – President Sadyr Japarov Kyrgyzstan, President Emomali Rahmon of Tajikistan, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev of Uzbekistan and President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev of Kazakhstan and President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow of Turkmenistan – are expected to discuss steps to take forward India-Central Asia relations to newer heights. They are also expected to exchange views on regional and international issues of interest, especially the evolving regional security situation, the MEA spokesperson added. New Delhi is keen to step up its engagement with Central Asia as Pakistan is trying to get a strategic edge against India in the region after the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan. Pakistan’s “iron brother” China has also been expanding its geopolitical influence in the region. Modi visited all Central Asian countries in 2015 and it was followed by exchanges at high-levels at bilateral and multilateral forums. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar hosted his counterparts from the five Central Asian nations for a conclave in New Delhi from December 18-20 last year. It provided an impetus to India-Central Asia relations. Earlier, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval also hosted the secretaries of National Security Councils of the Central Asian countries in the Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan in New Delhi on November 10. The conclave outlined a common regional approach of India and five Central Asian nations on Afghanistan. India has since long been hosting a foreign leader as the chief guest on the occasion of its Republic Day every year. The first Republic Day chief guest for the Modi Government was the then United States President Barack Obama. He attended the ceremony on the Rajpath in New Delhi on January 26, 2015. The then French President Francois Hollande and the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and de-facto ruler of the United Arab Emirates, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, were the chief guests in Republic Day ceremonies in 2016 and 2017 respectively. The leaders of the 10 Southeast Asian nations had attended the Republic Day ceremony on January 26, 2018. The Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro were the chief guests in 2018 and 19 respectively. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-drops-plans-to-host-central-asian-leaders-as-chief-guests-on-republic-day-in-view-of-the-covid-19-1072741.html
19-01-2022||National||R-Day: Restrictions imposed on charter flights, non-scheduled commercial flights operating from Delhi||Restrictions have been imposed at the Delhi airport on charter flights and airlines' non-scheduled flights due to approaching Republic Day on January 26, stated a notice to airmen (NOTAM) issued by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). No landing or take off will be permitted from the Delhi airport for airlines' non-scheduled flights and general aviation companies' charter flights between 10.15 am-1.15 pm till January 24, the NOTAM noted. On Republic Day itself, non-scheduled flights and charter flights will not be allowed to land or take off from the Delhi airport between 7 am-1 pm and between 2 pm-6.30 pm, it mentioned. On January 29, due to Beating the Retreat ceremony, non-scheduled flights and charter flights will not be permitted to land or take off from the Delhi airport between 4 pm-7 pm, it noted. There will be no impact of NOTAM on the aircraft of the Indian Air Force, Border Security Force and the Indian Army's aviation wing, it mentioned. "State owned aircraft or helicopter can fly with the governor or chief minister of state," it noted. Scheduled flights of airlines will operate as usual, it mentioned.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-day-restrictions-imposed-on-charter-flights-non-scheduled-commercial-flights-operating-from-delhi-1072744.html
19-01-2022||National||Usage of phone for virtual hearing not barred, clarifies SC||The Secretary General of the Supreme Court on Wednesday said that the notice asking lawyers and litigants to avoid using mobile phones to attend the virtual court proceedings was a mere advisory and did not bar its usage.  The clarification by Secretary General Virender Kumar Bansal came on a representation made by the Supreme Court Advocates On Record Association (SCORA) to Chief Justice of India NV Ramana to ask the Registry to not insist on a particular kind of equipment or connectivity to join court hearings.  On January 17, the CJI had expressed unhappiness over disruptions during virtual hearings due to the use of mobiles. Later that day, the apex court registry, through a circular, asked the advocates and litigants to use a desktop or laptop with a stable internet connection to join proceedings conducted through video conferencing. In reply to SCORA's representation, the Secretary General wrote, “Contrary to the concern expressed by you, a careful reading of the notice dated January 17 reveals that it is merely advisory in nature and nowhere in the said advisory it is stated that the usage of mobile phones is barred.” He said the purpose of the advisory was to facilitate smooth functioning of the Court and to avoid inconvenience to all the stakeholders  including the advocates and litigants.  “To remove apprehensions in this regard, if any, it is hereby clarified that in case any lawyer does not have desktop/laptop, etc., he/she can attend the proceedings through the mobile phone ensuring that the learned advocate appearing through the mobile phone is properly visible and audible to the Court,” Bansal said in a letter to SCORA's Secretary Dr. Joseph Aristotle.  The Secretary General further said that the Chief Justice of India has always been alert to the multifarious hardships being faced by the advocate community and that he highlighted these issues in various public fora urging all concerned to step up to help the needy.  “In his communication addressed to the Minister of Law and Justice as early as on June 8, 2021, the CJI, inter-alia, emphasised on the urgent need to augment the network and connectivity across the country and also on the need to extend financial assistance to the advocates who are struggling to make both ends meet,” he added.  The same was followed up under directions by the Chief Justice of India through a communication from the Registry to the Ministry very recently, he said, adding that it is hoped that the issues are sorted out at the earliest.  The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) also on Tuesday had said that Chief Justice of India NV Ramana has assured that lawyers can attend the proceedings through the mobile phone in case they do not have a laptop or desktop.  The Chief Justice of India, however, requested the members of the bar that the mobile phone should be stationed and placed in such a manner that the face of the lawyer is visible and the voice is audible, the SCBA stated in a letter after a virtual meeting with the CJI and four senior-most judges.  The notification dated January 17 had advised the lawyers and litigants to join the virtual proceedings through a single device either a laptop or a desktop. “All advocates, party-in-person must also join the VC hearings preferably using a headset enabled microphone and audio system...Please also close all background applications running on your devices for best VC experience,” the notification had read.  The circular was issued after the hearing in as many as 10 cases was to be adjourned by the bench headed by the CJI as the lawyers were either inaudible or invisible or both.   The bench was irked over frequent disruptions as the lawyers or litigants were mostly joining the proceedings through phones using mobile data and even observed that it may have to ban participation through mobiles. “Lawyers are appearing using their mobile phones and are not visible. We may have to ban this mobile business. Mr counsel, you are now practicing in the Supreme Court and appear regularly. Can't you afford to have a desktop to argue,” the CJI had observed in one of the cases. The top court has been hearing cases through video-conferencing since March 2020 due to the pandemic and has been relaxing or tightening the conditions from time to time keeping in mind the changing pandemic situation. The apex court, on January 2, took note of a sudden spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the country and decided to hear all matters in virtual mode, and from January 7, the benches are sitting at the residential offices of the judges.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/usage-of-phone-for-virtual-hearing-not-barred-clarifies-sc-1072745.html
19-01-2022||National||Any website, YouTube channel spreading lies, conspiring against India will be blocked: I-B minister Anurag Thakur||Days after 20 YouTube channels and two websites were blocked for spreading anti-India propaganda and fake news, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday warned that the government will continue to take such action against those "hatching conspiracy” against the country. “I had ordered for action against them.… I am happy that many big countries across the world took cognisance of it. YouTube also came forward and took action to block them,” Thakur told reporters here while replying to queries on the issue. In a "closely coordinated" effort with intelligence agencies, the I&B ministry had in December last year ordered the blocking of 20 YouTube channels and two websites as they were spreading anti-India propaganda and fake news. “And in future also, action will be taken to block any such account hatching conspiracy against India, spreading lies and dividing the society,” the minister asserted. In a statement in December, the ministry had said that these 20 YouTube channels and the websites belonged to “a coordinated disinformation network” operating from Pakistan and spreading fake news about various sensitive subjects related to India" The channels were used to post "divisive content in a coordinated manner on topics like Kashmir, Indian army, minority communities in India, Ram Mandir, General Bipin Rawat, etc", it had said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/any-website-youtube-channel-spreading-lies-conspiring-against-india-will-be-blocked-i-b-minister-anurag-thakur-1072747.html
19-01-2022||National||NIA announces Rs 10 lakh reward on SFJ's Jaswinder Singh Multani||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) which recently lodged a case of unlawful activities prevention act against Germany-based Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) member Jaswinder Singh Multani, has now declared a cash reward of Rs 10 lakh on him. Releasing two pictures of Jaswinder Singh, the NIA has urged the public to help them in the terror case against him. NIA sources have indicated that they are also probing his involvement in use of drones for smuggling activities across the border. An NIA official on Wednesday said that for quite a long time, drones are being used for the purpose of smuggling of arms, ammunition, explosives and drugs. "Pakistan-based terrorists backed by ISI are involved in this. Jaswinder Singh Multani is in touch with them. He also has an Indian contact who receives smuggled arms, explosive and drugs. By this, he is pumping drugs and arms into the Indian territory. We are probing this and are collecting evidence in this respect," said a source. Around 70 drone sightings cases were reported last year along the border in Punjab and Jammu. These drones were used by Pakistan-based elements to supply arms and narcotics in India. Few drones were shot down by Border Security Forces. Another drone was sighted by the BSF, and even as the personnel tried to shoot it down and it flew back to Pakistan after dropping six packets containing narcotics, these were seized by the agencies. Multani was booked by NIA for hatching conspiracy against India along with his associates. "The case was registered on December 30, under sections 120B, 121A of IPC and sections 10, 13, 17, 18 &amp; 18B of UA (P) Act, against Multani and his other associates. Multani was detained by German authorities in Berlin following the inputs of Indian agencies, he was later set free after he gave an affidavit to the German government saying he would assist in the probe," said an NIA official. The official said that Multani along with several other pro-Khalistani elements located abroad are radicalising, motivating and recruiting youths in Punjab on ground and online through social media platforms to propagate their ideology with the aim to "secede Punjab from the Union of India". "They have been involved in raising funds to procure arms, ammunition and explosives by using smuggling networks in Punjab to revive terrorism in Punjab. Jaswinder Singh Multani has also been in contact with ISI operatives to carry out terror attack in Mumbai and other parts of India," the NIA official said. The NIA official said that a team of elite officials was formed to look into the matter, adding the probe agency wants to bring back Multani to India to prosecute him for his offence. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-announces-rs-10-lakh-reward-on-sfjs-jaswinder-singh-multani-1072748.html
19-01-2022||National||'Why not sensitive to the cause', SC to Andhra Pradesh on failure to disburse Covid compensation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday slammed Andhra Pradesh for delaying paying compensation of Rs 50,000 to the families of those who succumbed to Covid-19, and asked the Chief Secretary and state's counsel "why they are not sensitive to the cause". The Chief Secretary of Bihar also appeared personally in the matter, after the top court refused to accept the state's figure of Covid deaths. Taking exception to Andhra Pradesh's record, a bench of Justices MR Shah and Sanjiv Khanna said: "Why you only work when the court directs you to work. Why are you not sensitive to the cause?" During the pre-lunch hearing, the top court had sought the personal presence of the Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary to explain the delay in compensating families who have lost their loved ones to the viral infection. "Every time we have to tell you... told 10 times already to Andhra Pradesh", said Justice Shah. As the Chief Secretary apologised to the court, the bench told him that the record maintained by the state government in connection with Covid deaths is faulty. Senior advocate R. Basant, representing the state government, urged the court to give seven days to the government to rectify the errors. The court was informed that the state has received over 40,000 applications for Covid compensation and it has been found that over 34,000 applicants are eligible for the compensation. However, the state government has registered 14,471 deaths so far. As the bench queried whether the authorities concerned have cross-checked that the name of the claimant, for deaths recorded so far, appear on the list of total claim applications received, the Chief Secretary submitted that all the errors will be removed from the Covid deaths data. "Our only anxiety is that the money should reach the people. Please reach out to the people whose applications have been rejected," Justice Shah told the official. During the pre-lunch hearing, the governments of Gujarat, and Maharashtra informed the court of the number of claims they had received, and the number approved and payments disbursed. The Bihar Chief Secretary was also present during the hearing after the bench told the state's counsel that it is not ready to accept that only 12,000 people have died due to Covid in the state. The bench noted that the Bihar government had reported 11,000 claims for compensation so far, which, when compared to other states' applications, seem to be on the lower side. It said the state government should make more effort to reach the eligible people for Covid death compensation. Concluding the hearing, the top court said it will pass a detailed order to state and district legal services by Thursday. The top court has scheduled the matter for further hearing in the first week of February. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-not-sensitive-to-the-cause-sc-to-andhra-pradesh-on-failure-to-disburse-covid-compensation-1072756.html
19-01-2022||National||Doctors remove mobile phone swallowed by Tihar inmate||Doctors at Delhi's GB Pant Hospital have successfully removed a mobile phone from the stomach of a Tihar inmate who had swallowed it in a bid to hide it from the authorities during a surprise check. Director General (Prison), Sandeep Goel, told IANS that the mobile phone was removed via endoscopy and the prisoner has been sent back to the jail. The incident took place on January 5 when the inmate lodged at Jail No. 1 swallowed a mobile phone to hide it from the staff while he was being searched. The inmate was immediately taken to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in the city from where he was referred to the GB Pant Hospital. Doctors at the GB Pant Hospital, who performed the endoscopy, told IANS that it was not the first time that they performed the procedure of removing a foreign object from a person's stomach. "It was probably the tenth time we were doing such a procedure," said Siddharth Srivastava from the Department of Gastroenterology, GB Pant Hospital. He said that the presence of the mobile phone was established with the help of an X-Ray and later on they performed an endoscopy and removed it through the patient's mouth with the help of a snare. He further said that in 2021, the doctors at the hospital had published a case study in a gastro journal based on such a procedure. Notably, the inmate had swallowed the mobile phone on January 5 and the procedure was done on January 15, which meant that the inmate was carrying the mobile phone in his stomach for exactly 10 days. "He was admitted to the hospital for over a week and was under constant medical observation," the DG Prison added. The Tihar Jail authorities have been strengthening the security arrangements in the prison following the major backlash they received over jail officials being caught providing facilities to the inmates, including cellphones. Over 40 officials at Tihar Jail have been booked by various law enforcement agencies during the past six months for extending benefits to the prisoners in one way or the other. Goel, in an earlier interview with IANS, had said that the Tihar Jail will soon have two X-ray based human body scanners that can prevent infiltration of illegal articles and gadgets inside the prison premises. Goyal said they are installing three new towers inside the jail premises that would confine the mobile signals emanating from the prison. "All these measures are steps in the right direction and can prove beneficial in the future," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-remove-mobile-phone-swallowed-by-tihar-inmate-1072760.html
19-01-2022||National Politics||JD(U) to contest Uttar Pradesh polls without coalition||The Janata Dal (United) has announced that it will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections without any alliances. The party has expressed disappointment over not being named by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as an ally in Uttar Pradesh. JD(U) national spokesperson and general secretary KC Tyagi, who was in Lucknow to announce the party's foray into the UP polls, said his party looked forward to implementing the 'Bihar model of governance' in UP which was about 'Nyay ke Saath Vikas' (development with justice). "Our party colleague RCP Singh spoke to top BJP leaders, including Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, JP Nadda and UP Assembly election in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan, and at no stage did anyone deny an alliance with us. But when the BJP released its list (of candidates) three days ago and said that Apna Dal and Nishad Party are its allies, it was a clear indication that JD(U) was not a part of the alliance. We are not angry but disappointed and have decided to contest on our own," said Tyagi. However, he clarified that the development would not impact its alliance with the BJP in Bihar and added that JD (U) would not do anything to harm BJP's prospects in Uttar Pradesh. "We expect the same from them," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jdu-to-contest-uttar-pradesh-polls-without-coalition-1072496.html
19-01-2022||National Politics||Congress breaks out hit Hindi tunes to woo 'rejected' candidates||Remember the 1970 hit song from Purab Aur Paschim -- 'Koi jab tumhara hriday tod de'? The song, in a new avatar, is now back on hoardings, wooing dejected leaders who have failed to get a ticket. A poster in Prayagraj and on social media platforms is gathering attention for inviting leaders from other political parties who could not get a ticket to contest the Assembly polls. The poster, which carries the caption "SP mein housefull', has been uploaded on social media by Prayagraj Congress Committee General Secretary Irshad Ullah. The poster says, "'Koi jab tumse moonh pher le, aur wo chunav ka ticket bhi na de/ Tab tum mere paas aana guru, mera ghar khula hai, khula hi rahega tumhare liye.' (When leaders avoid your entry, and even deny tickets to you, then you should come to me and my house will remain open forever)." Irshad Ullah told reporters that leaders from various political parties, who have joined Samajwadi Party in recent times, have not got due respect. "We appeal to such leaders who want to save the country, society and state from going into wrong hands. They should join the Congress under the leadership of AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra," he said. Giving the examples of Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan and former Congress leader Imran Masood who could not get respect in the Samajwadi Party respectively, Ullah said, "It was only Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who has given tickets to the ground-level workers. It is the Congress that is fighting for the rights of the common man. The day is not far when people of the state acknowledge this fact and will support Congress." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-breaks-out-hit-hindi-tunes-to-woo-rejected-candidates-1072503.html
19-01-2022||National Politics||Bajpai, Dubey and Tiwari to decide Brahmin votes in UP poll battle||A Bajpai, a Dubey and a Tiwari are set to sway the Brahmin votes in the Uttar Pradesh polls. Three individuals — Laxmikant Bajpai, Khushi Dubey and Hari Shankar Tiwari — have emerged as symbols of the alleged victimisation of Brahmins in the Yogi Adityanath regime. Laxmikant Bajpai, the former state president of BJP, has emerged as a major factor among the BJP sympathisers. Bajpai, who led the party to a stupendous victory in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections with 71 seats, has won elections in 1989, 1996, 2002 and 2012. However, he has been denied a ticket this time. Moreover, the party has not accommodated the veteran leader in either the Rajya Sabha or the Vidhan Parishad whereas new entrants like Jitin Prasada have been adequately rewarded. "The party talks of Brahmin pride but insults our own leaders. Laxmikant Bajpai is now one of the tallest Brahmin leaders in the party but his humiliation is there for all to see. Brahmins within the party are upset but no one is speaking for obvious reasons. This will definitely impact the elections," a Brahmin legislator said. Bajpai himself has withdrawn from party activities and does not answer questions in this regard but his supporters in western UP, in particular, are angry. The BJP is trying to promote Uttar Pradesh Minister Brijesh Pathak as a Brahmin leader but he lacks the stature of Bajpai. In central Uttar Pradesh, Khushi Dubey, who was widowed in the Bikru incident is set to shape the vote share. Khushi Dubey had been married for just three days when the Bikru incident -- in which eight policemen were killed -- took place. Her husband Amar Dubey, an aide of the main accused Vikas Dubey, was killed in an encounter and Khushi was arrested for her complicity in the crime. It has been a year and a half since Khushi is languishing in jail. BSP MP Satish Chandra Mishra was the first politician to raise the issue. He claimed that the minor widow has been targeted only because she happened to be a Brahmin. "Hers is an example of the manner in which Brahmins are being targeted by the Yogi Adityanath government," he said, offering her legal help. Mishra raised the issue in several meetings, touting Vikas Dubey as a "victim". "We do not say that Vikas Dubey was innocent but the police should have allowed the law to decide his fate. He was killed in cold blood. All his five associates were also shot dead by the police which had the same script for every encounter. One of them was a high school student. If this was not a massacre, then what was it?" said Shubham Tiwari, a young graduate in Kanpur. In eastern UP, the biggest factor for Brahmins, meanwhile, is Hari Shankar Tiwari of Gorakhpur. Hari Shankar is among the most respected Brahmin leaders of eastern Uttar Pradesh where the Thakur-Brahmin hostilities have ballooned for decades. Soon after Yogi Adityanath took over as the chief minister, raids were conducted at the residence and offices of Tiwari in Gorakhpur. The police said that they were looking for an accused in a loot case. His son and former BSP MLA, Vinay Shankar Tiwari, said, "The police entered my house without a search warrant. It was a clear attempt to malign the image of my 84-year-old father." Hari Shankar's sons, Vinay Shankar Tiwari and Bhisham Shankar Tiwari, have now joined the Samajwadi Party "with the blessings of our father". Brahmins in eastern UP have complained of police high-handedness and insist it is deliberate. "The police very promptly catch a petty criminal if he happens to be a Dubey, Mishra or Tiwari but turn a blind eye to a dreaded criminal who belongs to the Thakur community. This kind of discrimination was not seen even when Veer Bahadur Singh was chief minister and the Hari Shankar Tiwari-Virendra Shahi (another mafia don) war was at its peak," said Pradyumn Narain Mishra, a retired government employee in Maharajganj. Senior political analyst, Samiratmaj Mishra, who has toured almost the entire state, said, "There is no denying the fact that Brahmins are disillusioned and upset with the BJP government. The Laxmikant Bajpai factor is visible within the party -- more so because Brahmins believe that they had a major role to play in the formation of the BJP government in 2017 after 15 years of political exile. The targeting of Hari Shankar Tiwari has added insult to the injury." He said that the manner in which the government portrayed Brahmins as a community of criminals, in the aftermath of the Vikas Dubey case, has also upset the community. Mishra said that the Brahmin voters are still searching for options and only a fraction of the community would go with the BJP. "Brahmins are being wooed by the Samajwadi Party, but I feel that there will be tactical voting and Brahmins will vote for a candidate of their community first because they feel that it is important to ensure maximum representation of Brahmins in the Assembly," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bajpai-dubey-and-tiwari-to-decide-brahmin-votes-in-up-poll-battle-1072529.html
19-01-2022||National Politics||BJP seeks proof in Modi remark row in Maharashtra||Former Maharashtra minister and BJP MLA Sambhaji Patil Nilangekar has termed "false" state Congress president Nana Patole's clarification on the "Modi" reference in his controversial speech, which has triggered protests from BJP workers across the state. Patole has kicked up a controversy with his purported remark in a video that he could "beat up, badmouth Modi". He later clarified that he was referring to a local goon named Modi in Bhandara district, and was not talking about Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Nilangekar issued a statement demanding that Patole publish the photograph of the said man and share his details. "The language used by Maharashtra Congress president is frightening. He is not talking about holding the rule of law, which is the testimony to the current law and order scenario in the state. Patole's language shows that the idea of ​​the rule of law is not acceptable to Congress. It is the nature of Congress to play politics of killings. Patole is the true symbol of the Congress culture which relies only on violence," Nilangekar alleged. The opposition BJP has been demanding police action against Patole and his arrest. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-seeks-proof-in-modi-remark-row-in-maharashtra-1072604.html
19-01-2022||National Politics||Late CDS Bipin Rawat's brother Vijay joins BJP, may contest Uttarakhand polls||Vijay Rawat, brother of India's first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat who recently died in a helicopter crash, joined the BJP on Wednesday. The BJP may field him as its candidate in poll-bound Uttarakhand, sources said. Vijay Rawat, who retired as a colonel from the army, joined the BJP in the presence of Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni. Noting that his father, also a former army officer, was associated with the BJP, Rawat expressed happiness at working for the party and lavished praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he has a unique vision and mindset. He thinks out of the box and all his efforts are directed towards the country's betterment, Rawat said. Welcoming Rawat into the party, Dhami said the late CDS wanted to work for the state after retirement and his younger brother will advance his vision. The BJP is inspired by nationalist ideology and has always worked for security personnel's welfare, he said. Noting that Rawat's family has been joining the army for three generations, he said his decision to join the BJP will boost its strength. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/late-cds-bipin-rawats-brother-vijay-joins-bjp-may-contest-uttarakhand-polls-1072644.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||MP govt slashes booze rates, retail liquor at airports, select supermarkets||In the new Excise Police for the next Financial Year, the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has decided to allow the sale of liquor at all airports in the state and select supermarkets in four big cities, and issue home bar licenses to those earning Rs 1 crore or more annually. In the Excise Policy 2022-23, approved by the state Cabinet on Tuesday, the government also decided to slash retail prices of liquor by 20 per cent in a bid to "make them practical". The Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also cleared the Madhya Pradesh Heritage (Traditional) Liquor Policy. Under the new Excise Policy, counters selling liquor can be opened at all the airports in MP while licenses for (opening) such outlets can now be issued in select supermarkets in Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior at a fixed fee, an official statement said. Now, a home bar license will be issued at an annual fee of Rs 50,000 to applicants with an annual individual income of Rs one crore or more, it said. Under the upcoming policy, bar licenses can be issued at concessional rates to temporary units being operated by the Eco-Tourism Board and the Tourism Development Corporation at tourist places. The state government also decided to simplify the liquor import process. Opening of microbreweries will be allowed in Bhopal and Indore cities subject to No Objection Certificates (NOCs) to be issued by local civic bodies and the electricity department and after securing environmental clearance. Officials said that all the liquor outlets will now be composite shops to curb the sale of illegal alcohol. Composite shops are the ones from where traders can sell Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), Country Made liquor and beer together. District-level high power committees that include the collector and MLAs will be empowered to change locations of liquor shops, if needed, under the new excise policy. Besides, wine prepared from grapes by farmers in MP will be made duty free, the officials said. The new excise policy also has a provision of tetra-packing liquor and scanning the QR code to check the authenticity of the product. The Madhya Pradesh cabinet also gave its nod to the new Heritage Liquor policy, announced by the chief minister last November, which will enable tribals to brew liquor from 'mahua' (Madhuca) flowers in a traditional way and sell it. This policy will be later presented before a cabinet sub-committee which was formed to discuss the heritage liquor project, the officials said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-slashes-booze-rates-retail-liquor-at-airports-select-supermarkets-1072511.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Security forces on high alert along Pathankot-Jammu highway ahead of Republic Day||Security forces are on high alert along the Pathankot-Jammu National Highway to keep a vigil on any suspected movement to foil the designs of terrorists ahead of Republic Day celebrations, officials said. Border Security Force (BSF) troops have been deployed at Himachal Pradesh-Punjab checkpoint as a beefed-up security measure on the highway, they said. The security setup along the highway is on high alert and checking has been intensified as a measure to foil any design of anti-national elements, they said. The security grid has been put on high alert and security has been tightened at all vital installations in the twin border district of Kathua and Samba also along the highway, they said. Long-range patrolling (LRP) and area domination operations are on along border areas of twin districts to keep a close vigil on suspected activities, they said. "Tight security arrangements have been put in place, the counter-insurgency and the counter-infiltration grids have been tightened in the entire area," a senior official said. The security personnel have been beefed up at all check posts and have been asked to remain alert, they said. Security at vital installations in Jammu including the airport and railway stations has been increased. BSF, which guards the International Border (IB) in the Jammu region, is maintaining a tight vigil. In Pathankot, BSF has been deployed at HP-Pathankot check post as a beefed-up security measure, they said. All the vehicles entering Pathankot from other areas are checked thoroughly and all details recorded, they said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-on-high-alert-along-pathankot-jammu-highway-ahead-of-republic-day-1072526.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi wakes up to shallow fog, mercury at 7.4°C||The minimum temperature in the national capital settled at 7.4 degrees Celsius Wednesday morning with several parts of the city reporting shallow fog. Foggy and cloudy weather may lead to cold day conditions in several areas of Delhi, an IMD official said. Parts of the city have been reeling under "cold day" conditions since Thursday. The Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, also recorded a cold day on January 14 and January 15. According to the IMD, a "cold day" is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal.  A "severe" cold day is when the maximum temperature is at least 6.5 notches below normal. The IMD said minimum temperatures are likely to rise by two to four degrees Celsius in Northwest India during the next five days, under the influence of a fresh western disturbance (WD).  Widespread rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan from January 21 to January 23, it said.  The air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was recorded in the 'very poor' category (330), data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-wakes-up-to-shallow-fog-mercury-at-74-c-1072533.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||ED seizes Rs 10 crore cash, including from Punjab CM's relative, in sand mining raids||Around Rs 8 crore out of Rs 10 crore seized by the Enforcement Directorate during its raids in a money laundering probe connected with illegal sand mining in Punjab were recovered from the premises linked to a nephew of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, officials said on Wednesday. The remaining Rs 2 crore were seized allegedly from the premises of one Sandeep Kumar, they said, adding the ED is likely to soon summon people who were raised for recording their statement. The ED raids came after taking cognizance of a 2018 FIR filed by Punjab Police against companies and people linked to illegal sand mining. Truck drivers and other operatives allegedly involved in extraction and transportation of sand were named as accused in the FIR. The ED registered the case last November. Officials said Honey's links with one Kudratdeep Singh, who is allegedly involved in the case, are being investigated by the agency. They claimed that Singh and Honey are partners in business. Both Channi and Honey had earlier denied any wrongdoing. According to officials, the sand mining was carried out in areas which were not notified for the purpose. The mafia involved in illegal sand mining was laundering the money earned from the crime into own and benami accounts. On Tuesday, Channi described the raids as an attempt to put pressure and target him and his ministers. "When there were polls in West Bengal, such attacks took place on Mamata Banerjee's relatives. Now, in the same pattern in Punjab, ED is trying to put pressure on, giving trouble," he had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-seizes-rs-10-crore-cash-including-from-punjab-cms-relative-in-sand-mining-raids-1072546.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Will monitor Covid-19 situation for 3-4 days before reviewing curbs: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the government will monitor the Covid-19 situation for three to four days to confirm the trend of positivity rate before reviewing the curbs in the national capital. He said the city is likely to see around 13,000 cases on Wednesday with a positivity rate of around 24 per cent. "The Covid positivity rate has come down from 30 per cent to 22.5 per cent in Delhi. The rate should be half of it. We will monitor the situation for three to four days," the minister said on reviewing the curbs in the city. Delhi had logged 11,684 Covid cases on Tuesday with a positivity rate of 22.47 per cent. It saw 12,527 cases and 24 deaths on Monday, and the positivity rate was 27.99 per cent. Responding to a question about low rate of testing in Delhi, Jain said no one is being denied a Covid test and the authorities are following the guidelines issued by the Centre. "They said high-risk contacts of Covid patients and those with symptoms should be tested. On Tuesday, they clarified that tests be conducted in some pockets in the community too, which we are doing," he said. Delhi had been conducting 50,000 to 60,000 coronavirus tests daily for the last six months, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-monitor-covid-19-situation-for-3-4-days-before-reviewing-curbs-satyendar-jain-1072550.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Ladakh administration sets up facility for online tickets for Kargil air service||In a first, the Ladakh administration has set up online booking of tickets for air services run by the Indian Air Force in the Union territory, officials said on Wednesday. The administration flagged off the operation of subsidised helicopter service from Ladakh. The service will cater to passengers from far-flung areas of Ladakh on approved routes from Leh-Lingshed, Dibling, Drass, Padum, Kargil, Nubra, Nerak, Jammu, Srinagar, they said. "This year, for the first time, tickets of AN-32 Kargil courier service have been made available online,” a senior official told PTI. This facility has been introduced for the convenience of the passengers so that they can book their tickets, from the comfort of their homes, keeping in view the Covid situation, he said. The passengers can log on to the website http://heliservice.ladakh.gov.in/airforce-plane-booking The first flight has been planned on Thursday for the sector Kargil-Jammu-Kargil, subject to fair weather, officials said. Initially, on a trial basis, booking is available for January 20, and subsequently the other flights will also be available, they said. The land of high passes, Ladakh is renowned for its remote mountain beauty and culture. It is the highest plateau of the sub continent and is famous for its scenic beauty. "You will face the cold desert climate, especially from October-March. In winters, temperatures are extreme in Leh, dipping below freezing point. It remains closed for more than seven months,” officials said. During winters, roads in the entire region remain cut off from rest of the country. Winters in Ladakh are very harsh and temperatures can plummet to -30 degree Celsius at night, they said. Our aim is to meet air connectivity requirements to promote tourism for economic development and employment generation, rescue and medical evacuation purpose, they added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-administration-sets-up-facility-for-online-tickets-for-kargil-air-service-1072557.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, traders body to observe voluntary weekend lockdown in Jammu||A traders body, dealing with essential supplies, on Wednesday announced its decision to observe weekend lockdown here to support the efforts of the Jammu and Kashmir administration to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection. On January 15, the Union Territory administration imposed "complete restriction on non-essential movement" during weekends amid a surge in Covid cases. In the highest single-day spike this month, Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 4,651 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of infections to 3,66,851 while three deaths pushed the death toll linked to the pandemic to 4,575. “We are dealing with essential supplies and hence do not come under the purview of the lockdown announced by the administration. However, given the situation in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, our advisory committee met and decided to observe the weekend lockdown voluntarily to support the efforts of the administration to contain the spread of the disease,” President Traders Federation, WareHouse Nehru Market, Deepak Gupta told reporters here. However, he said the federation would ensure regular supplies while working for five days from Monday to Friday. “We have taken this decision in the best interest of public safety. We will make it sure that the supply chain is not affected,” Gupta said. He said like in the past two waves of Covid-19, the federation has activated the three war rooms for supply of oxygen, ration and medicines and anyone in need of the these items should contact the concerned for the same. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-traders-body-to-observe-voluntary-weekend-lockdown-in-jammu-1072559.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Two unattended bags found in Delhi’s Trilokpuri||Ahead of Republic Day celebrations, two unattended bags were found in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri area on Wednesday, but nothing suspicious was found in the bags except for laptop and personal belongings, officials said.  According to fire officials, they received a call at 1 pm regarding the bags near metro pilar number 59, block-15, Trilokpuri. Delhi Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Priyanka Kashyap said a PCR call was received at the Kalyanpuri Police Station regarding two bags lying unattended near Metro flyover pillar number 59 in Trilokpuri. "As we received the call, our staff rushed to the spot and isolated the place. Two bags were found at the spot. A bomb disposal squad also reached there and after examination, nothing suspicious was found in the bags," she said. The documents found in the bag were found to be that of a person named Somesh Gupta who has been called and further inquiry is on, she added. Items in the bags included laptop, mobile phone, personal care items and other documents, the DCP said. Last week, an improvised explosive device (IED) stuffed with RDX and ammonium nitrate was found inside an unattended bag at the Ghazipur flower market. The explosive was kept in an iron box and concealed in the black coloured backpack. The IED was later destroyed by using a controlled explosion technique after it was lowered into a deep pit located in the area.  Ahead of Republic Day, the Delhi-National Capital Region has been put under a “very high-security” cover after police received inputs from Intelligence agencies about a possible terror attack, officials said. Operation of sub-conventional aerial platforms, including UAVs, paragliders and hot air balloons, over the national capital has been prohibited in the city from January 20 in view of the Republic Day celebrations, according to a Delhi Police order issued on Tuesday. The order shall come into force from January 20 and remain in effect till February 15. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-unattended-bags-found-in-delhi-s-trilokpuri-1072561.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Supreme Court stays order on BJP MLAs' plea against suspension from Maharashtra Assembly for a year||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved its judgement on a plea by 12 BJP MLAs against their suspension from Maharashtra Assembly for one year. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar gave the parties one week time to file their written submissions in the matter. The court heard arguments of senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi, NK Kaul and others on behalf of MLAs and senior advocate C A Sundaram for the Maharashtra government. It had earlier observed that suspending legislators for one year would be dangerous for democracy resulting in deprivation of representation to their constituencies. The bench also referred to the Parliamentary law which required that a constituency can't go unrepresented beyond six months and the role of the Election Commission comes into play in such circumstances. The bench felt that there has to be some rational and constitutional principle behind suspension as houses meet in sessions. The BJP MLAs were suspended on July 5. On January 11, the court had said suspension of the MLAs for allegedly misbehaving with the presiding officer in chair, both inside and outside the Assembly, was “worse than expulsion”. The court had then expressed an inclination to interfere with the resolution passed by the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-stays-order-on-bjp-mlas-plea-against-suspension-from-maharashtra-assembly-for-a-year-1072562.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Himachal CM inaugurates projects worth Rs 250 crore in Dharamsala||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday inaugurated development projects worth around Rs 250 crore in Dharamsala. These projects include Dharamsala-McLeod Ganj Ropeway, Dhouladhar Convention centre, DC office cafeteria and parking, Aghanger Temple complex, MC Parking, Dhouladhar Garden, MILKFED Biscuit Plant, among others. Asked about the opposition’s charge that a majority of these projects are the “gift to the region by the previous congress government”, Thakur said, “It is the compulsion of the opposition to say this. Our government is working for the public and when few projects are completed during our tenure, it is the right of our government to inaugurate them.” He said Dharamsala is an international tourist site as \RTibetan spiritual leader the. Dalai Lama lives here and the region is also blessed by the beauty of snow-laden Dhauladhar ranges and the wonderful Kangra valley. The chief minister added that as traffic congestions are becoming a hazardous problem in the state, ropeways could be the solution. He said few more ropeway projects are coming up in Mandi, Bijli Mahadev-Kullu and Manali-Rotang pass. Thakur added that Billing Paragliding site is also being developed and emphasised the need of proper safety measures in paragliding adventure sport. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-cm-inaugurates-projects-worth-rs-250-crore-in-dharamsala-1072589.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Ex-Punjab CM Parkash Badal tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to hospital||, Jan 19 (PTI) Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Wednesday tested positive for Covid-19. The 94-year-old Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch has been admitted to Dayanand Medical College & Hospital (DMCH ) here. DMCH Medical Superintendent Dr Sandeep Sharma said Badal tested positive for coronavirus. "He is stable," Sharma added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-punjab-cm-parkash-badal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-hospital-1072613.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt decides to slash booze rates, retail liquor at airports||In the new Excise Police for the next Financial Year, the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has decided to allow the sale of liquor at all airports in the state select supermarkets in four big cities, and issue home bar licenses to those earning Rs one crore or more annually. In the Excise Policy 2022-23, approved by the state Cabinet on Tuesday, the government also decided to slash retail prices of liquor by 20 per cent in a bid to "make them practical". Explaining the rationale behind the proposed cut in rates of alcohol, an official said that the prices will become competitive with neighbouring states. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress took a swipe saying the state government is not willing to provide any relief to common people by slashing taxes on fuel but is reducing the prices of liquor. The Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also cleared the Madhya Pradesh Heritage (Traditional) Liquor Policy. Under the new Excise Policy, counters selling liquor can be opened at all the airports in MP while licenses for (opening) such outlets can now be issued in select supermarkets in Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior at a fixed fee, an official statement said. Now, a home bar license will be issued at an annual fee of Rs 50,000 to applicants with an annual individual income of Rs one crore or more, it said. Another official said that this is not the first time in the country that home bar licenses are going to be issued by any state. Some northern states have been issuing such licenses, he added. Under the upcoming policy, bar licenses can be issued at concessional rates to temporary units being operated by the Eco-Tourism Board and the Tourism Development Corporation at tourist places. The state government also decided to simplify the liquor import process. Opening of microbreweries will be allowed in Bhopal and Indore cities subject to No Objection Certificates (NOCs) to be issued by local civic bodies and the electricity department and after securing environmental clearance. Officials also said that all the liquor outlets will now be composite shops to curb the sale of illegal alcohol. Composite shops are the ones from where traders can sell Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), Country Made liquor and beer together. District-level high power committees that include the collector and MLAs will be empowered to change locations of liquor shops, if needed, under the new excise policy. Besides, wine prepared from grapes by farmers in MP will be made duty free, the officials said. The new excise policy also has a provision of tetra-packing liquor and scanning the QR code to check the authenticity of the product. The Madhya Pradesh cabinet also gave its nod to the new Heritage Liquor policy, announced by the chief minister last November, which will enable tribals to brew liquor from 'mahua' (Madhuca) flowers in a traditional way and sell it. This policy will be later presented before a cabinet sub-committee which was formed to discuss the heritage liquor project, the officials said. Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath slammed the state government, saying the upcoming excise policy shows its love for liquor. "While alcohol is set to become cheaper in MP but there is no relief in taxes levied on petrol and diesel,” Nath said. “The state government has taken several decisions to encourage liquor consumption under the new Excise Policy. The BJP government wants to take alcohol to every household even though deaths due to spurious liquor are happening in the state,” the former chief minister alleged. The BJP talks about prohibition during elections but becomes a big supporter of liquor when in power. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-decides-to-slash-booze-rates-retail-liquor-at-airports-1072622.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Bomb threat call at CRPF headquarters in Delhi; declared hoax||A bomb threat call was reported from the CRPF headquarters in Delhi on Wednesday evening which was later declared a hoax, officials said. They said the call was made to the fire authorities around 6:30 pm about a "suspect bomb like object" in the headquarters of the paramilitary force located inside the CGO complex on Lodhi Road in the national capital. Two fire tenders and some Delhi Police teams were rushed to the spot but no bomb or lethal item has been found till now, they said. Officials said the call has been declared a "hoax". They said the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) head office reportedly received a phone call from Telangana, following which paramilitary force officials informed the police control room. The security apparatus in the national capital is on a high alert in view of the upcoming Republic Day celebrations on January 26. This comes hours after two unattended bags created a bomb scare in East Delhi's Trilokpuri, but officials said nothing suspicious was found in them except for a laptop and personal belongings Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bomb-threat-call-at-crpf-headquarters-in-delhi-declared-hoax-1072704.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||'Serious issue': Supreme Court pulls up UP govt as accused still in jail despite bail order||The Supreme Court on Wednesday pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for not releasing an accused in the Rs 3,500 crore Noida "bike bot" Ponzi scheme, despite its month-old order which granted bail to him. A bench, headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar and comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar said, "We deprecate the conduct of the Investigating Officer and also express our serious reservation about the manner in which the Magistrate mechanically proceeded to direct remand of the applicant/petitioner disregarding the order passed by this Court on December 13, 2021." In December, the top court ordered the release of accused Vijay Kumar Sharma on bail, however a magisterial court sent him to further custody, in violation of the top court order. The bench said it passed the bail order a month ago, and the man has not been released so far. "You will not release the person even after a month. It's a very serious issue," it told the UP government counsel. The top court, in its order, said: "We direct the Investigating Officer concerned with crime No. 817 of 2020 to forthwith take steps to release the applicant/petitioner on bail and comply with the order dated 13.12.2021 in connection with the stated offences (all the FIRs in the State of Uttar Pradesh) concerning Bike Bot project passed by this Court without any loss of time." It further added: "We further direct the concerned officials of the State of Uttar Pradesh to eschew from repeating such misadventure in future, disregarding the unambiguous order passed by this Court on December 13." The bench said the copy of this order should be forwarded forthwith to the Secretary, Home Department through email for information and necessary action and sought a compliance report by Thursday. Additional Advocate General for Uttar Pradesh Vinod Diwakar assured the top court that the man will be released on Wednesday only. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/serious-issue-supreme-court-pulls-up-up-govt-as-accused-still-in-jail-despite-bail-order-1072739.html
19-01-2022||North and Central||Women and Child Development Ministry to be trifurcated||A trifurcation of the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development is on the anvil. The move, to streamline the Ministry’s schemes, is now under Cabinet consideration, said ministry officials. The three broad categories under which the Ministry’s schemes have been divided are Mission Shakti, Mission Vatsalya and Mission Poshan. Schemes aimed at women are clubbed under Mission Shakti and child welfare schemes under Mission Vatsalya. Mission Poshan will look after the nutritional schemes of the ministry.  An official of the Ministry said that while the division has been functioning informally for a while, the ministry has recently sent a proposal before the Cabinet. “We are expecting a nod anytime soon,” said the official.  Sources said that it is unlikely that the division will lead to greater scope. The Ministry of Education, which is bifurcated into two parts, has two secretaries heading it.  The Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme, the maternity benefits programme Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, gender budgeting and research efforts as well as the Creche scheme will be part of the women empowerment portion of Mission Shakti.   Women protection schemes One Stop Crisis Centre, the women’s helpline, the scheme for rehabilitation of women who have faced violence Swadhar Greh, the scheme for trafficking victims Ujjawala and the Mahila Police Volunteer, were clubbed with another part of Mission Shakti.  The Umbrella ICDS scheme, Anganwadi services, Scheme for Adolescent Girls, and National Creche Scheme will be part of Mission Poshan, and Mission Vatsalya has the revamped Integrated Child Protection Services and Child Welfare Services under it.  The ministry also has a scheme, Poshan Abhiyan, which is a revamped version of the multi-ministerial nutritional schemes, the Integrated Child Development Services. It was renamed PM's Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment, or POSHAN, in 2017, and the ICDS is the "delivery platform" of the Abhiyaan, an official said.   The WCD ministry was earlier a department in the erstwhile Human Resource Development ministry (now, the ministry of Education), and was set up in 1986. It became a full-fledged ministry in 2006.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-and-child-development-ministry-to-be-trifurcated-1072749.html
19-01-2022||Oasis||Managing stress positively||In the last about 50 years or more, it has been increasingly realised by medical professionals that many ailments are caused by stress or trauma resulting in more and more deaths. Isn’t it surprising that something like stress, about which we were not so serious a few years back, has today become a part of our everyday life? Today, there is a flood of literature available on stress-related diseases and their treatment, and it has become almost a fashion nowadays to talk or write on the effects of stress on modern men and women. Although we all talk about stress, it often isn’t clear what stress is really about. Some people say that stress is a feeling experienced by our mind and body in response to an event like a terror attack, rail accident or plane crash. However, experts believe that, while stress does involve events and our response to them, these are not the most important factors causing it. Our thoughts about the situations in which we find ourselves are more critical compared to other reasons mentioned above. According to psychologists, stress in small quantities is good and at times necessary, because it motivates a person and helps him/her to become more productive. However, an excess of it, or a strong response to it can be fatal. Hence, the way in which we deal with a stress-provoking event would determine its impact on our health. The Gita states that man can be his own best friend or his own worst enemy. But in order to be my best friend, I have to spend time with myself. I have to learn to love and respect myself so that I can love others and respect them as well. By getting to know me and watching what is going on in my mind, I need to gently push the mind back on the right track. If during the day, I allow my mind to be negative, it would be a difficult task and I would struggle to do meditation. Yet, if during the day, I threw the waste stuff out of my mind, and just made sure my thoughts are good and positive, it'll be easier to have that elevated experience. Alas, it is not sufficient to just read about it. Just get up and start meditating!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/managing-stress-positively-1072404.html
19-01-2022||Opinion||This isn’t the presidency Biden imagined for himself||By Ezra Klein, Joe Biden was Barack Obama’s vice president. His Treasury secretary, Janet Yellen, was Obama’s pick to lead the Federal Reserve. The director of Biden’s National Economic Council, Brian Deese, was deputy director of Obama’s National Economic Council. His chief of staff, Ron Klain, was his chief of staff for the first two years of the Obama administration and then Obama’s top Ebola adviser. And so on. The familiar names and faces can obscure how different the new administration, in practice, has become. The problems Biden is facing are an almost perfect inversion of the problems Obama faced. The Obama administration was bedeviled by crises of demand. The Biden administration is struggling with crises of supply. For years, every conversation I had with Obama administration economists was about how to persuade employers to hire and consumers to spend. The 2009 stimulus was too small, and while we avoided a second Great Depression, we sank into an achingly slow recovery. Democrats carried those lessons into the Covid pandemic. They met the crisis with overwhelming fiscal force, joining with the Trump administration to pass the $2.2 trillion CARES Act and then adding the $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan, the trillion-dollar infrastructure bill and the assorted Build Back Better proposals on top. They made clear that they preferred the risks of a hot economy, like inflation, to the threat of mass joblessness. “We want to get something economists call full employment,” Biden said in May. “Instead of workers competing with each other for jobs that are scarce, we want employers to compete with each other to attract work.” That they have largely succeeded feels like the best-kept secret in Washington. A year ago, forecasters expected unemployment to be nearly 6% in the fourth quarter of 2021. Instead, it fell to 3.9% in December, driven by the largest one-year drop in unemployment in American history. Wages are high, new businesses are forming at record rates, and poverty has fallen below its pre-pandemic levels. Since March 2020, Americans saved at least $2 trillion more than expected. And that’s not just a function of the rich getting richer: A JPMorgan Chase analysis found the median household’s checking account balance was 50% higher in July 2021 than in the months before the pandemic. It is easy to imagine the wan recovery we could’ve had if the mistakes of 2009 and 2010 had been repeated. Instead, we met the pandemic with tremendous, perhaps excessive, fiscal force. We fought the recession and won. The problems we do have shouldn’t obscure the problems we don’t. But we do have problems. Year-on-year inflation is running at 7%, its highest rate in decades, and Omicron has shown that the Biden administration wasted months of possible preparation. It is not to blame for the new variant, but it is to blame for the paucity of tests, effective masks and ventilation upgrades. The conversations I have with the Biden administration’s economists are very different from the conversations I had with the Obama administration’s economists, even when they’re the same people. Now the discussion is all about what the economy can produce and how fast it can be shipped. They need companies to make more goods and make them faster. They need more chips so there can be more cars and computers. They need ports to clear more shipments and Pfizer to make more antiviral pills and shipping companies to hire more truckers and schools to upgrade their ventilation systems. Some of these problems reflect the Biden administration’s successes. For all the talk of supply chain crises, many of the delays and shortages reflect unexpectedly strong demand, not a pandemic-induced breakdown in production. Supply chains are built to produce the goods that companies think will be consumed in the future. Expectations were off for 2021, in part because forecasters thought demand would slacken as people lost work and wages, in part because the fiscal response was massively larger than anyone anticipated, and in part because when people couldn’t go out for meals and movies, they bought things instead. Overall spending is more or less on its pre-pandemic trend, but the composition of spending has changed: Americans purchased 18% more physical goods in September 2021 than in February 2020. Now the Biden administration fears that its supply problems will wipe out its demand successes. In recent remarks, Biden took aim at those who would lower prices by breaking the buying power of the working class. “If car prices are too high right now, there are two solutions,” Biden said. “You increase the supply of cars by making more of them, or you reduce demand for cars by making Americans poorer. That’s the choice. Believe it or not, there’s a lot of people in the second camp.” He’s right, but this is a practical fight, not just an ideological one, and the Biden administration is making its own mistakes. His administration is suffering right now from directly mismanaging Covid supplies. It did an extraordinary job in its first months, flooding the country with vaccines. Today, any adult who wants one, or three, can get the shots. But vaccines aren’t the only public health tool that matters, and there was every reason to believe the Biden administration knew it. The American Rescue Plan had about $20 billion for vaccine distribution, but it had $50 billion to expand testing and even more than that to retrofit classrooms so teachers and children alike would feel safe. Where did that money go? Getting the pandemic supply chain right would help ease every other supply chain, too. If Americans could move about their lives more confidently, they could buy services instead of things, and if companies could test and protect their workforces more effectively, they could produce and ship more goods. But the Biden administration hasn’t fully embraced its role as an economic planner. When Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, was asked about testing shortages in December, she shot back, “Should we just send one to every American?” Psaki’s snark soon became Biden’s policy. The administration is launching a website on which any family can request four free tests. That’s a start, but no more than that. For rapid testing to work, people need to be able to do it constantly. But because the administration didn’t create the supply of tests it needed months ago, there aren’t enough tests for it or anyone else to buy now. Part of this reflects the ongoing failure of the Food and Drug Administration to approve many of the tests already being sold in Europe. The same is true, I’d argue, about masks. There’s simply no reason every American can’t pick up an unlimited supply of N95s and KN95s at every post office, library and DMV. Instead, people are buying counterfeit N95s on Amazon and wearing cloth masks that do far less to arrest spread. Now the Biden administration is moving toward supplying masks. But more needs to be done: How about ventilation? How about building the vaccine production capacity needed to vaccinate the world and prevent future strains from emerging? How about building capacity to produce more antiviral pills so that the next effective treatment can ramp up more quickly? For decades, Democrats and Republican administrations alike believed the market would manage supply. We live in the wreckage of that worldview. But it held for so long that the US government has lost both the muscle and the confidence needed to manage supply, at least when it comes to anything other than military spending. So Biden’s task now is clear: to build a government that can create supply, not just demand. This may not be the presidency Biden prepared for, but it’s the one he got.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/this-isn-t-the-presidency-biden-imagined-for-himself-1072473.html
19-01-2022||Opinion||Cummins, Khawaja and cricket's South Asian turn||It was a striking moment when Ashes-winning Australian captain Pat Cummins suspended his team's public champagne spraying celebrations to ensure Muslim Usman Khawaja was included. Cummins has been spectacular as both player and new age leader, but that particular moment could well mark the beginning of a new inclusiveness in Australian cricket with special relevance for players of South Asian descent who are increasing in local and state numbers. For example, there are two playing right now for Australia in the Under-19 World Cup in West Indies. Harkirat Bajwa was born in Mohali but shifted at age seven to Melbourne, where his father, construction engineer Baljit Singh, joined his brothers and became a taxi driver. Harkirat had played street cricket in Mohali but took to the game seriously in Melbourne, where, he said, he loved the community. His father, though, suggests Harkirat took some time to settle in.  Many migrant kids have had that experience in Australia, where the reputation for being multicultural often outstrips the reality, with downright racism having become a persistent social strand in recent years. But Harkirat played his way through local, state and now national playing ranks, his off-spin skills and action mirroring those of Harbhajan Singh, even if his idol is Ravichandran Ashwin. Nivethan Radhakrishnan is the other player, a hugely talented spinner who bowls ambidextrously and is an accomplished batter (as it is now termed). He was born in Chennai, the son of Anbu Selvan, who himself was part of the city's intense cricket culture. A good player, at young age Anbu Selvan also became a club manager in the league. Known as being fiery and committed, he later worked in America as an engineer. Anbu Selvan's two boys became good cricketers, with Nivethan showing special promise by the age of nine when a change in the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) rules meant he had to wait until thirteen before playing in the league. Frustrated, Anbu Selvan checked out international conditions and shifted the family to Sydney. Nivethan developed quickly, had stints back in the TNCA leagues at a young age, became an IPL net bowler, flourished back in Sydney, then got a contract to play for Tasmania. Like Harkirat, Nivethan says he enjoys the cricket culture in Australia, and in cricket is "an Aussie" even if of Indian origin. That is why the Cummins moment is so significant. These are not the first Australian Under-19s of South Asian origin, but perhaps among the first to feel genuinely included. Usman Khawaja himself went public to underline that inclusiveness following Cummins's actions, and that, too, was significant because the Pakistani-born player has made no secret he often felt isolated during his years in Australian cricket. And there is a history of that. A few years ago, Kumar Sarna, a Delhi-born outstanding player Australia Under-19 representative, was rated as a future Australian player but never broke into the Victorian state side. He left Australia and returned to India, suggesting the game's Australian culture as an issue. After a fruitless legal challenge to the ruling that as an NRI (non-resident Indian), he was ineligible for Indian selection, he returned to Melbourne grade cricket, but the promise went unfulfilled. The Cummins gesture has an international dimension, too, especially in the wake of England's disastrous Ashes showing. There have long been suggestions that players of Asian and African-Caribbean descent have been seriously under-represented in English cricket – Haseeb Hameed was the only such representative in Australia this series, and the recently retired Moeen Ali was really the only prominent and long term player from such a background recently. Several reasons have been advanced for that, but recent and ongoing ructions at Yorkshire County Cricket Club in the wake of the Azeem Rafiq allegations have searchlight-ed the role of racism as a major inhibitor. Among other things, he reported having had red wine forcibly poured down his throat and having been told to "change by the toilets" during his career as an allrounder. That career has been destroyed by racism, he suggests, and the public inquiries that have ensued go a long way to confirming that claim. So for Cummins to have supported Usman Khawaja so publicly should and must be a great step forward for players of under-represented backgrounds everywhere, and especially so for those of south Asian origin as the Indian diaspora spreads. That diaspora has increased in Australia as we know, but a glance at other team lists in the Under-19 World Cup shows that happening elsewhere as well. England still has only two, underlining the Yorkshire problem. The UAE and Canada teams are dominated by players of South Asian descent, while Scotland has three, Ireland one, and Uganda one. Given population percentages, then, Australia might well be on the way to achieving a representational balance unthought of just a few years ago. (Emeritus Professor Brian Stoddart is an Australia-based writer and researcher with special interests in India) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/cummins-khawaja-and-crickets-south-asian-turn-1072527.html
19-01-2022||Opinion||OBC upsurge: BJP hopes Mayawati impedes Akhilesh Yadav's run||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership has come to rest hopes on the possibility of Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) halting Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav's run to assume power in Lucknow. Mayawati may be only a shade of her former feisty self but retains her support base among Jatavs; the community comprises more than half of the Dalit population in the state.  At the peak of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP's popularity in the previous 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the BSP's vote share was 26 per cent - dropping a mere four per cent from its vote share in the 2007 elections when elected to power with 30 per cent. On the other hand, the SP had clocked a vote share of 24 per cent in 2007, 29 per cent in 2012 and 22 per cent in 2017 - a drop of seven per cent from 2012, when it was elected to power. Thus, the big spike in the BJP vote share of 39.18 per cent in 2017 had primarily come at the expense of the Congress and other smaller parties, not as much at the cost of the SP and the BSP.  Mayawati can halt the SP juggernaut because of this reason. While the BJP had decimated all rival parties in 2017 in the 58 seats of western UP, scheduled to go for polls in the first phase, Mayawati's BSP was the runner up in 30 of these constituencies, while SP candidates were placed second in only 15 seats. Hence, the more Mayawati's BSP gains, the more extensive the damage to Akhilesh Yadav's SP. What psephologists say  There is no denying that the SP-led coalition has rapidly emerged as the principal challenger to the BJP in India's most populous and politically significant state. According to a recent ABP/C-Voter survey, the BJP is expected to retain its vote share of 40 per cent but is forecasted to win between 223 to 235 seats - a drop of approximately 70 seats from 2017. With an expected vote share of 33.3 per cent, the SP is projected to win between 145 to 157 seats. Two issues stand out about the survey report. First, with a bigger vote share for the BJP, how can the party get fewer seats than in 2017? Second, it has never been the case in UP that a party with nearly 30 per cent vote share does not form the government. When the BSP was elected to power in 2007, the party had a vote share of 30 per cent. In 2012, the SP had been elected to power with a vote share of 29 per cent.  Psephological projections can hardly be taken as an accurate barometer of existing ground realities. Still, the following appears reasonable: If there comes about a breach in the "Hindutva plus" strategy (the inclusion of the backwards and Dalits within the Hindutva umbrella), the BJP could be heading for trouble. A realisation of such sort appears to have also dawned upon BJP strategists' minds. Caste overpowering Hindutva  The SP has emerged as the first port of call for leaders of the smaller caste-based parties and also ministers and MLAs belonging to the Other Backward Caste (OBC) communities, who have quit the BJP in past weeks to join the SP. Massive crowds have turned up at recent rallies addressed by Akhilesh Yadav at locations including Jaunpur, Lucknow and Kanpur.  Learning from past mistakes, Akhilesh Yadav has also made a conscious effort to broad-base the party's support base - reaching out to communities other than Yadavs and Muslims. At a recent meeting with leaders of SP's alliance partners, Krishna Patel of the Apna Dal faction was accorded the honour as the master of ceremonies, while Akhilesh Yadav himself sat among the other participants. Alliance leaders such as Om Prakash Rajbhar of the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party and Keshav Dev Maurya of the Mahan Dal have been asked to lead the SP's Vijay Rath Yatras.  Akhilesh Yadav has also reached out to the Brahmin community by way of the "Parashuram Yatras" that the SP has conducted. He has also avoided directly attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, keeping his campaign themes focused on misgovernance and misrule of the Yogi Adityanath government, raising price rise, unemployment, Covid mismanagement and the Adityanath government's "thoko niti" (encounter policy). In short, Akhilesh Yadav has attempted to reinvent himself as a leader capable of taking everybody along.  BJP's dilemmas  For a party known for its planning and the hard work of its cadres - with access to unlimited resources, financial and other, the BJP appears to have suddenly and embarrassingly run out of ideas in UP. Plans had been firmed up to field Adityanath from the Ayodhya constituency with apparent aims to overwhelm the resurgence of "Mandal politics" by the Hindutva wave. But Adityanath is now seen visiting the homes of Dalits, sharing meals with Dalit families. Union minister and BJP leader Dharmendra Pradhan also announced that the party would field Dalits from non-reserved seats as well. Prime Minister Modi has been on a ribbon-cutting and foundation stone laying drive, particularly in eastern UP, where caste identities are strong. In the upcoming budget on February 1, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is likely to make populist announcements targeted at Dalit and backward welfare. Despite all this, this fear looms large in respect of the BJP's last hour change of strategy for Uttar Pradesh: That it might be a case of it being too little and too late.  (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/obc-upsurge-bjp-hopes-mayawati-impedes-akhilesh-yadavs-run-1072594.html
19-01-2022||Panorama||Not bothered by ITI workers’ plight? One day soon, it could be yours, too||Most people probably do not know about an ongoing sit-in at the Indian Telephone Industries (ITI) Ltd. Protesting workers have been sitting outside their factory gates for nearly 50 days, in the middle of a pandemic. The reasons are not particularly unusual. The ‘contractual’ workers had attempted to unionise to collectively bargain to demand wages for the duration of the previous lockdown, which was seen as an affront by the management, leading to the arbitrary termination of 80 workers. Though they are called contract workers, many of them have been working long term at ITI, some even going back to the early 1990s. This arbitrary layoff is in clear contravention of the Industrial Disputes Act. Despite an intervention from the Regional Labour Commissioner, the management has refused to take the workers back in. This story has not received much attention from media and the broader civil society. Probably because our attention is too divided to think of 80 workers fired. Their demands seem isolated, or probably way too ubiquitous. The progressive contractualisation of labour has only meant that such arbitrary retrenchments are an everyday reality. In ITI itself, around 250 workers were laid off at the beginning of the lockdown in April 2020. ITI, one of the biggest Public Sector Undertakings in India, is probably a case in point to see how PSUs have transitioned from shining emblems of technical prowess in the Nehruvian political economy to being considered burdens to the national exchequer. Hit by disinvestment, ITI, along with several other PSUs have gradually moved to contractualised forms of labour. From Voluntary Retirement windows to complete hiring freezes, the strategies have not been very different from one PSU to another. It is also not surprising news that contractualisation has led to a higher concentration of Dalits and women in such precarious jobs. Of the 80 terminated, 40 are Dalits, 50 are women. As Bengaluru developed into India’s Silicon Valley, with multinational corporations and technology giants setting up shop in the city, the slow, sad demise of PSUs like ITI and HAL got overshadowed by their hubris. The city’s character began to transform. It became a hi-tech city where ‘working classes’ began to seem irrelevant. Though invisibilised, workers’ protests have continued to rock the city every now and then. Bengaluru has been witness to similar struggles erupting, such as in NIMHANS, where several women workers were terminated for demanding safe transport. Foxconn and Toyota Kirloskar have also seen workers’ protests recently. The huge march staged by sanitation workers or the ‘covid warriors’, most of them Dalit women, demanding proper wages and dignity of labour was also barely covered anywhere. We would be mistaken to understand contractualisation as a ‘working class’ issue alone. It is at the same time a caste and a gender issue. Increasingly, jobs across both public and private sectors are being contractualised, with no safety nets. Doctors, teachers, engineers, software professionals, all of us find ourselves dealing with precarities of work in different ways. But the march of finance capital has also meant a constant demonisation of strikes, dharnas and protests. Strikes and sit-ins are increasingly seen as a hindrance to ‘growth’ and ‘development’, and not a way for workers to secure their rights. Protests have begun to mean unruly hordes of troublemakers. In fact, this imagery of protesting workers as trouble-makers has increasingly been expanded to all social movements. In the recent past, we have seen a similar kind of castigation of both anti-CAA and NRC-related protests and the farmers’ protests, blamed for blocking roads. Political theorist Wendy Brown writes that the success of neoliberal political rationality lies in producing both a common sense and governance around the criteria of productivity and profitability. This has led to both privatisation of welfare and State services but has more importantly popularised a notion of a privatised and radically depoliticised citizen. This democratic deficit has been a long time in the making. We see the democratic deficit play out in the suspension of Parliament sessions or through the weakening of institutions, but the most significant victory of neoliberalism has been in generating this new notion of citizenship which allows us to fragment big events from the quotidian struggles of the working classes. As Neerja Jayal Gopal would put it in the Indian context, it encourages us to see ourselves as clients of the State rather than citizens with rights. To my mind, the central problem is that while neoliberalism and finance capital have always feared collectives and strikes of any kind, civil society has come to embody this fear and distaste as well. So much so that the pandemic-induced layoffs by big corporations were barely met with any collective public resistance. It probably may be a good time to rethink the relationship between social movements and public action. In many ways, sit-ins, dharnas, chakka jams are all public forms of protests that demand our attention. But if we are to think of the crisis in democracy today, we cannot de-link it from the ways in which neoliberal politics has in some ways successfully convinced us that ‘legitimate’ political collectives can only be of a particular, de-politicised kind. It is crucial to not think of ITI workers, the Swiggy and Zomato delivery partners, Anganwadi workers, even software professionals who faced salary cuts and lost jobs due to the pandemic as separate entities, but to see them all as part of the same continuum of exploitative working conditions. And maybe, it is these ongoing struggles for social justice that go on to teach us a thing or two about the future that we should build together. (The writer teaches Political Science at National Law School, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/not-bothered-by-iti-workers-plight-one-day-soon-it-could-be-yours-too-1072405.html
19-01-2022||Right in the Middle||The maverick dancer||Singer, painter, poet and some more. A wizard on the tabla, a composer to whom music came unbeckoned just like the swirling rhythm of his dance. This descendant of the legendary Maharaj clan of Kathak dancers belonged to a family that was steeped in poverty but was rich in art. His ancestors honed their art in the courts of the Mughal emperors.   “They did it for money, but I don’t wish to dilute my art,” declared this proud descendant of an enchanting style of dance that he has carried to incredible heights. I was interviewing him in the guest house of the ISKCON temple on Hare Krishna Hill where he had a performance that evening. When they showed me his room, I found him sitting cross-legged on his bed with a bowed head. He was praying. I sat on a chair beside him and waited. He opened his eyes and asked, “Have you met my family?” I looked around surprised as he was alone. “They are all there. They go with me everywhere.” He pointed to a table where he had placed small brass icons of various gods and goddesses. “Rama, Krishna, Hanuman,” he introduced them one by one. “Here we have Lakshmi and Saraswathi. Sai Baba of Shirdi is also my family,” he added. ” He smiles and says, “When I dance, the audience thinks I’m dancing alone. Actually, I’m not. My gods are dancing with me.”  I asked him whether there was any other family to carry forward his art.    “Oh, yes.” He answered. “My kathak parivaar consisting of 168 families lives in a village near Allahabad. They too walk with me wherever I perform.”  That was Birju Maharaj, eminent Kathak maestro, who died yesterday leaving a desolate emptiness in the world of art. An artiste of many parts, he took this dance form to great heights, transforming it from a mere courtier’s dance of the Mughal era into an inspired creation of rhythm and beauty. When he describes how the gods themselves are dancing with him, this exceptional dancer is telling us that is what inspiration is all about.  “My art cannot be sold” he declares. “It can only be taught and learnt by its devotees.” Birju Maharaj was a poet too. Here is a composition which he recited for me. Mein jungal ke lakdi Mera koi nahi hai mol;  Adhar lapati Ghanashyamki Bayi bahoth anmol...  A mere piece of wood becomes a divine source of music when it touches the lips of Krishna… Birju Maharaj proved it in his art.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-maverick-dancer-1072407.html
19-01-2022||Second Edit||Soil-mapping initiative welcome||The Land Resources Inventory (LRI) project launched by Karnataka to map every feature of agricultural land will go a long way in helping to ensure better yield, crop diversification, judicious use of fertilisers, besides arresting soil degradation. Though the project is welcome, the government should not get into the task of reinventing the wheel all over again, as similar studies have been conducted in the past, but only seek to fill in gaps in knowledge. Scientists from IIT Kharagpur and other collaborating institutes, for instance, have created India’s first digital soil map after studying the data collected over three decades. Digital maps rely not only on field surveys but also take into consideration laboratory data in addition to local geographical and environmental conditions. The map contains details for every piece of land in the country, even in areas where field data is unavailable. This wealth of information should be put to good use by Karnataka. Though agriculture is the primary source of livelihood for nearly 60% of the population, the sector continues to remain woefully backward, contributing only about 20% to the GDP. The issues confronting the agriculture sector are manifold and are intertwined. The first problem of the farmer begins with the soil itself as in the absence of basic information like pH level, texture, mineral content and other vital parameters, he is unable to make an informed decision on the kind of fertilisers to be used or crop suitability. Soil map data will help advise the farmer not only on the right type of inputs and methods to maintain the fertility of the soil but also on what crop is most suitable for a particular kind of soil. As it is, low productivity due to the shrinking of the average farm holding from five acres to less than three acres, due to the rise in population, is a major cause for concern. In addition, due to the lack of scientific approach, farmers either suffer from poor yield as they often grow unsuitable crops, or become victims of a market glut due to over-production, leading to a crash in prices. A pre-decided cropping pattern aided by reliable market forecasts will hopefully put an end to this. Any intervention in the agricultural sector is usually overshadowed by politics as it revolves around minimum support price, loan waiver and other freebies without addressing basic issues like increasing productivity and marketability of the produce. It is thus heartening that the government is laying stress on scientific methods of farming, which could empower agriculturists and also free them from the clutches of politicians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/soil-mapping-initiative-welcome-1072399.html
19-01-2022||South||R-Day parade: Rejected tableaux to be dispalyed across TN, says Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin has said that the tableaux rejected by the Centre for the Republic day parade, will be displayed across the state. He said that the state would also organise a photo exhibition titled 'Tamil Nadu in Freedom Struggle' in all major cities across the country. Stalin, in a statement on Tuesday, expressed shock and disbelief over the rejection of tableaux projected by the state for participating in the Republic Day parade and said that the contribution of Tamil Nadu for the country's independence was no less than any other state. He said that the letter written by the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh rejecting the tableaux of the state was "unconvincing." The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister also pointed out that the "Vellore Mutiny" that took place in 1806 preceded the Sepoy mutiny of 1857 and said that 'Veerathai' Velu Nachiyar, the queen of Nachiyar had fought against the British almost 70 years before Rani of Jhansi's fight against the invaders. He also said that Tamil Nadu had given birth to several freedom fighters, including Veerapandya Kattabomman, the Maruthur brothers, Veeran Sundralingam, Pulithevan, Dheeran Chinnamalai. He said that the rejection of tableaux depicting such brave warriors from Tamil Nadu was an insult to the people of the state. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/r-day-parade-rejected-tableaux-to-be-dispalyed-across-tn-says-stalin-1072507.html
19-01-2022||South||Dynasty politics visible in DMK?||The DMK seems to be plagued by dynasty politics with the party appointing the son of T R Baalu, TRB Raja as the new IT wing secretary. He will replace the state finance minister PTR Thiagarajan who has stepped down recently from the post citing work pressure as state finance minister, the party said in a press statement on Tuesday. TR Baalu is the party's treasurer as well as the floor leader in the Rajya Sabha and has been a Union Minister during the party's representation in coalition governments of both NDA and UPA. TRB Raja is incidentally a third-term legislator from the Mannargudi Assembly constituency. The party also appointed Rajya Sabha MP Dr.M.M. Abdulla as its NRI wing state secretary. DMK has several heirs holding crucial party posts with the son of Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin, Udayanidhi Stalin holding the post of youth wing secretary, and MLA. Chief Minister's sister Kanimozhi is a Lok Sabha deputy leader as well as the woman's wing secretary. Higher education minister K. Ponmudi's son P. Gowtham Sigamani is the Kallakuruchi MP of the party while Kathir Anand is the son of senior party leader and waterworks minister, S. Duraimurugan is the Vellore MP of the party. There are several other DMK leaders who have anointed their sons, daughters, nephews, and nieces as their heirs in the party and DMK is turning into a political party with allegiance to dynasty politics, a move that was strongly opposed by its founder, C.N . Annadurai. It was the party patriarch and former Chief Minister, late M. Karunanidhi who brought in both his sons, M.K. Stalin and M.K. Azhagiri, and his daughter Kanimozhi to politics providing them prominent positions. Azhagiri later fell out with his father and his younger brother Stalin and was stripped of his party positions and is now in political silence. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dynasty-politics-visible-in-dmk-1072516.html
19-01-2022||South||Both Omicron & Delta variants causing surge in Covid-19 cases: Veena George||Kerala Health Minister Veena George on Tuesday cautioned people against the rapid spread of Covid-19 in the state during the third wave and said both Delta and Omicron variants of the virus are contributing to the ongoing unprecedented surge in daily cases. Though its severity is lesser, Omicron variant has the potential to spread the disease 5-6 times more than the Delta variant and so it should not be taken lightly. Every single person should adhere to Covid protocol strictly to keep the pandemic under control, she told reporters. George also warned of stringent action against those unleashing false propaganda regarding the pandemic and vaccination through social media platforms. Stating that a section of people are spreading lies like Omicron is a "natural vaccine" and so it was not dangerous to contract the infection, she said such campaigns were baseless. Whatever be the variant, the basic characteristics of the novel coronavirus were the same and people should take extra care to keep the disease at bay, the minister said. "Delta (variant) was the reason for more cases during the second wave. The third wave happened before it was completely over. Now, both Delta and Omicron are contributing to the surge in Covid cases," George said. Making it clear that the infectivity was very high these days, she said compared to the second wave, five per cent more cases were expected during the third wave. Stressing the need to follow health protocols without any fail in the present circumstance, the minister said vaccination was a defence against the infection, so everyone should take the jab at the earliest. Officials should take special precaution to avoid cluster formations in their respective institutions. Urging people to avoid unnecessary hospital visits, she said aged people and those having co-morbidities should take more care. Rubbishing news reports stating that there was scarcity of essential medicines in the state, she said the health department was fully prepared to tackle the situation and the slight rush witnessed by hospitals of late was natural. There are 3,107 ICU beds in government hospitals across the state while 7,468 are there in private sector health facilities. There are 2,293 ventilator beds in government hospitals and 2,432 in private hospitals, she added. The minister also urged the support of everyone, cutting across political lines and other differences, to deal with the situation and contain the disease effectively.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/both-omicron-delta-variants-causing-surge-in-covid-19-cases-veena-george-1072595.html
19-01-2022||South||Kerala horse owner approaches court seeking return of its foal||A horse owner has approached a court in Kerala accusing the People for Animals (PFA) of taking away his horse's foal, while the PFA alleges that the foetus got aborted. The row is over Sabinaz, a female horse aged around ten, that was being used by Tamil Nadu native Kannan for offering rides to tourists at Kariyathumpara tourist spot on the suburbs of Kozhikode. The PFA Kozhikode unit took possession of the horse with police intervention in February last year, accusing the owner of cruelty by making the pregnant horse carry out rides. Kannan later approached a local court and after a prolonged legal fight he recently got an order in his favour to get back the horse. On January 14, PFA authorities handed over the horse to him from a shelter in the district. Kannan later alleged that its baby was screaming while the the mother horse was handed over to him and the PFA authorities refused to give the foal to him despite repeated pleas. He also alleges that even as PFA authorities took away the mother horse from him, accusing him of not taking care of it, the horse was still suffering from various ailments. Advocate Sumin S Nedungadan had filed a petition for Kannan seeking release of Sabinaz's baby from the PFA. PFA authorities denied the allegations by producing a certificate issued by a veterinary surgeon of Kozhikode district veterinary centre stating that the horse was found to have aborted an approximately eight-month-old foetus on March 3 last year. PFA authorities also showed pictures of the foetus. Jinsha, treasurer of PFA-Kozhikode, told DH that it was another horse in the shelter that screamed while Sabinaz was being taken away. She also said that the horse was under treatment and a surgery was also scheduled to be performed. She also alleged that Kannan abandoned the horse at the tourist spot for months during the Covid lockdown. During that time it, conceived by mating with a male horse owned by another person in the locality. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-horse-owner-approaches-court-seeking-return-of-its-foal-1072638.html
19-01-2022||South||CPI(M) has agenda to make Vijayan's son-in-law next Kerala CM: Muraleedharan||After the CPI(M) in Kerala unleashed a fresh campaign accusing the Congress of sidelining leaders from minority communities, a Congress leader in the state has hit back by alleging that the move was part of a hidden agenda to make Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's son-in-law Mohamed Riyas the chief minister. Riyas, who is a first-time MLA, was made a minister in the current cabinet of Vijayan and was given key portfolios of tourism and public works. The decision had raised many eyebrows. The CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan recently came out with a fresh allegation of Congress sidelining leaders from minority communities. He also referred to Rahul Gandhi's recent statement that India is a country of Hindus, not Hindutvavadis, and cited Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Salman Khurshid and K V Thomas as alleged instances of leaders from minority communities being sidelined. Congress leaders in Kerala were trying to defend by accusing Balakrishnan of trying to create a communal divide for political gains.  On Wednesday, Congress senior leader and Lok Sabha MP K Muraleedhran accused the CPI(M) state secretary of acting on the behest of Pinarayi Vijayan to implement the hidden agenda of making the latter's son-in-law Riyas the next CM. Muraleedharan said that it was the CPI(M) that was sidelining leaders of minority communities. He said Vijayan and Kodiyeri wanted to trigger a discussion on this line and hence Balakrishnan was now making the baseless allegation against Congress. The hidden agenda was to project Riyas as CM in case Vijayan had to step down as his government was facing serious allegations and since he is going through medical treatment. He also accused Kodiyeri of acting as per the desires of Vijayan, as Amit Shah acts as per Narendra Modi's interests. It was for implementing Vijayan's hidden agenda that Kodieyri, who was initially kept off from the CPI(M) state secretary post following the ED arresting his son, was reinstated to the post recently. If Balakrishnan, who is also a CPI(M) politburo member, was doubtful of Congress' secular stature, he should show the guts to state that the CPI(M) would not align with the party anywhere in the country. Opposition leader V D Satheesan of the Congress said that the CPI(M) leader was making sub-standard statement and even likened him with 'Pashanam Varkey', a popular beggar character in a drama who used to carry pictures of Hindu gods and Christian saints on either side of a card to exploit religious sentiments while begging. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpim-has-agenda-to-make-vijayans-son-in-law-next-kerala-cm-muraleedharan-1072641.html
19-01-2022||South||Man brushes teeth, shaves during virtual Kerala HC hearing||In the latest virtual courtroom gaffe, a person reportedly appeared brushing teeth and shaving during the virtual proceedings of the Kerala High Court. It was during the proceeding of the bench headed by Justice V G Arun on Monday that a person reportedly appeared brushing his teeth and shaving. The incident came to light after the images went viral on social media. High court sources said the judge seems to have not noticed the faux pas. It seems the person, who is yet to be identified, had accidentally switched on his mobile phone camera while viewing the proceedings, and it went unnoticed. The Kerala High Court resumed virtual hearing from Monday as there was a further surge in Covid cases in the state. In courts across the country, several such instances were reported. With many lawyers appearing in casual dresses in virtual courtrooms, directions were also issued by courts to ensure a proper dress code. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-brushes-teeth-shaves-during-virtual-kerala-hc-hearing-1072673.html
19-01-2022||South||Covid positivity rate in Andhra Pradesh surges to 24%||In Andhra Pradesh, the Covid-19 positivity rate has surged over 24 per cent. On Tuesday, 6,996 new cases were reported. On Wednesday, the cases shot up to 10,057. The very high positivity rate can be attributed to the low number of tests the YSRCP government is conducting, even as there is a clear spike in positive cases over the last few days. The number of samples tested remained below the 40,000 mark for most of the last 10 days. Sankranti – the biggest, three day festival in the state when friends, families meet traveling long distances, health officials said, has also aided the fast pace of the virus prevalent now. The Jaganmohan Reddy government had deferred the night curfew imposition in the state till Tuesday to facilitate the festivities. On 12 January, 3,205 cases were reported when 41,954 tests were done. On 19 January, i.e, a week later with Sankranti in between, 10,057 cases were reported when almost the same number of tests – 41,713 were carried out. “During the earlier two waves, we were proactive – searching for every contact of a positive person and testing a very high number of samples as a precautionary, containment measure. But now, following the central guidelines we are focused on the symptomatic people, those with co-morbidities etc,” Dr G Hymavathi, director, public health, Andhra Pradesh told DH. “However, we are still encouraging people to get tested. We have a good stock of testing kits and other requirements.” Visakhapatnam (1827) and Chittoor (1822) districts are topping the Covid-19 case charts now. Arrival of international passengers, floating population like tourists, devotees is stated as the reason. Majority of the 40,000 ests being conducted in Andhra Pradesh are in the government sector. In a move that could encourage more number of people to take tests in private labs, the state has on Tuesday issued orders reducing the prescribed fees for RT PCR tests in ICMR approved NABL labs from Rs 499 to Rs 350, including PPE, VTM charges. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-positivity-rate-in-andhra-pradesh-surges-to-24-1072684.html
19-01-2022||South||Kerala government likely to impose more restrictions as Covid-19 cases surge||A Covid review meeting to be held in Kerala on Thursday is likely to prescribe further restrictions as Covid-19 cases increase at an alarming rate. As many as 34,199  fresh Covid cases were reported in Kerala on Wednesday with a TPR of 37 per cent. The active cases in the state also increased to 1.68 lakh. A meeting of the state Cabinet on Wednesday reviewed the situation and stressed the need to impose more restrictions. The decision will be taken in the Covid review meeting of experts on Thursday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is in the US for medical treatment, is attending the meetings online. Meanwhile, the CPM is facing criticism for conducting the party district conference and even conducting events like mass dances. Many party leaders and workers are already infected. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-likely-to-impose-more-restrictions-as-covid-19-cases-surge-1072688.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka officials told to book those who violate Covid rules or face action||Hours after receiving a petition by the D K Shivakumar-led Congress, Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar issued an order Tuesday warning officers of action if they fail to book people who violate Covid-19 norms.  “Officers who do not take action against the violators of the containment measures will be liable for action as per law,” the order said.  “Any person, group of people, society, association of persons, organisation, institution, RWA, etc violating containment measures and not complying with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour... should be proceeded against as per the provisions of... the Disaster Management Act and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act besides legal action under... IPC and other legal provisions as applicable,” the order said.  The order is addressed to the BBMP chief commissioner, police commissioners, police superintendents and deputy commissioners.  Earlier in the day, Congress gave Shivakumar a petition seeking FIRs against BJP leaders for defying Covid-19 curbs. The petition also sought disciplinary action against officials who did not book cases against BJP leaders.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-officials-told-to-book-those-who-violate-covid-rules-or-face-action-1072439.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-positive kids to get special home isolation kits||The Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended a special home isolation kit tailored specifically for Covid-positive children.  About 11,000 children are in home isolation within BBMP limits, while 35 are admitted to government quota hospital beds.  The kits are targeted at Covid-positive children weighing less than 50 kg and aged less than 12 years, while separate colour-coded kits are provided for infants aged 0-1 year. The kit will be coloured yellow with a picture of an infant and a dropper.  Kits intended for children between ages 1-12 will be green in colour and medicine with a spoon as the logo. Each kit will have an oximeter, a thermometer, a red flag signs card for parents, and five ORS packets.  The infant kit will have a bottle of paracetamol drops, a cetirizine bottle for cold and cough, and a multivitamin bottle. The older children’s kit will have the same except that there will be two bottles of paracetamol drops.  Until now, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has distributed about 55,000 home isolation kits to adults and has more than 90,000 kits in stock.  Data on how many of these kits are for paediatric use is not available.  “We’ll mandate them,” Health Commissioner D Randeep said.  “The chief minister is particular that the kits reach the patients. The kits are given only if caretakers monitor and administer the medicines. But the kits won’t be given only on a need basis.”  Randeep said an official circular would be issued on mandating the kits on January 19. “The clinical expert committee’s report came only a couple of days ago,” he added.  Kits for adults will cost Rs 77, kits for children below one year has been priced at Rs 75. For children aged between one and 12, the kits would cost Rs 84. This will not have a pulse oximeter since no decline in oxygen saturation has been observed in patients so far.  “We’re giving pediatric home isolation kits only to those who need it,” the BBMP Chief Health Officer, Dr A S Balasundar, said. “Almost everyone consults a doctor when their child gets sick. In slums, ASHA workers are checking children when they fall sick.”  Dr G V Basavaraj, professor of paediatrics at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, who is the only paediatrician in the 17-member Omicron clinical expert committee, said paracetamol drops may not be much for urban parents, but they are precious for rural folks.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-positive-kids-to-get-special-home-isolation-kits-1072444.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt issues note asking ‘experts’ to speak sensibly||The state government issued a note on Tuesday asking medical practitioners to speak “responsibly” about the current third wave of infections when appearing on media platforms or social media. The generally tepid current wave of infections in the state which has broken the pattern of serious illness set by the previous two outbreaks is said to have created an “epidemic” of contradictory and misleading “expert” opinions being aired about Covid-19.  The note, which was issued by the Commissionerate of the Health and Family Welfare Services, states: “It has come to the notice of the government that a few medical professionals while communicating to the public on various media platforms are giving an incomplete, inaccurate and unsubstantiated information about Covid-19. Such misinformation leads to confusion in the public at large on the prevailing Covid scenario in the state and encourages them to deviate from well laid out guidelines issued by the health and revenue authorities.” Sources said the note appears to have been crystallised by the “viral interview” of a private doctor on a Kannada TV channel over the weekend who categorised the current crop of infections as not constituting a Covid-19 wave but an incidence of annual flu. Health Commissioner D Randeep said there has been a multitude of questionable information emerging on media platforms, which diverges from established scientific thought on the current wave of infections - from both the ICMR and the World Health Organization (WHO). “Some medical practitioners are saying in public that Covid-19 should only be regarded as a flu,  which contradicts the WHO which states that this new variant of the virus should not be taken lightly. There are also statements which question the value of curfew and drugs. Some ‘experts’ say that a person should test themselves if they have symptoms and conversely ‘others’ say treat all symptoms as Omicron,” Randeep said. A second health official described the note as a bid to preempt the worsening of misinformation. “This is not an attempt to muzzle free speech,” the official said. Randeep added that “medical practitioners have a responsibility for giving accurate information to the public. We are not asking people to tow the government line. People can talk but they should speak responsibly.” Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-issues-note-asking-experts-to-speak-sensibly-1072458.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Lukewarm response from buyers to guidance value cut||The government’s decision to reduce the guidance value on all properties by 10% until the end of March is yet to attract the interest of the wider consumer base, according to realtors and sub-registrars. The government has slashed guidance value by 10% on all properties purchased between January 1 and March 31, 2022, in a bid to shore up revenues and to rejuvenate the market amid the Covid slump. This will apply to dry and irrigated lands, sites, flats and other buildings.  At the outset, the decision has successfully converted fence sitters into buyers, according to some realtors. Sajid Mustafa of Silverline Realty said the government’s decision benefits both the buyers and the sellers. “While the buyer can register the property at a lower registration rate, the seller will get benefit on capital gains because of lowered guidance value,” he explained. Ever since the government announcement, many people who had almost finalised on properties have been able to make a quicker decision to avail this benefit, Mustafa said.  However, this covers a marginal consumer base as it is yet to attract the interest of new buyers, CREDAI Bengaluru chairperson Suresh Hari said. The government’s announcement has failed to encourage more traction for various reasons. The weekend lockdown has been a dampener, Hari said. That apart, with a three-month window for customers to avail this discount, only those who were already on the verge of making a decision will consider buying property, whereas it does not give adequate time for new buyers. The government must extend this at least for a year, for it to yield results, he added.  Several sub-registrars that DH spoke to had a similar response that the property registrations were as usual and that there was no extra interest among consumers owing to this discount.   In a recent announcement, the government has stated that a total of 15,34,968 documents were registered in the financial year 2021-22, generating over Rs 10,000 crore revenue to the exchequer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lukewarm-response-from-buyers-to-guidance-value-cut-1072459.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai hints at relaxing Covid-19 curbs, says government will listen to experts||Hinting at relaxation of the Covid-19 curbs, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said the general feeling now is that the infection is “like a flu that comes and goes” with fewer people requiring hospitalisation.  Bommai, however, said the government will decide on withdrawing the daily night curfew and the weekend curfew after talking to experts.  He is scheduled to chair a meeting with experts this Friday.  “What everybody is discussing is that this is like a flu that comes and goes. People aren’t ending up in the hospital. The general opinion is that daily life should go on without any inconvenience by following Covid rules,” Bommai told reporters. “We have asked experts to examine this. In Friday’s meeting, they will give us the full picture and we will have clarity. Based on that we will decide,” he said.  According to Bommai, experts have projected a peak in Covid-19 cases by January-end. “The estimation has been prepared based on trends in other countries and states. The wave started a little late for us, so it is estimated that we will see a peak in the last week of January or first week of February,” he said.  Bommai reiterated that while Covid-19 case numbers are increasing, the load on hospitals is less. “We need to focus on OPDs,” he said.  On cases of BJP leaders defying Covid-19 curbs and the Congress’s demand that they be booked, Bommai said he has given clear orders on taking legal action and filing of cases against any and all violators. “Even the chief secretary has issued an order. We don’t need a complaint from the Congress. We’re doing our work,” he said.  Bommai back to office CM Bommai returned to office Wednesday after recovering from the Covid-19 infection. “I was under quarantine. I have tested negative and I’m returning to office,” he said. Bommai tested positive on January 10 with mild symptoms.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-hints-at-relaxing-covid-19-curbs-says-government-will-listen-to-experts-1072510.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Erring cops will be dismissed, says Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said police personnel involved in criminal cases will not only be suspended, but also dismissed from service.  Jnanendra was reacting to two policemen posted on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s security duty who were caught trying to extort money from a drug peddler a stone’s throw away from the CM’s house in RT Nagar. The incident took place on January 13, but came to light Tuesday when they got bail.  The minister said that such behaviour will not be tolerated and strict action will be initiated against such personnel. "Police officials have the responsibility of maintaining law and order, and protecting the lives and property of the public. Crimes committed by those with such responsibilities will not be tolerated," he said. "There are around one lakh personnel in the police department. Such behaviour by a handful of policemen results in a negative opinion about the entire department. The government will not only suspend them, but directions will be issued to dismiss them from service," he said. Check out DH's latest videos: Lauding the police personnel who nabbed the two erring constables, Jnanendra said he has directed officials to grant a prize money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/erring-cops-will-be-dismissed-says-karnataka-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-1072642.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||7 arrested in Mysuru for manufacturing fake Nandini ghee||The city police have arrested seven persons in connection with a fake Nandini ghee manufacturing case and are on the lookout for another suspect.  In a press conference here on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police R Chetan said that the prime accused was still absconding. He said that there were suspicions of the supply of adulterated ghee to other states. However, the details will be ascertained soon after the arrest of the prime accused, he said.    A fake Nandini ghee manufacturing unit was unearthed at Hosahundi in Mysuru taluk, last month. The authorities of Mysore District Co-Operative Milk Producers Societies Union ((MyMUL), the officials of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) along with the public raided the unit on the outskirts of the city and seized one and a half tonnes of adulterated ghee, 500 kilo Vanaspathi and 500 litres palm oil. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-arrested-in-mysuru-for-manufacturing-fake-nandini-ghee-1072696.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||MP Pratap Simha comes against Karnataka's Covid curbs||Lok Sabha member Pratap Simha has sought to know the need for vaccination if lockdown, curfew and other restrictions to contain Covid were imposed. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, Simha said that Karnataka had achieved a 99 per cent target in administering the first dose of the Covid vaccine and 80 per cent in the second dose. "Now, booster doses are available. The state has been able to control Covid. The government must not impose any restrictions which create problems for the people," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mp-pratap-simha-comes-against-karnatakas-covid-curbs-1072698.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's '108' ambulances to get faster, fitter & more efficient||The state’s ‘108’ Arogya Kavacha ambulance service which has been around for 13 years may soon be heading to the proverbial junkyard in its current form.  State health officials said they are in the process of revamping the Emergency Medical Service (EMS) to provide better aid by April. “In the next two months, in my opinion, by the first week of April, there will be a new ‘108’ service,” according to Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar. A 2020 report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) had highlighted the failings of the service. From 2014-15 to 2018-19, the ambulances were not able to reach 50% of trauma cases in the critical “golden hour” period that would have saved lives.  “There were a lot of gaps in accountability and loopholes. Especially, in taluks, we had no means to assess the performance of the service or correct it,” said Sudhakar, attributing the problem to the service provider. “We are now planning to implement a state-of-the-art ambulance service for which we have taken all preparatory steps. The objective is to dispatch ambulances to locations within 15 minutes of being summoned and the turnaround time will be one hour. The first golden hour is very crucial for the survivability of patients,” he added. Health Commissioner D Randeep said the government will seek to have about 1,000 new ambulances in service, a yet-to-be-determined percentage of which will be advanced life system ambulances. “The plan is to initially procure 750 ambulances, plus another 200 to replace 300 current ambulances, which are approaching the end stage,” he added. Under the existing system, decisions to take a patient to a particular hospital are being taken by ambulance drivers (pilots), which is leading to poor patient outcomes.  “Hospitals in the state had not been mapped properly. We are now mapping them. In the new system, if a person has an orthopedic issue, a directive will be sent from our command centre to the ambulance to take the patient to the nearest orthopedic treatment hospital. The pilot will then have to take the patient to that centre alone,” Sudhakar said. He noted that these new procedures are the result of extensive studies by the Indian Institute of Science, the Indian Institute of Management and two separate additional chief secretary-level committees. The health department had already outsourced the task of preparing a ‘request for proposal’ (RFP) to the Infrastructure Development Corporation (Karnataka) Limited (iDeCK).  “The document is now ready. In the next one week to 15 days, it may come before the cabinet. After it is passed by the cabinet, it will go for tendering,” the health minister said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-108-ambulances-to-get-faster-fitter-more-efficient-1072699.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||42 cops from KSRP's Mysuru battalion deployed for Mekedatu march test Covid positive||More than 40 out of 170 men from Mysuru battalion deployed for Mekedatu padayatra have tested positive for COVID-19, Additional Director General of Police, Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) Alok Kumar said on Wednesday. In a tweet, he said:"42 men out of 170 deployed from Mysore Battalion for Mekedatu padayatra have tested positive. Luckily they are having mild symptoms. Need to meet them in person and express gratitude for putting their lives at risk in the line of duty, once they are out of isolation." 42 men out of 170 deployed from Mysore Battalion for Mekedaatu paada yatra have tested positive .Luckily they are having mild symptoms.Need to meet them in person and express gratitude for putting their lives at risk in the line of duty, once they are out of isolation . The Congress' Karnataka unit had organised a ten-day padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru from January 9, that was to span a total distance of nearly 139 km, demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river, by violating Covid curbs. However, with limited options before it amid surging Covid cases, the government prohibiting movement of people, and High Court observations against it, the Congress on January 13, temporarily halted the padayatra on its fifth day at Ramanagara. Police have filed four FIRs against Congress leaders, including state president Shivakumar and legislature party leader Siddaramaiah, for taking out the march defying Covid-19 curbs.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/42-cops-from-ksrps-mysuru-battalion-deployed-for-mekedatu-march-test-covid-positive-1072701.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||ACB complaint against KSOU VC, Registrar, others||Mysuru Samskrithika mattu Shaikshanika Vikasa Vedike president Varuna Mahesh has filed a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) against Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) Vice-Chancellor S Vidyashankar, Registrar R Rajanna and others in connection with the alleged irregularities at the varsity.   Mahesh has been alleging irregularities by the Vice-Chancellor and others in connection with appointing staff and procuring vehicles for the university. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/acb-complaint-against-ksou-vc-registrar-others-1072709.html
19-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||PES colleges closed till January 23 after 107 students contract Covid||As the students in the hostel of PES Trust have contracted Covid infection, the institutions of the trust have cancelled physical classes and declared a holiday from January 19 to 23. In view of the students’ safety, the classes will not be conducted up to January 23. However, online classes will be conducted. It may be mentioned that after a few students tested positive the administration subjected around 300 students for Covid test and 107 out of them tested positive. In addition, the management board has restricted the entry of people into its sports complex. Hundreds of people visit its stadium for walking during the early hours and evenings. The complex comprises a swimming pool, cricket pitch and badminton classes and a gymnasium. Now, the entry has been restricted in view of the safety of sportspersons. The students attending colleges after January 24 should mandatorily furnish Covid negative reports. As per Covid guidelines, issued by the government, the colleges would be sanitised regularly. It is the responsibility of the organisation to protect the students and the staff, said Trust president K S Vijay Anand, in a press release. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pes-colleges-closed-till-january-23-after-107-students-contract-covid-1072718.html
19-01-2022||West||Indian Navy chief condoles death of 3 personnel killed on board INS Ranvir||A day after an explosion on-board guided-missile destroyer ship INS Ranvir in the Mumbai harbour, the Indian Navy chief Admiral  R Hari Kumar extended his heartfelt condolences.  The three personnel who died in the incident were identified as Krishan Kumar, MCPO I ASWI, Surinder Kumar, MCPO II (PT), AK Singh, MPCO Com II (Tac). The bodies have been sent to the government-run Sir JJ Hospital for post-mortem.  “We fully stand by the families in these difficult times,” Admiral Kumar said in his message.  A Board of Inquiry has been instituted to probe the incident. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-chief-condoles-death-of-3-personnel-killed-on-board-ins-ranvir-1072505.html
19-01-2022||West||499 cops in Maharashtra test Covid-19 positive in a day||As many as 499 police personnel were found infected with coronavirus in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours, an official said on Wednesday. The infected personnel include 95 police officers. The official said that 821 police officers and 3,269 police personnel (total 4,090) currently remain admitted to various facilities, including in home isolation, in Maharashtra. The total number of infected police officers in Maharashtra is 5,854 since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020. A total of 40,959 police personnel, ranging from the rank of the constable to assistant sub-inspector, were found infected in the state, the official said. "Until now, 46 officers and 459 personnel of the Maharashtra police force have succumbed to Covid-19," the official said. In Mumbai, a total of 10,666 police personnel were infected with coronavirus so far, of whom 126 died. Currently, the number of active cases in the Mumbai Police force stands at 1,273. Maharashtra has been witnessing a surge in new Covid-19 cases due to the highly-transmissible Omicron strain. The state on Tuesday recorded 39,207 new coronavirus infections, 26 per cent more than Monday, and 53 pandemic-related deaths, as per the health department. The overall coronavirus caseload in Maharashtra stood at 72,82,128, while the death toll was 1,41,885 as of Tuesday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/499-cops-in-maharashtra-test-covid-19-positive-in-a-day-1072543.html
19-01-2022||West||Congress wins majority of nagar panchayat seats in Nanded, highest in Latur||The Congress has won a majority of seats in three nagar panchayats in Nanded ditstrict and four nagar panchayats in Latur district of Maharashtra, results for which were declared on Wednesday. The Supreme Court on December 6 stayed till further orders the local body elections in Maharashtra on seats reserved for the OBCs. The apex court later directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to notify 27 per cent of seats in the local bodies, which were reserved for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs), as a general category so that the poll process can be taken forward. In Nanded's Naygaon nagar panchayat, Congress has won all 17 seats. The BJP won three and 14 seats in Nanded and Latur, respectively, an official said. In Nanded, voting was held for 51 seats in three nagar pancyats of Mahur, Ardhapur and Naygaon. Of these seats, Congress bagged 33 seats. After winning all 17 seats in Naygaon nagar panchayat and ten out of 17 seats in Ardhapur, Congress secured an absolute majority. The BJP won two seats in Ardhapur, the official said. In Mahur nagar panchayat, out of 17 seats, six are bagged by Congress, seven by the NCP and three by Shiv Sena. The BJP won one seat, he added. In Latur, voting took place for 68 seats in four nagar panchayats (17 seats each). In Latur, BJP and NCP won 14 seats each. The Congress won the highest 23 seats, Shiv Sena and Prahar won six seats each. Four seats went to Independent candidates. Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh and former chief minister Ashok Chavan (both from Congress) represent Latur and Nanded districts in the MVA government. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-wins-majority-of-nagar-panchayat-seats-in-nanded-highest-in-latur-1072570.html
19-01-2022||West||Citizen-friendly initiatives by four Maharashtra cities win accolades from the Centre||Cities from Maharashtra have dominated the #Streets4People Challenge organised by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs under the Smart Cities Mission to make public places more people-friendly. Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nagpur and Aurangabad figure among the 11 cities selected for scaling up their pilot projects and creating permanent public infrastructure. In a competition that was open to 113 smart cities, 38 cities piloted the re-imagination of an important street each by prioritizing them for pedestrians.  The Streets4People competition required cities to redesign their streets as public spaces through low-cost innovative measures making them safe for citizens, more particularly senior citizens and children. Of the 38 cities who submitted their proposal 11 cities – Aurangabad, Bengaluru, Gurugram, Kochi, Kohima, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Pune, Udaipur, Ujjain and Vijayawada were selected as pioneers for showcasing creative on ground transformation and extensive collaboration with citizens. Pune won the accolades for reclaiming space along several roads to create safe and exciting ‘experience zones’ for all citizens. The city activated these edges by painting the spaces, conducting laughter yoga sessions, music sessions, introducing kids play-areas etc.  Going ahead, the city plans to build wider footpaths and install street furniture at different locations. Pimpri-Chinchwad was hailed as the walking and cycling champion for reclaiming space from carriageways for segregated cycle lanes and footpaths.  The city worked closely with their Street Design Consultants to further their city-wide Harit Setu Masterplan, connecting green spaces across the city. Aurangabad leveraged its success of the ‘Open Street Campaign’ by reclaiming carriageway space with vibrant paints and billboards. They also added low-cost seating that allowed citizens to spend time and enjoy the newly created space.  The Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation and the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation plan to transform the stretch from Kranti Chowk to the Cannought area in a sustainable way, giving it a modern look. Working closely with technical experts and key stakeholders, Nagpur strategically reorganised the street section along with the very busy Sitabuldi market and Sakkadara to allocate more walking space for people. The city used colourful paints, old car tyres as planters and seating made with scrap materials to demarcate the new walkways.   Nagpur Smart & Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd will further facilitate bicycle rental, e-rickshaw projects as part of its green city initiative. Making school zones and market areas pedestrian-only zones (Gurugram),  making heritage precincts a car-free zone (Ujjain), reorganizing traffic flow at the local bus station to promote people safety (Udaipur),  enlivening dead corridors and spaces under flyover with colourful street art murals (Karnal)  and promoting street museum through art display (Kohima) were some of the other noteworthy people-friendly initiatives that won accolades from the Centre. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/citizen-friendly-initiatives-by-four-maharashtra-cities-win-accolades-from-the-centre-1072605.html
19-01-2022||West||Covid-19 situation under control in Mumbai, no reason to panic: BMC to HC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday informed the Bombay High Court that the current Covid-19 situation in the city and its adjoining regions was "under control" and there was no reason for citizens to panic. Senior counsel Anil Sakhre told the bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M S Karnik that Mumbai was witnessing a gradual decline in Covid-19 cases in the current third wave of the pandemic. As per the data available till January 15, there were 84,352 active cases in the city, of which 7 per cent patients needed hospitalisation, 3 per cent needed oxygen support and 0.7 per cent required ventilator support, Sakhre told HC. The counsel submitted a detailed note on behalf of the civic body with details of active cases, oxygen supply, stock of medicines, hospital beds available etc. "We have adequate oxygen supply; hospital beds are available. There is no reason for any panic," Sakhre said. The bench then asked if the civic body was saying that the situation in Mumbai was totally under control? To which, the senior counsel replied in the affirmative. "Yes, everything is in control now. Cases are coming down. The number of positive cases had peaked to 20,000 around January 6 to January 9. But on January 15, the cases had come down to 10,000 and for the last three days, they have come down to 7,000," Sakhre said. The civic body made the submissions while the court was hearing a public interest litigation on several issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic and the management of the state's resources for controlling the same. The petitioner's counsel Atharva Dandekar told the court that while the BMC seemed to have risen to the occasion and was doing a fine job at managing the infections in the city, the state government must also submit details of positive cases, resources available etc., for the entire state. The bench agreed with Dandekar's submission and directed that the state must submit these details by January 25. The High Court also directed the civic body to update its note and submit the same by January 25. The PIL will be further heard on January 27.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-situation-under-control-in-mumbai-no-reason-to-panic-bmc-to-hc-1072610.html
19-01-2022||West||Sailors hurt in INS Ranvir explosion being treated in Naval hospital||A day after an explosion onboard guided-missile destroyer INS Ranvir in the Mumbai harbour, the 11 injured seamen are being treated at the INHS Asvini here. “Eleven injured personnel are being treated at a naval hospital in Mumbai. No one is critical,” Indian Navy officials said. The three personnel who died in the incident were identified as Krishan Kumar, MCPO I ASWI, Surinder Kumar, MCPO II (PT), AK Singh, MPCO Com II (Tac). The post-mortem was conducted at the government-run Sir JJ Hospital. “We fully stand by the families in these difficult times,” Admiral Kumar said in his message. A Board of Inquiry has been instituted in the incident and a probe has commenced. The explosion took place in the “internal compartment” of the vessel at the Naval Dockyard and there was no “material damage” to the warship. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sailors-hurt-in-ins-ranvir-explosion-being-treated-in-naval-hospital-1072618.html
19-01-2022||West||Gujarat reports over 20,000 Covid-19 cases, active cases cross 90,000||The coronavirus cases in Gujarat on Wednesday surged past 20,000-mark for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic. The state government has said that 70-80% of the cases are of Omicron variant of Covid-19 and the numbers are likely to rise for another fortnight.  The government while warning the citizens to strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols said that cases are "reaching the peak". Health minister Rushikesh Patel while addressing media persons in Ahmedabad said that the government has stopped differentiating Delta and Omicron variants. "The cases are rising rapidly and we believe that about 70-80 per cent of cases are of Omicron variant, which is spreading the infection faster like everywhere in the world," said Patel. The state reported 20,966 cases in the last 24 hours, which increased the number of active cases to 90,726 cases. Meanwhile, 12 more people succumbed to the virus, taking the total death toll to 10,189.  While requesting people to follow covid-19 protocol such as wearing masks in public, follow social distancing and take vaccines, Patel said "expert doctors have said that cases are rising rapidly in the third wave and reaching peak." The minister said that although the cases are mild and casualties are less, it is important to follow the protocol or else it will affect those whose immunities are weak.  Several expert doctors, who are part of special task force to tackle the pandemic, also warned people not to take Omcron variant "as lightly as common flu." They said that the varient is infecting people faster and if cases keep rising at this alarming speed, it will overwhelm hospitals. As of today, only 1 to 2% cases are required hospitalisation.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-over-20000-covid-19-cases-active-cases-cross-90000-1072742.html
