20-01-2022||Comment||Reversing the authoritarian backlash: It’s up to the Opposition||“Mirror, mirror on the wall, who’s the most democratic of them all?” Historians have rarely held a mirror to assess who among all the prime ministers of India has been the most democratic and egalitarian in spirit. A dispassionate and thorough appraisal of all the PMs we have had so far might provide us a chance to fight slanging matches — that is, how P V Narasimha Rao would fare compared to, say, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh with I K Gujral, Chandra Shekhar with H D Deve Gowda, Rajiv Gandhi with V P Singh, and last but not least, Narendra Modi with his bête noire Jawahar Lal Nehru – to name just a few. Indira Gandhi’s flirtation with a brief period of dictatorship taught most Indians about the dangers that threaten democracy. They understood the pitfalls of gratuitous hero worship and how demagoguery, disregard for liberty, placing power in the hands of a few, can play havoc. One Emergency was enough to blot the many exploits of a really courageous PM, the creation of Bangladesh in 1971 being the foremost one. Union Home Minister Amit Shah late last year said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought back people's faith in democracy by taking good governance to the grassroots level. According to him, people have realised that Modi came to power in 2014 not to run the government but to provide a clean, transparent and welfare administration, thus changing the face of the country. Modi took decisions, Shah averred, neither with an eye on the vote bank, nor on populist planks, but upon consideration of what is good for the people. But what takes the cake is perhaps the claim that Modi is a precursor to the revival of what was a flagging state of Indian democracy. Then, almost as a counterpoint, came the howler a few days later, when Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik triggered a massive row by saying that Modi had been “arrogant” when he met him over the deaths of farmers during their year-long agitation. “When I told him that 500 of our own (farmers) had died…he said, ‘Did they die for me?’ I told him ‘yes, since you are the king’. I ended up having an argument with him. He told me to meet Amit Shah, and I did.” The residual part of Malik’s statement — of having met Shah and having been told by him that our PM had “lost his mind” was uncharitable if it was made to placate Malik, and whatever might be the spirit of the statement, it ran counter to Shah’s depiction of Modi as an exemplar of democracy. The perception of Modi’s received image as a megalomaniac leader, who remains unmoved by the human costs of his far-reaching decisions, got firmed up further by Malik’s fulminations. But a democratic leader, in view of all his obligations to be pro-people, must not remain impervious to the enormous costs of his or her decisions. Over 140 people died waiting in long queues at the ATMs due to demonetisation. An iron-fisted lockdown resulted in the dangerous and unplanned displacement of millions of internal migrant workers, killing many on the way. The BBC filed over 200 RTIs to find out who in the government had been consulted before the national lockdown was called, only to learn that nobody in the government, whether disaster management or the finance ministry, knew this was going to come. The plight of millions of migrant workers in cities, without work or basic resources, beggared description. The death of the agitating farmers could have been avoided, too. If Malik was hinting at demagoguery, democracy’s tryst with demagogues according to the political scientist Samuel Huntington, passed through three “waves” each followed by a “reverse wave.” The first wave, from 1828 to 1926, included the series of European revolutions in 1848, followed by a reverse wave that began in 1922 with Mussolini’s takeover of Italy’s fragile democracy and continued through World War II. The second “short wave” extended from 1943 to 1962, as the Allied Powers installed democracies in the conquered Axis countries, followed by a second reverse wave from 1958 to 1975, when authoritarian regimes took root across the world. The third wave began in Portugal in 1974 and crested with the fall of the Soviet Union, the various “colour revolutions” in Eastern Europe and the rise of democracies in Asia, Africa, and Latin America today. The third reverse wave should include not only the rise of the authoritarian strongmen but the double threat to democracy posed by post-truth propaganda and an authoritarian backlash to the politics of Truth. At the Democracy Summit hosted by US President Joe Biden, Modi was one of 12 leaders invited to speak at the plenary. Our PM proudly recounted how the “spirit of democracy” and adherence to “rule of law” are “ingrained” in Indians, and how the source of that endowment lies in India’s “civilisational ethos”. The trouble is, the situation on the ground runs counter to his proclamations because it is the very spirit that has seriously been dented by his regime. Facts have been recounted ad nauseam. India dropped from ‘Free’ to ‘Partly Free’ status in Freedom in the World 2021. The central government and its state-level allies continue to crack down on critics, lynch and crush innocent persons, hate people with different sartorial and eating habits, intimidate filmmakers, dramatists and writers with contrarian views. India seems to have forfeited its potential to serve as a global democratic leader, elevating narrow Hindu nationalist interests at the expense of its founding values of inclusion and equal rights for all. None can fail to see how the driving force of the government has been based on an ideology of pure and unadulterated communal polarisation. A number of commentators recently analysed how hatred and intolerance, obfuscation and obscurantism have become parallel tools of governance, be they through calls for genocide, branding civil society as a war weapon, or unleashing a very pliant media and vigilante groups on detractors. But finally, it is the civilisational call of the Opposition, already looking too effete and clueless – mute spectators so far when institutions have been subverted, political opponents hounded, dissent suppressed and freedom of speech silenced – to put their act together to arrest India’s tectonic slide towards authoritarianism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/reversing-the-authoritarian-backlash-it-s-up-to-the-opposition-1072753.html
20-01-2022||First Edit||Parading Centre-state arbitrariness, distrust||It is unfortunate that controversies have arisen over the rejection of some tableaux proposed by three states – Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal -- for inclusion in the Republic Day parade. The rejections have gained a political dimension because the three states are ruled by Opposition parties, and the state governments have criticised the rejection as wrong and unfair. The central government has replied to the criticism through statements from Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. It has been explained that the decisions on the tableaux are taken not by the government but by an expert committee of eminent persons from the fields of art and culture, based on objective criteria. The states were criticised for projecting their exclusion as an insult and setting a wrong precedent that would “go a long way in harming the country's federal structure”. But the circumstances of the exclusion, which have come out in the public realm, indicate that the states have reasons for their grouse. All of them had made proposals based on themes that are relevant and would appeal to the nation. Kerala had proposed a float depicting a statue of social reformer Narayana Guru and some alternative ideas, including an iconic Jatayu statue in the state. But the Kerala government was reportedly told to depict Adi Shankaracharya in place of Narayana Guru or to add a temple to the Jatayu statue. Kerala did not accept these ideas. Its tableau was rejected. The West Bengal tableau was in commemoration of Subhas Chandra Bose, whose 125th birth anniversary falls next week. Tamil Nadu’s proposal highlighted freedom fighters from the state, including poet Bharathiyar, and the state was certain that it was relevant in the Republic Day parade.  If the committee took its decisions independently of the government on the basis of objective criteria, they need to be made clear. Why did it suggest depiction of Shankaracharya and a temple in the Kerala tableau? Shankaracharya was a great saint, but why should Narayana Guru, who campaigned against the caste system, be removed for him? The Bengal tableau was rejected because there was reportedly another tableau that also depicted Bose. But the Bengal tableau depicted other freedom fighters, too. The Tamil Nadu government has said that its tableau was rejected despite it making the changes suggested to it by the committee. The Chief Ministers have protested to the Prime Minister. When the reasons for rejection are not clear, it is natural that it would create suspicions of discrimination, especially in the present atmosphere of distrust. When constitutional institutions do not function independently, how will a committee appointed by the government be trusted to work fairly and independently?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/parading-centre-state-arbitrariness-distrust-1072752.html
20-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Bagalkot police unearth 250 kg of explosives at farmhouse||The district police on Thursday unearthed a huge cache of explosive hidden at a farmhouse at Honnakatti village. The police have taken Vijay and Manjunath into their custody. Based on a tip-off, the police raided the farmhouse leased out to Kankanameli and Nara and recovered 250 kg of explosives along with sulfur, sodium nitrate and charcoal powder. It is learnt, the explosives were to be sold to the stone quarries in the region. SP Lokesh Jagalasar, DySP Nandareddy, PI Nagaraj Ambiger, SI H N Narale and staff visited the spot. The Bagalkot Rural police have registered a case. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bagalkot-police-unearth-250-kg-of-explosives-at-farmhouse-1073018.html
20-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Nalapad keeps distance from Karnataka Youth Congress brawl||Congress leader Mohammed Haris Nalapad had to fend off criticism after some Youth Congress workers, including his supporters, allegedly got involved in a ‘drunken’ brawl late Wednesday night.  The incident comes at a time when Nalapad is preparing to get anointed as president of the Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC) next month.  According to party sources, Nalapad hosted a luncheon meeting with Youth Congress leaders from across the state at a private hotel on Wednesday to plan his inauguration as the president. Later in the day, there was a party at a guesthouse where things seem to have gone awry.  Nalapad’s supporters allegedly picked on Ballari Youth Congress president Siddu Halleygowda, who is said to have supported former NSUI president HS Manjunatha during the KPYCC presidential election last year.  In the wee hours of Thursday, a message circulated on WhatsApp claiming that Halleygowda was attacked by Nalapad’s supporters with photographs of bodily injury to support this.  Speaking to reporters, Nalapad said he is being targeted for no fault of his. “I hosted lunch in the afternoon. In the evening, our Youth Congress friends had a party. I went there for 10 minutes and left. How do I know what happened there? If someone fought, why is my name getting dragged? Why am I being repeatedly targeted,” he asked.  “I won't rule out that this could be an attempt within my party to target me,” he said. “I read the WhatsApp message in the morning. I spoke to Siddu and he said he doesn't know how that message got out. He also said I have nothing to do with whatever happened.” Meanwhile, Halleygowda issued a statement saying he is fine and there was no brawl. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the police have not received any complaint in connection with the incident. “If a complaint is lodged, the police will investigate,” he said.  Nalapad, the son of Congress’ Shantinagar MLA NA Haris, made headlines in the infamous 2018 assault case in which he has been charge-sheeted.  In the controversial January 2021 KPYCC presidential election, Nalapad secured more votes (64,203) than Raksha Ramaiah (57,271). Still, Ramaiah was declared as the winner while Nalapad was disqualified because of the 2018 assault case.  Later, the Congress leadership had to step in: Ramaiah will be president till January 31, 2022, after which Nalapad will take over. Nalapad is said to have KPCC president DK Shivakumar’s backing whereas Ramaiah is seen as Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s pick.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/nalapad-keeps-distance-from-karnataka-youth-congress-brawl-1072886.html
20-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||DKS dares officers to book BJP leaders for defying Covid curbs||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Thursday vowed to launch an agitation against officers if the government fails to book cases against BJP leaders who defied Covid-19 curbs. “I have already written to the chief secretary. Even the chief minister said he has given orders that all violators should be booked. If officials don’t act, then we will launch an agitation against them,” Shivakumar told reporters.  “We won’t keep quiet if cases are booked only against our party leaders and not against BJP leaders,” he said, adding that he has discussed this with the Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. “We will see how deputy commissioners and police superintendents act. Based on that, we will decide on our agitation against them.”  Ex-JD(S) MLC to join Congress JD(S) leader and ex-MLC BEML Kantharaju will join the Congress on Friday. Shivakumar said Kantharaju will be inducted at the party’s office by following Covid-19 protocol. “Party workers should not come to the event in view of the curbs,” he said. There is talk that Kantharaju, whose term as MLC from the Tumkur local authorities’ seat ended earlier this month, will contest the 2023 Assembly election from the Turuvekere segment.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dks-dares-officers-to-book-bjp-leaders-for-defying-covid-curbs-1073019.html
20-01-2022||Mysuru||Covid cases likely to increase in February in Mysuru||The Minister-in-charge of the district S T Somashekar said that Covid-19 cases are likely to increase by February first week. The Minister was speaking to reporters on Thursday. He said the cases will increase but will decline at the same rate by the end of February. The students, police, and others are testing positive and the health department authorities are conducting tests and taking necessary measures, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/covid-cases-likely-to-increase-in-february-in-mysuru-1072875.html
20-01-2022||Mysuru||Film theatres in Mysuru down shutters from today||With the state government imposing weekend and night curfew to contain the spread of Covid-19, film theatre owners in the city have decided to shut the shows till the restrictions are withdrawn. Gayathri Theatre owner M R Rajaram, also vice-president of Karnataka Film Exhibitors Federation, said, the Covid-19 pandemic had affected the theatres badly and the weekend and night curfew had worsened their condition. "The film theatres run during weekends as new movies are released on Fridays. But due to the weekend and night curfew, no new films are released in the last four weeks. The producers and distributors are postponing the release of movies due to restrictions. When there are no films, how can we run theatres,'' he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/film-theatres-in-mysuru-down-shutters-from-today-1073013.html
20-01-2022||National||With 3.17 lakh new infections, India's daily Covid-19 cases cross 3-lakh mark||India's daily Covid-19 cases crossed the 3-lakh mark on Thursday as the country reported 3,17,532 new infections, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The active cases rose to 19,24,051, the highest in 234 days, while the death toll climbed to 4,87,693 with 491 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. So far 9,287 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus has been detected in India. There has been a 3.63 per cent increase in Omicron cases since Wednesday, the ministry said. Experts said it is not possible to undertake genome sequencing of each and every sample but stressed that the current wave is largely being driven by Omicron. An increase of 93,051 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The active cases comprise 5.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 93.09 per cent, the ministry said. A total of 70,93,56,830 samples have been tested up to January 19, of which 19,35,180 were tested yesterday.  The Union Health Ministry, Indian Council of Medical Research and DBT said they didn’t receive any money from a Rs 100 crore PM-CARES (Citizens Assistance Relief in Emergency Situations) fund as announced by the government way back in May, 2020. The Rs 100 crore fund for vaccine development was a part of a Rs 3,100 package under PM-CARES to purchase 50,000 ventilators and undertake relief measures for migrant workers, who were affected the most during the lockdown period. The country had reported 3,11,170 cases in a single day on May 15 last year.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-317-lakh-new-infections-indias-daily-covid-19-cases-cross-3-lakh-mark-1072809.html
20-01-2022||National||MP police start replacing non-Hindi words from its use||Nearly two months after the Madhya Pradesh government signalled to root out the Urdu and Persian words being used by the state police department to simplify the language, the process has started. Sources in state Home Department said the process has started after the department recently issued an order to replace the words from other language which are not in use with its Hindi version in the police proceedings. Madhya Police issued a letter earlier on Tuesday asking senior police officers from districts to submit suggestions within a week about replacing non-Hindi words in the official lexicon. The state Home Minister Narottam Mishra last month had announced to replace the words from other languages which are not in use use with Hindi words in the police proceedings. According to sources in the police department, there are around 350 words which will be replaced with its Hindi version. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-police-start-replacing-non-hindi-words-from-its-use-1072816.html
20-01-2022||National||Indian Army seeks help of China's PLA for safe return of Arunachal Pradesh youth||The Indian army on Thursday reached out to People's Liberation Army (PLA) of China and sought help for safe return of a teenager from Arunachal Pradesh, who was reportedly missing since he went out for hunting near the McMahon Line in Upper Siang district. This comes a day after BJP MP, Tapir Gao and Congress MLA, Ninong Ering in their tweets claimed that the 17-year-old boy, Miram Taron, a resident of Zido village was abducted by PLA troops at around 6.30 pm on Tuesday from Bishing village, which is the last Indian village towards China.  "The ministry of defence in co-ordination with ministry of external affairs has already contacted the Chinese authorities through diplomatic channel after the news about disappearance of the youth came to light. I hope the youth will come back safely soon," Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu said in Itanagar after being asked by reporters about the incident. Gao on Wednesday said that Johnny Yaying, another youth was with Miram but he managed to flee and informed other villagers about the alleged abduction.  Gao, a Lok Sabha member and Ering, an MLA from Pasighat West Constituency on Wednesday sought the Centre's intervention for safe return of the youth and called for action to stop alleged intrusion of Chinese forces into Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh.  In September 2020, five youths from Upper Subansiri district had gone missing similarly and were captured by Chinese PLA after they allegedly strayed into Chinese territory. They had gone for hunting. The five were, however, handed over to Indian authorities 10 days after New Delhi had raised the matter with China.  Golden jubilee of statehood:  The report about the boy's alleged abduction created a flutter on a day Arunachal Pradesh kicked off the month-long celebration of golden jubilee of statehood, on Thursday. Several programmes were inaugurated by Khanďu while Bollywood star, Sanjay Dutt, who was recently roped in as a brand ambassador for promotion of the state's tourism, shared a video showcasing the breathtaking views of the frontier state.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-seeks-help-of-chinas-pla-for-safe-return-of-arunachal-pradesh-youth-1072820.html
20-01-2022||National||Rahul slams Centre on abduction of Indian by Chinese forces in Arunachal||After the Chinese Army reportedly abducted an Arunachal Pradesh teenager from the Indian territory, where China had constructed a four-kilometre road in 2018, the Congress has slammed the government for inaction in the entire episode. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Thursday tweeted in Hindi, "Just days ahead of Republic day the Chinese have abducted an Indian citizen, we are with the family of Meeram Taron, and we will not lose hope and will not accept defeat. But Prime Minister's silence is his statement that it does not bother him." गणतंत्र दिवस से कुछ दिन पहले भारत के एक भाग्य विधाता का चीन ने अपहरण किया है- हम मीराम तारौन के परिवार के साथ हैं और उम्मीद नहीं छोड़ेंगे, हार नहीं मानेंगे। PM की बुज़दिल चुप्पी ही उनका बयान है- उन्हें फ़र्क़ नहीं पड़ता! As per reports, Taron's friend, who managed to escape, reported the matter to the authorities and brought it to the attention of Tapir Gao, an MP from Arunachal Pradesh. The incident has been reported from Upper Siang district. Tapir Gao tweeted: "Chinese #PLA has abducted Sh Miram Taron, 17 years of Zido village on Tuesday from inside Indian territory, Lungta Jor area (China built 3-4 kms road inside India in 2018) under Siyungla area (Bishing village) of Upper Siang district, Arunachal Pradesh. His friend escaped from the PLA and reported to the authorities. All the agencies of the Central government are requested to step up for his early release." The MP has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu and Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein, and the Indian Army to ensure the early release of the abducted Indian boy. Congress MLA Nenong Ering too brought to the notice of the government and said, "It's shocking that CCP China's PLA abducted innocent youth from Arunachal Pradesh." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-slams-centre-on-abduction-of-indian-by-chinese-forces-in-arunachal-1072823.html
20-01-2022||National||India successfully test-fires new version of BrahMos supersonic cruise missile||India successfully test-fired supersonic cruise missile Brahmos off the Odisha coast here on Thursday, DRDO sources said. With new the added technologies, including the control system, the missile was test-fired from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) launch pad-III at Chandipur around 10.45 am, said a source at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The detailed data is being analysed, the source said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-test-fires-new-version-of-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missile-1072827.html
20-01-2022||National||'Reservation not at odds with merit': Supreme Court upholds OBC quota in medical courses||The Supreme Court on Thursday said reservation is not at odds with merit but furthers its distributive impact, as it allowed the Centre to provide 27 per cent reservation to OBC and 10 per cent to EWS in All India quota (AIQ) seats in medical courses. "High scores in an examination are not a proxy for merit. Merit should be socially contextualised and reconceptualised as an instrument that advances social goods like equality that we as a society value. In such a context, reservation is not at odds with merit but furthers its distributive consequences," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. The court said merit cannot be reduced to narrow definitions of performance in an open competitive examination which only provided formal equality of opportunity.  "Competitive examinations assess basic current competency to allocate educational resources but are not reflective of excellence, capabilities and potential of an individual which are also shaped by lived experiences, subsequent training and individual character. Crucially, open competitive examinations do not reflect the social, economic and cultural advantage that accrues to certain classes and contributes to their success in such examinations," the bench, also comprising Justice A S Bopanna, said. The top court released detailed reasonings by its 106-page judgement on the issue. A group of petitioners led by Neil Aurelio Nunes challenged the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC and EWS reservation in NEET-All India Quota from the current academic session in PG courses. As much as 15 per cent seats in undergraduate and 50 per cent seats in PG courses are filled through all India quota. The court rejected constitutional validity of 27 per cent OBC quota in AIQ seats but said the income criterion of Rs 8 lakh per annum fixed for EWS candidates would be subject to final outcome of pending petitions. The court said the scheme of AIQ was devised to allot seats in State-run medical and dental institutions in which students from across the country could compete. The observations of the SC in Pradeep Jain case that the AIQ seats must be filled by merit, must be read limited to merit vis-à-vis residence reservation. This court in Pradeep Jain case did not hold that reservation in AIQ seats is impermissible, the bench declared. The court also did not agree to a contention that the rules of the game were changed in the middle, since as per the information bulletin, the reservation applicable to NEET-PG would be notified by the authority before the beginning of the counselling process and the candidates are not provided any information on the distribution of seat matrix at the time of filling up applications. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reservation-not-at-odds-with-merit-supreme-court-upholds-obc-quota-in-medical-courses-1072829.html
20-01-2022||National||PM Modi speaks to Badal to enquire about his health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to former Punjab Chief Minister and veteran Akali leader Parkash Singh Badal, who has contracted Covid-19, to enquire about his health, government sources said on Thursday.  Badal tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. The 94-year-old Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch has been admitted to Ludhiana's Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-speaks-to-badal-to-enquire-about-his-health-1072830.html
20-01-2022||National||Delhi riots convict Dinesh Yadav gets 5 years in jail||A Delhi court on Thursday sentenced a man to jail for five years in the first conviction in a case related to riots in Delhi in early 2020, which claimed lives of more than 50 people, and left hundred others injured.  The riots, the worst such violence in the capital in decades, followed months of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019, related to grant of citizenship to minorities in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhat of the Karkardooma courts, sentenced convict Dinesh Yadav to five years in jail, along with Rs 12,000 fine, for his role in the 2020 riots in Delhi.  The court had earlier held Yadav guilty, saying he was part of a mob of 150 to 200 rioters who vandalised and set on fire the house of a 73-year-old woman, Manori Devi.  It, however, noted the convict is a first time offender and has clean past antecedents. The convict has been held guilty only by virtue of section 149 IPC and there was no evidence that he had directly committed the incident of violence in which the house of victim Manori Devi had been vandalised and burnt.  Dinesh will be the first person to be convicted and sentenced to five years in jail.  He was convicted on December 12, 2021 under Sections 143 (Unlawful assembly), 147 (Rioting), 148 (Rioting armed with deadly weapon), 457 (House trespass), 392 (Robbery), 436 (Mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house, etc) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).  The court said that the fine imposed on the convict would be paid to the victim as compensation. It also noted that the victim who claimed to have suffered a loss of Rs 4.50 lakh-5 lakh, did not produce any documentary evidence for it. She also received a compensation of Rs 50,000 from Delhi government. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-convict-dinesh-yadav-gets-5-years-in-jail-1072846.html
20-01-2022||National||System with no space for discrimination is being created, says PM Modi||Asserting that an India, whose thinking and approach are new and progressive, is emerging, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that a system is being created in which there is no place for any discrimination. Delivering the keynote address at the national launch ceremony of 'Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav se Swarnim Bharat Ke Ore' virtually, Modi noted that one's progress is aligned with the nation's progress and stressed the need for giving importance to one's duties for the country's rise. "We also have to admit that in the 75 years after Independence, a malaise has afflicted our society, our nation and us all. The malaise is that we turned away from our duties and did not give them primacy," he said while launching year-long initiatives dedicated to 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' by the Brahma Kumaris, which include more than 30 campaigns and over 15,000 programmes and events. People only talked of their rights all these years and fought for them, he said, adding that speaking of rights may be right to some extent in certain circumstances. But forgetting one's duties completely has played a huge role in keeping India weak, Modi said and called for everyone to work together to discharge their duties that will remove social ills and also take India to new heights. He also asked organisations like Brahma Kumaris that have an international presence to work to present the right picture of India abroad and dispel rumours and false images. "You all have been witness to various efforts being made to malign India's image. A lot of it goes on at the international level too. We cannot wash our hands off by saying this is all politics. This is not about politics but about our country," the prime minister said. In his speech, Modi said that a society is being built that stands firmly on the foundation of equality and social justice. "We are witnessing the emergence of an India whose thinking and approach are new, and decisions progressive," Modi said. Our progress lies in the progress of the nation, he asserted. The coming 25 years are of hard work, sacrifice, austerity and penance, he said, adding this period of 25 years is one to get back what our society has lost in hundreds of years of slavery. Brahma Kumaris is a worldwide spiritual movement dedicated to personal transformation and world renewal. Founded in India in 1937, the Brahma Kumari movement has spread to over 130 countries. The event was held on the occasion of the 53rd ascension anniversary of Pitashree Prajapita Brahma, founding father of Brahma Kumaris. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/system-with-no-space-for-discrimination-is-being-created-says-pm-modi-1072856.html
20-01-2022||National||5G row: Air India resumes 6 India-US flights on B777 aircraft after Boeing's clearance||Air India said it has resumed six India-US flights on Boeing B777 aircraft on Thursday after the plane manufacturer gave the clearance to operate them. Air India had cancelled eight flights on India-US routes on Wednesday due to deployment of 5G internet in North America which could interfere with aircraft's radio altimeters. US aviation regulator Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), in a fresh directive on Thursday, said radio altimeters fitted in certain types of aircraft, including B777, will not be affected by 5G services. Subsequently, an Air India spokesperson told PTI that Boeing has cleared the carrier to operate to the US on B777 aircraft. "Accordingly, first flight left this morning to JFK (New York). Other flights leaving in the day are to Chicago and SFO (San Francisco). Arrangements to carry stranded passengers are being worked out. Matter regarding B777 flying into the USA has been sorted," the spokesperson said on Thursday. The Air India flights that have resumed their operations from Thursday are Delhi-New York, New York-Delhi, Delhi-Chicago, Chicago-Delhi, Delhi- San Francisco and San Francisco-Delhi. Along with these six flights, two other flights -- Mumbai-Newark and Newark-Mumbai -- were cancelled by Air India on Wednesday. Boeing did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on this matter. The US aviation regulator had on January 14 said that "5G interference with the aircraft's radio altimeter could prevent engine and braking systems from transitioning to landing mode, which could prevent an aircraft from stopping on the runway". Radio altimeter measures height of the aircraft above the ground, allowing it to do low-visibility landings. The frequency band on which altimeter works is close to that on which 5G system works. FAA stated on Thursday that it has made progress during the last two weeks to safely reduce the risk of delays and cancellations as altimeter manufacturers evaluate data from wireless companies to determine how robust each model is. "This work has shown some altimeters are reliable and accurate in certain 5G areas; others must be retrofitted or replaced," the FAA noted. It stated that five altimeters have been given the clearance. Aircraft models with one of five cleared altimeters include Boeing 717, 737, 747, 757, 767, 777. Total three carriers -- American Airlines, United Airlines and Air India -- currently operate direct flights between India and the US. American Airlines and United Airlines have not issued any statement on how their US-India flights have been specifically impacted by the deployment of 5G services in North America. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5g-row-air-india-resumes-6-india-us-flights-on-b777-aircraft-after-boeings-clearance-1072865.html
20-01-2022||National||Why is regular licensing for vaccines significant?||India’s vaccine manufacturers may soon move to commercially sell their Covid-19 vaccines after a regulatory panel on Wednesday recommended the grant of regular licences for Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. So far, the government has controlled the distribution of vaccines, with people having to register on the official portal for vaccination, even at private facilities. “The SEC (subject expert committee) of CDSCO has recommended upgrade of the (regulatory) status of Covishield and Covaxin from restricted use in emergency situations to grant of new drug permission with conditions in the adult population,” the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation said in a tweet. SEC of CDSCO has recommended for upgrade of covishield and covaxin status from restricted use in emergency situations to grant of new drug permission with conditions In adult population ,DCGI will evaluate the recommendations and give its decision. At present, Covishield, which is manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, have only emergency authorisation use despite having been in use for over a year. However, with regular licensing, vaccine availability will be set to increase in the market.  Instead of lining up for vaccinations in queues, citizens may be able to get their vaccination dosage from their family doctor or nearby facilities, provided they are registered with Co-WIN.  Moreover, the move will also facilitate the sale of vaccines to other countries, which will not only increase the research and commercial potential, but also improve vaccination rates across the world. So far, many African countries that have been dependent on vaccines from Western and Asian countries have failed to get adequate stock as producing countries banned exports during infection peaks. Experts have repeatedly called for more uniform vaccination across the globe in order to put an end to the pandemic. Besides, the move may also facilitate technological exchange and subsequent introduction of m-RNA vaccines that have been developed by other companies, which have been recommended against emerging variants of the coronavirus. So far, India has administered 1,60,03,33,779 doses of the Covid-19 vaccines, including both the doses, according to the Co-WIN dashboard on Thursday evening. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-regular-licensing-for-vaccines-significant-1072873.html
20-01-2022||National||Facial recognition taken to court in surveillance hotspot Hyderabad||It was lockdown in Hyderabad when activist S Q Masood was stopped on the street by police who asked him to remove his facial mask and then took his picture, giving no reason and ignoring his objections. Worried about how the photographs would be used, Masood sent a legal notice to the city's police chief. But after receiving no response, he filed suit last month over Telangana state's use of facial recognition systems - the first such case in India. "Being Muslim and having worked with minority groups that are frequently targeted by the police, I'm concerned that my photo could be matched wrongly and that I could be harassed," Masood, 38, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "It is also about my right to privacy, and my right to know why my photograph was taken, what it will be used for, who can access it, and how it's protected. Everyone has a right to know this information," he said. Masood's petition is seen as a test case as facial recognition systems are deployed nationwide, with digital rights activists saying they infringe privacy and other basic rights. Facial recognition technology, which is increasingly used for everything from unlocking mobile phones to checking in at airports, uses artificial intelligence (AI) to match live images of a person for verification against a database of images. The Indian government, which is rolling out an automated facial recognition system nationwide - among the world's largest - has said it is needed to bolster security in a severely under-policed country, to prevent crime and find missing children. But there is little evidence that the technology reduces crime, critics say. It also often fails to identify darker-skinned persons and women accurately, and its use is problematic in the absence of a data protection law in India, digital rights activists say. "The technology is being rolled out at a very fast pace in India, on the premise that 24/7 surveillance is necessary and good for us," said Anushka Jain from the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) digital rights group in Delhi. "It's important to challenge this notion, and a court case such as this will also help raise public awareness - most people are not even aware they are being surveilled," said Jain, associate counsel at IFF, which helped prepare the petition. Total surveillance CCTV cameras have become a common sight across the world, with some one billion forecast to be installed by the end of last year. Alongside Chinese cities, Hyderabad and Delhi also have some of the world's highest concentrations of CCTV cameras, according to website Comparitech. Telangana state has more than 600,000 cameras - most of them in the capital, Hyderabad - and police can also use an application on their mobile phones and tablets to take photographs and match them on their database. Hyderabad, which is home to the Indian offices of several global tech firms including Microsoft, Amazon and IBM, "is on the brink of becoming a total surveillance city," said Matt Mahmoudi, Amnesty's AI and Big Data researcher. "It is almost impossible to walk down the street without risking exposure to facial recognition," he said. The rights of Muslims, low-caste Dalits, indigenous Adivasis, transgender people and other historically marginalised groups are at particular risk from such surveillance, activists say, with the systems already being used to police protests. Masood's lawsuit, which is listed for a hearing later this year, argues that the use of facial recognition in Telangana is "unconstitutional and illegal". It says it is unnecessary, disproportionate, and lacks safeguards to prevent misuse. "This illegality cannot be cured or justified on the basis of its purported benefits in advancing law enforcement interests - under the guise of providing better policing ... (when) these purported benefits are yet to be proven," the petition says. Hyderabad police say the technology has served as a "deterrent" and helped them catch criminals. "We don't infringe upon the privacy of any individual, as we are not barging into anybody's house to take pictures," said C.V. Anand, Hyderabad's police commissioner. "The technology is being used only to keep surveillance on criminals or suspected criminals," he told reporters earlier this month in response to the petition. Losing the fight In some parts of the world, there is growing pushback against the use of facial recognition, with companies including Microsoft and Amazon ending or curbing sales of the technology to the police, and the European Union mulling a five-year ban. In India, resistance from students, municipal workers and minority communities is growing as more services go online and government agencies and companies require personal data and location-tracking apps to undertake everyday tasks. A planned data protection law gives wide exemptions to government agencies for the purposes of national security. "It doesn't talk about surveillance, which gathers data in secret and without consent, and it exempts government use, so it will fail to provide the sort of robust protections that are needed," said Jain. Masood, who is much more aware now of CCTV cameras and police officers taking photographs of residents in Hyderabad, wants others to recognise the dangers of facial recognition. "The state has spent so much money on it, yet people have no idea how it works, how it can be misused, and how it abuses their privacy," he said. "We are losing our fight to protect our privacy every day."  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facial-recognition-taken-to-court-in-surveillance-hotspot-hyderabad-1072884.html
20-01-2022||National||Gas leak in AC compartment could have caused INS Ranvir blast, says official||The explosion on INS Ranvir, Indian Navy's destroyer ship, which killed three Navy personnel and left 11 injured, may have occurred due to a gas leak in the ship's air-conditioning compartment, an official said on Thursday. The official said a Board of Inquiry has already been instituted to probe the accident. "It appears that the explosion was caused due to a possible gas leak in the air-conditioning compartment," the official said. Three naval personnel succumbed to the injuries caused by the explosion in an internal compartment onboard INS Ranvir at the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Krishan Kumar (47), Surinder Kumar (48) and A K Singh (38), the Navy has said. Eleven personnel, who sustained injuries in the incident, are being treated in Naval Hospital and none of them is critical, it said. No major material damage has been reported, the Navy said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gas-leak-in-ac-compartment-could-have-caused-ins-ranvir-blast-says-official-1072896.html
20-01-2022||National||Republic Day tableaux rejection show BJP's deep anti-federal attitude: CPI(M)||With the "motivated rejections" of Opposition states' tableaux for the Republic Day parade, the CPI(M) has said that the government favoured an 8th-century religious figure "who restored Brahmanical order" over a 20th century anti-caste social reformer and a central department over a state to depict Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's contributions, showcasing its "deep anti-federal attitude". Targeting the Narendra Modi government, an editorial in the latest edition of the CPI(M) mouthpiece 'People's Democracy' said that the rejection of tableaux of Kerala and Tamil Nadu has practically led to the non-representation of southern states at the national day celebrations. West Bengal's tableaux depicting Bose was also rejected while Defence Minister Rajanth Singh defended it saying CPWD would be honouring the freedom fighter in its tableau. Claiming that the action "reveals a lot about the mindset of the BJP rulers", it said the "most shocking" rejection was that of the tableau of Kerala, which had a statue of anti-caste fighter and renaissance figure Sree Narayana Guru. The expert committee wanted a statue of Adi Shankaracharya but the Kerala government stuck to the 20th-century social reformer's statue leading to its rejection. The editorial said they wanted to know who were the experts who consider Adi Sankaracharya as more relevant to the theme of 75 years of independence in this Republic Day parade. "How an 8th century AD religious figure, who restored the Brahmanical order, is more relevant than an early 20th-century social reformer, who contributed to the renaissance and freedom movement, can only be explained by the Hindutva outlook of the ruling establishment," it said. "The insistence by the expert committee to impose Adi Sankaracharya on the Kerala tableau is an insult not only to Sree Narayana Guru but to the entire progressive socio-cultural traditions of Kerala," it said. West Bengal had submitted a tableau depicting the role of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and the Indian National Army (INA) in the freedom struggle while Tamil Nadu had portrayed the prominent freedom fighters from the state like V O Chidambaram, the national poet of the freedom struggle, Subramania Bharathiyar and others, it said adding these too were not found acceptable. Referring to the Defence Minister's assertion that Bose's contribution is being depicted in the CPWD tableau, the editorial said, "as if, a department of the central ministry should get precedence over the state of West Bengal, which can be proud of having produced a preeminent leader of the independence struggle, like Netaji." To Singh's assertion that the selection was done by eminent persons in the field of art, culture, music, architecture and so on, the editorial said one would like to know who these experts are, who consider Adi Sankaracharya as more relevant to the theme of 75 years of independence in this Republic Day parade. "The partisan and sectarian outlook of the Modi government has led to practically the entire south Indian states being non-represented in the tableaus at the Republic Day parade.  The motivated rejection of the tableaus of three opposition state governments shows the deep anti-federal attitude of the government. January 26 marks the advent of the Indian Republic and the Constitution which defines India as a Union of States. The Modi government is violating this basic precept of the Constitution," it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-tableaux-rejection-show-bjps-deep-anti-federal-attitude-cpim-1072898.html
20-01-2022||National||Properties of female Hindu dying intestate to go back to source: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday declared that inherited property of a female Hindu dying issueless and intestate would go back to heirs of her parents or husband.  "If a female Hindu dies intestate without leaving any issue, then the property inherited by her from her father or mother would go to the heirs of her father whereas the property inherited from her husband or father-in-law would go to the heirs of the husband," a bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said. The top court explained the provisions of the Hindu Succession Act. It said the main scheme of this Act is to establish complete equality between males and females with regard to property rights and the rights of the female were declared absolute completely abolishing all notions of a limited estate.  The court pointed out that the Act brought about changes in the law of succession among Hindus and gave rights that were till then unknown in relation to women’s property.  "The Act lays down a uniform and comprehensive system of inheritance and applies, inter-alia, to persons governed by the Mitakshara and Dayabhaga Schools and also to those governed previously by the Murumakkattayam, Aliyasantana and Nambudri Laws. The Act applies to every person, who is a Hindu by religion in any of its forms including a Virashaiva, a Lingayat or a follower of the Brahmo Prarthana or Arya Samaj and even to any person who is Buddhist, Jain or Sikh by religion excepting one who is Muslim, Christian, Parsi or Jew or Sikh by religion," the bench added.  Referring to Section 15(2), the court said the basic aim of the legislature is to ensure that inherited property of a female Hindu dying issueless and intestate, go back to the source. Acting on an appeal legal heirs of Arunachala Gounder, the bench set aside judgements of the Madras High Court and the trial court, saying, unfortunately, neither of the courts adverted itself to the settled legal propositions which are squarely applicable in the facts and circumstances of the case. Since the succession of the suit properties opened in 1967 upon the death of Kupayee Ammal, the 1956 Act shall apply and thereby Ramasamy Gounder’s daughter’s being Class-I heirs of their father too shall also be heirs and entitled to 1/5th share in each of the suit properties, the court said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/properties-of-female-hindu-dying-intestate-to-go-back-to-source-sc-1072915.html
20-01-2022||National||Deaths significantly less in third Covid wave in comparison to second wave: Govt||Deaths as against active cases have been significantly lower in the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic than the previous one, the government said on Thursday underlining the current surge is not witnessing increase in severe illness or death following high vaccination uptake. Presenting a comparison of the key indices during the second and third surge in India, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on April 30, 2021, there were 3,86,452 new cases, 3,059 deaths and 31,70,228 active cases and the proportion of fully vaccinated people that time was 2 per cent. On January 20, 2022, there are 3,17,532 new cases, 380 deaths and 19,24,051 active cases and the proportion of fully vaccinated people is 72 per cent, he said. "So it shows that deaths as against active cases have been significantly fewer in the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic than the second wave, while the vaccinated population has increased significantly from from the second to third wave. "By this we want to tell you that vaccination is effective. The disease remains mild and in moderate levels in fully vaccinated individuals," Bhushan said as he urged those who have not yet taken their first vaccine dose to take the shot and those who are overdue for their second dose to get fully inoculated. "We track children's data too, 0-19 years age group in 2020 they contributed to 10 per cent of the total cases and 0.96 per cent of total deaths. In 2021, 0-19 years contributed to 11 per cent of the total cases and 0.70 per cent of total deaths happening because of Covid_19. Between 2020 and 2021 there is not much of a difference either in terms of contribution of this age group or in terms of contribution of this group to total deaths," he said. ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said, "The current surge in India is not witnessing an increase in severe illness and death because of high vaccination uptake. However, we have to remember one point, those with comorbidities should monitor their health and avoid complications."  "To summarize vaccines prevent death and therefore is a must," he said. He added that the overall test performance in the country is being maintained at a level comparable with the second wave. NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr VK Paul drew attention to the fact that there are still about 1 crore people (in the over 60 age group) who are yet to get their first dose and 25 per cent are yet to get a second dose.  "This is unfinished work. 52 per cent children have been covered in the 15-17 years age group, more healthcare and frontline workers should also come forward. Availability is not at all an issue here. 6.5 crore people's second dose is still overdue.  "But why should it be overdue, everyone should take their second dose. All those who are not fully protected will not only be a danger to itself but others too. We have to accept masks and protect our seniors and the prevention tool here is vaccination and we need to take it in this paradigm," Paul said. Providing an update on Covid vaccination, Bhushan said 94 per cent of India's adults have been administered the first dose, while 72 per cent are fully vaccinated. He said 52 per cent of the adolescents in the 15-18 years age group nationwide have received their first dose of Covid vaccine with Andhra Pradesh topping the list with 91 per cent followed by Himachal Pradesh at 83 per cent and Madhya Pradesh at 71 per cent. "Young people in the age group of 15 to 18 years have actively participated in the vaccination drive," he said. Also, 61.75 lakh precaution doses have been administered to healthcare workers, frontline workers and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh have emerged as states of concern because of rising weekly cases and positivity. More than 11 states and union territories have more than 50,000 active cases of Covid-19 while 13 states and union territories have active cases between 10,000 to 50,000. Number of districts reporting weekly case positivity more than 5 per cent have increased from 335 (in the week ending Jan 12) to 515 (in the week ending Jan 19). Twelve states and union territories including Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have administered the first dose of Covid vaccine to 100 per cent of the eligible adult population.  On the number of samples being genome sequenced so far, Bhushan said the figure is 1.64 lakh genomes and it is a good number even in comparison to western countries.  Secondly in December, 16000 genome sequencing was done and genome sequence is important in terms of public health response. It is not beneficial to an individual to know if they are infected with Delta or Omicron because the testing procedure and treatment remains the same.  So genome sequencing is important to understand how to mold public health response. Paul said genome sequencing has to be strategic and has to be based on systematic collection of specimens. "In the world, we are number 2 position for genomic sequencing. As the story evolved it was very much driven by science and INSACOG work. It is a tool for public health response, it is a tool for scientific understanding of the behaviour of the virus and it from there leads us to finding solutions such as the possibility of new diagnostics, new vaccines, efficacy of vaccines." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deaths-significantly-less-in-third-covid-wave-in-comparison-to-second-wave-govt-1072920.html
20-01-2022||National||PM Modi takes jibe at China's debt-trap diplomacy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday tacitly took a jibe at China’s predatory lending practices, underlining that India’s support to development projects in other countries was always based on needs and priorities as well as respect for the sovereignty of the recipient nations. Modi joined Prime Minister of Mauritius, Pravind Kumar Jugnauth, through video-link to jointly inaugurate the social housing units built in the Indian Ocean island nation with the financial support of $ 44.995 million from the Government of India. The Social Housing project was one of the five high-profile infrastructure projects identified for implementation under the $ 353 million Special Economic Package (SEP) New Delhi extended to the Government of Mauritius in 2016. The two Prime Ministers also virtually laid the foundation stone of the two other projects in Mauritius – the construction of a state-of-the-art Civil Service College and an 8 MW Solar Photo Voltaic Farm, both taken up with financial support from India. “Today, our robust development partnership has emerged as a key pillar of our close ties. Mauritius is a prime example of India's approach to development partnership which is based on the needs and priorities of our partners and respects their sovereignty,” Modi said as he virtually joined Jugnauth in the event that marked the inauguration of the social housing units. The Prime Minister subtly underlined the distinction between the ways India and China supported development projects in other countries – albeit without directly referring to the communist country. Beijing has been bankrolling a large number of infrastructure projects in several countries in South Asia and the Indian Ocean region as well as in Africa, as part of its Belt-and-Road Initiative (BRI), thus building strategic assets across the continents. But Chinese President Xi Jinping’s ambitious cross-continental connectivity initiative also came under criticism from around the world – for exposing the smaller participating nations to the risks of being caught in debt traps. Even as its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is engaged in a stand-off with the Indian Army along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh since April-May 2020, China has renewed its bid to further spread its tentacles in South Asia and the Indian Ocean region. It has of late been offering new loans and economic packages to support not only development projects but also to help smaller nations to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, including India’s neighbours like Sri Lanka and the Maldives, even as they are finding it difficult to come out of the debt-trap the communist country already put them in with BRI projects. India and Mauritius also inked two pacts on Thursday. The pacts included a Memorandum of Understanding for implementation of small development projects in Mauritius funded by India and a 190mn Line of Credit Agreement between the EXIM Bank of India and the SBM Mauritius. Watch the latest DH Videos here: Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-takes-jibe-at-chinas-debt-trap-diplomacy-1072933.html
20-01-2022||National||In PM's presence, Gehlot says atmosphere of tension, violence in country||There is an atmosphere of tension and violence in the nation, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said here on Thursday in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and also countered the narrative that "nothing was done in the past 75 years" in the country. Gehlot was speaking at the national launch ceremony of Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav se Swarnim Bharat Ke Ore virtually organised by Brahma Kumaris, where the prime minister flagged off year-long initiatives. "There is a need to strengthen peace, harmony and brotherhood in the country because it is being seen that there is an atmosphere of tension and violence, and it is the desire of all to get rid of it," Gehlot said. He said that PM Narendra Modi visits other countries and gets respect because the country has progressed in 75 years in science, technology and other areas, which is being valued by other countries. "We have a glorious history. As we are celebrating Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, we should remember Mahatama Gandhi, Jawahar Lal Nehru, Saradar Patel, BR Ambedkar, Lokmanya Tilak, and other personalities who struggled to get us freedom, and because of them we have reached here in last 75 years after independence,” said the CM. “Our country's identity is not new, and from the ancient time we have believed in Vasudhaiva kutumbakam, which means the world is one family,” said the CM.  “I believe that the country and the society can progress only by walking on the path of truth and non-violence. The development will happen where there is peace and this is what we believe in,” he added.  Earlier, delivering the keynote address, Modi noted that one's progress is aligned with the nation's progress and stressed the need for giving importance to one's duties for the country's rise. Launching year-long initiatives dedicated to Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav by the Brahma Kumaris, which include more than 30 campaigns and over 15,000 programmes and events, the prime minister said people only talked of their rights all these years and fought for them. Speaking of rights may be right to some extent in certain circumstances but forgetting one's duties completely has played a huge role in keeping India weak, Modi said and called for everyone to work together to discharge their duties that will remove social ills and also take India to new heights. Brahma Kumaris is a worldwide spiritual movement dedicated to personal transformation and world renewal. Founded in India in 1937, the Brahma Kumari movement has spread to over 130 countries. The event was held on the occasion of the 53rd ascension anniversary of Pitashree Prajapita Brahma, founding father of the Brahma Kumaris movement. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-pms-presence-gehlot-says-atmosphere-of-tension-violence-in-country-1072938.html
20-01-2022||National||SC overrules Karnataka HC's judgement on application of 2013 LA Act to BDA||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that the Land Acquisition Act, 2013, allowing higher compensation would not be applicable for acquisition made under the Bangalore Development Authority Act. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna overruled a judgement of the Karnataka High Court and clarified that since Land Acquisition Act has been incorporated into the BDA Act so far as they are applicable, the provisions of the 2013 Act are not applicable for the acquisitions made under the BDA Act. The top court passed its judgement on a plea by the BDA which questioned the Karnataka High Court's direction that the provisions of the 2013 Act would apply on the acquisition of land meant for a peripheral ring road, encircling Bengaluru City for the length of 116 Kms.  In its plea, the BDA contended that the High Court's direction has totally upset the budget calculation of the project. It also said the High Court has failed to refer and to consider the Constitution Bench judgment of the top court in Offshore Holdings Private Limited Vs Bangalore Development Authority and others (2011) wherein it was clearly held that the provisions of the LA Act are applicable to the BDA Act by incorporation. "The HC has erred in holding that in view of the repeal of LA Act by coming into force of 2013 Act, the corresponding provisions of 2013 Act would regulate acquisition proceedings under the BDA Act and that this would include determination of compensation in accordance with 2013 Act," the top court said.    The court pointed out that the primary object of the BDA Act is to carry out a planned development and acquisition, which is merely an incident of such planned development.  "It is also clear that the provisions of the LA Act would be attracted only insofar as they are applicable to the BDA Act. Where there are specific provisions under the BDA Act, the provisions of the LA Act will not be attracted," the bench added. The BDA Act passed for the establishment of a development authority for the development of the city of Bengaluru and the areas adjacent thereto, has given a complete process for determination of rights. For the purpose of the claims in regard to the matters which are not specifically dealt with in the BDA Act, reference to the LA Act in terms of Section 36 has been made. The intention of the Legislature is to take recourse for the provisions of the LA Act to a limited extent and subject to the supremacy of the provisions of the BDA Act, the bench said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-overrules-karnataka-hcs-judgement-on-application-of-2013-la-act-to-bda-1072967.html
20-01-2022||National||Nestle says Kitkat wrappers with Lord Jagannath pics 'already withdrawn'||Facing flak on social media, Nestle India on Thursday said it has "already withdrawn" from the market packs of its popular chocolate brand Kitkat which depicted images of Lord Jagannath, Balabhadra and Mata Subhadra on wrappers, and also expressed regret over the incident. Nestle India, the Indian subsidiary of the Swiss multinational FMCG giant Nestle, had to face on social media the wrath of consumers, who accused the company of hurting religious sentiments by using the sacred images on Kitkat wrappers. The company expressed regret and said that as a pre-emptive action, it withdrew those packs from the market last year. "We do understand the sensitivity of the matter and regret if we have inadvertently hurt anyone's sentiment. We had already withdrawn these packs from the market last year. We thank you for your understanding and support," said a Nestle spokesperson. According to the company, these were travel packs meant to celebrate beautiful local destinations. Nestle, which owns brands such as Maggi, Nescafe, Milkmaid, Munch and Milkibar, said it wanted to celebrate the culture of Odisha with designs on packs representing Pattachitra. "Last year, we wanted to celebrate the culture of Odisha with designs on packs representing Pattachitra, an art form uniquely identifiable by its vivid imagery. We wanted to encourage people to know about the art and its artisans. Our past campaigns have also shown that consumers like to collect and keep such beautiful designs,” it said. Pattachitra is an ancient Odisha-based artworks of cloth-based scroll painting. This artform is known for its intricate details as well as mythological narratives and folktales inscribed in it. It was originally created for ritual use and as souvenirs for pilgrims to Puri, as well as other temples in Odisha. Nestle India has nine production facilities with a turnover of Rs 13,350 crore in 2021. Last year in April, Nestle India had also apologised for wrongly depicting Manipur's Keibul Lamjao National Park to be located in Meghalaya on the packaging of its KitKat chocolate after objection by authorities from the state government. The packaging of the particular batch of the KitKat travel break chocolate had also displayed a picture of a Red Panda, a species which is not found at the Keibul Lamjao National Park.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nestle-says-kitkat-wrappers-with-lord-jagannath-pics-already-withdrawn-1072973.html
20-01-2022||National||IAS, IPS officers serving in J&K, Ladakh to be under 'hard areas' postings||IAS and IPS officers serving in the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh will be considered under the category of "hard areas" postings. A decision has been taken by the Centre and modified the guidelines for the transfer and posting of IAS, IPS officers of the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) Cadre. "Consequent upon the merger of the J&K cadre into AGMUT cadre, the matter has been examined and with the approval of competent authority, it has been decided that the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and the Union Territory of Ladakh may be categorised as Category B (Hard Areas) in the Joint AGMUT Cadre," the home ministry communication said. The Jammu and Kashmir cadre was earlier merged with the AGMUT cadre in January last year after the bifurcation of the state and formation of the two Union Territories. While the transfer and posting of IAS and IPS officers of AGMUT cadre in Jammu and Kashmir along with some other states will be considered as hard area postings, such actions in other states covered by the cadre will be considered as regular posting. Postings in Delhi, Chandigarh, Goa, Puducherry, Dadar Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu will be considered as "regular areas" or Category A, while postings in Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh will be considered as "hard areas" or Category B.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ias-ips-officers-serving-in-jk-ladakh-to-be-under-hard-areas-postings-1072982.html
20-01-2022||National||Centre urges 6.5 crore Indians to take Covid vaccine second shot||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday asked 6.5 crore Indians who missed their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to come forward for the shot with top health officials claiming a significant drop in Covid mortality in the third wave as against the second surge due to protection offered by the vaccine. The number of people who missed their second doses was 12 crore at one point of time but the number came down to 6.5 crore partially vaccinated individuals who didn't turn up despite repeated reminders, said Vinod Paul, NITI Ayog member and the government's principal adviser on Covid-19. “The Covid-19 vaccine offers a protective shield by lowering the mortality. But the shield is getting weakened (in the absence of their second dose) as they can spread the infections in the society,” Paul said at a press conference here. The Union Health Ministry also released data showing a drop of Covid mortality by one-tenth in the Omicron-powered third wave as against the Delta-driven second wave. The ferocious second wave swept through India in April last year, steadily pushing the Covid-19 mortality. On April 30th, more than 3.86 lakh new cases were reported (previous 24 hours) while the number of active cases and deaths stood at 31.7 lakh and 3059 respectively. Only 2% of India's 94.47 crore adult population had received the vaccine by then. In comparison, on January 20, this year, there have been over 3.17 lakh fresh cases and more than 19 lakh active cases. But only 380 deaths have been reported as the number of fully vaccinated individuals rose to 72%. Hospitalisation in Delhi is also significantly lower. “The current surge in India is not witnessing an increase in severe cases and deaths following high vaccine uptake,” said Balram Bhargava, ICMR director-general. While vaccination played a key role in lowering the death count, experts, however, pointed out that the Health Ministry comparison did not take a crucial fact – Omicron's lower virulence as against Delta – into account. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in the last 10 days, more than 63% of the eligible health workers, 58% of eligible front line workers and 39% senior citizens took the third shot while 52% of the adolescents in the 15-18 years age group received their first jab. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-urges-65-crore-indians-to-take-covid-vaccine-second-shot-1072992.html
20-01-2022||National||Govt issues revised Covid guidelines on use of drugs, masks for children||Use of antivirals or monoclonal antibodies is not recommended for those less than 18 years of age, irrespective of severity of Covid infection, and if steroids are used, they should be tapered over 10 to 14 days, subject to clinical improvement, the government said on Thursday. In the 'Revised Comprehensive Guidelines for Management of Covid-19 in Children and Adolescents (below 18 years)', the health ministry also said that masks are not recommended for children aged five years and below. Those aged 6-11 years may wear it depending on the ability of the child to use a mask safely and appropriately under direct supervision of parents, it said. Those aged 12 and above should wear a mask under the same conditions as adults, the ministry said. The guidelines were reviewed by a group of experts in view of the current surge that is mainly attributed to the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which is also a variant of concern. The available data from other countries suggests that the disease caused by the Omicron variant is less severe. However, there is a need for a careful watch, as the current wave evolves, the ministry said. It categorised cases as asymptomatic, mild, moderate and severe. According to the guidelines, Covid-19 is a viral infection and antimicrobials have no role in the management of uncomplicated Covid-19 infection. In asymptomatic and mild cases, antimicrobials are not recommended for therapy or prophylaxis, the ministry said. In moderate and severe cases, antimicrobials should not be prescribed unless there is clinical suspicion of a superadded infection, the ministry said. In case of septic shock, empirical antimicrobials, according to body weight, are frequently added to cover all likely pathogens based on clinical judgement, patient host factors, local epidemiology and antimicrobial policy of the hospital, it said. The guidelines stated that steroids are not indicated and are harmful in asymptomatic and mild cases of Covid-19. They are indicated only in hospitalised severe and critically ill Covid-19 cases under strict supervision, the guidelines said. Steroids should be used at the right time, in right dose and for the right duration, they stated. Corticosteroids may be used in rapidly progressive moderate and all severe cases, such as dexamethasone 0.15 mg/kg, maximum dose six mg once a day or methylprednisolone 0.75 mg/kg, maximum dose 30 mg once a day, the guidelines stated. They can be continued for five to seven days and tapered up to 10-14 days, depending on clinical assessment on daily basis, they stated. Steroids should be avoided in the first three to five days since onset of symptoms as it prolongs viral shedding, the guidelines stated. Anticoagulants are not indicated routinely and all hospitalized children should be evaluated for risk of developing thrombosis and monitored for development of thrombosis, the ministry said. As far post-Covid-19 care is concerned, the guidelines stated that children with asymptomatic infection or mild disease should receive routine childcare, appropriate vaccination (if eligible), nutrition counselling, and psychological support on follow up. In addition to the above, parents or caregivers of children, who suffered moderate to severe Covid, during discharge from hospital should be counselled regarding monitoring for persistence or worsening respiratory difficulty and explained the indications for bringing the child back to the facility, the guidelines stated. Children who develop any organ specific dysfunction during hospital stay or subsequently, should receive appropriate care, they said. These guidelines are dynamic, and will be reviewed and updated, on availability of new evidence, the ministry stated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-issues-revised-covid-guidelines-on-use-of-drugs-masks-for-children-1073008.html
20-01-2022||National||NCB officials seize hydro ganja imported from Canada on way to Punjab||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-officials-seize-hydro-ganja-imported-from-canada-on-way-to-punjab-1073025.html
20-01-2022||National||SC to consider plea on EWS quota in March||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it allowed the Union government to implement 10 per cent EWS reservation in All India Quota seats in NEET UG and PG seats for the academic year of 2021-2022 as any change in eligibility status would have caused confusion and delay the admission process in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna, however, said the challenge to the validity of the criteria determined by the Pandey committee, set up by the Centre with regard to income of Rs 8  lakh per annum, for the identification of the EWS category would be listed for final hearing in the third week of March, 2022. The court also pointed out judicial propriety would not permit it to pass an interim order staying the criteria for determination of the EWS category.  The court further said that without hearing all the interested parties at length on arguments, it would be impermissible to form a prima facie opinion on the alleged arbitrariness of the criteria. It said issues such as extent of judicial review of materials relied on for providing reservation under Article 15 of the Constitution, the power of the States to determine EWS in view of the explanation to Article 15 and in view of an alternative criteria proposed by the committee formed by the Kerala government, the meaning of EWS - the identification of the poor or the poorest, would be examined by detailed hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-on-ews-quota-in-march-1073051.html
20-01-2022||National||2 lakh Covid home tests done in last 20 days; it was 3,000 last year: Govt||An increasing uptake of home tests for Covid-19 is being observed with two lakh of them used in the last 20 days while just 3,000 were utilised last year, the health ministry said. Addressing the weekly press conference, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said overall test performance in the country is being maintained at a level comparable with the second wave. "Testing commodities are in plenty, whether it be for RT-PCR, whether it be for rapid antigen tests or for home antigen tests, or ancillary equipment like viral transport medium or RNA extraction kits. What is important is that we have noted an increasing in uptake of home tests," he said. "In the whole of last year, only 3,000 home tests were recorded and in these 20 days, we have seen two lakh home tests which have been used," Bhargava said. Few districts and states are witnessing a dip in test performance and they have been encouraged to ramp it up, he said. Responding to a question, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said till now, 1.64 lakh genomes have been sequenced. "In December, 16,000 genome sequencing was done, and genome sequence is important in terms of public health response. It is not beneficial to an individual to know if they are infected with Delta or Omicron because the testing procedure and treatment remains the same. So, genome sequencing is important to understand how to mould public health response," he said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr VK Paul said genome sequencing has to be strategic and has to be based on systematic collection of specimens. "When Omicron started the most important phase was that when travellers are coming then what impact that has. Then in facilities it has to be monitored who was getting admitted, those infected with Omicron or Delta," he said. He said that 269 sentinel centres have been established and these are still functioning. "So, there is no specific formula of genomic sequencing," Paul said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-lakh-covid-home-tests-done-in-last-20-days-it-was-3000-last-year-govt-1073054.html
20-01-2022||National||ED arrests man with ‘Chinese links’ in mobile apps fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday said it arrested an Indian man with "Chinese links" who is alleged to have cheated depositors to the tune of Rs 84 crore through "fraud" mobile applications. Anas Ahmed was lodged in judicial custody at the Puzhal central prison, Chennai, after he was arrested by the crime branch CID of the Chennai Police sometime back, it said. The ED was granted six days custody of Ahmed by a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Bengaluru on Thursday for "enquiring into the fraud committed”, the federal probe agency said in a statement. It said an anti-money laundering probe was launched into the "operations of accused entities that induced the public to invest a certain amount through fraudulent mobile apps like powerbank and others by assuring to remit interest on daily or weekly basis on the investment made”. "The accused entities closed their purported business after collecting huge sum of money from gullible public and went incommunicado," the ED said. The accused entities, it said, neither paid interest nor returned the principal amount and withheld the investment made by public which has resulted in the commission of cheating. "Anas Ahmed is a partner in two accused firms like H & S Ventures Inc and Clifford Ventures. "These two partnership firms are responsible for collection of approximately Rs 84 crore from public," it said. Ahmed, the ED said, has "Chinese links and is suspected of being the mastermind of the whole racket”. It said Ahmed "indulged into corrupt and illegal activities through his partnership firms by deviating from the declared line of business/activity of gaming and has collected money from public under the guise of investment schemes through fraudulent apps”. The proceeds generated through criminal activities have been layered through a number of shell entities to remit out of India and also invest in crypto currencies, the agency alleged. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-man-with-chinese-links-in-mobile-apps-fraud-case-1073068.html
20-01-2022||National Politics||BJP uses central agencies against opponents during polls: Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday slammed the BJP-led central government over raids on a relative of his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi and accused the saffron party of using probe agencies under its control to target political opponents during polls. The Congress leader sought to know why raids are conducted by central agencies only in states where non-BJP parties are in power. He was talking to reporters at the Swami Vivekanand Airport Raipur this evening after returning from a four-day tour to Delhi and poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Asked about Enforcement Directorate's (ED) raids at the premises of Channi's nephew, Baghel said, “Wherever elections are held, people in the opposition are raided. This is being done to intimidate and threaten (opposition parties)." "Why (Chief Minister) Yogi Adityanath's relatives were not raided in Uttar Pradesh? Why were relatives of Uttarakhand or Goa CMs not raided? Why does it happen only in those states where their (BJP) opponents are in power?" he added. The ED conducted the raids in connection with money laundering allegations linked to a 2018 illegal sand mining case in Punjab. Baghel alleged the BJP activates central agencies against opponents whenever state elections are held. “It (Punjab's raids) clearly indicates where there are elections, central agencies are being involved (to target political opponents). Like, it is said about Pakistan that not 11 but 13 players play in its cricket team (on field). The 13 includes two umpires. The situation is the same here as the BJP contests the elections, the central agencies join it in the fight.. Like umpires, CBI, ED, IB all get involved in it,” he added. Punjab goes to the polls on February 20. Baghel, the Congress's senior observer for the UP assembly polls who has been extensively campaigning there, said the people of the northern state were "fed up" with the ruling BJP and wanted change. “The people of UP are fed up with those who do politics over caste and religion. They want a solution to it..” he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-uses-central-agencies-against-opponents-during-polls-baghel-1072795.html
20-01-2022||National Politics||DH Toon | DH Toon | 'Netas switching parties ahead of polls to serve us'||Mulayam Singh Yadav's daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav on Wednesday joined the BJP just three weeks ahead of the first phase of polling in Uttar Pradesh. She joined the BJP in presence of Uttar Pradesh state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, BJP media department head Anil Baluni, at party headquarters here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-dh-toon-netas-switching-parties-ahead-of-polls-to-serve-us-1072798.html
20-01-2022||National Politics||Under pressure, RLD changes candidate in Chaprauli||Massive protests over candidate selection have forced the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) to replace its candidate Veerpal Rathi with Ajay Kumar from Chaprauli seat in Baghpat. Chaprauli, an RLD stronghold, was the only seat won by the party in 2017. The move comes after the party faced a revolt-like situation on eight seats that were given to the Samajwadi leaders who are contesting on the RLD symbol. Veerpal Rathi, however, is not an SP leader and belongs to the RLD. The new candidate, Ajay Kumar, had won the 2002 elections by a margin of 64,000 votes. According to sources in Baghpat, there was strong opposition to Rathi's candidature by a majority of the Jat community. "Change of the candidate is a positive signal and raises hopes of party leaders who feel side-lined due to denial of tickets," said an RLD leader. The RLD is in a pre-poll alliance with SP in Uttar Pradesh. Hours after the announcement of alliance candidates for the two constituencies of Meerut, protests erupted against the party and angry workers even burnt the RLD flag in Siwalkhas constituency. The two candidates -- Ghulam Mohammad and Manisha Ahlawat -- were actually SP leaders who had been given tickets on the RLD symbol. According to the RLD leaders, at least 8 seats across west UP have SP candidates on RLD symbol. "In Muzaffarnagar alone, out of five seats given to RLD in alliance, four have SP candidates fighting on RLD symbol which infuriated the RLD cadre," said an RLD leader. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/under-pressure-rld-changes-candidate-in-chaprauli-1072810.html
20-01-2022||National Politics||Congress' face of 'ladki hoon' campaign Priyanka Maurya set to join BJP||Priyanka Maurya, the face of Congress 'Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon' poster in Uttar Pradesh, may join the BJP soon. BJP sources said that she visited the party headquarters in Lucknow on Wednesday, triggering speculation of her joining the saffron party. Maurya said, 'Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon' has been rendered as a mere slogan because "as a 'ladki' (woman), I was not allowed to contest elections because I could not pay bribe." She claimed that instead of giving her a ticket, one was given to a person who joined the party just a month ago. "I completed all formalities but the ticket was pre-planned and was given to a person who came just a month back. I want to send this message to Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi that such things are happening on the ground," said Maurya. Maurya said she has been relentlessly working in the Sarojini Nagar Vidhan Sabha constituency for over a year, but was denied a ticket. "We were used as a pawn to woo women and people from the backward community. Very soon you will see me and members of my community with the BJP," she said. Maurya's social media profile, categorically describes her as Mahila Congress vice-president, doctor and social worker. It also refers to 170, Sarojini Nagar Vidhan Sabha, an Assembly seat in Lucknow. In a 'pinned' tweet posted on January 14, Maurya alleged Congress' 'Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon' campaign was nothing, but a hoax. "People will say if you do not get the ticket, then you are bound to say this. Investigate and find out yourself. We were told to prepare for 2024. Congress has not been able to beat the 'jumlas' of BJP," she said in the tweet. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-face-of-ladki-hoon-campaign-priyanka-maurya-set-to-join-bjp-1072815.html
20-01-2022||National Politics||Ambedkar follower set to contest his 94th elections in Uttar Pradesh||The Kheragarh Assembly seat in Uttar Pradesh's Agra will host a unique contestant, 74-year-old Hasanuram Ambedkari, who is set to contest his 94th election. He has filed his nomination papers as an independent candidate. Ambedkari said that he works as a farm labourer and has an MNREGA job card. He does not have formal schooling, but can read and write Hindi, Urdu, and English. A member of the All India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation (BAMCEF) founded by Kanshi Ram, Ambedkari said that he fought all elections according to the ideology of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar. He has been unsuccessfully contesting elections since 1985 for various bodies, including the Lok Sabha, state Assembly, and panchayat elections from different seats. In 1988, his nomination for the post of the President of India was rejected. He said, "I contest elections to lose. The winning politicians forget the masses. I want to set a record of losing elections 100 times. I do not care who my opponents are as I contest elections to give an option to voters who believe in Ambedkar's ideology." Ambedkari contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Agra and Fatehpur Sikri seats, but forfeited his deposit. He fought the zila panchayat elections in 2021. He secured the highest number of votes (36,000) in the 1989 Lok Sabha elections from the Firozabad seat. Ambedkari has started door-to-door campaigning with his wife and supporters. He said, "My agenda has always been impartial and corruption-free development and welfare of the marginalised in society.". He was also briefly a member of the BSP as well. "I was a dedicated worker of BAMCEF and also worked for the BSP to strengthen its roots in UP. In 1985, when I asked for a ticket, I was ridiculed and told that not even my wife would vote for me. I was deeply disheartened and since then, I have been contesting every election as an independent candidate," he said.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ambedkar-follower-set-to-contest-his-94th-elections-in-uttar-pradesh-1072817.html
20-01-2022||National Politics||System being created where there is no place for any discrimination: PM Modi||Asserting that an India whose thinking and approach are innovative and decisions progressive is emerging, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that a system is being created in which there is no place for any discrimination. Delivering the keynote address at the national launch ceremony of 'Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav se Swarnim Bharat Ke Ore' virtually, Modi noted that one's progress is aligned with the nation's progress and stressed the need for giving importance to one's duties for the country's rise. He also spoke about efforts being made to tarnish India's image, including at the international level, and said there was a need to counter them and present a proper picture of the country. Emphasising on duties, he said, "We also have to admit that in the 75 years after Independence, a malaise has afflicted our society, our nation and us all. The malaise is that we turned away from our duties and did not give them primacy." Launching year-long initiatives dedicated to Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav by the Brahma Kumaris, which include more than 30 campaigns and over 15,000 programmes and events, he said people only talked of their rights all these years and fought for them. Speaking of rights may be right to some extent in certain circumstances but forgetting one's duties completely has played a huge role in keeping India weak, Modi said and called for everyone to work together to discharge their duties that will remove social ills and also take India to new heights. "All of us have to light a lamp in the heart of every citizen of the country - the lamp of duty. Together, we will take the country forward on the path of duty, then the evils prevailing in the society will be removed and the country will reach new heights," the prime minister said. He also asked organisations like Brahma Kumaris, which have an international presence, to work to present the right picture of India abroad and dispel rumours being spread about it. "You all have been witness to various efforts being made to malign India's image. A lot of it goes on at the international level too. We cannot wash our hands of by saying this is all politics. This is not about politics but about our country," the prime minister said. In his speech, Modi said a society is being built that stands firmly on the foundation of equality and social justice. The coming 25 years, a reference to the run up to the centenary year of India's Independence in 2047, are of hard work, sacrifice, austerity and penance, he said, adding that people have to reclaim in this period what our society has lost in "hundreds of years of slavery". "Amrit Kaal is not for dreaming while sleeping, but for deliberate fulfilling of our resolutions. The coming 25 years are the period of utmost hard work, sacrifice, and ‘tapasya’. This period of 25 years is for getting back what our society has lost in hundreds of years of slavery, ” he said. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra, chief ministers of Rajasthan and Gujarat Ashok Gehlot and Bhupendra Patel respectively and Union Ministers G Kishan Reddy, Bhupender Yadav, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Parshottam Rupala and Kailash Choudhary also joined the ceremony virtually. Brahma Kumaris is a worldwide spiritual movement dedicated to personal transformation and world renewal. Founded in India in 1937, the Brahma Kumari movement has spread to over 130 countries. The event was held on the occasion of the 53rd ascension anniversary of Pitashree Prajapita Brahma, founding father of the Brahma Kumaris movement. In his address, Modi also mentioned about the Indian tradition of venerating and giving importance to women and said, "When the world was in deep darkness and caught in the old thinking about women, India used to worship women as Maatri Shakti and Goddess." He listed developments like entry of women in the armed forces, more maternity leaves for working women and better political participation in the form of more voting and representation in the Council of Ministers as a mark of new confidence among women. This movement is society-led and the gender ratio has improved in the country, he said. He urged people to keep India's culture and values ​​alive and to preserve and promote its spirituality and its diversity. At the same time, he emphasised the need to continuously modernise the systems of technology, infrastructure, education and health. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/system-being-created-where-there-is-no-place-for-any-discrimination-pm-modi-1072882.html
20-01-2022||National Politics||Congress slams Centre over abduction of Indian by Chinese forces||Congress on Thursday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over reports of abduction of a teenager from Arunachal Pradesh by the Chinese military with top party leader Rahul Gandhi saying PM's silence showed he 'did not care'. "A few days before Republic Day, an Indian has been kidnapped by China. We are with the family of Miram Taron and will not lose hope, will not give up. The PM's cowardly silence is his statement -- he does not care," he tweeted in Hindi. His reaction comes a day after Arunachal BJP MP Tapir Gao tweeted that China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) has abducted a 17-year-old boy from inside Indian territory in the Upper Siang district. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that China's "audacity is increasing and so is BJP government's shamelessness". "Dear PM, How dare the Chinese Army to transgress into our territory again? How can GOI permit the abduction of our citizens? How can GOI remain mum? Why is the government not listening to the earnest appeal of its own MP? Please don't say again -- No one has come and no one has been abducted," he said. Addressing a press conference, senior Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil said that Modi needs to talk about the issue. "If the BJP MP who has raised the issue is wrong, the Prime Minister should at least tell that. He is keeping silent," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-slams-centre-over-abduction-of-indian-by-chinese-forces-1072922.html
20-01-2022||National Politics||TMC trying to divide anti-BJP votes, party’s united fight claims just drama: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Thursday hit out at the TMC, alleging that the party was trying to “divide anti-BJP votes” in states, and its claims of organising a united front against the saffron camp was nothing short of a “well-scripted drama”. Chowdhury also said that the Bengal's ruling party, in a tacit understanding with the BJP, was trying to "finish off" the Congress. The TMC recently announced its first list of candidates for Goa Assembly polls, scheduled next month. The Mamata Banerjee-led camp is fighting the elections to the 40-member Goa Assembly in alliance with Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP). "The TMC's main role is to fracture non-BJP votes in Goa. The TMC, using money power, has bought a few leaders. In a tacit understanding with the BJP, it is trying to hurt the prospects of the Congress and that is a proven fact. "The party is venturing into states where the Congress is the main opposition of the BJP. It is giving states such as Uttar Pradesh a miss as there are other regional forces," Chowdhury stated. If you go through TMC's political history, you will see that the party "always tried to bite the hand that helped", the senior Congress leader noted. "Staring at a humiliating defeat, it is now staging a drama of trying to organise a united fight against the BJP. The TMC is not a trustworthy ally. As it did in Bengal, the party is trying to finish off the Congress in other states, too," he contended. Responding to Chowdhury's remarks, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said the Congress should not blame the TMC for its losses in Bengal. "If the Congress can't fight the BJP, it isn't our fault. Nationally, the Congress has failed to counter the BJP. People are now looking up to the TMC to fight the saffron party," he said. The TMC, which is trying to make inroads in the political landscapes of other states, has been up in arms against the grand-old party over its alleged failure to confront the BJP. The ties between the Congress and the TMC got strained after the Bengal’s ruling party, in its mouthpiece Jago Bangla, asserted that Banerjee, and not Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-trying-to-divide-anti-bjp-votes-party-s-united-fight-claims-just-drama-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-1072979.html
20-01-2022||National Politics||My work never got acknowledged, lost respect for ‘bosses’: Babul Supriyo||Babul Supriyo on Thursday said that his seven-year tenure of "hard work" as a central minister was never ‘acknowledged’ and hence, he lost respect for the ‘bosses'. In a few explosive posts he tweeted on Wednesday, Babul, who had once fought on political frontlines for the BJP in Bengal, also challenged his former party, saying, “Let’s see how many BJP MPs can retain their seats in ‘24”. “I deserved a promotion after diligently and successfully working as a MoS and spotlessly too for seven years. But If I don’t get acknowledged for my hard work, I lose respect for my bosses and if there (is) no respect, there (is) no point in handing (hanging) on cuz (because) I won't be able to give my best when dejected,” Babul posted. Responding to a post that questioned what made him think that he deserved a minister of state’s post, Babul mentioned that in 2014 he was the only one to win from the state. “Humbled to be the first one to do so after Dr Shyamaprashad Mookherjee. A Bengali had to be appointed from West Bengal. I won my ‘place’, didn’t enter from the Rajya Sabha and ‘19 won again. Let’s see how many BJP MPs can retain their seats in ‘24,” he added. After having been dropped from the Cabinet last year, Babul had announced that he is quitting politics. Thereafter in September, Babul joined the Trinamool Congress. Once having been sincerely critical of the Trinamool, he is now pointing fingers at his former party. “I am extremely humbled and grateful to Didi (Mamata Banerjee) for calling me back into politics, an arena from where I had 'retired hurt',” Babul told Deccan Herald. Babul claimed that the BJP is in a “self-destructive mode” in the state. “I did not leave BJP for power, I left it in disgust. I am in no hurry for a post and shall do whatever the party decides for me. I am looking forward to the bypolls in Asansol - for sure the TMC candidate will win there and then I can work together with the new MP for the city I love, my Asansol,” he added. The state BJP, however, rejected Babul’s claims and has in return challenged him to contest as an independent candidate and win from anywhere in the state. “First, politics is not a job, it’s a service of the country, of the people. It’s unprecedented, somebody asks (in such a way) for promotion. Second, he should contest (and show that he can win) as an independent candidate from any of the wards in the (upcoming) municipal elections. Let there be BJP, Trinamool candidates too,” Samik Bhattacharya, BJP’s chief spokesperson in West Bengal told Deccan Herald.  “Everyone acknowledged (his work), and he was an accepted face in the BJP. This (his tweets) is not political language. He wasn’t one from politics. In seven years, he couldn’t grow into one,” Bhattacharya added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/my-work-never-got-acknowledged-lost-respect-for-bosses-babul-supriyo-1072991.html
20-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi government, CESL sign pact for installation of EV charging stations||The Delhi government signed an agreement with the CESL on Wednesday for the installation of charging and battery swapping stations for electric two, three and four wheelers at cluster bus depots of its Transport Department. Each charging and battery swapping facility will be installed at 14 locations. Each will include six charging points, three of which will be for two and three wheelers while three points will be meant for four-wheelers, he said. Under the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the Transport department, the Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL) has agreed to procure, install, operate and maintain charging units and related infrastructure at its cost and expense, said a Transport department statement. The charges for usage of location will be paid by CESL to Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) every month at the rate of one rupee per kWh of energy dispensed, it said. If the space required by the concessionaire is more than 3 ECS (Equivalent Car Space) then Rs 2,000 extra would be levied per ECS per month. Initially, the contract period is of 10 years, it said. According to the MoU, the CESL will start the work immediately and will finish the installation of all stations in the next four months. The location assessment survey at various DTC cluster bus depots at Rani Khera-I, Rani Khera-II, Rani Khera-III, Rajghat, Dilshad Garden, Seema Puri, Bawana Sec-1, Bawana Sec-5, Kanjhawala, Kair, Dichaon Kalan, Dwarka Sec-22, Rewla Khanpur, and Chhatarpur have been identified jointly by the department and EESL for setting up of the facility. The real-time status and availability of charging points will also be available on the ONE DELHI app, once installation work is complete. The CESL will also reduce carbon footprint and wherever feasible, will integrate solar rooftop and Battery Storage systems (BSS) with the installation of charging infrastructure, to use renewable energy to power the charging stations, the statement added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-cesl-sign-pact-for-installation-of-ev-charging-stations-1072790.html
20-01-2022||North and Central||Man gets life term for killing 2 priests in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr||The Additional District and Sessions Court here on Wednesday awarded life imprisonment to a man for killing two priests over a trivial issue. Jagdish Das and Sher Singh aka Sewa Das, the two priests, lived in the premises of a Shiva temple in Pagona village under Anoopshahr police station limits. Murari, a local, used to frequent the temple. However, the priests had once yelled at him for stealing tongs that they used. This infuriated Murari, who on April 28, 2020, hacked them to death at the temple's plinth. As Murari was trying to flee, the locals caught hold of him and thrashed him before handing him over to the police. Judge Gyan Prakash Tiwari also slapped a fine of Rs 20,000 on Murari. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-gets-life-term-for-killing-2-priests-in-uttar-pradeshs-bulandshahr-1072794.html
20-01-2022||North and Central||Seems peak of Covid 3rd wave in Delhi has gone past: Health Minister||The third wave of Covid-19 appeared to have gone past in the national capital but it is not time yet to lower the guard, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. He said the capital witnessed a record surge in cases with 28,867 cases registered on January 13 and the positivity rate climbing over 30 per cent on January 14 and 15. "That spike which Delhi saw can be considered as the peak of the Covid wave and it seems that we are past the peak now. The number of daily cases has come down in the last few days. Over 13,000 cases were recorded yesterday with a positivity rate of close to 24 per cent. And today, the number of cases is less than that," he said. On Wednesday, the capital witnessed 13,785 cases with a positivity rate of 23.86 per cent after conducting 57,776 tests. However on January 13, there were 98,832 tests and the positivity rate was 29.21 per cent. On January 14 and 15, the positivity rate was at 30.64 per cent but the cases had come down to 24,383 and 20,718 cases respectively. With the number of tests coming down by around 40 per cent in a week, the number of cases have come down drastically but the positivity rate has remained over 20 per cent. Jain said it was not time to say that the city is out of the danger zone and there is a need to watch the trend. Asked about easing restrictions, he said they will have to monitor the situation in the coming days before taking a decision. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seems-peak-of-covid-3rd-wave-in-delhi-has-gone-past-health-minister-1072892.html
20-01-2022||North and Central||BHU starts postgraduate course on 'Hindu Dharma'||The Banaras Hindu University has started a postgraduate programme in Hindu Dharma and according to the varsity, the course is the first of its kind in the country. Professor VK Shukla, who is the varsity's rector, said that this programme will help in making the world aware of many unknown aspects of Hindu Dharma and take its teachings to more and more people. He said that this would be the first such course in the country. The course will be conducted in collaboration with the departments of philosophy and religion, Sanskrit and ancient Indian history, culture and archaeology of the faculty of arts of the Bharat Adhyayan Kendra. Forty-five students, including a foreign student, have taken admission in the first session of the course, Shukla said after inaugurating the postgraduate programme on Tuesday. Sadashiv Kumar Divedi, the coordinator of the 'Bharat Adhyayan Kendra', said that this two-year course will have four semesters and 16 papers. Director of the Varanasi Center of the Indira Gandhi National Center for the Arts Vijay Shankar Shukla said that the idea of starting such a course was first given by scholars Pandit Ganganath Jha and Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya. But due to some reasons this course could not be started at that time, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhu-starts-postgraduate-course-on-hindu-dharma-1072918.html
20-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi govt caps RT-PCR price at private hospitals, labs at Rs 300||The Delhi government on Thursday capped the cost of conventional RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 detection in private hospitals and labs at Rs 300, a 40 per cent reduction from the earlier rate, according to an order. The earlier cost of an RT-PCR test was Rs 500. The rapid antigen test (RAT) at private facilities will cost Rs 100. Earlier, a RAT used to cost Rs 300. According to the order, home collection of samples and testing would cost Rs 500 against the earlier Rs 700. At government centres and hospitals, RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests are conducted for free of cost. The order also said that the cost of conventional RT-PCR tests for which samples are collected by government teams and then collected by private sector labs as requisitions by districts or hospitals will be Rs 200. The cost of the RT-PCR tests for which samples are collected by private labs for the government will be Rs 300. In November 2020, the government had capped the rate of RT-PCR tests in private hospitals and labs at Rs 800 and in August, last year it was further reduced to Rs 500. The health department has directed all private hospitals and laboratories to display the revised rates at a prominent place within 24 hours. It has also asked private facilities to process samples within 12 hours of being received in labs. The department said for positive samples, results should be updated on the ICMR portal within 30 minutes of the samples being processed. Details of all negative samples should be on the portal within 24 hours from receipt of samples in the lab, it said. On Thursday, Delhi reported 12,306 fresh Covid-19 cases and 43 more fatalities due to the viral disease, while the positivity rate dipped to 21.48 per cent. Delhi had logged 35 deaths and 13,785 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 23.86 per cent. The city had recorded 28,867 Covid-19 cases last Thursday, the sharpest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. The number then declined to 24,383 on Friday, 20,718 on Saturday, 18,286 on Sunday, 12,527 on Monday, and 11,684 on Tuesday. The positivity rate stood at 30.6 per cent on Saturday, the highest in the ongoing wave of the pandemic so far, 27.9 per cent on Sunday, 28 per cent on Monday and 22.5 per cent on Tuesday. The national capital has reported a total of 17,60,272 Covid-19 cases so far. A total of 1,66,039 patients have recuperated, while the death toll due to the disease stands at 25,503.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-caps-rt-pcr-price-at-private-hospitals-labs-at-rs-300-1072990.html
20-01-2022||North and Central||New Parliament building cost likely to go up by Rs 200 crore, CPWD expected to get approval||The estimated project cost of the new Parliament building may increase by more than Rs 200 crore due to higher expenditure on steel, electronics and other works, and the CPWD is expected to get the Lok Sabha Secretariat's approval for the enhancement, sources said on Thursday. Earlier this month, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the nodal agency for the construction of new parliament building, had sought in-principal approval of the LS Secretariat for the cost enhancement, the sources told PTI. They said that after the enhancement, the project is expected to cost around Rs 1200 crore. The new Parliament building project was awarded to the Tata Projects in 2020 for Rs 971 crore. The government had set October 2022 deadline for the building and aimed to hold the winter session this year in the new building. The sources said the CPWD have given the reasons behind the expected rise in the cost which include higher cost of steel as building is now constructed as per the norms of seismic zone 5. The cost on electronics is also expected rise as provisions are being made also for a modern audio-visual system, including tablets on the tables of MPs in both Houses of Parliament, the CPWD has said, according to the sources. Similarly, high-end technology devices are being considered for using in meeting rooms and chambers of ministers, the sources said. Another reason is the fact that the project developer has to comply with several directives of the Supreme Court such as all the earth excavated from the project site needed to be transported to the proposed Eco Park in Badarpur and not sold. "The Lok Sabha Secretariat received request from CPWD seeking in-principal approval proposal for enhancement in cost of construction of new parliament building earlier this month and it is likely to get approval," a source said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-parliament-building-cost-likely-to-go-up-by-rs-200-crore-cpwd-expected-to-get-approval-1073023.html
20-01-2022||Oasis||The power of prayer||The story is told of a certain pastor who was disturbed to see a shabbily dressed old man go into his church at noon every day and come out again after a few minutes. What could he be doing? He informed the caretaker and asked him to question the old man. After all, the place contained valuable belongings and furnishings. “I go to pray,” the old man said in reply to care taker’s questioning.  “Come, come now,” said the other, “you are never long enough in the church to pray.” “Well, you see,” the old man went on, “I don’t know how to pray a long prayer, but every day at twelve o’clock I just come and say, ‘Jesus, it’s Jim.’ I wait a minute and then come away. Even though it’s just a little prayer, I think he hears me.”  When Jim was injured sometime later and taken to the hospital, he had a wonderful influence on the ward. Grumbling patients became cheerful, and often the ward would ring with laughter. “Well, Jim,” said a nurse to him one day, “the men say you are responsible for this change in the ward. They say you are always happy.” “Aye, that I am. I can’t help being happy. You see, it’s my visitor. Every day he makes me happy.” “Your visitor?” The nurse was puzzled. She had noticed that Jim’s chair was always empty during visiting hours, for he was a lonely man, with no relatives. “Your visitor? But when does he come?” “Every day,” Jim replied, with a light in his eye. "Yes, every day at 12 O’clock he comes and stands at the foot of my bed. I see him and he smiles and says, ‘Jim, it’s Jesus.’" Despite the evolving and unstable seasons that life brings, we are called to trust God. Through times of joy and tribulation, one may be going through a season of rejection, loss, grief, or uncertainty. Do not be discouraged; there is good news for you: God’s faithfulness will never waver. He will be there when you need Him the most. Those who leave everything in God’s hand will eventually see God’s hand in everything. You must seek him in the morning if you want him through the day! There are more ways to pray than you probably ever imagined. They can be long or short, silent or spoken or sung. Some prayers don’t need words…! Prayer is so simple; it is like quietly opening a door and slipping into the very presence of God. There in the stillness to listen for his voice. Perhaps to petition or only to listen. It does not matter. Just to be there in his presence is in itself a prayer. “Delight yourself also in the Lord, and He shall, grant you the desires of your heart” Ps 37:4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-power-of-prayer-1072754.html
20-01-2022||Oasis||The need to get started||Arthur Ashe, the legendary tennis player once said, “Start where you are. Use what you have. Do what you can.” His words become significant when we recognise how daunting and difficult it is to get started. Consider this. A jet uses a whopping one-tenth of its entire fuel capacity only for its take-off. Writers spend maximum time on their first few paragraphs before they can overcome the writer’s block. Athletes have to warm up before they can reach their peak performance. In fact, jumping out of bed in the morning after six to seven hours of sleep is often the toughest task of the day. And so it is in any area of our lives. To begin anything takes effort. Yet nothing can ever be attempted or accomplished until we start.  "You don’t have to be great to start but you have to start to be great," said Zig Ziglar, the famed American author and motivational speaker. This philosophy takes greater importance as we begin this New Year 2022, amidst the ongoing pandemic of Covid-19 showing no signs of waning or ending. Most of us are beginning the year with the heaviness of grief and despondency. For some it’s the loss of their loved ones to the pandemic; for others, it is the loss of their jobs and incomes; for several others, it is coping with the debilitating effects of long Covid; for still many, it is a dip in morale and estranged relationships; and for almost every one of us, it is the frustration of having to live in these changed circumstances for days on end. Under these conditions, it is tempting to look at the New Year with little or no enthusiasm. It is natural to feel uninterested and unexcited about making new beginnings. It is justifiable to be stuck where we are with little motivation to begin again. Even so, it is imperative that we get started on improving and enhancing our lives. Let us not put off what we need to commence because of the desperate situation we currently find ourselves in. As the renowned Saint, St. Francis of Assisi said, “Start by doing what's necessary; then do what's possible, and suddenly you are doing the impossible.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-need-to-get-started-1073005.html
20-01-2022||Opinion||Demand-supply gap in urea sector||Recent reports have shown farmers worrying about crop losses because of urea shortages. The urea market is marred by recurring demand and supply mismatches because of various inefficiencies affecting the urea industry. It is important to fathom the industry’s dynamics to make sense of these inefficiencies.  On the demand side, overuse and imbalanced use of urea is a pronounced fact. While the optimal N/K ratio should be around 4, it is highly skewed in some states. The demand dynamics are influenced by the different pricing structures and artificially created large price differentials for different fertilisers with a bias towards urea. Urea is subsidised by almost 75% while DAP and MOP have just around 35% of subsidy. Further, the level of international price passing through is also different. Fluctuations in world prices are partially passed on in the case of DAP and MOP whereas in the case of urea all burden is borne by the government as Retail Selling Price is fixed. This gets reflected in the fertiliser subsidy figures. For the period of 2015-16 to 2021-22, more than two-thirds of the total fertiliser subsidy was allocated to urea alone. As per Budget Estimates for 2021-22, urea subsidy amounts to Rs 58,768 crore as compared to the overall fertiliser subsidy of Rs 79,530 crore. Excessive use of urea has also manifested into deteriorating Crop Response Function (kg grain/kg NPK) limiting crop yields (as per “Long Term fertiliser Experiments” of ICAR). Economic Survey 2015-16 elucidates the declining response ratio or marginal productivity of fertilisers since the 1970s, thus pointing to their inefficient use in Indian agriculture. Production, import trend From the availability point of view, the gap between domestic production and consumption of urea has widened, consequently, dependency on urea imports has crossed 25% of the total consumption. For instance, in 2020-21, India imported around 9.83 million tonnes of urea constituting around 28 per cent of the total consumption. To reduce import dependency, the government has been reviving closed urea plants and shifting to gas-based plants because of higher efficiency as compared to naptha-based plants. However, in recent years, the upward trend witnessed in gas prices has exerted pressure on the domestic cost of production. In 2018-19, weighted average costs of gas-based and naphtha-based plants were USD 320.5/MT and USD 517.5/MT respectively as compared to import parity price of around USD 300/MT (Gulati and Banerjee, 2019). The increased cost of production also exerts upward pressure on subsidy payout. Further, the structure of subsidy payout is designed to enhance domestic production but spurs inefficiency. The subsidy is given based on the firm-level cost of production rather than at a uniform level. This has led to inefficient firms operating in the market and disincentivizing any efficiency gains. Imports act as a major stabilising factor, however, urea imports are canalised, which means that only a few major firms are involved in the import of urea and the market is relatively concentrated. The value of HHI (Herfindahl–Hirschman Index), an index that is widely used to capture the concentration in the market comes out to be 2,086 (for 2019-20) reflecting a highly concentrated market. This limits the importers from responding to market conditions quickly. Further, lumpy imports by India may adversely impact import bills. Allowing more firms to enter will ensure the smooth functioning of the market and check shortages that may emerge due to factors such as demand misestimation. Way forward To address the supply-demand mismatch of urea, the government has come up with various initiatives such as the Soil Health Card scheme, Parampragat Krishi Vikas Yojana, Neem Coated Urea and ICAR’s models of Integrated Farming and Integrated Nutrient Management. Recent experiments involving Drone sprayed Nano Urea are seminal and can provide a way forward. In addition, the promotion of futuristic technologies such as coal gasification-based plants and green hydrogen production for fertiliser plants can boost production while lowering imports and promoting Atma Nirbhar Bharat Vision. Allowing more firms to import and promotion of joint ventures to secure gas reserves abroad may also be pondered over. Further, innovations such as water-soluble and zincated urea need to be promoted. Presently they get discouraged because of subsidies provided to granular urea. In order to incentivise firms to increase their efficiency, there should be a switch from firm-based subsidy to uniform subsidy leading to the reallocation of domestic production from inefficient firms to more efficient firms. Lastly, the possibility of using DBT per hectare of land can also be explored. (The writers are deputy directors in the Ministry of Finance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/demand-supply-gap-in-urea-sector-1072757.html
20-01-2022||Opinion||Amazon’s legal tangles in India are a cautionary tale||By Andy Mukherjee What should be an ordinary commercial dispute between Amazon.com Inc. and the founders of a near-bankrupt retailer is shining a harsh light on the quality of legal and regulatory protection investors actually receive in India.    The long drawn-out saga has thrown up two questions for prospective investors, or those who already have business interests in India. First, what does a go-ahead from the country’s antitrust authority even mean if an entire chain of investment based on that approval has to be unwound or reversed after two years? Second, can one rely on international arbitration to enforce Indian contracts, or will local courts get involved and throw a spanner into alternative dispute-resolution mechanisms?  Last month, Amazon was fined Rs 202 crore ($26.7 million) by the Indian competition watchdog. Worse, its $192 million capital infusion in Future Coupons Pvt. — a 2019 transaction — was put “in abeyance” for being economical with disclosures. The commission said it was denied an opportunity “to assess the effects of the actual combination,” which gave Amazon strategic rights over publicly traded Future Retail Ltd. Never mind that those “effects,” even if the trustbuster did get a chance to study them, are unlikely to have included concentration of power in the retail industry, for the simple reason that Amazon is not a retailer in India. It’s an electronic marketplace for buyers and sellers. Globally, the definition of what constitutes abuse of dominance is expanding beyond price fixing. As part of a broader crackdown on its tech titans, Beijing imposed a record $2.8 billion antitrust fine on Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. for using data and algorithms to obtain an unfair advantage over merchants. Tencent Holdings Ltd. was hauled up for not properly reporting past acquisitions and investments, and food-delivery app Meituan was punished for forcing restaurants into exclusive arrangements. Even outside China, large consumer tech platforms are facing increasingly hostile scrutiny. The Italian regulator recently handed a €1.1 billion ($1.2 billion) penalty to Amazon for discriminating against third-party sellers who do not use its logistics service. Amazon’s travails in India, however, have little to do with dominance. The foreign firm is legally barred by India’s overseas investment rules from acting as a retailer that owns or discounts inventory. That explains why Amazon sought to control Future Retail indirectly, via its investment in Future Coupons, a related firm. To keep on the right side of Indian law, the global ecommerce giant has similarly kept its voting rights in another of its acquisitions — the local grocery chain More — below 26 per cent. In doing those deals, however, the US firm hasn’t started wielding outsize influence on India’s $800 billion-a-year consumer commerce. Mom-and-pop stores control 80 per cent of the grocery market. Future Retail founder Kishore Biyani did his deal with Amazon in 2019 because he was desperate: He wanted to channel funds to his debt-laden retail network, and Jeff Bezos was willing to be his white knight. The competition regulator gave the deal its approval. While providing the money, though, Amazon insisted on a list of restricted parties to which Future’s assets couldn’t be divested without its permission. On that list was Mukesh Ambani, Asia’s richest man who also controls India’s largest retail chain. However, when the retail industry fell into an abyss after India’s Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020, Biyani turned around and sold his 1,500-plus stores to Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd. Amazon began arbitration proceedings in Singapore for breach of contract, jeopardizing the $3.4 billion acquisition. Without that obstacle, Reliance’s own 37 million square feet of retail space would by now have received a nice boost from Future’s 16 million square feet. (Reliance is not a party to the legal squabbles between Future and Amazon.) The freezing of the antitrust approval has put a question mark around the very contract that Amazon is trying to enforce. When Future tried to use that loophole to get further hearings in Singapore quashed, a Delhi High Court judge remarked that for arbitration to speedily settle disputes, interference by courts must be kept to a minimum. “If the parties are encouraged to approach the court at every stage of the arbitration proceedings, the whole purpose of the arbitration would stand frustrated,” the judge said. And yet, just a day later, a two-judge bench of the same court set aside the order, and imposed a stay on proceedings by the Singapore tribunal.  The clock is ticking. Future Retail recently missed a payment to banks, and Reliance’s offer to buy the stores from the cash-strapped firm expires in March. Yet the dispute about the fate of its assets is far from over. Amazon is challenging the latest Delhi High Court order in India's Supreme Court and has appealed against the antitrust agency’s volte face before a company-law tribunal. And that’s the final point investors need to bear in mind: They must be ready for expensive and time-consuming litigation to protect the value of their transactions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government claims — with some justification — to have made India’s bureaucratic labyrinth easier for global firms to navigate. Once they do enter, however, contract enforcement can be a whole different story. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/amazon-s-legal-tangles-in-india-are-a-cautionary-tale-1072813.html
20-01-2022||Opinion||Mayawati queers SP's pitch in western UP||When Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav held his first rally in western Uttar Pradesh, he made it a point to drop in at the residence of Harinder Malik in Muzaffarnagar. The former MP and Jat leader had quit Congress to join the SP, and Yadav's visit was seen as part of the messaging to non-Muslim intermediate caste groups in a polarised polity. Two months later, Malik's son and former MLA, Pankaj Malik, was named the joint candidate of the SP-Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) alliance from Charthawal, a rural constituency in Muzaffarnagar's cane belt. It has both Muslims and Jats in large numbers, and the two communities together form a robust electoral combination. But the very next day, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati queered the pitch by naming Salman Sayeed as her party's nominee from Charthawal. Sayeed is the son of former state home minister in UP's last Congress government (1985-89), veteran Congress leader, Saiduzzaman. The father and son face charges for giving incendiary speeches during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. Not just Charthawal, the BSP, in its first list of 53 candidates, has fielded 14 Muslims, including four in the communally sensitive Muzaffarnagar. In comparison, the SP-RLD alliance has rooted for 11 Muslim candidates in the 40-odd seats of the region for which it has finalised its nominees. The BSP strategy for western UP is an attempt to recreate its traditional Jatav-Muslim combination. The space has become more cluttered on seats where the SP-RLD alliance and the BSP have fielded Muslim candidates. Aligarh, for one, is being billed as an exciting contest where the BSP has fielded a woman candidate, Razia Khan. She is up against the SP's Zafar Alam. Then there is Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittahadul Musalmeen (AIMIM). Owaisi has announced his party's intent to field candidates on a hundred seats. Three Muslim candidates compete in constituencies like Dhaulana in the Hapur district, an hour's drive from Delhi. The SP has given the ticket to Aslam Chaudhary, who won the seat on the BSP ticket in 2017 by a margin of fewer than four thousand votes. The BSP has fielded Wasid Pradhan from Dhaulana. Owaisi's party, too, has given its ticket to a Muslim candidate, Haji Arif. The electoral logic of the SP-RLD alliance in western UP hinges on the SP's ability not just to mop up minority votes for itself but to limit division of anti-BJP votes and ensure the transfer of Muslim and backward castes votes to ally RLD's candidates. For the SP, this task becomes challenging in constituencies where the BSP has fielded Muslim candidates. Take the case of both Charthawal and Budhana in the Muzaffarnagar district. Hoping to capitalise on the farmers' agitation in the sugarcane belt, the SP-RLD alliance has fielded Jat candidates on both seats. The BSP has given tickets to Muslims while the BJP has nominated one OBC and one Jat candidate. A more complex situation prevails in Kol in Aligarh, where the BSP and the SP have fielded Muslim candidates. Here the RLD's ability to add Jat votes to the alliance kitty will be tested. The call for support for alliance candidates by the Bhartiya Kisan Union and the Tikaits of Sisauli could have helped the RLD's prospects. But the statement was withdrawn, perhaps after a realisation that such calls may engender counter mobilisation in a polity where vote preferences can be influenced by khap or clan affiliations, especially against the dominant communities. The demography of western UP suits the BJP. Registering its best strike rate of almost 87 per cent in the region, the party got off to a blazing start in the 2017 Assembly polls. The ruling party is again relying on the consolidation of backward classes and traditional upper caste voters. And on the division of the anti-BJP votes too. Hence, 46 of the 109 tickets announced in its first two lists of candidates have gone to the OBCs. As the election moves east, the SP will be buffeted by its core constituency among the Yadavs and OBCs. In western UP, though, its chances would depend on what the RLD brings to the table. (Sumit Pande is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mayawati-queers-sps-pitch-in-western-up-1072814.html
20-01-2022||Opinion||Will Brexit claim yet another PM in Britain?||In 2016, the United Kingdom's then foreign minister, Boris Johnson, mentioned a new term, 'Global Britain'. The coinage was in keeping with the (still) ongoing Brexit strategy to assert, or perhaps find, Britain's role in the world. By disassociating itself from Europe, the plan has been to refurbish the foreign policy and carve out its footprint. The vision of 'Global Britain' is at the heart of Johnson's broad strategy, which he has been touting at notable platforms, such as the G7 summit. Johnson, in the introductory video of the summit in June 2021, compared himself to Winston Churchill, who "stood with Franklin D. Roosevelt to face the challenges of the devastation of the second world war." His brilliance, however, is yet to shine through, the ocean in the background of his video message, notwithstanding. Brexit is a throwback to the golden past, the path that the country should have taken, as it's lost its global leadership, some would argue in the 1960s. Since then, it has been seen dragging its feet in the shadow of the big brother, the United States. The 'Global Britain' vision thus becomes Johnson's endeavour at 'Making Britain Great Again'. The exit from the European Union is the country's attempt at being recognised away from a group to mark its stamp on global politics. However, it has become a standing joke in the global community, and it remains impossible to define the need or the benefits accruing from the exit. Brexit has so far claimed two prime ministers in Britain - David Cameron and Theresa May. The events in the past two weeks indicate the current prime minister, Boris Johnson, may be on his way out as well. He has evaded scandal and accusations in the past, but he may not be able to weather the most recent round. He is accused of hosting parties at his official residence, 10 Downing Street, where drinks flew while the country reeled under lockdowns and sanctions. This is just not a pretty picture, led from the front by someone who dreams of a glorious tomorrow for his country. The Prime Minister's Office has also had to apologise to the Queen after the news leaked that at least two parties were held at 10 Downing Street on the eve of Prince Philip's funeral. A staff member was reportedly sent out to procure a 'suitcase of wine'. While Johnson has admitted he attended the 100-people 'bring your own booze' party in May 2020, during a lockdown, he continues to vehemently assert that these get-togethers were 'work events' and that he did not flout any rules. His constituents do not agree with him. His approval ratings, as reported by the New York Times, are lower than Donald Trump's or his predecessor, Theresa May's, at any time during their respective tenures. As of January 11, 71 per cent of the British people feel Johnson is doing poorly in his role, and 69 per cent feel he is untrustworthy. An investigation on whether the prime minister broke any rules is underway, and his immediate political career could be determined by its outcome. Further, whether Johnson will continue in his post will also depend on the anticipated resignations of his cabinet members. The country has witnessed more upheavals than it can weather in the past few years. Johnson may have lost whatever little political capital he had accumulated during his caricature of career. Even if he braves the current storm and emerges victorious for now, it can be said with certainty that his clout on the Tories, officially the Conservative and the Unionist Party, may have waned for good. This week, Johnson announced a spate of relaxations in the Covid-19 related rules for the British people, hoping to win some of his voters over. Political power, except in an autocracy, is won when the voters repose trust in the leader. If s/he seems to be out of breath when not reading from a script, their future may have been epitaphed. It may be a matter of weeks, if not days, for Johnson's future to be decided, at least in his current role. His latest move includes relaxing the guidance on wearing masks in public transportation, classrooms, and offices. He has also announced that people will not need to present a vaccination certificate to enter public events. These may be too little, too late. With defections to the Labor Party having started, his future may have already been decided, ironically, over a drink. Or a series of them. In 1878, British PM Benjamin Disraeli, referring to his rival, William Gladstone, called him a "sophisticated rhetorician intoxicated by the exuberance of your own verbosity". One hundred years later, the Indian superstar, Amitabh Bachchan, said these lines coming out of an easter egg in a blockbuster film. It may be time for Johnson's verbose drunken revelries to come to a screeching halt, intoxicated as he may be. (The author is a former Chief of Communications with UNICEF in New York, where he worked for more than a decade) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-brexit-claim-yet-another-pm-in-britain-1072859.html
20-01-2022||Opinion||Omicron: Is India testing enough?||Since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, India's testing rates and capacities have been discussed at length. With the onslaught of the third wave, low testing rates have become a point of concern. Recent guidelines by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recommended no testing for asymptomatic people who have come in contact with Covid patients. This decision has come amid a severe rise in cases across the country. Based on the analysis done during the second wave, we could only detect one case out of thirty positive patients. The new guidelines have exacerbated the inefficiencies of our fighting strategies. Furthermore, testing rates in many states have become stagnant. With positivity rates touching 30 per cent in some cities as against the World Health Organisation (WHO)'s recommended five per cent, we do not see a proportional rise in the number of cases. This low number contributes to the narrative about the meekness of the Omicron variant hindering our implementation of the 3T strategy of testing, tracking and treatment. Two years down into this pandemic, we have not scaled up our testing capabilities and are dealing with Omicron as if we were caught by surprise. Data shows that the test positivity ratio is increasing all over the country, with this week's numbers for India being 12.8 per cent. The test positivity ratio over the past seven days for Goa, West Bengal and Delhi is 36.1 per cent, 32 per cent, and 27.8 per cent, respectively. For Maharashtra, it has been 20.5 per cent, while for Kerala, the test positivity ratio is 19 per cent. Some regions, such as Delhi, have even shown a decrease in testing with a reduction of tests from one lakh on January 12 with 27,500 cases to 65,000 on January 15 with 20,700 cases. Why is an increase in testing important Testing is vital as we cannot isolate everyone and stop all contact between people. More testing means that more people are aware that they are positive, allowing them to isolate themselves and reduce the spread of the virus. When the positivity rate rises, it indicates that more people need to be tested. A number that is frequently recommended by the WHO is five per cent. There are two approaches to reduce that figure to five per cent. First, by reducing the number of cases; second, by increasing the number of tests performed. We are already attempting to slow the spread of the virus, but the number of tests is not increasing as quickly as it should. An increase in the number of cases should be matched by a corresponding increase in tests. Impact on 3T strategy Testing, tracking, and treatment have proven to be an efficient and successful means of halting the virus's spread. A lag in the first step will almost certainly affect the other two and create a barrier in our ability to respond. A significant decline in the number of cases will eventually result in worse tracking and impact essential analyses such as genomic surveillance. If we are going to fight the present surge, we will need to use all three Ts. Consequences of the failure in 3T strategy We will not be able to reduce the spread of infections if we are unable to isolate infected people. Morbidity and mortality will shoot up as the number of cases rise. This increase in damage and deaths will force the government to restrict people's movement further to decrease contact between people. The government will be forced to impose a lockdown that will harm our already broken economy. Communication failure and misinformation One of the primary reasons people are not getting themselves tested for Covid-19 is the narrative of Omicron being clinically mild. Moreover, the new ICMR guidelines have made people even more lenient and oblivious to risk. This narrative has also led people to become lax about public health measures such as hand hygiene, social distancing and masking up. Effective communication in such situations is a powerful tool that the government can leverage to its advantage. What the government needs to do The first move is to increase the number of tests done and keep the test positivity number below five per cent. This can be done by making it easier for people to get tested. We also need to correct the narrative about the "mild" variant. It may be mild for some people, but it can prove deadly for the elderly, the immunocompromised. The Omicron variant also infects a far larger number of people; thus, even if it is clinically milder, it can still cause many deaths. More cases also increase post-Covid complications such as long Covid, which causes brain fog, fatigue, shortness of breath, etc. The state also needs to increase genomic surveillance to identify new changes in the virus and be prepared for them. India is not testing enough. The situation has become even more worrisome due to the 'meek Omicron' narrative and the latest ICMR guidelines. We have had enough experience in the past 20 months to understand that we need to test to contain the spread. We should have the capacity to upscale our testing in response to an increase in cases. However, we still have time to act. The wave is yet to reach rural parts of the country, and testing can help. (Mahek Nankani is an Assistant Programme Manager at the Takshashila Institution. Harshit Kukreja, MBBS, is a Research Analyst with the Takshashila Institution) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos on Covid-19:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/omicron-is-india-testing-enough-1072861.html
20-01-2022||Opinion||Uttarakhand: Congress faces Harak Singh Rawat dilemma||Many in the Congress are yet to forget the 2016 revolt by its nine MLAs, including Harak Singh Rawat, against Uttarakhand's then Harish Rawat government, which had the hill state face a constitutional crisis for two months. Now more than five years later, Harak Singh has come knocking on the doors of the Congress, but a section in that party is adamant not to allow him entry. Harish Rawat, the face of the Congress in the state, is reluctant to readmit Harak Singh into the party. The Congress, already troubled with factionalism in Uttarakhand, could become a more divided house if Harak Singh rejoins. Manoj Rawat, Congress MLA from Kedarnath, recently gave vent to what a section of the Congress thinks of Harak Singh, "He is a murderer of democracy and should not be allowed to rejoin the party ." Many other Congress leaders and workers agree. However, some in the Congress point to his popularity in the Garhwal region of the state and believe the party should consider Harak Singh's teary-eyed apology, particularly as elections are barely a month away. "Since he expressed his desire to work against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), our doors are open, but the high command will take the final decision," a Congress leader said. Harak Singh could join the Congress, but it is unlikely he will contest the polls as the party's candidate. Instead, the Congress is mulling fielding his daughter-in-law, Anukriti Gosain, as its nominee from the Lansdowne assembly seat. Evidently, Harak Singh's bargaining power has suffered after the BJP expelled him. The Congress top leadership has left Harak Singh's fate in the hands of the state leaders. A tall leader stands diminished Earlier this week, the BJP expelled Harak Singh for six years and sacked him from the Pushkar Singh Dhami-led council of ministers. Harak Singh, according to sources, had demanded that the BJP field his daughter-in-law from the Lansdowne seat. His demand had come in the wake of reports in local newspapers of hobnobbing with senior Congress leaders to assure a ticket not only for his daughter-in-law but himself too. Harak Singh Rawat, 61, is known in Uttarakhand politics for frequently changing his political affiliations and assembly constituencies. Yet, he has never faced defeat in assembly polls in the last two decades. He was the leader of the opposition from 2007-12 and a cabinet minister in three governments in the state. Harak Singh wishes to return to the Congress, which had paid heavily in the 2017 polls since his defection had triggered many influential leaders to join the BJP. Currently, Congress has no big face other than Harish Rawat and badly needs prominent faces to strengthen the party in the state. Hence, some Congress leaders allude to his winnability factor - his supporters call him the 'lion of Garhwal' - which they say the party would need in a tough election and want him reinducted. Switching loyalties and stoking controversies has gone hand in hand in Harak Singh's 31-year long political career. He won the assembly elections the first time as a BJP nominee from Pauri in 1991 when Uttarakhand was part of the undivided Uttar Pradesh. He was the youngest minister in that government, headed by Kalyan Singh. In 1996, Harak Singh joined the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) due to his differences with the BJP leaders. He stayed in the BSP briefly and joined the Congress in 1998. In 2000, Uttarakhand was carved out of UP, and Harak Singh won from Lansdowne on a Congress ticket. He remained with the Congress for 18 years, occupying ministerial and leader of the opposition positions. But in 2016, he defected to join the BJP. However, his unhappiness with former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and subsequently Pushkar Singh Dhami, who are much junior to him in politics, was known. Harak Singh's continuous pressure politics infuriated the BJP enough to show him the exit door. It is a predicament Harak Singh has never faced in his career.  (The writer is a journalist based in Dehradun) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/uttarakhand-congress-faces-harak-singh-rawat-dilemma-1073053.html
20-01-2022||Panorama||Bengal is reeling under unending Centre-state political confrontation||The political leaderships at the Centre and in Bengal are in a constant tug-of-war. With the BJP at the helm of affairs at the Centre, and the Trinamool firmly holding on to power in Bengal, every decision involving the two governments generates enough heat to keep politics on the boil. The most recent point of contention is the exclusion of the state government’s proposed tableau for the Republic Day parade, featuring Subhas Chandra Bose — this being his 125th birth anniversary year — and the Indian National Army. The presentation, according to the letter Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, would have also carried portraits of other prominent figures from the region who made contributions to the freedom struggle. Netaji’s grandnephew Chandra Bose (a former vice president of the BJP in the state) told Deccan Herald that while the Centre (Central Public Works Department’s tableau) is also expected to feature Bose, Bengal’s tableau should still have been given a chance.  On January 7, after a long time, Mamata and Modi attended a programme together, though the medium was virtual. The occasion was the inauguration of a new campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute. The facility was built with the Centre and state sharing the Rs 530-crore cost in the ratio of 75:25. Mamata told the PM that while he was formally inaugurating the medical facility that day, the campus had already been ‘inaugurated’ by the state as it had come in handy in handling the Covid pandemic. While mentioning the scarcity of doctors and the need to have more seats in medical colleges, She publicly complained to the Prime Minister about West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar questioning her decisions to strengthen the state’s health infrastructure by adding people from “outside”, pointing out that she had done so following the PM’s suggestions. She said that despite differences in ‘political outlook’ between TMC and BJP, her government follows and executes Centre’s directives. While participating in virtual meetings with Modi, Mamata has, on at least two occasions in the past, expressed unhappiness at not being allowed to speak. Besides the administrative friction, there is a long list of allegations that has been raised in the political domain in recent weeks. In September, the Centre denied Mamata permission for a trip to Rome. A proposed visit to Nepal last month was also not permitted, allegedly due to political differences. In December, the Trinamool chief was vocal against the Centre for freezing the bank accounts of the Missionaries of Charity (MoC). It was said that this would leave a considerable number of poor without treatment and food. Later, it was discovered that MoC had itself written to its branches not to operate its bank accounts while it resolved the FCRA issue with the government.   Besides administrative affairs, the state-Centre fight is visible in the state’s cultural affairs, too. A national tag for Gangasagar Mela that takes place on Sagar Island in southern Bengal and hosts lakhs of pilgrims annually has not been given by the Centre, despite repeated requests, it is alleged. The UNESCO’s inclusion of Durga Puja to its list of ‘Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity’ also saw statements by political leaders, but more to settle political claims surrounding the festival.  A few weeks after returning to power last year, Mamata had skipped a review meeting with the Prime Minister on Cyclone Yaas. The political stand-off has continued since then. Two major points on which Bengal came close to putting its foot down on issues that are in the domain of the Centre were the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction along the international border, from an earlier 15 km to 50 km in Bengal, and the Pegasus snooping allegations. In November, the state Assembly passed a resolution against the Centre’s move to extend the jurisdiction. When the Pegasus controversy erupted, the state went ahead and announced a two-member commission in July to investigate the matter.    While the strains in state-Centre relations resurface occasionally, it’s evident that the Raj Bhavan in Kolkata and the state administration are never on the same plane. While a section of Trinamool leaders believe that the Bengal Governor has been playing a wider role than the Constitution bestows on the post, Governor Dhankhar continues to question most decisions of the state that involve him.  The appointment of vice-chancellors to the state universities, instructing state officials for availing details and attending meetings on certain occasions, recruitment of consultants by the state government, challenging the state’s appointments to several bodies, holding up assent on an amendment bill for bifurcating a local municipal corporation — Governor Dhankhar has tweeted on most issues where he differs or has reservations over state government’s decisions. A constant state of confrontation between the two major political parties has become a political necessity in the region. The Trinamool leadership has often blamed the Centre for non-cooperation. Mamata had in November charged the Centre with ‘bulldozing’ down the country’s federal structure. BJP leaders, meanwhile, have maintained a steady flow of tweets to claim that Trinamool doesn’t care for the laws of the land.  Like the rest of the country, Bengal too fought the surge in covid infections. Allegations and counter-allegations infected politics in the region in the absence of a coordinated political effort. Could Covid have been tackled better if the two sides had cooperated? It’s important to ponder.   After the last two elections – the 2019 Lok Sabha and the 2021 state Assembly elections, the Trinamool and the BJP could both have played a more helpful role for the state. Confrontational politics has, however, dominated over everything else.  The political and administrative domains overlap. The constitutional boundaries of the country’s federal structure are being challenged frequently by both parties in power. This should be of concern, given the need for the development and growth of the state. DHNS||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bengal-is-reeling-under-unending-centre-state-political-confrontation-1072755.html
20-01-2022||Right in the Middle||The everyday melody||He put the good old cup of tea with a soft sound on the table. I took a refreshing sip, just right, as usual, not too hot, not too sweet, not too strong, and not a drop spilt on the saucer. He was not Wodehouse's Jeeves but Thomas from my office. Routine noise, sounds and vibrations get memorised often in the mind based on the causes, effects and complete actions. Take for example the old touring talkies drum cart in the sixties. The boy would promote the movie as "Raj Kumar’s full fighting movie" and make us run behind to collect the fliers. This enabled us to be in the “floor-sitting-Gandhi-class” learning to whistle. That was the equivalent of a promotion! Now, the day starts, gloriously with the “tup” noise the rolled newspaper bundle makes, ending the early morning dream and marking the beginning of a day full of various sounds. Then comes a pleasant rendition of suprabhatam in MS's ever-green voice, followed by jarring noise of broomstick, working sump-pump, coffee waves, the faint promotional voices of vegetable vendors, pressure cooker whistles, and finally the prayer and chanting of the bell from the pooja room or a temple. A good day always starts with nice and melodious chirps by the visiting birds and the barking of our dear street dog the Bilya. I am allowed to prepare the chutney in the kitchen, and the nice rhyming sound of stone-grinding by hand pleasantly gives a prayer-like blissful feeling. The noises continue through the day. Traffic appears good and competent with honking, hand-signalling and engine sounds. I am delivered to the office to start serious work after meeting Thomas with tea. In a non-pandemic time, canteens nearby feature good food, the process involving a lot of familiar sounds. Big cheers emerge from cricket stadia or local grounds owing to fine players, while the neighbourhood schools are abuzz with the conversations of children, teachers and everyone else. Amid the pandemic, we have been missing many of the regular sounds. The working sound of music, morning discussion with the high-sounding boss, the industrial noise of motors, compressors, material movements, appear far away. That is quite disturbing. Many of the melodious noises are waiting to make a comeback. Jerome K Jerome said it right: “Voices are calling us to some great effort, to some mighty work.” Everyday noises blend quite naturally with life. The feel of a sound is a catalyst in many ways. That's why we like it. Yes — the "Sound of Music” isn’t far away, it's in our lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-everyday-melody-1072759.html
20-01-2022||Second Edit||State of Forest: Misleading claims||The 17th edition of the India State of Forest Report (ISFR) apparently provides some good news about the country’s forests. But it also flags some areas of concern that cast a shadow over the report as such. The report says that India’s forests have increased by 2,261 sq km after the previous ISFR in 2019, and that forests and trees now cover about 24.62 % of the country’s total geographical area. The states that have contributed to the increase in forest cover are Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha and Karnataka. Some states have a higher percentage, with 17 states and UTs recording as much 33% of forest and tree cover. The total forest cover in the country is over 7 lakh sq km. The very dense forest areas have marginally increased, too, though over 1,600 sq km of them was destroyed since 2019.   Though the figures look good, there are many question marks over them. The very definition of ‘forest’ and the methodology in the report are problematic. It covers almost all tree clusters with some leaf cover and even coconut groves and sugarcane fields. Natural forests have actually been lost but have been compensated by the increase in protected areas and reserve forests. Plantations, which account for a large part of the increase, cannot be considered as forests because they are monoculture tree clusters. They do not serve a forest’s functions as a repository of biodiversity and as a carbon sink. The loss of forests is considerable in five North-East states. Experts have felt that the report is misleading and some have even thought that it may be an attempt to show that the country has made progress in meeting its climate change commitments. In the case of Karnataka, very dense forests and open forest cover have increased, while moderately dense forest cover has shrunk. It should also be noted that the forest cover in Karnataka is only about 20% of the state’s geographical area, and is less than the national average.  The report also says that 45-64% of forests are prone to climate change impact and has, for the first time, mapped climate change hotspots. It predicts that Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand will experience the highest temperature increase and Tamil Nadu and West Bengal may experience the least increase. It also projects that the Upper Malabar coast will experience the highest increase in rainfall. The link between climate and forests is as old as the hills and the report underlines it. But overall, it may not reflect the true state of forests in the country. Some estimates have said that the country’s tree-cover has actually shrunk by 5% in the past two decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/state-of-forest-misleading-claims-1072751.html
20-01-2022||South||Govt order to cancel title deeds triggers a political controversy in Kerala||A decision of the left-front government in Kerala to cancel 532 illegal title deeds of assigned lands in the ecologically fragile Munnar region of Idukki district has triggered a political row within the left-front itself as the CPM's district office is also situated in land having the illegal title deed. CPI, which is the second-largest front in the left-front, is holding the revenue portfolio and the revenue department is taking the steps to nullify the illegal land deeds. CPM district leaders including former minister M M Mani questioned the decision. But revenue minister K Rajan said that the procedures to nullify the illegal title deeds were based on a decision taken by the previous cabinet in which Mani was also a member. It was in 1999 that then additional tahsildar of Devikulam in Idukki, Raveendran, issued the title deeds even as he was not empowered to do that. The title deeds were thereafter popularly referred to as 'Raveendran Pattayams' (Raveendran title deeds). Many resorts owned by influential people were also situated in the lands assigned under the illegal title deeds. The revenue minister said that those genuinely eligible for the title deeds would be allowed fresh deeds. The CPM office could be also situated in the land that is eligible for title deeds. He also said that any decision to demolish the building in lands with illegal title deeds were not taken yet. Encroachments were quite rampant in the ecologically fragile Idukki district which is part of the Western Ghats. The left-front government in Kerala led by V S Achuthanandan in 2007 initiated a drive to evict encroachers and demolish illegal constructions. Nearly 100 buildings were demolished and over 15,000 acres of encroached land were recovered in the drive. But the drive had to be stopped in between owing to political row as party offices were also among the illegal constructions. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/govt-order-to-cancel-title-deeds-triggers-a-political-controversy-in-kerala-1072868.html
20-01-2022||South||BJP alleges Rs.1,000-crore scam in TN over purchase of 'Pongal' gift hampers||Senior BJP leader H Raja on Thursday alleged corruption to the tune of Rs.1,000 crore in the purchase of Pongal gift hampers for distribution among the ration cardholders in Tamil Nadu this month. Considering the standard of the articles distributed as against the claim of a Rs.1,800-crore purchase by the government, there was a corruption of Rs.1,000 crore, Raja told reporters. The ruling party DMK, which demanded Rs.5,000 for distribution among the people as against Rs.2,500 given by the previous AIADMK regime as a Pongal gift, had given only sub-standard articles now, said Raja who was here to participate in a temple festival. The people will give a befitting reply to the ruling party in the coming civic body election for cheating them, he said. On the Republic Day tableaux, he said when the DMK-Congress government was in power at the Centre from 2006, permission was given for Tamil Nadu tableaux only for two years, and the DMK was enacting a drama on the issue, he said. Stating that the government has no role in selecting the tableaux, Raja said even those of BJP-ruled State of Uttar Pradesh did not find place in the list.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-alleges-rs1000-crore-scam-in-tn-over-purchase-of-pongal-gift-hampers-1072911.html
20-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu: Archaeological excavations in seven sites to begin in Feb||Archaeological excavations at four existing sites, including Keeladi and Sivagalai whose findings date back to 2,600 and 3,200 years respectively, in Tamil Nadu will resume in February with the Central Advisory Board for Archaeology (CABA) giving its seal of approval for the proposal and granting permission for digging in three new locations. As part of its plans to conduct offshore explorations in the sea off the coast of Korkai, the much-celebrated port of the glorious Sangam Era, a Reconnaissance Survey will also be taken up in association with the Indian Maritime University and the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT) to identify and assess the archaeological potentiality of the then port city. Four old sites and three new locations Chief Minister M K Stalin said that permission has been granted for the eighth phase of archaeological excavations to be carried out by the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA) in Keeladi and its cluster sites of Agaram, Manalur, and Konthagai, while Sivagalai will enter the third phase, and Gangaikondacholapuram, and Mayiladumparai (second phase).  He added that nod has also been granted for digging for the first time in Vembakkottai (Virudhunagar district), Thulukkarpatti (Tirunelveli district), and Perumbalai (Dharmapuri district).  “The digging will begin in seven sites in 2022 in a bid to dig the past of the ancient Tamils and add to their glory and rich past. These excavations will help us scientifically prove that the history of the Indian sub-continent is written from the Tamil landscape,” Stalin said in a statement. B Chandra Mohan, Principal Secretary (Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments Department) told DH that archaeological excavations at all seven sites will begin in February and go on till September. He added that a fund of Rs 5 crore has been allotted for archaeological excavations to be taken up in the state.  Significance of Keeladi and Sivagalai The senior bureaucrat said CABA has also given its nod for undertaking two archaeological explorations to identify Neolithic sites in Vellore, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, and Salem districts and to identify potential archaeological sites on the banks of Thamiraparani river in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi. DH had on December 15 reported that Tamil Nadu has approached the CABA seeking permission for excavations in the above-mentioned seven sites. Carbon dating of artefacts unearthed from Keeladi and Sivagalai have found that they date back to 2,600 and 3,200 years old, pushing the Sangam Literature further behind a few centuries. These findings have created a huge buzz with researchers in Tamil Nadu calling them significant as they “narrow down” the gap between the Tamil urban settlements and the Indus Valley Civilisation (IVC). However, many experts outside Tamil Nadu have rejected the Keeladi-IVC link theory, calling it “too pre-mature.” ‘People are custodians of history’ Indology expert and retired Odisha-cadre bureaucrat R Balakrishnan told DH that public interest and awareness about archaeology has increased significantly after the Keeladi excavations while welcoming the move to continue digging there and in new sites.  “History is not only essential but also inescapable. Any fresh narrative of history must be evidence-based. People are the ultimate custodians of history. Let us dig more and more till we unravel the true facts about our past,” Balakrishnan, author of critically-acclaimed Journey of a Civilization: Indus to Vaigai, said.  He stressed that the use of scientific tools and state of art methods during excavations and evaluation of evidence is essential. “It is heartening to note that recent excavations in TN are guided by not mere passion but a huge scientific temperament. The broad basing of international collaborations is evident. More than anything, I am very happy about the fact that there are no delays in bringing the findings to the public,” Balakrishnan, chief advisor to the Odisha chief minister, added.  How TNSDA took over Keeladi excavation from ASI? TNSDA took over the Keeladi excavation in 2017 (from the fourth phase) following a surprise announcement by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) that there was “no significant finding” from the site during the third phase after unearthing over 5,000 artefacts in the first two phases.  The report of the fourth phase, first under TNSDA, released under the then AIADMK government found that artefacts that were analysed date back to 2,600 years old. To facilitate analysis of the findings, the government has established a DNA analysis lab at the Madurai Kamaraj University at a cost of Rs 3 crore.  During the second phase of excavation at Sivagalai in Thoothukudi district in 2021, carbon dating of rice husks found in a burial urn established that date back to 3,200 years old. The new DMK government gave much-needed impetus to the TNSDA by allotting over Rs 5 crore for the excavations in the state to “dig deep into the past glory” of Tamils.  The Keeladi cluster includes Agaram and Konthagai, a habitation and burial site respectively. Sediments scrapped from the burial urns and skeletons found from the site have been sent for carbon dating and DNA analysis for further studies.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-archaeological-excavations-in-seven-sites-to-begin-in-feb-1072952.html
20-01-2022||South||Hyderabad police nab wanted drug kingpin; arrest several drug consumers in the city||The Hyderabad police have arrested an international drug peddler and supplier of narcotics to the affluent in the city, Chukwu Ogbonna David alias Tony Abia Marsha. Tony, a Nigerian staying illegally in India for about a decade now, has established a network across the country by engaging agents Imran Babu Shaik, Noor Mohd Khan, Aftab, Parwaz, Rahamath, Irfan and Firdos. Tony, as he is familiar in Mumbai drug circles, had migrated to India in 2013 on a temporary visa. Initially, he was in the garments and wigs exporting business with African countries. According to the police, Tony lived with a Nigerian lady Loveth Yusuf, with their daughter in Mumbai. He was acquainted with the Africans living in the Mira Bhayandar, Vasai Virar areas of Mumbai. After taking to drugs, he was introduced to the Africans organizing drug business in metropolitan cities and earning good money. He too entered the illegal enterprise and developed contacts with drug consumers in Mumbai, Goa and Hyderabad. Tony was running the show with the help of his agents, paying them large sums of money for drug transport, deliveries. Tony does not deal directly with the customers to protect his identity, He used to purchase drugs from international drug peddler Star Boy (an African national) which are sent through the sea route. He uses international SIM numbers to communicate with his agents on WhatsApp and Voice Over Internet Protocol calls. Tony has several customers in Hyderabad. Hyderabad police commissioner CV Anand said that the kingpin was apprehended by the north zone task force team and based on his inputs, nine drug consumers – businessmen in real estate, contracts etc – were also apprehended from the city on Thursday. The seized material includes 10 grams of Cocaine, one Maharashtra registration SUV, two mobile phones belonging to Tony and nine mobile phones of the drug consumers. With drugs, ganja use on the rise in the city and the state, even chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had earlier expressed concern and asked the enforcement agencies to act sternly to curb the menace. Several Tollywood celebrities – some famous actors, directors included – were also questioned earlier for their alleged drug consumption and dealings with the drug peddlers. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-police-nab-wanted-drug-kingpin-arrest-several-drug-consumers-in-the-city-1072958.html
20-01-2022||South||Former AIADMK minister Anbalagan raided by DVAC||Former AIADMK minister K P Anbalagan was raided by sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption (DVAC) on Thursday after filing a case for allegedly amassing wealth worth Rs 11 crore disproportionate to his known sources of income. The raids, which covered a total of 58 premises, including one in Telangana, owned by or related to Anbalagan and his family members, lasted for over 10 hours. At the end of the searches, the DVAC said unaccounted cash of Rs 2.65 crore, 6.637 kg of gold, 13.85 kg of silver, keys of bank lockers, and other incriminating documents were recovered from the premises that were raided.   Besides Anbalagan, the DVAC has booked his wife A Malliga, sons A Sasi Mohan and A Chandra Mohan and daughter-in-law Vaishanavee in the case filed at Dharmapuri on January 19. Anbalagan, who held various portfolios from 2016 to 2021 during the AIADMK regime, is one of the senior leaders of the party hailing from the northern region.  In the FIR, DVAC said the case relates to amassing of wealth during Anbalagan’s tenure as Higher Education Minister and other portfolios from 2016 to 2021. It said a discreet verification showed Anbalagan was in possession of immovable and movable assets in his name and in the names of his family members which are disproportionate to his known sources of income. Quoting the affidavits filed by Anbalagan during the 2016 and 2021 assembly elections, the DVAC said the total income and properties acquired in his name and in the name of his immediate family members should not have exceeded Rs 10.10 crore during the check period.  “But he has acquired assets worth Rs 11,32,95,755 more than his total income, which is disproportionate to the known sources of income. Further, it is learnt that A-1 (Anbalagan) has acquired many more assets in his name and in the names of his family members, relatives and associates which are disproportionate to his known sources of income in various places in and around Tamil Nadu and outside,” the FIR stated. Anbalagan is the sixth minister in the erstwhile Edappadi K Palaniswami cabinet to be raided by the DVAC after the DMK government stormed to power in May this year. M R Vijayabhaskar, S P Velumani, K C Veeramani, C Vijayabaskar, and P Thangamani were earlier raided by the DVAC. The DMK, while in opposition, had submitted a list of corruption charges against half a dozen ministers. The party had also promised to constitute a special court to try all such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-aiadmk-minister-anbalagan-raided-by-dvac-1072968.html
20-01-2022||South||Andhra Pradesh: Employees protest for better pay revision||Andhra Pradesh state employees have decided to take the agitation path, in protest of the recent pay revision announced by the Jaganmohan Reddy government. The revision, the employee unions say, cuts the already availed benefits like HRA while the effective salaries would also be lower in comparison. The AP Non-Gazetted Officers Association leaders said that they would be serving a work strike to the government on Friday. The agitated employees have been attending duties wearing black badges. Employee leaders are saying that the new PRC orders were issued without consulting them. On Thursday, teachers unions held protest rallies across the state and attempted to lay siege to the government offices in some places. The opposition TDP blamed the YSRCP government, saying it betrayed the employees, teachers with false promises in the election manifesto. TDP state president K Atchannaidu said that Reddy's regime “would have been the only government in the entire country that had issued orders reducing salaries and sought dues of arrears in reverse from the employees.” TDP leaders condemned the alleged police action and “arrests of the employees who were peacefully holding protest demonstrations against the unjust 'Pay Reverse Commission'. “Reddy came to power by making many promises to employees but after winning the election, he is now playing with their lives,” Atchannaidu said. The TDP has extended its support to the employees' agitation for a better deal in the PRC. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-employees-protest-for-better-pay-revision-1072984.html
20-01-2022||South||At least 7 new airports to come up in Andhra Pradesh||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday asked the Infrastructure and Investments (I and I) Department to plan and build at least seven new airports in the State under the ‘One District – One Airport’ concept. The “One District – One Airport is a good concept,” the Chief Minister said and asked the officials of the I and I Department to build the new airports in identical fashion with a capacity to handle even Boeing-type aircraft, a press release from the CMO said. The Chief Minister made this point at a review meeting on the I and I Department. Andhra Pradesh now has 13 districts with functional airports in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati, Rajamahendravaram, Kurnool and Kadapa. The government initiated the process to create at least 12 new districts but the CMO note did not say if the proposed new districts, too, would have an airport each. The Chief Minister wanted the officials to take up the expansion of the existing airports by drawing up an action plan within a timeframe. It’s more than a year since the contract for development of a greenfield airport at Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district was awarded to the GMR Group but the work is yet to start due to hitches in land acquisition. The contract awarded by the previous Chandrababu Naidu government for the development of an airport at Dagadarthi in SPS Nellore district was terminated in July 2020 by the Jagan regime but no fresh developer was chosen yet, official sources said. The Chief Minister, at the review meeting, directed the officials to ensure that the Bhogapuram and Dagadarthi airports works were expeditiously completed. He asked them to take up expansion of the existing airports on a priority basis and focus particularly on the Vijayawada airport in view of the growing traffic. Incidentally, the Airports Authority of India took up the Vijayawada airport expansion and completed the work to expand the runway.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/at-least-7-new-airports-to-come-up-in-andhra-pradesh-1072985.html
20-01-2022||South||Andhra woman kills husband, carries severed head to police station||In a horrific incident, a woman murdered her husband and carried his severed head to a police station in Andhra Pradesh's Chittoor district on Thursday. The incident occurred at Renigunta near the temple town of Tirupati. According to police, Vasundhara attacked her husband Ravi Chandran (53) with a knife and killed him during a quarrel at their home. She then cut his head and carried it in a bag to the police station where she surrendered. Police officers rushed to the scene and also brought the accused there to gather clues. The body was shifted to SV Medical College for autopsy. A police officer said preliminary investigations show that Ravi Chandran and Vasundhara used to have frequent fights. The couple had an argument over some issue on Thursday morning and in a fit of rage the woman stabbed him to death. Not stopping at that, she cut his head and carried it to the police station. The couple has a 20-year-old son. Ravi Chandran is a native of Narasaraopet in Guntur district. Police have informed his relatives about the incident. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-woman-kills-husband-carries-severed-head-to-police-station-1072986.html
20-01-2022||South||Kerala govt announces Sunday lockdown over Covid surge||While the Kerala government is forced to impose fresh restrictions like shutdown on coming two Sundays in view of the Covid surge, the ruling CPM is on the defensive as the ongoing party district conferences were alleged to be a reason for a super spread in certain places like Thiruvananthapuram. The state government on Thursday decided to impose a state-wide shut down on the coming two Sundays. Only essential services would be allowed. The online Covid review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also decided to impose strict restrictions in districts with high Covid surges by categorising districts on the basis of the severity of the spread. All public functions would be banned and participation at events like marriages and deaths would be limited to 20 to 50. District collectors would decide on imposing restrictions on the functioning of shops and commercial establishments. A total shutdown was not being imposed to ensure that the livelihood of people was not affected. As many as 46,387 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state during the day with Thiruvananthapuram topping the tally with 9,720. The active cases reported is close to two lakhs while the actual number of the infected was estimated to be much higher and a large number of people with symptoms were not tested. It was widely alleged that the gatherings like a mass dance of around 500 and meetings as part of CPM's district conference in Thiruvananthapuram was also a reason for the Covid spread in the state capital. Already one minister and many MLAs who attended the meetings were tested positive and there were also reports that over 100 participants in the meetings were tested positive. Despite the criticisms, the CPM is still going ahead with district conferences with a participation of around 150. Sources said that in view of the decision of the government on Thursday to tighten the restrictions, the CPM leadership may review the decision. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-announces-sunday-lockdown-over-covid-surge-1073032.html
20-01-2022||South||PM to unveil 216-foot 'Statue of Equality' in Hyderabad on February 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would unveil a 216-foot statue of Ramanujacharya, a 11th century saint and a social reformer, in Hyderabad on February 5. The statue described as the 'Statue of Equality is located in a 45-acre complex at Shamshabad on the outskirts of the city. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Statue of Equality to the world on February 5, 2022. It is a 216 feet tall statue of Sri Ramanujacharya, a 11th century Bhakti saint, and a revolutionary social reformer," a press release from the organisers said on Thursday. The event, along with a 1,035 yaaga fire oblation, said to be the largest in modern history, and other spiritual activities like mass mantra-chanting are to be conducted as part of Ramanuja Sahasrabdi Samaroham. It is to celebrate the 1,000th birth anniversary of the saint, it said. The events would kick off from February 2. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao would be co-hosting the event with renowned spiritual guru Chinna Jeeyar Swami, the release said. Several other chief ministers, politicians, celebrities and actors would also attend the function. The Rs 1,000-crore project was funded entirely by donations from devotees globally. The inner sanctorum deity of Ramanujacharya is made of 120 kg of gold to commemorate the 120 years the saint walked this earth. President Ram Nath Kovind would unveil the inner chamber of the statue of Ramanuja on February 13, the release said. The outdoor 216-foot statue would be one of the tallest statues in a sitting posture, it said. The statue is made of 'panchaloha', a mix of five metals - gold, silver, copper, brass and zinc. The complex has identical recreations of 108 Divya Desams, the 108 ornately carved Vishnu temples mentioned in the works of the Alwars, mystic Tamil saints. Born in 1017 at Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu, Ramanujacharya liberated millions from social, cultural, gender, educational and economic discrimination with the foundational conviction that every human is equal regardless of nationality, gender, race, caste or creed. He opened the doors of temples to all people, including those subjected to extreme discrimination. He remains a timeless icon of equality for social reformists around the world, it said. “We heartily welcome everyone including chief guests, dignitaries, devotees, and people from all walks of life for the grand opening of Statue of Equality," said Chinna Jeeyar Swamiji. Ramanujacharya has remained a true icon of equality for 1,000 years and this project will ensure his teachings are practised for at least another 1,000 years, he said. "Our mission is to make the Statue of Equality a culturally paramount destination for people across the globe and inspire everyone to make the world a more equal place to live. Today, as the world is fraught with divisiveness and populism, the need of the hour is Ramanujacharya's ideology," he said. The foundation stone for the project was laid in 2014, the release said. The 54-foot high base building named ‘Bhadra Vedi’ has dedicated floors for a Vedic digital library and research centre, ancient Indian texts, a theatre, an educational gallery and a robust multi-language audio tour detailing many works of Ramanujacharya. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-to-unveil-216-foot-statue-of-equality-in-hyderabad-on-february-5-1073052.html
20-01-2022||South||Covid cases in Chennai come down, rest of Tamil Nadu witnesses huge spike||Daily Covid-19 cases in Chennai are on a downward trend for the past few days though the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) remains high at 27 per cent, even as the number of people testing positive for coronavirus in other parts of Tamil Nadu, especially in rural areas, continue to increase substantially each passing day. From 1,481 daily cases on January 1 to 28,561 cases on January 20 alone, Tamil Nadu is witnessing an exponential increase in Covid-19 patients with the TPR jumping from 1.4 per cent to over 17 per cent in just 20 days. The testing was ramped up from 1.03 lakh samples to 1.56 lakh on January 13, the season’s highest, though the numbers dipped one day and increased the next day.  The fresh infections, which are predominantly the Omicron variant, are widespread across Tamil Nadu with 27 of the total 38 districts having over 10 per cent TPR as of Thursday evening. Health Minister Ma Subramanian over 24,000 of the 1.29 hamlets and 28,219 of 1.27 lakh urban streets have Covid-19 cases. Coimbatore’s TPR is 27.3 per cent, Tirunelveli (24.6 per cent), Tiruvallur (22.8 per cent), and Chengalpattu (27.2 per cent).  As far as Chennai is concerned, the city attained its peak, so far, in the third wave on January 16 when it reported 8,987 cases, an all-time high. Since then, the cases are reducing considerably with 8,591 fresh patients on January 17, 8,305 (Jan 18), 8,007 (Jan 19), and 7, 520 (Jan 20).  As of January 20 evening, Chennai had 62,007 active cases with the government saying that a majority of them are under home isolation with “mild symptoms.” Containment measures like monitoring those isolated at home, teleconsultation, and ramping up of testing are some of the reasons attributed to the decrease in the number of cases.  Experts say a similar trend was noticed during the second wave of Covid-19 infections in May 2021 when tier-II cities like Coimbatore, Madurai, and other districts began reporting a high number of daily cases just when the fresh cases in Chennai ebbed.  “In any pandemic, the infection spreads from a highly congested place to a less congested place and then to the least congested place. That explains the reason for cities and districts other than Chennai reporting a high number of cases now. And the travel from Chennai to districts for Pongal festivities could have also contributed indirectly to the increase,” Dr J Amalorpavanathan, member of State Planning Commission, told DH. Besides the increasing number of active cases, though the hospitalisation still remains low at less than 15 per cent in the state, what has caused worry among the health department and healthcare workers is the death rate among those above the age of 50 and the unvaccinated.  This is a cause of concern, according to health experts, as the vaccination percentage of elders in the state of Tamil Nadu is comparatively less at around 63 per cent for the first dose and around 50 per cent for the second dose.  Public health expert Dr K Kolandaswamy told DH that the death rate among unvaccinated elders and those with uncontrolled comorbidities among the vaccinated and unvaccinated population is a cause of concern.  “We have been warning not to take this third wave as mild. People above the age of 50 and not vaccinated yet should be convinced to take their jabs. Even among the vaccinated population, those with uncontrolled diabetes should restrict their movement, if possible, and stay indoors. This wave is proving to be dangerous for the unvaccinated and those with severe comorbidities,” Dr Kolandaswamy, former Director of Public Health, said.  An administrative analysis by the Health Department has found that of the 191 deaths in the first 15 days of January 2022, 163 of them (85.3 per cent) were more than 50 years old.  The analysis also found that of the 191 persons, 181 (94.7 per cent) of them had one or other co-morbidity associated. In a previous analysis done between August and October, the government found around 84 per cent of those who died due to Covid-19 were unvaccinated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-cases-in-chennai-come-down-rest-of-tamil-nadu-witnesses-huge-spike-1073055.html
20-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu schoolgirl dies by suicide; alleges attempted forced conversion in video 'confession'||A 17-year-old student in Tamil Nadu’s Thanjavur district has died, exactly 10 days after she attempted suicide by consuming pesticide. In a video that is said to have recorded before her death, the girl said she was being “tortured” by her hostel warden ever since she shunned a proposal to “convert” to Christianity two years ago.  However, Thanjavur district police said no complaint of “forced conversion” was received.  “We are investigating as to when and how the video was shot. In the first round of investigation, we have not received any complaint of forced conversion. We have already filed a case and we are looking into the complaint filed by her parents,” Thanjavur District Superintendent of Police (SP) C. Ravali Priya Gandhapuneni said.  She also warned of action against persons who revealed the identity of the minor girl on social media. Police said hostel warden Sagayamari (62) was arrested on a complaint filed by the father of the girl and she has been booked under various sections of the IPC and JJ Act.  The girl, who succumbed to her injuries at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital Wednesday night, had recorded her “confession” which has gone viral on social media. In the video clip, the girl said her hostel warden began “torturing her” by asking her to clean all rooms and do other chores. “She asked my parents two years back whether I can convert to Christianity and that she will take care of my educational expenses. Since then, she made me do all the work,” the girl said in the video. The girl was staying at St Michael’s Girl’s Home in Thanjavur and hailed from nearby Ariyalur district.  The girl’s father Muruganandam said the school management informed him on January 10 that his daughter was admitted to a hospital after she vomited and complained of severe stomach pain.  The girl’s suicide also attained political colour with Tamil Nadu BJP demanding action against “forced conversion” in the state. In a statement, state BJP chief K Annamalai raked up the incident and alleged that the FIR does not refer to the girl’s statement on attempts of “forced conversion.” “The video statement of the girl before her death shows that the student was forced by the warden to convert. The government should order an unbiased probe into the incident and bring the accused before the law. The government should implement anti-conversion law,” the BJP chief added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-schoolgirl-dies-by-suicide-alleges-attempted-forced-conversion-in-video-confession-1073059.html
20-01-2022||State||Little relief from RERA, complain home buyers||Almost five years since the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) came into force, it has received over 6,000 complaints against builders over various shortcomings. However, home-buyers who have approached the quasi-judicial body are an unhappy lot as most of the cases are yet to be disposed of, resulting in prolonged legal battles and financial hurt. Activists allege severe shortcomings on the part of the agency. Though orders for compensation are issued in several cases, home-buyers are yet to receive relief. In other instances, many are yet to receive final judgments 2-3 years after they filed a petition with RERA against errant builders, despite multiple hearings. Among those still awaiting justice from RERA is retired Col Narasimha Muddakatte. Though he along with 31 others had received a favorable verdict following a complaint filed with RERA in May 2019, they were yet to receive compensation from the builder. After the final order, the Revenue Recovery Certificate (RRC) is issued on behalf of the complainants. The Deputy Commissioner of a district should recover the cost from the developer and deposit with RERA, who issue compensation cheques to victims. “This whole cycle is not working at all. DC court has been sleeping. Jurisdictional tahsildars, who also have a role, don’t move an inch,” he alleged. Subrata Sen had purchased an apartment in 2017. Realising that the builder was violating norms while constructing in the apartment complex due to which Occupancy Certificate (OC) will not be issued to him, he approached RERA on June 1, 2018. More than 20 hearings later - the builder allegedly did not appear for a single hearing - he will be heard again on February 1, 2022. “The apartment was completed without any plans, due to which commencement certificate was not issued by the civic agency and the developer has refused to provide me OC. If required documents are not submitted, the bank (from which he got a home loan) will demand full payment of the loan in one go,” he said. M S Shankar, national general secretary, Forum for People’s Collective Efforts said that though around 3,600 cases were disposed of, there was no execution of the RERA order. “Payment of interest, refund ordered etc is not happening,” he said, accusing RERA of taking more time to dispose of a case than what provisions allow. Many cases are disposed of through compromise, not by enforcing existing legislation or guidelines issued by the government. “RERA was expected to dispose cases in a speedy manner and ensure justice for home-buyers,” he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/little-relief-from-rera-complain-home-buyers-1073026.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Funds crunch hits Karnataka's first modern, humane abattoir||In order to stop the functioning of illegal and unhygienic slaughterhouses in and around Bengaluru, the state government had announced Karnataka’s first modern and humane abattoir at Cheelanahalli near Sira in Tumakuru district. However, even five years since the announcement, the state-of-the-art abattoir is yet to see the light of the day due to lack of funds, according to the state government. Though the work on the project, proposed by the Karnataka Sheep and Wool Development Corporation, began in 2017, electrification and procurement of machinery and equipment is yet to be completed. Local leaders revealed to DH that the work was delayed as the government could not allocate money for the procurement due to the pandemic-induced economic stress. Documents accessed by DH from the corporation revealed that while electrification work is incomplete, the installation of machinery is pending. Work on setting up of a cold storage facility and air-conditioned transport vehicles have also been put on the back burner. C M Rajesh Gowda, MLA, Sira told DH, “The civil work was done just before the first wave of the pandemic. We may need another Rs 45 crore for installing the machinery. Previously, when I inquired with the minister, he expressed helplessness citing paucity of funds due to Covid.” However, Prabhu Chauhan, Minister for Animal Husbandry said the government plans to complete it through a public-private partnership (PPP) model. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/funds-crunch-hits-karnatakas-first-modern-humane-abattoir-1072777.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||DGCA to probe IndiGo planes' mid-air miss over Bengaluru airport||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Wednesday that it is investigating the incident of two IndiGo planes averting a mid-air collision over the Bengaluru airport on January 9.  “DGCA will take strict action against those found delinquent,” DGCA chief Arun Kumar said. The two IndiGo planes -- 6E455 (Bengaluru to Kolkata) and 6E246 (Bengaluru to Bhubaneswar) -- were involved in ‘breach of separation’ at Bengaluru airport. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dgca-to-probe-indigo-planes-mid-air-miss-over-bengaluru-airport-1072779.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Four new Covid clusters reported in Dakshina Kannada||With the spike in Covid-19 cases, four new Covid clusters have been reported in Dakshina Kannada. Covid-19 Nodal Officer Dr Ashok said that ten persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in Surathal. Of the 60 samples tested, ten were confirmed. Thirty-nine tested positive at a private college in Mangaluru taluk. As many as 67 samples from the college were tested, said the nodal officer. Eight tested positive, out of 56 samples tested at a private college hostel in Mangaluru taluk. Another six tested positive, out of 43 samples tested at a private college hostel in Mangaluru taluk. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V has directed medical and paramedical colleges to screen students for Covid-19. In case students are found suffering from symptoms, they should be isolated.  Further, he has urged educational institutions to either postpone seminars and other programmes in the college or hold them in virtual mode. Permission from the district administration should be sought mandatorily for holding any programmes other than academic programmes in educational institutions, he added. In the interest of public health, even professional meets, CME should be organised in virtual mode.  Toll-free helpline On the direction of the deputy commissioner, to address grievances in the backdrop of the rise in Covid-19 cases, a helpline has been opened at the office of the DDPI in Mangaluru. Any grievances related to schools, schoolchildren and education can be aired by dialling toll-free number 1800 42511017. People can dial the number during working days between 10.30 am and 5.30 pm, said DDPI Sudhakar. Following Covid-19 cases among schoolchildren and staff, Government High School at Bengre Kasaba, Canara CBSE in Dongarakeri, Ansar English Medium High School in Bajpe and Vyasa Maharshi English Medium High School in Mulki have been closed. The deputy commissioner in a meeting with the heads of educational institutions had directed closing down of schools/colleges that report more than five Covid-19 cases. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-new-covid-clusters-reported-in-dakshina-kannada-1072787.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||TAC recommends Ayurvedic formulations for mild, moderate and asymptomatic Covid patients||The Karnataka Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended administering AYUSH-64 for mild to moderate Covid patients and asymptomatic ones. It is an Ayurvedic formulation that was developed by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS) functioning under the central government and studied for repurposing in the management of Covid-19 by AYUSH-CSIR collaborative study, as per the TAC report submitted to the government. "The outcomes of seven clinical studies demonstrated early clinical recovery and reduced duration of hospital stay without any progression of the disease to the severe or critical stage of Covid-19. In addition, there was an improvement in quality of life parameters. AYUSH-64 was found to be well-tolerated and safe. "It is found useful if two tablets thrice a day for 20 days are taken by mild to moderate Covid-19 patients, and twice a day by asymptomatic people. Safety and toxicity studies have also been done and it has been in use since 1980 for the treatment of malaria and flu-like illness without any adverse effect reported," said TAC member Dr Anand Katti, Associate Professor, Government Ayurveda Medical College, Bengaluru. TAC also recommended an Ayuraksha kit that comprises Ayush kwatha churna (powder), Samshamani vati (tablet), Chyavanaprasa and Anutaila (oil). "All these are used with the objective of improving general health and immunity. Ayush kwatha churna comprises tulsi (basil), cinnamon, dry ginger, and black pepper. Three grams should be boiled in water and used once or twice a day," he said. Samshamani vati is an immuno-modulator and two tablets twice a day are recommended. Chyavanaprash contains Indian gooseberry (source of Vitamin C) along with 48 other herbs and acts as an antioxidant. "It is extensively used in respiratory diseases along with other medicines. Six grams per day is the usual dose. Anutaila is medicated oil that is applied in the nostrils every morning. This is an age-old practice for the health of nasal mucosa. "These proprietary Ayurvedic medicines may be provided to patients as per their indications, contraindications and caution under the supervision of medical officers in Ayush institutions," he added. However, there is a caveat. Patients should not stop any allopathic medicine that they are already on, like for comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and other diseases. Another TAC member Dr Anant Desai, Project Director, AYUSH Mission, Bengaluru, said, "While the Ayuraksha kit costs Rs. 360 in a government pharmacy, AYUSH-64 is available for a price of a mere 80 paisa or Rs 1.20." Check out DH's latest videos on Covid-19:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tac-recommends-ayurvedic-formulations-for-mild-moderate-and-asymptomatic-covid-patients-1072862.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP MLAs want Cabinet rejig to counter Congress||Senior Karnataka BJP legislators Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and MP Renukacharya held a closed-door meeting Thursday where they decided to mount pressure for an early Cabinet rejig, which they said can hit the brakes on the speed of the D K Shivakumar-led Congress. Yatnal and Renukacharya, seen as ministerial aspirants themselves, have been demanding a Gujarat-style overhaul of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet by dropping incumbent ministers to bring in fresh faces.  “If the time comes, we will even go to Delhi to hold talks with top leaders,” Renukacharya, the chief minister’s political secretary, told reporters.  “There's no rebellion. Cabinet expansion is getting delayed. The Congress, especially D K Shivakumar, is under the illusion that they’re winning. To stop their speed, some changes must be made,” he said.  Asked why only he and Yatnal are clamouring for changes in the Cabinet, Renukacharya said: “This is the opinion of many MLAs who are going through pain and unable to speak out. They support what we are saying.”  Bommai has four vacant positions in the 34-member Cabinet. Party sources say that Cabinet expansion or reshuffle is unlikely until after the Uttar Pradesh polls in March.  “To know a person’s potential, it needs time. If you make someone a minister in or after March, will that person have enough time to spend in the constituency?” Renukacharya asked, referring to how Karnataka will change gears for the 2023 Assembly elections after the UP poll results.  “We have no angst against incumbent ministers. We’re saying that those who do good work and are accessible to people should continue. Those who are there just for the sake of power should be dropped,” Renukacharya said.  Yatnal, a former Union minister, said there is confusion on when the Cabinet exercise will take place - before the UP polls or after. “We still hope something good will happen,” he said.  That the Congress managed to make enough noise with its 4-day Mekedatu foot march coupled with the recent results of the MLC and urban local body polls seem to have rung some alarm bells. “I’m not saying that the government’s sphere of influence has reduced. It is intact. But, we need to break the Congress’s illusion,” Renukacharya said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-mlas-want-cabinet-rejig-to-counter-congress-1072930.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt likely to lift curbs in districts with less Covid cases||Ahead of Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's crucial meeting on Friday, Revenue Minister R Ashoka dropped a broad hint that the government may consider relaxing Covid-19 curbs in districts where the pandemic situation is under control.  Bommai is scheduled to hold the meeting at 1 pm along with ministers and health experts in which a decision will be taken on the daily night curfew, weekend curfew and other curbs.  "Many people, including political leaders, have opined that curbs can be lifted in districts where cases are under control. There are some 15-20 districts like that," Ashoka told reporters.  Ashoka pointed that cases are rising daily in Bengaluru. "Even Omicron cases are increasing," he said. "Cases may go up in Bengaluru Rural and Mysuru districts as well."  The government must weigh between life and livelihood, the minister said. "To protect lives, we need to make a strong decision. At the same time, we must allow livelihood, especially of daily wagers, vegetable vendors and so on," he said.  Meanwhile, Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar attacked the government for dragging its feet on deciding the curbs. "They’re killing people. What will happen to trade and business? Overseas governments have decided not to impose curbs. I went to Hyderabad where there are no curbs," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-likely-to-lift-curbs-in-districts-with-less-covid-cases-1072964.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||47,754 new cases recorded in Karnataka, 30,540 from Bengaluru alone; Active cases over 2.93 lakh||Registering a steep spike, Karnataka on Thursday reported 47,754 new cases of Covid-19, and 29 fatalities, taking the tally to 33,76,953 and the death toll to 38,515. The state had recorded 41,457 fresh infections on Tuesday and 40,499 on Wednesday. Of the new cases today, 30,540 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 13,195 people being discharged and 8 virus-related deaths. The total number of active cases across the state is now 2,93,231. There were 22,143 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 30,45,177, a health department bulletin said. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 18.48 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.06 per cent. Of the 29 deaths, eight are from Bengaluru Urban, Kalaburagi and Mysuru (5), Bidar and Tumakuru (2), followed by others. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Hassan recorded the second highest with 1,840 new cases, Tumakuru 1,622, Mandya 1,512 and Mysuru 1,352. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 15,13,024 cases, followed by Mysuru 1,93,155 and Tumakuru 1,33,191. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 12,94,831, followed by Mysuru 1,81,100 and Tumakuru 1,21,294. Cumulatively, a total of 5,98,64,983 samples have been tested, of which 2,58,290 were on Thursday alone. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/47754-new-cases-recorded-in-karnataka-30540-from-bengaluru-alone-active-cases-over-293-lakh-1072993.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Vihaan Direct Selling: No coercive action, says HC||The High Court on Thursday directed the state government not to take coercive measures in the investigation against Vihaan Direct Selling (India) Pvt Limited. The company had challenged the initiation of proceedings under the provisions of the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors (KPID) Act claiming that it is only a direct selling agency. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj said that the investigation into the complaints filed against the company may go ahead and added that the company shall co-operate with the said investigation. The court meanwhile ordered notice to Advocate General since the constitutional validity of the KPID Act has been challenged in the petition and posted the matter to February 21, 2022. Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Kamini Jaiswal contended that the company is not a financial establishment and not involved in soliciting investment, taking deposits. She said that the petitioner is only a direct selling agency and a sub franchisee of Q Net Ltd, a Hong Kong-based company. The council said that Vihaan has more than four lakh customer base in India and does business in water purifiers, nutritional products, watches. She also submitted that the Supreme Court had already said that no coercive action should be taken against the petitioners in pending matters.   Appearing for the state government, the additional government advocate said that 22 complaints were received against the petitioner company concerning more than 400 victims. The government advocate said that the petitioner company is indulged in ponzi scheme in violation of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) regulations. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vihaan-direct-selling-no-coercive-action-says-hc-1073012.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||No ex gratia for Covid deaths during third wave: Minister||District in-charge Minister J C Madhuswamy has said that the expenses for  Covid hospitalisation at private hospitals are not reimbursed by the government during the third wave of the pandemic. No compensation will be paid to the family in the event of the death of the patient. "The government meted the expenses of Covid patients admitted at private hospitals during the second wave. But, no such facility is available during the third wave. No compensation is paid in the event of death of the patient," the minister told reporters here on Thursday. Madhuswamy has said that though the government had provided several facilities at its hospitals, they were not being made use of. People should start approaching government hospitals instead of private nursing homes. The government has arrived at any decision on providing treatment at private hospitals, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-ex-gratia-for-covid-deaths-during-third-wave-minister-1073015.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Shiradi Ghat stretch to be 4-lane road, says Bommai||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari has approved the upgrading of the existing two-lane Shiradi Ghat stretch from Maranahalli to Addahole into a four-lane path at a cost of Rs 1,200 crore, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday.  Bommai said this section of Shiradi Ghat is in need of “urgent upgradation” as the road becomes unusable in the monsoon season.  “This work will be executed by NHAI and completed in two years. The state government has assured to give all support and clearances quickly,” Bommai said in a statement.  The Bengaluru-Mangaluru stretch will have the same four-lane configuration, Bommai said. “It would be the fastest way out to develop NH-75 to four-lane standards commensurate with the adjoining stretches in the most economical and environmentally sustainable manner,” he said.  Also, Bommai said Gadkari had directed the NHAI to study the construction of a six-lane tunnel through the Shiradi Ghat. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shiradi-ghat-stretch-to-be-4-lane-road-says-bommai-1073017.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to foot hospital bill of litterateur Kanavi||The state government has decided to bear the treatment cost of renowned litterateur Channaveera Kanavi who is under treatment at the SDM Hospital in Dharwad, Bommai said.  "Kanavi, who was suffering from fever, was admitted to the hospital on January 14. During the course of treatment, he was found to be infected with Covid-19. He is under intense treatment and is on oxygen. Kanavi is one of the great poets the state has seen and he is an intellectual property of Karnataka. We wish he recovers and leads a healthy life," Bommai said in a statement.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-foot-hospital-bill-of-litterateur-kanavi-1073020.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Employment policy to benefit youth: Bommai||The proposed employment policy of the state would benefit the youth and job aspirants, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday. Speaking at the launch of an online distribution of scholarships for students from families of construction workers by Karnataka State Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Bommai said the policy would help the working class at the lower strata, who will benefit from the incentives. Commenting on the scholarship scheme, he said that it would enable children from construction workers’ families to get good education and employment in various sectors to contribute towards the economic development of the state, Bommai said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/employment-policy-to-benefit-youth-bommai-1073021.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Shiradi Ghat stretch to go 4-lane, says Bommai||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari has approved the upgradation of the existing two-lane Shiradi Ghat stretch from Maranahalli to Addahole into a four-lane path at a cost of Rs 1,200 crore, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday.  Bommai said this section of Shiradi Ghat is in need of “urgent upgradation” as the road becomes unusable in the monsoon season.  “This work will be executed by NHAI and completed in two years. The state government has assured to give all support and clearances quickly,” Bommai said in a statement.  The Bengaluru-Mangaluru stretch will have the same four-lane configuration, Bommai said. “It would be the fastest way out to develop NH-75 to four-lane standards commensurate with the adjoining stretches in the most economical and environmentally sustainable manner,” he said.  Also, Bommai said Gadkari has directed the NHAI to study the construction of a six-lane tunnel through the Shiradi Ghat.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shiradi-ghat-stretch-to-go-4-lane-says-bommai-1073035.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Ex-minister Kagodu tests Covid positive||Former minister Kagodu Thimmappa has tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Speaking to media persons, the KPCC Secretary and Congress leader's daughter Rajanandini Kagodu said Kagodu had mild fever on January 18. Throat swab of Kagodu was sent to general hospital for the test. But the authorities concerned have not shared the report results with the family so far. However, APMC member K Holiyappa came to know about it when he visited the hospital. "If the hospital authorities are so negligent about health condition of former minister, what about common people?" she questioned. She said, though Kagodu has tested positive, he has no serious health disorder. The veteran leader had taken part in Forest Rights Act related agitation in Sagar recently. He had even taken part in interactive programme in Chikkanelluru, Chakkodi villages. She asked people who came in contact with him to undergo Covid test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ex-minister-kagodu-tests-covid-positive-1073056.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Drone survey in all Karnataka districts, says Ashoka||The state government will take up a drone-based survey in all districts at a cost of Rs 287 crore, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said Thursday.  Ashoka said the drone survey is being done in five districts - Tumakuru, Hassan, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Ramanagara - with the Centre’s funds. “Now, we have decided to extend the survey to all districts at a cost of Rs 287 crore so that land records will be captured in digital format. The last land survey was done during the British rule and many records are either lost or destroyed,” he said.  Ashoka also said that all deputy commissioners have been directed to identify Lambani Tandas, Kuruba Hattis, Doddis and other such settlements that do not have any revenue records. “Such settlements will be declared as villages. That will help them get benefits such as schools and hospitals,” he said.  SDRF funds Ashoka said the Centre has released Rs 504 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for the infrastructure and other damages caused by the July-August rainfall. “We had sought Rs 841 crore,” Ashoka said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drone-survey-in-all-karnataka-districts-says-ashoka-1073075.html
20-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||More questions to choose from in II PUC exams this year||The students preparing for the second PUC board examinations this year will have plenty of questions to choose from. The Department of Pre-University Education has decided to increase the number of questions as additional options for students to choose while answering. This will be applicable for optional/core subjects. Considering the lack of classroom teaching and shortage of academic days for effective teaching, the department has decided to increase the number of questions under all the heads. For example: Under the one-mark questions carrying a total of 10 marks, there used to be only 10 questions and no options. But this year, there will be about four to five additional questions so that students can choose and answer. Confirming this to DH, Sneha R, the department director, said, “When there are only 10 questions carrying 10 marks (one mark each), there were chances of students leaving the questions unanswered or writing wrong answers. This year, they will have options even in one mark questions.” This will be applicable even for questions carrying more marks. “We are planning to organise a workshop for teachers to get suggestions on which chapters to be considered to give optional questions and waiting for the Covid-19 cases to decrease to conduct workshops,” she added. According to the department officials, this option is not available for language subjects because the department has already announced a 30% syllabus cut. “The syllabus for examinations for language subjects will be only from 70%. The reduction in the syllabus will be as per the 2020-2021 academic year,” an official explained. The students and teachers have welcomed this move to introduce more questions. “If there are more options, then there is no need for students to waste time on a particular question. They can move to the next question,” said Nitin Hebbasale, a PUC college teacher. Poorvik G G, a second PUC student, said, “It is good that we will have options to choose from in the question paper. It saves our time and also helps us to score more.” The department has recently released the tentative timetable for the first and second PUC final examinations and officials even said, that there will not be many modifications in the timetable. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-questions-to-choose-from-in-ii-puc-exams-this-year-1073076.html
20-01-2022||West||Pregnant forest guard, husband beaten up in Pune; two arrested||A former sarpanch and his wife allegedly thrashed a woman forest guard, who is three months pregnant, along with her husband at a village in Satara district of Maharashtra, following which the accused couple was arrested, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday at Palsawade village in the western Maharashtra, located around 120 kilometres from Pune, they said. According to police, the accused man, who is a member of the local forest management committee, was angry with the woman forest guard for taking the contractual forest labourers along with her "without his permission". A video of the assault incident also went viral on social media. Sharing the video on his Twitter handle on Thursday, Maharashtra Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray said, "The accused has been arrested this morning and will face the law at its strictest. Such acts will not be tolerated." Satara Superintendent of Police (SP) Ajay Kumar Bansal said a case has been registered against the duo at Satara taluka police station. "Since the forest guard is pregnant, a medical examination of her foetus will be carried out. If any foetus is found harmed, then relevant sections will be slapped against the accused," he said. Talking to reporters, the woman forest guard said that her husband, who is also a forest guard, was also beaten up by the couple. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pregnant-forest-guard-husband-beaten-up-in-pune-two-arrested-1072854.html
20-01-2022||West||Maharashtra schools to reopen from January 24: Education Minister||Schools in Maharashtra are set to open for offline sessions from Monday ahead of the Republic Day celebrations.  Students would have to wear masks at all times and school management must ensure the Covid-19 protocols and SOPs under the new normal. Physical classes in schools were suspended in December, 2021 except for standard 10th and 12th , after the Omicron-triggered third wave of Covid-19 pandemic hit different parts of the country.  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday approved the proposal for reopening of schools in the state from January 24. "Schools in areas where Coronavirus cases are fewer can restart physical classes for standard 1st-12th and also start pre-primary classes from January 24 onwards. We are committed to the safe resumption of schools in the state,” state school education minister Prof Varsha Gaikwad said.  However, strict Covid-19 protocols would be in place.  “I reiterate, improving learning outcomes in children through continued education in a safe environment is our goal. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our schools and especially our teachers for continuously ensuring a safe environment for our students. This is the fourth phase of school re-openings, we must continue to observe all Covid-19 protocols,” she said. Consent of parents is important for attendance. “Parents are also requested to not send students to school if they are unwell. Schools to ensure isolation facilities in case any student shows symptoms,” she said.  “Health, safety and continuous education of our students is of primary concern for us. Schools will ensure strict adherence to SOPs. Masks to be worn at all times. Not more than one student to be seated per bench. Vaccination drives for older students to be ramped up,” she said. According to Prof Gaikwad, there were extensive deliberations involving Thackeray, cabinet ministers, paediatric task force and education experts. “During our continued dialogue with parents and teachers we received consistent feedback about restarting physical classes along with online education for better learning outcomes. During my recent interaction with Collectors/CEOs, a similar view was expressed,” she said.  The local administration is empowered to assess and take decisions regarding safe resumption of schools. "It is an excellent step, better late than never," said Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-schools-to-reopen-from-january-24-education-minister-1072855.html
20-01-2022||West||Fourth accused in Bulli Bai case arrested by Mumbai Police||In a latest update in the Bulli Bai app controversy, the Mumbai Police has arrested the fourth accused in the case from Odisha. The accused has been identified as Neeraj Singh. "Neeraj was involved in the planning and execution of the plot through Bulli Bai app. We will produce him before the concern court and will seek his custodial remand," a Mumbai Police official said. Vishal Jha, Shweta Singh and Mayank Rawal were earlier arrested by the Mumbai Police from different states. The Delhi Police has also arrested a few persons in connection with the Bulli Bai matter. Both the Mumbai and the Delhi Police are probing the matter. On January 4, the police arrested Shweta Singh, a resident of Uttrakhand. She was the second and Mayank Rawal was the third person arrested in connection with the controversy. Apart from the Mumbai Police, the Special Cell of the Delhi Police which was conducting a parallel probe, has also made two arrests. The special cell arrested Neeraj Bishnoi, the main accused in the case and Aumkareshwar Thakur the main accused behind Sulli Deal. On January 1, the Bulli Bai app posted photos of several women of a particular religion including journalists, social workers, students and famous personalities. It happened six months after the controversy of Sulli Deals. Jha was one of the followers of Bulli Bai which led the police to team. Github which provided space to Sulli Deals, hosted the Bulli Bai app too. However, Github had later removed the user from its hosting platform. But by then Bulli Bai had sparked a controversy nationwide. The Bulli Bai app was also being promoted by a Twitter handle with the name @bullibai, with the display picture of a Khalistani supporter. This Twitter handle claimed that women can be booked from the app and was also promoting Khalistani content. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fourth-accused-in-bulli-bai-case-arrested-by-mumbai-police-1072869.html
20-01-2022||West||Gujarat: Major fire at textile printing mill, 10 workers rescued; no casualty||At least 10 workers were rescued after a three-storey textile dyeing and printing mill, located near Bardoli town in Gujarat's Surat district, caught fire early on Thursday, officials said. "As the fire is still raging, nearly 100 firemen from Bardoli, Surat city and other nearby places are involved in the firefighting operation, but the blaze has gutted the entire building," Bardoli's chief fire officer PB Gadhvi said. "The fire broke out at the dyeing and printing mill located in Palsana area around 3.30 am and it is still raging. It has engulfed all the three floors of the unit. While majority of the workers came out safely with the help of locals after the fire started spreading, firemen rescued around 10 workers who had got stuck in the rear part of the mill. But no one was injured in the incident," he said. Since it is a major fire, nearly 15 firefighting vehicles, 100 firemen from Bardoli, Surat, Sachin, Vyara, Gandevi, Navsari, Bilimora and two private firms were pressed into service since early morning, he said. "Locals claimed that a short circuit followed by blasts of gas cylinders were responsible for the fire at the mill. Fire spread quickly because of the highly flammable chemicals, dyes and yarns. A large quantity of the ready-made garments and raw material was also gutted in the fire," Gadhvi said, adding that efforts are on to douse the flames.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-major-fire-at-textile-printing-mill-10-workers-rescued-no-casualty-1072872.html
20-01-2022||West||Kalicharan Maharaj held for making derogatory comments about Mahatma Gandhi||Police in Maharashtra's Thane city have arrested Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj from Chhattisgarh in connection with a case registered against him for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi, an official said on Thursday. He was arrested late on Wednesday night in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur, where he was lodged in a jail in a similar case filed against there. He is being brought to Thane on a transit remand and would be presented in a local court by Thursday evening, the official of the Naupada police station said. Earlier, Kalicharan Maharaj had been arrested by the Raipur police for his alleged derogatory comments against Mahatma Gandhi at an event held in the Chhattisgarh capital on December 26 last year. On January 12, police in Maharashtra's Wardha had arrested him in a similar case registered against him there. The Naupada police station official said that Kalicharan Maharaj was arrested in Raipur in the case filed against him based on a complaint by NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Jitendra Awhad over his remarks against the Father of the Nation. Earlier, the Pune police had also arrested Kalicharan Maharaj for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during the 'Shiv Pratap Din' programme held there on December 19, 2021, which was organised to celebrate the killing of Adilshahi commander Afzal Khan by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in 1659.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kalicharan-maharaj-held-for-making-derogatory-comments-about-mahatma-gandhi-1072891.html
20-01-2022||West||Mumbai BJP workers protest 'Modi' comments, booked||Police have registered a case against BJP's Mumbai unit chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha and 31 others for staging a protest near the Mantralaya, an official said on Thursday. The protest was organised by the BJP on Wednesday against Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole's remarks referring to 'Modi.' During the protest, police took Lodha and others into custody and they were taken to the Marine Drive police station later, he said, adding they were booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Patole, who had a brief stint with the BJP as an MP earlier, has kicked up a controversy with his purported remark that he could "beat up, badmouth Modi". He has, however, denied that he was speaking about Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But the BJP has been targeting Patole over the remarks, with several leaders terming his clarification as false. The saffron party has been demanding strict police action against Patole and seeking his arrest. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-bjp-workers-protest-modi-comments-booked-1072895.html
20-01-2022||West||Maharashtra reports 46,197 new Covid cases and 37 deaths in 24 hours||The Omicron-triggered third wave of Covid-19 pandemic cases in Maharashtra’s towns and hinterland seemed to increase with the 24-hour rise to 46,197 even as the situation in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) declined on Thursday. During the day, Maharashtra reported 46,197 cases and 37 deaths taking the progressive total to 73,71, 757 and 1,41,971, respectively.  During the second wave, 46,197 is the second-highest tally in 24-hours as against the highest of 46,723 on 12 January.  Mumbai reported 5,708 cases while the same in the MMR was 12.054.  The total active cases in the state stand at 2,58,569, according to the Public Health Department.  The Pune circle reported 16,382 cases while the Nashik circle reported 4,955 cases. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-46197-new-covid-cases-and-37-deaths-in-24-hours-1073047.html
