21-01-2022||Comment||Poll and pandemic cloud||In the Union Budget of 2021, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced that the new labour laws would come into effect from April 1, 2021. These are the four labour codes that are to replace 29 existing labour laws, considerably improving the status of the labour market in the country. It constitutes a major economic reform by the Modi government. The four codes as individual bills have already been passed by Parliament and go into effect once the rules are framed by the Labour Ministry, and by state governments, since labour is a concurrent subject. But the rules have not yet been notified by the Union government. One reason could be the upcoming elections to the five state Assemblies. Labour reforms can be tough even at the best of times, but why risk political capital at a time of close electoral contests? One impact of the new codes is that take-home pay of employees might decrease since high contributions to pensions are mandated. The employers’ share also might have to go up. Another is that firms with less than 300 employees do not need government permission to layoff staff. Yet another feature is a new category of fixed-term employment, which relieves the burden from employers to make workers “permanent”. Since each such reform creates a constituency that will be adversely affected, leading to noise from these quarters, status quo is being maintained at least till the elections are over. The repeal of the three farm laws, too, was necessitated with an eye on the elections. The farm unrest over the three reform laws was most manifest from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, where elections are due to be held. So, poll prospects surely affected the final decision to repeal. The free ration scheme introduced in March 2020 as part of pandemic relief has now been extended all the way till the end of March 2022. This is the Pradhan Mantri Gram Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), which covers nearly 800 million people under the National Food Security Act. The free rations of five kilo food grain per family per month was necessitated and introduced during the first wave of the pandemic itself. It has been extended twice already. Recently the government of Uttar Pradesh unilaterally announced doubling of the free ration, and extension till the end of March 2022. The Union government then followed suit and it covers the whole country. The fifth extension for four months beyond November 2021, too, appears to be driven with the electoral impact in mind. The incremental cost of the extension of free rations is about Rs 53,000 crore to the central exchequer, with an additional outgo of 16.3 million tonnes of food grain. In the two years since March 2020, the PMGKAY would have cost Rs 2.6 lakh crore and distributed 60 million tonnes of grain. It is by far the largest free food grain distribution scheme in the world. With GDP growth expected to be nearly 10% this fiscal, continuation of the free food scheme is a validation of its necessity from the welfarism point of view, and also for electoral prospects. So, we can see, whether it is the delay in notifying the rules of the new labour laws, or the repeal of farm laws, or the generous extension of PMGKAY, the political and electoral angles loom large. Even the progress on the asset monetisation initiative announced in the last budget has been slow due to political resistance. Bank unions are increasing their pitch in opposition to privatisation. Two more factors are now in play. One is the third wave, the so-called Omicron phase, of the Covid pandemic. Much more infectious and with a faster spread, albeit less potent and with lower fatalities so far, it has affected the economy. The slowdown is palpable in the macroeconomic statistics like index of industrial production, sales of two-wheeler vehicles, consumer spending in retail, urban unemployment, and so on. Hopefully this is a temporary setback, and the Omicron spike is soon expected to fade. Exports are doing extremely well, thanks to a booming world economy. If India can grab and hold onto this export momentum, it could become a significant driver of growth well into the next year. Another worrying sign is the wholesale price index (WPI)-based inflation at about 14%. It is reflecting high inflation in input commodities used by producers. The consumer price inflation is still modest at around 5%, but there is a risk that WPI might spill into CPI inflation. The second factor now in play are pre-poll surveys showing the narrowing gap between incumbent governments and challengers. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly is a very big prize, but elections in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur are important, too. With a combination of pandemic-related anxiety and uncertain poll prospects, these two will have a large influence on the Union Budget proposals to be unveiled on February 1. The country’s economic size, even after a 10% growth this year, will be barely above its 2019 level. Unemployment and underemployment numbers are large and worrying. Schools have been shut for nearly two years, and hardest hit have been the children of the urban poor, the informal sector, and the rural schools with poor connectivity. Tax collections on GST have been quite good, reflecting good profitability of the corporate sector. The relatively higher inflation and high imports have also helped GST collection. But non-tax revenues, especially the disinvestment target of last year, will be badly missed. The budget for fiscal year 2022-23 will still need a lot of fiscal support to get the economic engine revved up, and a heavy dose of social welfare spending for the unemployed, for the health sector, and for education. There will, of course, be an eye on the upcoming state elections. It is most likely that we will have a growth-oriented, expansionary budget with a high fiscal deficit of 6% of GDP. No new taxes on the middle class are expected, but some extra burden on the super-rich cannot be ruled out. India’s struggle with a low tax-to-GDP ratio will continue. (The writer is an economist andSenior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/poll-and-pandemic-cloud-1073010.html
21-01-2022||First Edit||Disillusioned youth, WEF report warns||The World Economic Forum’s Global Risk report 2022 gives a picture of mixed prospects for the world, with shadows dominating patches of light and casting uncertainty over the future. The 17th edition of the report builds on the difficult outlook presented last year, and notes that the continuing grip of the Covid-19 pandemic on the world has given rise to newer concerns. It seeks to look at the challenges and risks in various fields like the economy, society, governance and technology and predicts that the post-pandemic recovery, whenever it comes, will increase disparities and create new problems. The report finds climate change the most serious long-term risk, and recommends that strengthening climate action, enhancing digital safety, restoring livelihoods and societal cohesion should get priority nationally and internationally. The struggle of some countries to cope with the pandemic will make the progress made by others unreal and even useless. The report also takes note of the implications of the various risks on individuals, communities and governments.  India will face risks that are common to the world and challenges that arise from the country’s specific situation. Significantly, the report details disillusionment among youth, digital inequality, the fracturing of interstate relations, debt crisis, and failure of technology governance as the top five risks for the country. The disillusionment of youth and their loss of trust in existing structures and institutions will have serious consequences if the challenges are not tackled well and in time. These are not matters to be handled in the future but risks that exist now. There was a view that India’s demographic dividend, arising from a youthful population, would give it a great advantage, but that opportunity seems to have passed the country by. The dividend has become a divide and a burden because most of the youth are uneducated or undereducated and unskilled, and unable to make use of the opportunities. The country is not able to provide the youth education, or jobs to those who have secured education. This situation has created disillusionment.  Disillusioned youth are prone to political exploitation and may get attracted to radical ideologies. They may be swayed by populist passions and negativism. There are signs of this even now. Inequalities can aggravate the sense of loss and disentitlement. All this can lead to increased political and social conflict. These are difficult times for all communities and societies, and they call for perceptive and skilful management by governments, leaders and other stakeholders. Some of the issues highlighted by the report are known. There are others, too. Many of them already existed, but the pandemic has amplified them. It should be realised that fighting the pandemic is not just fighting it medically but fighting its consequences also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/disillusioned-youth-wef-report-warns-1073009.html
21-01-2022||In Perspective||New avatar of violence against Muslim women||The ‘Bulli Bai’ and ‘Sulli Deals’ episodes of online auctioning of more than a hundred Muslim women from across the spectrum — human rights advocacy, law and journalism — reflect how a woman’s body and image are seen as the most common and attractive targets of violence and oppression even in the 21st century. In April 2019, World Bank’s report titled ‘Gender-Based Violence’ (GBV) described violence against women and girls as a ‘global pandemic’. Prima facie, such mobile applications could be easily categorised as extremely sexist and misogynistic. But the major challenge is to argue that individual acts of creation and operation of mobile applications on which women are being advertised and sold constitute GBV and call for criminal sanctions under the law. At the core of GBV lies the three-fold question: What is the impulse that triggers the creation and operation of such applications? How can these cause ‘violence’? What are the implications on Muslim women, their self-image and dignity? One way to view such applications is through feminist author Jacqueline Rose’s unique conception of ‘insidious form’ of violence that cannot easily be seen, detected and defined. The rising penetration of the internet among citizens, greater individual access to information technology and an ever-increasing number of mobile applications have given rise to the phenomenon of ‘violence in quiet conditions’ whereby it is very difficult for law enforcement machinery to locate the actual victim, clearly identify the harm caused to her, classify the so-called ‘remote’ act as an offence, and pin criminal responsibility on a single perpetrator. The world wide web has created a range of possibilities especially when it comes to identifying ‘real’ victims and attributing individual culpability within the realm of criminal law. The provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and the Information Technology Act, 2000 are ‘under-inclusive’ to the extent they do not encompass and outlaw such activities. The Indecent Representation of Women Act, 1986, on the one hand, reinforces the stereotypical image of a woman as a daughter, sister, wife and mother and on the other hand, proposes a subjective, vague, overbroad definition of the term ‘indecent’. This also fails to curb such applications. Thus, there exists a deep abyss between the newer forms of GBV and indignities hurled at women and the language of the law which curbs only a given set of violations. ‘Bulli Bai’ and ‘Sulli Deals’ scandals display intersectional oppression in terms of both gender and religion. There is no rationality behind the creation of these applications except for the religion of the victims. This GBV is another species of communal hatred. This time around it is levelled against Muslim women — not men or the community as a whole. When it comes to measuring the actual harm caused, the violence does not just mean overt acts of physical annihilation but includes even covert acts having emotional or psychological effects. It is appropriate to view these individual acts as a ‘continuum of violence’ and women victims as a ‘community of potential targets’. After all, it cannot be forgotten that all women are subjects of violence because all of them live in a violent ‘social media’ world. GBV exists as a ‘form of entitlement’, deeply embedded in the dominant culture and psyche of the people belonging to the majoritarian religion and the ruling political establishment such that the violators enjoy complete impunity for their individual acts under the pretext of political speech and online freedom. Calling Muslim women ‘Bulli’ and ‘Sulli’ and auctioning them online has received tacit political approval which in turn cultivates a discourse of GBV as a valid and accepted reality. Consequently, Muslim women end up suffering because both society and online culture typecast them as inferior beings and as ‘objects’ of violence. Unfortunately, the law neither sees through their pain nor classifies the violence and abuse they suffer as a ‘criminal offence’. The lesson imparted to Muslim women is that if they speak out against this cultural dehumanisation, bullying and violence, they would be auctioned online. Because of these risks to their reputation and life, Muslim women continue to ache in silence. Detesting, shunning and repudiating such applications is not the standalone or effective remedy. There is an urgent need to expose this newest avatar of GBV and call for immediate reforms in the law followed by stringent action by law enforcement agencies. (Prerna is an AssistantProfessor at NLSIU, Bengaluru; Vandana is anindependent researchconsultant based in Kolkata.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/new-avatar-of-violence-against-muslim-women-1073006.html
21-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Over 288 students, 43 teachers from Dakshin Kannada test positive for Covid-19 in January||A total of 288 schoolchildren and 43 teachers in Dakshina Kannada district contracted the Covid-19 infection in the first 20 days of January, according to officials familiar with the matter. As many as 10 schools and colleges have been temporarily closed for a week after more than five positive cases were reported in each institution. In the latest instances, classes for Class 10 at a private school in Mangaluru were suspended after a student tested positive on January 20. Prior to that, another English medium school switched to online classes after five students tested positive for the virus. A CBSE affiliated school at Udane had reported that six students and one teacher had tested positive, while another school at Shiradi reported positive cases among three students. A school in Nelyadi also reported positive cases among six students on January 20, said Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI) Sudhakar. In a recent meeting, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V directed the authorities to close schools for a week if more than five positive cases were reported. The DC had also directed the officials to sanitise the schools before reopening them. VaccinationThe DDPI said that 45,682 students of classes 9 and 10 have been vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada so far, while as many as 9,616 are yet to be vaccinated. The official said that 55,298 of the 66,497 students of classes 9 and 10 are eligible for the vaccine. In Bantwal taluk,10,203 children have been inoculated while in Belthangady, 4,884 children have taken the jab. The numbers for Mangaluru North, Mangaluru South, Moodbidri, Puttur and Sullia were at 10,527, 10,021, 3,197, 4,725 and 2,125, respectively. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-288-students-43-teachers-from-dakshin-kannada-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-january-1073164.html
21-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru likely to be included under AMRUT||Minister for Urban Development Byrathi Basavaraj on Friday said that the government is planning to include Mysuru, Bellari and other cities for Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. The Minister said that the Union government is expected to release Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 crore under the scheme. “I have requested Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to include the cities which have been taken for the Smart City project under AMRUT scheme," he said. AMRUT scheme was introduced with the focus to establish an infrastructure that could ensure adequate robust sewage networks and water supply for urban transformation by implementing urban revival projects Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-likely-to-be-included-under-amrut-1073249.html
21-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Five held for circulating child pornographic content||Police, on Friday, nabbed five men on charges of circulating pornographic content involving a 17-year-old girl on whatsapp. According to police, Santosh, Sunil, Subramanya, Sachin and Raghavendra, aged between 24 and 35 years and daily wage workers, are the accused. Santosh, Sunil, whom the girl knew already, had lured her on January 15 promising that she would be dropped at her home in the village when she was waiting for the bus in the town. Instead, they took her to a room at Jayanagar, one km from Hosanagar town. Both of them had sexual intercourse with her and they had recorded it on their mobile phones. Later, they threatened that the video would be shared on social media networking sites if she revealed it with others. The duo asked her to come to their room on January 21. But she denied. Enraged by this, the duo shared it with others. Learning about the video, police registered a suo-motu case and stopped circulation of the video on social media networking sites. Speaking to DH, Superintendent of Police B M Laxmi Prasad said police acted immediately after they came to know about the video being circulated on whataspp. They took all steps to halt circulation of the video and took persons to their custody for circulating the video on social media networking sites. "We were not aware of the victim and the accused. After seeing the video, they were brought to the station and took their statements in the presence of the Child Welfare Committee," he said. Police registered a case against Santosh and Sunil under The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and three others under 67 B of Information Technology Act for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act or conduct.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-held-for-circulating-child-pornographic-content-1073364.html
21-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Moodambailu govt school bags Wipro Earthian Award||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Model Higher Primary School at Moodambailu in Bantwal taluk is one among the 20 schools selected in the country and only one school in Karnataka for the Wipro Earthian Award. The annual awards recognise excellence in sustainability in education in schools and colleges in India. Under the project, the teams from schools demonstrated their understanding of biodiversity, waste and water through a combination of activity-based learning programmes and essays. “We chose the theme of sustainability and waste management for our project and carried out various activities related to it in the school. Further, the video of the activities was uploaded via YouTube. The activities were carried out through the Eco Club of the school,” said Headmaster Aravinda Kudla to DH.  As a part of the project, the students were made to carry out activities under the theme ‘My Garbage My Responsibility.’ Accordingly, the school took up the activities on making floor mats using old sarees, old and unused pens were converted into pen stands and vases, old pants were used for preparing multi-purpose bags, plastic was used for preparing eco-bricks, blouse pieces for preparing garlands, small pieces of unwanted clothes for preparing dusters. The biodegradable products were collected by the students and were recycled. In addition e-waste was also collected. Bio enzymes were prepared. The old papers were recycled and used for pamphlets to create awareness on segregation of waste among the neighbourhood, explained Aravind. The pamphlets were written by the students and were distributed near their houses, post offices and shops to create awareness. The students also carried out a jatha with a slogan ‘Hasi Kasa Ona Kasa Vingadisi, Bhoodevi Samrakshisi’ (segregate dry and wet waste, to save mother earth). After the awareness was created, the students from the school have also set aside three separate bags for collecting dry waste, wet waste and hazardous waste in their houses. In addition, a play to spread a message on segregation of waste at source was staged by the students and the video was uploaded on YouTube, said the Headmaster.  “The school plans to stage the play in other schools in the village to share the knowledge on waste segregation after the Covid-19 cases reduce,” he said.  The students have also expressed their understanding of the theme through drawings, writing stories and poems as well. According to teachers, the learning activities through the projects have helped the students to learn and also improve their learning ability. They have shunned their inhibition and are active in the classrooms.  Akash, Karthik, Pranam, Preetham of Class 8, Adithya of Class 7, Nithesh of Class six, along with teachers Shruthi N and Aravinda Kudla, prepared the project. “In fact, we submitted the project in Kannada,” said Aravinda Kudla proudly. The award carries a cash prize of Rs 50,000. Shortlisted In fact, St Joseph’s PU College at Bajpe in Dakshina Kannada was also shortlisted among the 40 schools for the award. The team comprised Alisha P Rodrigues, Cleesha Pearl P, Gynnis Asuntha, Jenisha Lisa Pinto, Princita Jeeval D’Souza and was guided by Rosina Florence D’Souza. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/moodambailu-govt-school-bags-wipro-earthian-award-1073392.html
21-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka opposes phase two of Tamil Nadu’s Hogenakkal project||Karnataka on Friday said that it would oppose Tamil Nadu’s plan to take up the second phase of the Hogenakkal combined drinking water project.  "Karnataka will object legally as the proposed project falls within the geographical bounds of both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu," Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol told reporters. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin said that a detailed project report will be prepared for the second phase of the Hogenakkal project that will cover Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts at an estimated cost of Rs 4,600 crore.  “Any project that Tamil Nadu wants to take up in the Cauvery basin should be in line with the allocation of water made by the Tribunal and Supreme Court orders,” he said.    “But, this project has not been placed before the Tribunal or the Supreme Court. So, we will oppose it,” he said, adding that Tamil Nadu cannot make unilateral decisions.  “The Tamil Nadu government cannot take up this project unilaterally. The Hogenakkal region spans 64 km in the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border area,” Karjol pointed out. “The Survey of India has not finalized the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border at Hogenakkal.”  Karjol also said that as per Section 13 of the Cauvery Tribunal’s order, the Hogenakkal project should be taken up through the Central Water Commission.  Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have been at loggerheads on sharing the Cauvery river water. Tamil Nadu has opposed Karnataka’s balancing reservoir project at Mekedatu to provide drinking water to the Bengaluru metropolitan region and generate power.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-opposes-phase-two-of-tamil-nadu-s-hogenakkal-project-1073210.html
21-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Graduates' constituency: JD(S) picks Ramu||The JD(S) on Friday picked H K Ramu, former president of the State Government Employees' Association, as its candidate for the Karnataka South Graduates’ constituency of the Legislative Council.  The elections to the graduates and teachers constituencies are slated to be held in June this year. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/graduates-constituency-jds-picks-ramu-1073380.html
21-01-2022||National||63% healthcare 58% frontline workers, 39% above 60 received Covid precaution jab||About 63 per cent of eligible healthcare workers, 58 per cent of frontline workers and 39 per cent of people above 60 years of age with comorbidities have received their precaution dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the health ministry said on Thursday. Responding to a question, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said about 22.66 lakh out of 35 lakh healthcare workers have received their precaution dose, accounting for 63 per cent of such people. He said there are 33 lakh frontline workers who were due for precaution dose and 1914000 have got precaution dose which is 58 per cent. "Those above 60 years and with comorbidities, the eligible number is 47,81,000 out of them, 18,66,000 have taken precaution dose which comes to 39 per cent," Bhushan said. "So given the fact it has been only 10 days since we rolled out precaution dose the coverage yet is not bad though we are constantly engaging with the states to ensure that the uptake increases. It is essential that all of us must motivate people to get doses for which they are eligible," he said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said there are still about 1 crore people (in the over 60 age group) who are yet to get their first dose. "And 25 per cent are yet to get a second dose. This is unfinished work. 52 per cent of children have been covered in the 15-17 years age group, more healthcare and frontline workers should also come forward. Availability is not at all an issue here," he said. Paul said there are still 6.5 crore people whose second dose is overdue. "Why should it be overdue, everyone should take their second dose. All those who are not fully protected will not be a danger to themselves but others too. We have to accept masks and protect our seniors and the prevention tool here is vaccination and we need to take it in this paradigm," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/63-healthcare-58-frontline-workers-39-above-60-received-covid-precaution-jab-1073090.html
21-01-2022||National||DH Toon | BJP MLA chased away: 'We'll need double-engine cars, Yogi ji!'||BJP MLA Vikram Saini faced the ire of people in Munwarpur village here who forced him to return to his car and leave the venue. In a video of the incident which has gone viral on social media, the Khatauli MLA can be seen getting back to his car in anger after the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bjp-mla-chased-away-well-need-double-engine-cars-yogi-ji-1073115.html
21-01-2022||National||Amar Jawan Jyoti to be doused, to be merged with War Memorial flame||The Amar Jawan Jyoti flame at India Gate in New Delhi will be extinguished on Friday — 50 years after it was lit to pay homage to the soldiers who had made the supreme sacrifice for the nation during India’s war against Pakistan in December 1971. The flame will be merged with that at the Amar Chakra in the National War Memorial that was built about 400 metres away to honour all the soldiers, who had fought and attained martyrdom in all the military conflicts since Independence in August 1947. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the National War Memorial in February 2019. An official said the Amar Jawan Jyoti would be extinguished at 4 pm on Friday and the flame would be ceremonially merged with that in the Amar Chakra shortly thereafter. The iconic India Gate was constructed in 1931 by the British government as a memorial to 90,000 soldiers of the British Indian Army who died between 1914 and 1921 in the First World War and the Third Anglo-Afghan War. The Amar Jawan Jyoti with the commemorative structure of a helmet and an inverted rifle was installed overnight under the Arch of India Gate in January 1972 soon after India’s victory in the war against Pakistan in 1971. The eternal flame was lit as the nation’s tribute to the soldiers, who had laid down their lives in the war, which had liberated East Pakistan into the new nation of Bangladesh. The Presidents, Prime Ministers and the chiefs of the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force as well as the other dignitaries, including the foreign guests, have been placing wreaths at the Amar Jawan Jyoti on the occasion of the Republic Day every year since 1972, paying homage to the fallen soldiers. The tradition, however, changed in January 2020 with the Republic Day ceremony beginning with the Prime Minister placing wreaths at the National War Memorial, instead of the Amar Jawan Jyoti. The Amar Chakra or the Circle of Immortality at the National War Memorial has an obelisk with an eternal flame., symbolising the immortality of the spirit of fallen soldiers. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amar-jawan-jyoti-to-be-doused-to-be-merged-with-war-memorial-flame-1073130.html
21-01-2022||National||India reports 3.47 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 703 deaths||India added 3,47,254 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,85,66,027 which includes 9,692 cases of the Omicron variant, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The nation's Covid-19 toll also saw a sharp jump as 703 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The active cases have increased to 20,18,825, the highest in 235 days, while the death toll has climbed to 4,88,396 with 703 fresh fatalities, the data stated. There has been a 4.36 per cent increase in Omicron cases since Thursday, the ministry said. The active cases comprise 5.23 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 93.50 per cent, the ministry said.   An increase of 94,774 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. The number of people who missed their second doses was 12 crore at one point of time but the number came down to 6.5 crore partially vaccinated individuals who didn't turn up despite repeated reminders, said Vinod Paul, NITI Ayog member and the government's principal adviser on Covid-19. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-347-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-703-deaths-1073135.html
21-01-2022||National||Sensex tanks nearly 700 points in early trade; Nifty dips below 17,600||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped nearly 700 points in opening trade on Friday, tracking intense selling pressure across the counters amid a negative trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund outflow. The BSE gauge was trading 690.51 points or 1.16 per cent lower at 58,774.11 in early trade. Likewise, the Nifty fell 194.10 points or 1.09 per cent to 17,562.90. Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 2.59 per cent, followed by Infosys, Dr Reddy’s, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma, Wipro and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid and HUL were the only gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE index ended 634.20 points or 1.06 per cent lower at 59,464.62. Similarly, the NSE Nifty plunged 181.40 points or 1.01 per cent to 17,757. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with deep losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US witnessed intense sell-off in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 2.03 per cent to $86.59 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 4,679.84 crore on Thursday, according to stock exchange data. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sensex-tanks-nearly-700-points-in-early-trade-nifty-dips-below-17600-1073143.html
21-01-2022||National||Mortal remains of 2 Indians killed in Abu Dhabi drone attack to reach Punjab: India’s UAE envoy||The mortal remains of the two Indian nationals who were killed in a drone attack in Abu Dhabi on Monday will reach Punjab on Friday, India’s Ambassador in the UAE has said. On January 17, two Indians and a Pakistani national, all staff of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), were killed and six others injured in the suspected drone attacks near the Abu Dhabi airport that sparked multiple explosions in the capital of the United Arab Emirates. The attacks were claimed by Yemen's Houthi rebels. India’s Ambassador to the UAE Sunjay Sudhir said that the Indian mission in the UAE’s capital has completed all formalities for repatriation of mortal remains of the two Indians. “Remains reach Amritsar tomorrow morning. Highly appreciate the fullest support extended by Govt of UAE & @AdnocGroup. Tied up with Punjab Govt for local support,” Sudhir said in a tweet. The identities of the deceased were not revealed. On Wednesday, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti, speaking at a Security Council open debate on the Middle East, expressed strong condemnation of the terror attack in Abu Dhabi. “Such an attack on innocent civilians and civilian infrastructure is completely unacceptable. It is a blatant violation of international law. It is also against all civilised norms,” he said. Emphasising that India stands in solidarity with the UAE, Tirumurti said New Delhi extends its full support for an unequivocal condemnation by the Council of this terrorist attack. “It is important that the Council stands united in sending a clear signal against such heinous acts of terror,” he said. The terrorist attacks sparked global condemnation with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken calling Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan to affirm America’s condemnation and denunciation of the terrorist attack of the terrorist Houthi militia on civil areas and facilities in the UAE. A statement from the UAE’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation said that the UAE reserves the right to respond to these terrorist attacks and criminal escalation. Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed said that the drone attacks, which struck ADNOC fuel facilities and the airport, will not go unpunished. The UAE has been part of a Saudi-led military campaign against the Houthi rebels in Yemen since 2015. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mortal-remains-of-2-indians-killed-in-abu-dhabi-drone-attack-to-reach-punjab-india-s-uae-envoy-1073158.html
21-01-2022||National||Delhi govt plans to lift weekend curfew, L-G's nod sought||The Delhi government has proposed lifting the weekend curfew, end odd-even system for opening of shops, and allow private offices to run with 50 per cent staff in the city, an official source said on Friday. The proposal approved by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been sent to Lt Governor Anil Baijal for approval, they said. The decision to ease the restrictions was taken in view of declining number of COVID cases in the city, they said. Traders in many parts of the city have demanded lifting of the curbs including those imposed on shops selling non-essential items on alternate days based on odd-even system. The weekend curfew will be in place from 10 pm Friday and continue till Monday 5 am. It will be done away with if the LG grants permission to the Delhi government's proposal. The decision to impose weekend curfew was taken by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on January 1 due to rise in COVID cases in the city. Weekend curfew kicks in from Friday night curbing non-essential activities. A night curfew during weekdays is already in place from 10 pm to 5 am. The DDMA had also imposed other restrictions including closure of all private offices dealing with non-essential services. The daily number of COVID cases and positivity rate has witnessed a decline in the past few days. Delhi on Thursday reported 12,306 fresh COVID-19 cases and 43 fatalities, with the positivity rate dipping to 21.48 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. The city had recorded 28,867 COVID cases with 29.21 positivity rate on January 13, the sharpest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. The number then declined to 24,383 on Friday, 20,718 on Saturday, 18,286 on Sunday, 12,527 on Monday, and 11,684 on Tuesday last week.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-plans-to-lift-weekend-curfew-l-gs-nod-sought-1073159.html
21-01-2022||National||Amar Jawan Jyoti being merged, not extinguished, clarifies Centre||After a controversy broke over extinguishing the eternal flame lit up at Amar Jawan Jyoti, the Centre said that there is a lot of misinformation circulating regarding the flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti. Government sources said that "the flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti is not being extinguished but is being merged with the flame at the National War Memorial". Sources claimed that the names inscribed on the India Gate are of only some martyrs who fought for the British in World War I and the Anglo-Afghan War and thus is a symbol of our colonial past. Sources mentioned that the names of all Indian martyrs from all the wars, including 1971 and wars before and after it are housed at the National War Memorial. "Hence it is a true 'shraddhanjali' to have the flame paying tribute to martyrs there. It is ironic that people who did not make a National War Memorial for seven decades are now making a hue and cry when a permanent and fitting tribute is being made to our martyrs," sources added. The Congress has attacked the government over extinguishing the eternal flame lit up at Amar Jawan Jyoti and alleged that it is like 'extinguishing history and is nothing short of crime'. Congress MP Manish Tewari on Friday tweeted, "Extinguishing Amar Jawan Jyoti tantamounts to extinguishing history For it commentates sacrifice of those 3,483 brave soldiers who cleaved Pakistan into 02 parts and redrew map of South Asia post partition It is ironical that in 50 th year of liberation of Bangladesh, Government seems to be working overtime to erase India's finest hour in Post Independent History". He said Amar Jawan Jyoti is imbued in the National Consciousness and a billion people have grown up venerating it. "Why can't India have two eternal flames? Amar Jawan Jyoti & National War Memorial," he questioned. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amar-jawan-jyoti-being-merged-not-extinguished-clarifies-centre-1073165.html
21-01-2022||National||Explained: IAS Cadre rules and the old 'Centre vs states' row on central deputation||The Centre has proposed an amendment to the IAS Cadre Rules which would enable it to post IAS officers on central deputation bypassing reservations of the state governments, a move which will give the government more say in the deputation process. The proposal has ruffled feathers in West Bengal as CM Mamata Banerjee wrote to PM Modi, expressing concern that these changes will create a “fear psychosis“ among officers and impact their performance. Banerjee wrote to the PM twice in eight days, saying that the amendment will “destroy” the federal fabric and basic structure of the Constitution. What is the present deputation rule? According to Rule-6 (1) of the IAS (Cadre) Rules-1954, "a cadre officer may, with the concurrence of the State Governments concerned and the Central Government, be deputed for service under the Central Government or another State Government or under a company, association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, which is wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the Central Government or by another State Government." The rule further provides in case of a disagreement between the Centre and the states that "the matter shall be decided by the Central Government and the State Government or State Governments concerned shall give effect to the decision" of the Centre.  What are the proposed amendments? This proposal comes as various state/joint cadres were found to be not sponsoring an adequate number of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers as part of the central deputation reserve even though the personnel ministry had flagged the issue several times. In its amendment, the Centre has proposed to insert a provision in Rule 6 of IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, which stated that any IAS officer could be posted on central deputation with the concurrence of the state government concerned. The Centre has proposed to keep this part of the rule intact, but to add: "Provided that each State Government shall make available for deputation to the Central Government, such number of eligible officers of various levels to the extent of the Central Deputation Reserve prescribed under Regulations referred to in Rule 4 (1), adjusted proportionately by the number of officers available with the State Government concerned vis-a-vis the total authorised strength of the State Cadre at a given point of time." "The actual number of officers to be deputed to the central government shall be decided by the Centre in consultation with the state government concerned," it added. Incidentally, the Centre, in its proposal to amend the IAS Cadre (Rules), has recently asked the state governments to send lists of IAS officers for central deputation. What are West Bengal's issues with the proposal? West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to PM Narendra Modi, urging him to withdraw the proposal, as it would "create a fear psychosis among officers and impact their performance". She warned him of "greater movements" in case the Centre does not reconsider its decision. "I express my strong reservations to the approach followed by the Central government in proposing such amendment to the Cadre Rules which unilaterally mandates the state government to make such a number of officers available for deputation as prescribed under (the) Central Deputation Reserve," the letter read. How does deputation work currently? The Union government asks states to provide an "offer list" with officers of the All India Services which includes IAS, IPS and IFS officers willing to go on central deputation. Central deputation has been a hot topic of debate among states and the Centre, with the former getting their way in most cases despite Rule 6(1)'s assurance that states must give effect to the Centre's decision. Even within the new proposal, the Centre can decide the number of officers going on central deputation "in consultation with the State Government concerned".  In the latest examples from West Bengal, the Centre asked Alapan Bandyopadhyay, an IAS officer from the 1987 batch, to report to the Centre on the day of his retirement. Neither did he report to the Centre, nor did Banerjee relieve him of his duties. He is now retired and serves as Chief Advisor to CM Banerjee. After BJP President J P Nadda's motorcade was attacked allegedly by TMC supporters in Kolkata, the Centre asked the three IPS officers responsible for his security to be sent on central deputation, but the state refused. In the J Jayalalithaa government in 2001, the state police’s CB-CID raided former CM M Karunanidhi and arrested him along with other DMK colleagues who were ministers in the Vajpayee government. The Centre asked Tamil Nadu to send three IPS officers to the central deputation a month later. Jayalalithaa refused, asked other CMs to stand up for the rights of states. (With PTI inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-ias-cadre-rules-and-the-old-centre-vs-states-row-on-central-deputation-1073168.html
21-01-2022||National||Grand statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to be installed at India Gate||A couple of days before the Modi government is set to start the Republic Day celebrations for the year with Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary, PM Narendra Modi said that a granite statue of the freedom fighter will be installed at the India Gate.  Taking to Twitter, PM Modi said that the statue will be a symbol of India’s indebtedness.  “At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him,” PM Modi tweeted. “Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary,” read a consecutive tweet.  The 28 feet by 6 feet statue will be placed in the Canopy which earlier had a statue of King George V. The Canopy, built in 1958 had a gilder Tudor crown bearing the Royal Cyphers of King Geaorge V. A decade later, in 1968, the state was removed and now stands at the Capital’s Coronation Park.  The Canopy, which lies 300 metres from the Amar Jawan Jyoti, can be viewed in a straight line from the North and South Block, an area that extends over 2 kilometres. A government official said that the move should be viewed as India “reclaiming its history”. The statue is part of the Modi government's efforts to celebrate Netaji as a freedom fighter "who did not get his due under the consecutive Congress governments led by the Gandhis".  On Friday, the Press India Bureau’s Jaipur division also held a webinar, Parakram Diwas, where Bose's daughter, economist Dr Anita Pfaff joined in from Germany. His grandniece Renuka Malaker was present as well.  Dr Pfaff told PTI that she was happy about the decision and glad that the statue found such a prominent location, but she was surprised at the timing. “What surprises me is that it came all of a sudden now. One might have prepared a bit earlier, but better late than never, I must say. I hope that the controversy about the tableau can also be put to rest in a satisfactory manner,” she told PTI. Dr Anita also said though her father Netaji was a devout Hindu, he had respect for all the religions. “My father dreamt of an India where all religions coexist peacefully,” she said.  Netaji’s grandnephew and Trinamool Congress and former Parliamentarian Saugata Ray said that the move was to stop the controversy of not selecting the tableau of West Bengal for the Republic Day parade. The tableau had Bengal icons including Netaji, and Rabindranath Tagore, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo. While the Centre rejected the proposal by West Bengal, it selected one by the Central Public Works Department under the housing and urban development ministry which will have a tableau on Bose.  “We welcome the decision to have his statue, there was no harm in having the West Bengal government’s tableau at the Parade as well. We were also celebrating the legacy of Netaji. This is narrow-minded politics,” Ray said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/grand-statue-of-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-to-be-installed-at-india-gate-1073178.html
21-01-2022||National||ISRO test fires engine for India's human space mission rocket||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) successfully fired the high thrust Vikas engine that would power India's first rocket to ferry humans. According to ISRO, the Vikas engine for the Gaganyaan human space mission underwent the qualification test for a duration of 25 seconds at the ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC), in Mahendragiri, Tamil Nadu. The Indian space agency said that two engines have already undergone tests under nominal operating conditions for a total duration of 480 seconds. The test carried out on Thursday was to verify the robustness of the engine by operating beyond its nominal operating conditions (fuel-oxidiser ratio and chamber pressure). The performance of the engine met the test objectives and the engine parameters were closely matching with the predictions during the entire duration of the test. Further, three more tests are planned for a cumulative duration of 75 seconds under varying operating conditions. Subsequently, another high thrust Vikas engine will undergo a long-duration test for 240 seconds to complete the Vikas engine qualification for Gaganyaan Programme, ISRO said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-test-fires-engine-for-indias-human-space-mission-rocket-1073181.html
21-01-2022||National||Supreme Court judge recuses himself from hearing Tehelka case||A Supreme Court judge on Friday recused himself from hearing a plea by former editor of Tehelka magazine Tarun Tejpal for in-camera proceedings of the appeal filed by the Goa government against his acquittal in a sexual assault case. As soon as the matter was called out, Justice L Nageswara Rao, presiding over the bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai, preferred to opt out of the proceedings. The judge clarified that he had earlier appeared as a counsel for the Goa government in the matter in 2015 and 2016. The matter would now be placed before the Chief Justice of India for posting it for hearing before another bench. Tejpal approached the court on December 4, last year, challenging the dismissal of his application by the Bombay High Court. His plea contended every party has a right to place forth their case in the best possible manner. The plea argued that it would not be fair if lawyers have to curtail their submissions in the backdrop that some publishers may publish something, without exercising due care. Tejpal sought an in-camera proceeding in his matter, relying upon a recent order by Bombay High Court which passed directions for in-camera hearings in cases under the Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace Act. In May, last year, the trial court acquitted Tejpal of all charges levelled against him, including wrongful confinement, assault with intent to outrage modesty, sexual harassment, and rape against his female colleague. The Goa government filed an appeal challenging his acquittal by the trial court.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-judge-recuses-himself-from-hearing-tehelka-case-1073183.html
21-01-2022||National||Extinguishing Amar Jawan Jyoti tantamounts to extinguishing history: Congress||The Congress on Friday accused the BJP government of "removing history" by extinguishing the Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate here and merging it with the immortal flame at the National War Memorial. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi hit out, saying some people cannot understand patriotism and sacrifice, and added that the Congress will light the Amar Jawan Jyoti once again. "It is a matter of great sadness that the immortal flame for our brave soldiers will be extinguished today.Some people cannot understand patriotism and sacrifice - never mind...We will once again light the 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' for our soldiers," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Government sources maintained there is a lot of misinformation on the matter, and said the flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti is not being extinguished, but is being merged with the flame at the National War Memorial. BJP leader Sambit Patra also echoed the government view in a tweet. Congress leader Manish Tewari alleged that extinguishing the flame tantamounts to removing history. "Extinguishing Amar Jawan Jyoti tantamounts to extinguishing history. For it commentates sacrifice of those 3,483 brave soldiers who cleaved Pakistan into two parts and redrew map of South Asia post partition," he said on Twitter.   Tewari said it is ironical that in the 50th year of liberation of Bangladesh Government seems to be working overtime to erase India's finest hour in post independent history.  "Amar Jawan Jyoti is imbued in the national consciousness. A billion people have grown up venerating it. Why can't India have two eternal flames? Amar Jawan Jyoti and National War Memorial.  "Redeveloping the Central Vista was hubris enough but extinguishing the eternal flame at India Gate is nothing short of a crime. I am surprised that the nation is silent as a national icon would be snuffed out in the project to re-write history," the former union minister said. Government sources said it was an odd thing to see that the flame at Amar Jawan Jyoti paid homage to the martyrs of the 1971 and other wars but none of their names are present there. The names inscribed on the India Gate are of only some martyrs who fought for the British in the World War 1 and the Anglo Afghan War and thus is a symbol of our colonial past, the government sources said. They said the names of all Indian martyrs from all the wars, including 1971 and wars before and after it are housed at the National War Memorial.  Hence it is a true homage to have the flame paying tribute to martyrs there, they added. Patra said, "It is ironic that people who did not make a National War Memorial for seven decades are now making a hue and cry when a permanent and fitting tribute is being made to our martyrs".  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extinguishing-amar-jawan-jyoti-tantamounts-to-extinguishing-history-congress-1073191.html
21-01-2022||National||Government asks employees not to send classified information through messaging apps, calls for increased security||Amid frequent violations of national communication guidelines and government directions to prevent leaks of classified information, the Centre has issued a revised communication advisory formulated by the Intelligence agencies after reviewing the gaps in the present system. According to the sources, the new communication guidelines have asked all the government officials not to use WhatsApp, Telegram, etc., to share confidential information as the servers of such apps are controlled by the private companies abroad and information can be misused by some anti-India forces. They also said that officials working from home should use only e-office applications for communication. The revised guidelines also asked the officials to stop sharing secret information or documents via home setup during WFH, and the home systems must be connected with the office network via Virtual Private Network of National Informatics Centre (NIC) only. All ministries have been asked to take "urgent steps" to prevent such violations and to follow the communication security policies and guidelines strictly while dealing with confidential or restricted communications. "Any classified or secret documents should not be stored in officials mobile sets and that should not be shared with any officials by mobile as the new communication apps' servers are owned by the private ownership and can create a big risk for national security and other related issues," a senior official aware of this development said on condition of anonymity. The new communication norms, circulated to all union ministries, departments and top officials have been asked not to use smartwatches or smartphones during the meetings to discuss classified issues or national security-related issues. They have also been advised not to use various office assistant devices like Amazon's Alexa, Apple HomePod, etc. The new guidelines have also detailed the norms for virtual meetings, which has become a new norm in the Covid-19 period for the last two years. It also directed officials not to hold virtual meetings on private apps like Google Meet or Zoom application and instead, to use video conference solutions set up by the Department of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), National Informatics Centre (NIC) along with mandatory-use passwords to access the chat room and waiting room facilities. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-asks-employees-not-to-send-classified-information-through-messaging-apps-calls-for-increased-security-1073194.html
21-01-2022||National||Gauhati High Court rejects anticipatory bail plea of Padma awardee over sexual assault on minor girl||The Gauhati High Court has cancelled the interim anticipatory bail granted to renowned innovator and Padma Shri awardee Uddhab Kumar Bharali for alleged sexual abuse of a minor girl he was fostering, noting his custodial interrogation was "essential". Bharali, on the other hand, claimed he is a victim of a conspiracy, which he will fight legally. He said he will surrender before a local court in Lakhimpur district on Friday. Hearing the anticipatory bail petition by Bharali, Justice Hitesh Kumar Sarma on Thursday cancelled the interim anticipatory bail granted to the innovator on December 28 last year by a vacation bench. "...the petitioner is found not entitled to the grant of privilege of pre-arrest bail. Accordingly, his prayer stands rejected. The interim protection granted to the petitioner, vide order dated 28.12.2021, stands vacated. The anticipatory bail application stands disposed of accordingly," the order said. After hearing the arguments of the counsel for the petitioner and the state, Justice Sarma noted that custodial interrogation of Bharali is "essential" for the purpose of investigation of the case in view of the allegations made in the FIR as well as the statements by the victim and witnesses. "This court would like to mention here that so far the statement of the victim and other witnesses are concerned, the statements recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure weighed more in deciding this application, the same being recorded by a competent magistrate, on oath," he added. The anticipatory bail plea was filed by Bharali, credited with nearly 150 innovations, on December 23 after an FIR was registered at North Lakhimpur police station under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A day after the order, the recipient of numerous national and international recognition on Friday said he will surrender before the Lakhimpur Chief Judicial Magistrate during the day. "I am a victim of a conspiracy. As my bail plea was rejected, I have no other option but to surrender. I will go and present myself in front of the CJM today," Bharali told reporters at his North Lakhimpur residence. Justice Sarma, while delivering the order, relied on the case diary and statements of the minor victim as well as two other minor witnesses, who "categorically stated that the petitioner had committed sexual intercourse not only with the victim girl but also with some others, who were also under foster care of the petitioner". The high court said the victim has not only stated "commission of sexual intercourse" on her by Bharali, but also "very specifically and chronologically" narrated the sequence of events and the manner in which the offence was committed by the accused petitioner. Bharali's counsel A M Bora, assisted by D K Baidya, claimed that Anil Kumar Bora, the Chairman of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) of Lakhimpur, had a grudge against the petitioner and he had manipulated the facts, leading to filing of the FIR. Advocate Bora also stated that one of the girls in the foster care was operated upon for some ailments and Bharali had sought reimbursement of the medical expenses from the CWC which had "anguished the chairman of the C.W.C. Shri Anil K Bora". The high court order said, "Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also referred to various achievements of the petitioner to suggest that a person of his standing and repute would not commit an offence as alleged in the instant case. "He has submitted that the petitioner is the recipient of 'Padma Shri' and also known for 142 inventions. The petitioner is a person with enviable fame across the globe for his inventions and innovations." The petitioner's counsel also projected the "humanitarian approach" of Bharali and argued that he has been running a home for destitute women, 'Seneh', in Lakhimpur using his own personal resources in spite of not receiving any grant from the government. "He has submitted that it is not at all believable that the petitioner is involved with the offence as alleged in this case. Mr. Bora has, therefore, submitted that considering the entire materials, as a whole, the petitioner be granted the privilege of pre-arrest bail," Justice Sarma said. According to the FIR, the victim was given in the custody of the petitioner and his wife Iva Das Bharali under foster care for a period of one year from August 31, 2020 on the condition that on expiry of the said period, the foster care has to be renewed or the child was to be placed before the CWC. "However, the petitioner neither renewed the foster care nor produced the girl before the CWC even after expiry of the foster period, due to which, CWC issued letter requesting him to produce the child i.e. the victim and another girl... before the CWC on or before 14.09.2021," the order said. Ultimately, the petitioner had produced the victim and another girl before the CWC on October 28 last year, it added. "It has further been alleged in the FIR that apart from engaging the victim in some household works the petitioner had done some bad acts with her in spite of initial objection by her. "She remained silent on the assurance of her foster father, i.e. the petitioner that nothing will happen to her. She was asked to remain silent by the foster father, i.e. the petitioner," Justice Sarma wrote in his order.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gauhati-high-court-rejects-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-padma-awardee-over-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl-1073216.html
21-01-2022||National||'One handbag' rule for fliers likely to be enforced strictly||The 'one handbag rule' for fliers will soon be strictly enforced with the CISF flagging rising congestion at pre-embarkation security checkpoints in airports. The CISF, which handles airport security, has now written to the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) to make airlines “responsible'' for ensuring that passengers do not move to security checkpoints with more than one hand baggage. The letter came against the background of more fliers now seen carrying more than one hand baggage against a circular issued by BCAS in 2000. In a letter to the BCAS Director-General, the CISF has said that the BCAS circular issued in 2000 does not permit a flyer to carry more than one handbag other than those items already listed, including a lady's bag. However, the CISF said it has been noticed that fliers on average carry two-three handbags to the screening points. "This has led to increased clearance time as well as delays, congestion in PESC (pre-embarkation security check) point and inconvenience to passengers," the letter said. It has asked the BCAS to instruct airlines to implement some measures to enforce the restriction. The CISF wants the airlines and airport operators to take steps to implement the 'one handbag rule' meticulously on the ground to ease out the congestion and other security concerns.  Airlines should be made responsible and depute staff to guide pax, check and verify their handbag status etc, before allowing the passenger for pre-embarkation security checks. They should also be directed to inform fliers and to display the 'one handbag rule' on their tickets and boarding passes "very conspicuously".  Airport Operators should place hoarding or banner or board or standees displaying the contents of the 'One handbag Rule' near the check-in counters, vantage locations so that passengers get sensitised and if required, have an option to switch their extra handbags to registered baggage, the letter said seeking suitable instructions from BCAS to airlines and airport operators. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-handbag-rule-for-fliers-likely-to-be-enforced-strictly-1073226.html
21-01-2022||National||Four Indians, including a baby, die in a freezing blizzard while crossing over from Canada to US||Four Indians, including a baby and a teen, died in a freezing blizzard at a border town in Canada while illegally crossing over to the United States. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar asked India’s diplomatic and consular missions in Canada and the United States to respond to the situation after reports reached New Delhi that the mortal remains of four Indians – a man, a woman, a baby and a teen-aged boy – were found at Emerson, a border village in Manitoba in Canada. The bodies were found just about 9-12 metres away from the Canada-US border. “Shocked by the report that 4 (four) Indian nationals, including an infant, have lost their lives at the Canada-US border. Have asked our Ambassadors in the US and Canada to urgently respond to the situation,” Jaishankar posted on Twitter on Friday. “This is a grave tragedy,” Ajay Bisaria, New Delhi’s envoy to Ottawa, tweeted. India’s ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, too called it an “unfortunate and tragic incident”. They were apparently members of a group of Indians, who were trying to sneak into the US from Canada with the help of a human trafficking racket. Seven other members of the group were detained by the US Customs and Border Protection officers after crossing over to the US from Canada. Two of them were detained in North Dakota in the US, when they were being driven away in a van by Steve Shand, who was later arrested for human smuggling. Five were spotted and detained when they were still trekking on snow after crossing over to the US from Canada. Some of the detained Indians had to be taken to a hospital for emergency medical care as they were exhausted and suffered frostbites after trekking through driving snow and biting chilly winds for almost 11 hours. At least one of them would require partial amputation of her hand. One of the detainees had items meant for infants in his backpack, although the group intercepted by the US Customs and Border Protection officers included no baby. Questioning of the detainees revealed that a family with an infant had been left behind on Canada’s side of the US-Canada border as they could not keep pace with others. After receiving the information from the US Customs and Border Protection agents, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers launched a search and recovered the bodies of the four Indians – an adult male, an adult female, an infant and a boy in his mid-teens. “We are very concerned that this may have been facilitated in some way and that these individuals, including an infant, were left in the middle of a blizzard when the weather hovered around minus 35 degree Celsius when factoring the wind,” the RCMP’s Assistant Commissioner Jane MacLatchy said in a statement. “These victims faced not only the cold weather but also endless fields, large snowdrifts, and complete darkness.” The High Commission of India in Ottawa swung into action. A team of officials from the Consulate General of India in Toronto already started for Manitoba to coordinate with local authorities. “We will work with Canadian authorities to investigate these disturbing events.” Bisaria, High Commissioner of India in the capital of Canada, posted on Twitter. “We are in touch with (the) US authorities on their ongoing investigation,” Sandhu, India’s ambassador to the US, tweeted. A team of officials from the Consulate General of India in Chicago started for Minnesota “to coordinate and provide any assistance required,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-indians-including-a-baby-die-in-a-freezing-blizzard-while-crossing-over-from-canada-to-us-1073228.html
21-01-2022||National||Content creator Prajakta Koli is UNDP India's first youth climate champion||The United Nations Development Programme-India on Friday announced their partnership with content creator and actor Prajakta Koli as their first UNDP India Youth Climate Champion. In a statement, the UNDP said that with a long-term vision to reinforce maximum youth participation in climate action and ensure a more sustainable future, Koli, a youth icon, becomes the perfect candidate for the title, given her longstanding contribution towards mental health, women's rights and girl child education through various global social campaigns. As UNDP India Youth Climate Champion, Koli will be entrusted with the responsibility of interacting with young minds to create awareness on the adverse impacts of climate change, global warming and biodiversity loss that are being felt by all sections of society, especially the poor and marginalised communities, impacting their lives and livelihoods, and also the economy. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/content-creator-prajakta-koli-is-undp-indias-first-youth-climate-champion-1073234.html
21-01-2022||National||Amar Jawan Jyoti merged with National War Memorial's 'eternal flame'||The eternal flame at the Amar Jawan Jyoti remembering the faceless soldiers of the country who martyred their lives was extinguished and merged with the flame at nearby National War Memorial on Friday evening, an exercise that invited the wrath of the Opposition that targeted the Narendra Modi government for “attempting to rewrite history” and employ “memory erasure” tactics. Maintaining that the eternal flame at the India Gate was not being extinguished but "merged with the flame" at the National War Memorial, which is 400 metres away, sources went to say that it was "odd" to see that the flame that paid homage to the martyrs of the 1971 and other wars had no names etched there. "The names inscribed on the India Gate are of only some martyrs who fought for the British in the World War 1 and the Anglo Afghan War & thus is a symbol of our colonial past," they said adding names of all martyrs from all wars are inscribed at the war memorial. "Hence it is a true shraddhanjali to have the flame paying tribute to martyrs there," they added. In February 2019, while briefing on National War Memorial, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff Lt Gen PS Rajeshwar had said that a new flame will come up at the war memorial "but the eternal flame at Amar Jawan Jyoti will stay. We have inherited that flame." Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said, "How many more ideas and monuments we hold dear need to be reworked to make way for a ‘New India’? Sad and Anguished....PS : Spare me gyaan on merging it with another flame at War Memorial. Why can’t we keep both?" Eternal Flame will be Extinguished Flame for sometime. How many more ideas & monuments we hold dear need to be reworked to make way for a ‘New India’? PS : Spare me gyaan on merging it with another flame at War Memorial. Why can’t we keep both? Senior RJD MP Manoj K Jha said, "it was understandable that the present regime may not have a sense of attachment/belonging with the 'glories of the past' but it is beyond comprehension when you resort to such 'memory erasure' tactics..It is neither good politics nor good optics. Jai Hind." A former IAF pilot, Congress' Lok Sabha MP Uttam Kumar Reddy said he felt sad to read about the decision. "Highly inappropriate! Most countries have several war memorials!! No need to extinguish existing Amar Jawan Jyoti!!" he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amar-jawan-jyoti-merged-with-national-war-memorials-eternal-flame-1073238.html
21-01-2022||National||SC notice to Centre on mandatory compliance of RTI law||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Union government on a plea for effective implementation of the RTI Act, mandating public authorities to disclose information under the transparency law. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh sought a reply from the Centre on the petition filed by K C Jain. The petitioner asked the court to direct the government to ensure compulsory implementation of Section 4, and more particularly Section 4(2) mandating public authorities to suo moto disclose vital information about their functioning. He said Section 4 is the soul of the RTI Act, without which, the transparency law remains an ornamental legislation.  "There should be suo moto disclosure of all vital information. Section 4(2) embodies this mandate of suo moto proactive disclosures," the plea said, citing reports of the Central Information Commission on poor compliance of the mandate.  The petitioner also submitted that there were three other petitions pending in this regard before the court. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-mandatory-compliance-of-rti-law-1073253.html
21-01-2022||National||Veteran journalist Dinkar Raikar dies at 79||Veteran journalist and former group editor of Lokmat Media Dinkar Raikar died of a prolonged illness at a private hospital here in the early hours of Friday, family sources said. Raikar, 79, is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. “Raikar had tested positive for Covid-19 and was also suffering from dengue. He had been bedridden for some weeks at his residence here and was shifted to a private hospital a few days ago. His lung infection reached 80 per cent and he never recovered from it,” a family member said. Raikar started his career with the Indian Express group and later joined Lokmat as the editor of its Aurangabad edition. He was later made a group editor. Condoling Raikar's death, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “In him, we have lost an editor who contributed to new values in the field of journalism. He encouraged young journalists to explore and bring in new content and issues.” Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said, “He was a moderate, well-studied journalist and an editor. As an editor, he always focused on enlightening the readers. His contribution in the making of many journalists who are currently in the profession is noteworthy. We have lost a cordial journalist who was deeply attached to the society and its issues.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veteran-journalist-dinkar-raikar-dies-at-79-1073254.html
21-01-2022||National||IAS rules row: Govt says states not sending sufficient officers for central deputation||States are not sparing a sufficient number of IAS officers for deputation which is affecting the functioning of the central government, the Centre said on Friday, defending its proposed changes in the service rules which gives it the power to overrule states on such matters. Sources in the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said a trend of decreasing representation of IAS officers, up to the Joint Secretary-level at the Centre, has been noticed as most of the states are not meeting their Central Deputation Reserve (CDR) obligations and the number of officers, sponsored by them to serve at the Centre is much lesser. The DoPT has recently proposed changes in the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, that will take away the power of states to override New Delhi’s request for seeking officers on central deputation. The move has evoked sharp criticism from West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to roll back the proposal claiming it will affect the states' administration. According to DoPT sources, the number of IAS officers on CDR has gone down from 309 in 2011 to 223 as of date. The percentage of CDR utilisation has gone down from 25 per cent in 2011 to 18 per cent as of date, they said. In spite of the increase of IAS officers at the deputy secretary/director level in IAS from 621 in 2014 to 1,130 in 2021, the number of such officers on central deputation has gone down from 117 to 114 during the period, sources said. Hence, the number of officers available under the central deputation is not sufficient to meet the requirement of the Centre, they said. The non-availability of a sufficient number of officers at the Centre is affecting the functioning of the central government since the Centre needs the services of these officers to obtain fresh inputs in policy formulation and programme implementation, sources said. The Centre also needs them to utilise their vast field experience by way of providing vital inputs for policy planning and formulation. Further, the movement of officers from state to Centre and vice versa is mutually beneficial to both as it enables the professional growth of officers besides contributing towards better coordination with the states for effective programme implementation, they said. The sources further said the reason quoted by most of the state cadres for not sponsoring the number of officers as per prescribed CDR is the shortage of officers in the cadre. Considering the same and the fact that shortage of officers in the cadres, if any, has to be shared mutually between the Centre and the states, they said. According to DoPT’s proposal, sent to chief secretaries of all state governments on January 12, “in specific situations where services of cadre officer(s) are required by the central government in the public interest, the central government may seek the services of such officer(s) for posting under the central government…and the state government concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government within the specified time”. It further states that “wherever the state government concerned does not give effect to the decision of the central government within the specified time, the officer(s) shall stand relieved from cadre from the date as may be specified by the central government”. Existing rules allowed mutual consultation for officers central deputation. The DoPT had written to chief secretaries of all state governments on December 20, 2021, after which reminders were sent on December 27, 2021, and January 6 and January 12. The January 12 letter to states mentions the Centre’s power to override the states’ disagreement on sending the officers on deputation. The state governments have been asked to furnish their comments on the proposed changes by January 25, 2022. The Centre had in June last year asked all state governments to nominate more officers for central deputation at the level of deputy secretary, director and joint secretary, citing their shortage. Officers of the level of deputy secretary/director and above are usually appointed in central government ministries/departments (i.e. on central deputation) under the Central Staffing Scheme (CSS). Every cadre – a state/states or states and Union territories -- is allowed a central deputation reserve to ensure that officers have the opportunity to work on deputation, including that under the CSS, which adds to their experience. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ias-rules-row-govt-says-states-not-sending-sufficient-officers-for-central-deputation-1073256.html
21-01-2022||National||Covid-19 related data of thousands of Indians leaked online||Personal data of thousands of people in India has been leaked from a government server which includes their name, mobile number, address and Covid test result, and these information can be accessed through online search. The leaked data has been put on sale on Raid Forums website where a cyber criminal claims to have personal data of over 20,000 people. The data put on Raid Forums shows name, age, gender, mobile number, address, date and result of Covid-19 report of these people.  Cyber Security researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia also tweeted that personally identifiable information (PII) including name and Covid-19 results are made public through a content delivery network (CDN). He said that Google has indexed lakhs of data from the affected system. "PII including Name, MOB, PAN, Address etc of #Covid19 #RTPCR results & #Cowin data getting public through a Govt CDN. #Google indexed almost 9 Lac public/private #GovtDocuments in search engines. Patient's data is now listed on #DarkWeb. Need fast deindex," Rajaharia said in his tweet. An email query sent to the Ministry of Electronics and IT did not elicit any reply. The sample document shared on Raid Forums shows that the leaked data was meant for upload on Co-WIN portal. The government has heavily relied on digital technologies in terms of controlling and creating awareness about the Covid-19 pandemic as also its vaccination programme. Several government departments mandate people to use Aarogya Setu app for Covid-19 related services and information. Rajaharia in a follow-up tweet on January 20 said that he is not reporting any vulnerability in this incidence but cautioning people to remain alert from fraud calls, offers related to Covid-19, etc that they may get as their data is being sold in the dark web. Data sold in the dark web is often exploited by cyber criminals and fraudsters for various kind of frauds. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-related-data-of-thousands-of-indians-leaked-online-1073265.html
21-01-2022||National||Padma Shri awardee sent to jail in minor girl sexual abuse case in Assam||A court in Assam's Lakhimpur district on Friday remanded renowned innovator and Padma Shri awardee Uddhab Kumar Bharali to judicial custody in connection with a case of alleged sexual abuse of a minor girl he was fostering. A day after his interim anticipatory bail was cancelled by the Gauhati High Court, Bharali surrendered before District Special Judge Rasmita Das at North Lakhimpur town. The court sent Bharali to 14 days' judicial custody, following which he was taken to the district jail, North Lakhimpur. Bharali, who was awarded Padma Shri in 2019 for contributions to the field of science and engineering, claimed he is a victim of a conspiracy, which he will fight legally. On Thursday, the Gauhati High Court had cancelled the interim anticipatory bail granted to Bharali for alleged sexual abuse of a minor girl he was fostering, noting that his custodial interrogation was "essential". After hearing the arguments of the counsel for the petitioner and the state, Justice Hitesh Kumar Sarma of the high court noted that custodial interrogation of Bharali is "essential" for the purpose of investigation of the case in view of the allegations made in the FIR as well as the statements by the victim and witnesses. Justice Sarma, while delivering the order, relied on the case diary and statements of the minor victim as well as two other minor witnesses, who "categorically stated that the petitioner had committed sexual intercourse not only with the victim girl but also with some others, who were also under the foster care of the petitioner". The anticipatory bail plea was filed by Bharali, credited with nearly 150 innovations, on December 23 last year against the FIR at North Lakhimpur police station under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The pre-arrest bail was granted to the innovator on December 28 by a vacation bench. "I am a victim of a conspiracy. As my bail plea was rejected, I have no other option but to surrender. I will go and present myself in front of the CJM today," Bharali told reporters at his North Lakhimpur residence before going to the district court. While cancelling his anticipatory bail, the high court said the victim has not only stated "commission of sexual intercourse" on her by Bharali, but also "very specifically and chronologically" narrated the sequence of events and the manner in which the offence was committed by the accused petitioner. Bharali's counsel A M Bora, assisted by D K Baidya, claimed in the high court that Anil Kumar Bora, the Chairman of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) of Lakhimpur, had a grudge against the petitioner and he had manipulated the facts, leading to the filing of the FIR. Advocate Bora also stated that one of the girls in the foster care was operated upon for some ailments and Bharali had sought reimbursement of the medical expenses from the CWC which had "anguished the chairman of the C.W.C. Shri Anil K Bora". The high court order said, "Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also referred to various achievements of the petitioner to suggest that a person of his standing and repute would not commit an offence as alleged in the instant case. The petitioner's counsel also projected the "humanitarian approach" of Bharali and argued that he has been running a home for destitute women, 'Seneh', in Lakhimpur using his own personal resources in spite of not receiving any grant from the government. According to the FIR, the victim was given in the custody of the petitioner and his wife Iva Das Bharali under foster care for a period of one year from August 31, 2020, on the condition that on expiry of the said period, the foster care has to be renewed or the child was to be placed before the CWC. "However, the petitioner neither renewed the foster care nor produced the girl before the CWC even after expiry of the foster period, due to which, CWC issued letter requesting him to produce the child i.e. the victim and another girl.... before the CWC on or before 14.09.2021," the order said. Ultimately, the petitioner had produced the victim and another girl before the CWC on October 28 last year, it added. "It has further been alleged in the FIR that apart from engaging the victim in some household works the petitioner had done some bad acts with her in spite of initial objection by her. "She remained silent on the assurance of her foster father, i.e. the petitioner that nothing will happen to her. She was asked to remain silent by the foster father, i.e. the petitioner," Justice Sarma wrote in his order. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-shri-awardee-sent-to-jail-in-minor-girl-sexual-abuse-case-in-assam-1073270.html
21-01-2022||National||Modi most popular leader in the world with 71% approval rating||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emerged as the most popular leader in the world among adults with 71 per cent rating, leaving behind prominent global leaders like US President Joe Biden, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, French President Emmanuel Macron German chancellor Olaf Scholz and others, revealed a survey. In the survey conducted by Morning Consult Political Intelligence, Modi secured 71 per cent approval rating, whereas Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador came second with 66 per cent, followed by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi with 60 per cent approval. With 43 per cent approval rating, US President Joe Biden came sixth in the list of 13 world leaders. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is at the bottom with 26 per cent, the survey revealed. Other leaders in the list are Jair Bolsonaro (Brazil President), Fumio Kishida (Japan Prime Minister), Emmanuel Macron (France President); Moon Jae-in (South Korean President), Scott Morrison(Australian Prime Minister); Pedro Sanchez (Spain PM); Olaf Scholz (German Chancellor) and Justin Trudeau (Canada PM). Morning Consult Political Intelligence is currently tracking the approval ratings of government leaders and country trajectories in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Spain, the UK and the US. With the latest data for all 13 countries, offering real-time insight into the shifting political dynamics across the globe, the latest approval ratings are based on data collected from January 13-19, 2022. Approval ratings are based on a seven-day moving average of adult residents in each country. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-most-popular-leader-in-the-world-with-71-approval-rating-1073274.html
21-01-2022||National||AG grants consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Yati Narsinghanand over comments on top court||Attorney General K K Venugopal on Friday granted consent to initiate contempt of court proceedings against Yati Narsinghanand, over his recent derogatory remarks against the Supreme Court. Narsinghanand, head priest of Dasna temple at Ghaziabad, has been under judicial custody after his arrest in Haridwar Dharm Sansad case related to alleged hate speech. In response to a letter by a Mumbai-based activist, Shachi Nelli seeking contempt proceeding against Narsinghanand, Venugopal said, “I have gone through your letter and watched the video of the statements made by Yati Narsinghanand. I find that the statement made by Yati Narsinghanand, that 'those who believed in this system, in these politicians, in the Supreme Court, and in the army will all die the death of a dog', is a direct attempt to lower the authority of the Supreme Court in the minds of the general public”. He added that this would certainly amount to contempt of the Supreme Court.  “I accordingly grant consent to initiate proceedings for criminal contempt of the Supreme Court of India in terms of section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 read with rule 3A of the Rules 3 (a) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court of India, 1975,” the AG said. A consent by the Attorney General or the Solicitor General is a statutory requirement under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 and under the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court of India, 1975 for initiation of such proceedings in the top court.  Following an interview by Narsinghanand, which went viral on social media platform Twitter, Nelli, in the letter to the AG, said the comments made by him tried to undermine the majesty of the institution and the authority vested in the Supreme Court.   Narsinghanand had made those statements in response to questions in connection with the court proceedings in the Haridwar hate speech cases. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ag-grants-consent-to-initiate-contempt-proceedings-against-yati-narsinghanand-over-comments-on-top-court-1073288.html
21-01-2022||National||MHA to allow arms manufacturers to enhance production||Arms manufacturers will henceforth be allowed to enhance annual production of firearms and ammunition according to fresh rules issued by the Union home ministry. Under the Arms (Amendment) Rules, 2022, the arms manufacturers, however, will have to submit online every month details of the firearms manufactured, sold or transferred or consumed for the month. The home ministry issued the new rules through a gazette notification on Thursday. "The manufacturer who has been issued licence in Form VII under these rules shall be permitted to have enhanced annual production of firearms or ammunition or caliber wise revision of his licensed capacity by giving intimation to the licensing authority and also to the state government concerned within ninety days from the end of the financial year and for which no further endorsement on the licence as to capacity shall be required," the notification said. While applying, the manufacturer has to submit detailed proposal for enhancement of manufacturing capacity or caliber wise revision of licenced capacity, project outlays, means of finance and justification for economic viability and market demand projections, duly certified by the authorised signatory of the company. Monthly online returns, detailing the production, sold, transfer and consumed shall be submitted by the manufacturer by close of business hours of the last day of the month, the notification said. Prior approval of the licensing authority will be mandatory for any change in control, either directly or indirectly, of the company or in case of any change in shareholding or beneficial interest in the shareholding, resulting into dilution of promoters shareholding below 10 per cent. However, prior approval will not be required if there is increase in shareholding of a shareholder, who held less than 10 per cent in the share capital of the company, to 10 per cent or more provided that for transfer of share holding between the two promoters which is already approved by the licensing authority. If any circumstances occur which prevent a licensee to submit online returns, the local licensing authority shall be informed immediately in order to establish alternative means to submit the monthly returns, it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-to-allow-arms-manufacturers-to-enhance-production-1073295.html
21-01-2022||National||Centre blocks 35 Pakistan-based YouTube channels for anti-India fake news||In second such action in a month, the government on Friday said it has blocked 35 YouTube channels, two websites, two Instagram and Twitter accounts as well as one Facebook account operating from Pakistan for waging a "war of misinformation" by spreading "totally toxic fake news" in a coordinated manner. Information and Broadcasting Secretary Apurva Chandra told a press conference that the action was taken by invoking the emergency provisions of the law after receiving inputs from the intelligence agencies on Friday about the channels and social media accounts. The blocked YouTube channels cumulatively had a subscriber base of 1.2 crore and video views running into 130 crore. The Ministry issued orders under Rule 16 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021.  In December, 20 YouTube channels and two websites were similarly blocked when the emergency powers under the IT Rules, 2021 were first used to act against such networks. Last time, Chandra said, the intermediaries had blocked access to these platforms worldwide and they do expect the same this time too, though the Ministry's order is specific to India. Information and Broadcasting Joint Secretary Vikram Sahai said the 35 accounts blocked by the Ministry were identified to be part of four coordinated disinformation networks, which included Apni Duniya Network operating 14 YouTube channels, and Talha Films Network operating 13 YouTube channels. A set of four channels, and a set of two other channels were also found to be acting in synchronisation with each other. All these networks appeared to be operated with a "single goal of spreading fake news oriented towards the Indian audience" and used common hashtags and editing styles, were being operated by common persons, and cross promoted each other’s content. "Some of the YouTube channels were being operated by anchors of Pakistani TV news channels," he said. Sahay said the topics handled by the blocked channels were on Indian Army, Jammu and Kashmir and India’s foreign relations with other countries. At the press conference, some of the content used by the blocked channels were shown, which included accusations against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval for the death of Gen Bipin Rawat in a chopper crash and North Korean army reaching Ladakh to help the Chinese army among others. "The channels propagated content to encourage separatism, divide India on the lines of religion, and create animosity among the various sections of the Indian society. Such information were feared to have the potential to incite the audience into commission of crimes adversely affecting public order in the country," Chandra said. He said it should also be the responsibility of intermediaries like YouTube to take into account these "totally toxic" content and should have a system to flag such content. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-blocks-35-pakistan-based-youtube-channels-for-anti-india-fake-news-1073296.html
21-01-2022||National||Why are people peeling raw eggs in TikTok challenge?||It is not a new thing to follow bizarre trends on social media. If you are an avid social media user, you may come across thousands of trends that people follow on daily basis. One such latest TikTok challenge--“Raw egg peeling challenge"-- has been making headlines for being on the list of the weirdest viral challenges. The “Raw egg peeling challenge” has become very popular on social media. It is not just limited to TikTok but has crept up everywhere on digital media. Tweezers, blemish extractors, cuticle pushers, and toothpicks are some of the ‘tools’ used by users to peel raw eggs. Why have peeling raw eggs suddenly become a thing? The hashtag #EggPeelChallenge attracted over 15 million views on TikTok since it was first started. It is believed that it is oddly satisfying to watch someone successfully peel the shell off of a raw egg. “I think we are drawn to the tension and to see if people can pull stuff with high stakes. I also know that he draws a solid live audience, and it’s much easier to make money off of a video when it’s life than when it’s just a typical TikTok post,” Kelsey Weekman, senior internet culture reported at Yahoo! told the New York Post. Where did it originate? The challenge originated from doctors and surgeons. Medical practitioners use this as an exercise as it provides them with the skills to operate on wounds and surgeries. The challenge needs utmost concentration and care. This exercise has been going on for a few years but it became popular on social media last month.  With a lot of social media users jumping on the bandwagon to try the challenge, the popular YouTuber Ludwig also tried the challenge on his channel. He posted a 12-minute-long video showcasing his attempts at the challenge. His video crossed over 4,80,000 views. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-are-people-peeling-raw-eggs-in-tiktok-challenge-1073302.html
21-01-2022||National||SC sets aside National Commission's order on goof up by bank||The Supreme Court on Friday set aside an order by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission for making "contradictory as well as incredulous and fanciful suppositions" in a case related to wrong withdrawal of money from an account at State Bank of India. A bench of Justices Sanjiv Khanna and Bela M Trivedi held that the Commission's decision to call for a report from the bank's officer on its own was absolutely unwarranted.  The top court also pointed out the National Commission itself had exceeded its revisional jurisdiction by calling for the report from the respondent bank and solely relying upon such report, had come to the conclusion that the two fora below had erred in not undertaking the requisite in-depth appraisal of the case. Appellant Sunil Kumar Maity had found that a sum of Rs three lakh, deposited by him through a cheque, has been withdrawn from his account. It was later discovered that the bank had given him the account number of another person by name of Sunil Maity, resulting in the goof up. As the bank failed to redress his grievance, he approached the district consumer forum which allowed his complaint. The West Bengal State Commission also held that the bank should own up the "great blunder" committed by crediting the amount of the cheque to the account of Sunil Maity. The National Commission, however, allowed a revision petition by the bank and dismissed the complaint saying the complainant can approach the competent civil court under the law. On an appeal by Maity, the top court pointed out that the appellant did not know the second respondent (Sunil Maity) and would not have known his account number unless given to him by a bank officer.  "There was no way that the appellant would have known that the second respondent namely Sunil Maity had an account in the same branch. No sane person would deposit cash or cheque meant to be deposited in his account in an account number belonging to another person with a similar name," the bench said. On the other hand, the bank should have been extra cautious given the fact that accounts of the appellant, Sunil Kumar Maity, and the second respondent, Sunil Maity, were with the same bank branch. What is rather surprising is that the National Commission for setting aside the findings and conclusion recorded by the District and State Forum, simply reproduced the report by one of the officers of the party in litigation with the appellant, the court added. The top court restored the order by the State Commission, saying the order passed by the National Commission solely relying upon the suo-moto report called for from the respondent bank during the pendency of the revision application, was "highly erroneous, deserved to be set aside". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sets-aside-national-commissions-order-on-goof-up-by-bank-1073304.html
21-01-2022||National||Now, six members can register with one mobile number on Co-WIN portal||The Co-WIN portal has been upgraded to now facilitate six members' registration using one mobile number for the beneficiaries. Co-WIN is a platform to register for vaccination, using mobile number, Aadhaar number, or any other identity documents. "Instead of the existing limit of 4 members, now 6 members can be registered using one mobile number on Co-WIN," said the Union Health Ministry in a statement. In continuation of updates on various utility features of Co-WIN for the beneficiaries, a feature has been introduced under raise an issue in Co-WIN account through which beneficiary can revoke its current vaccination status from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or unvaccinated status and also partially vaccinated to unvaccinated status. The feature enables the vaccine beneficiaries to correct their vaccination status wherein occasional isolated cases, the vaccination certificates are generated due to inadvertent data entry errors by the vaccinator in updation of vaccination data of beneficiaries. With this functionality, users are now allowed to rectify the mistakes in their vaccination status. The much-needed facility has been made available to users after complaints of data entry errors began piling up across many states. The changes may take 3-7 days after submitting the online request through raise an issue utility. Such beneficiaries can get their due vaccine dose, at the nearest vaccination centre, as per the existent standard guidelines once new vaccination status is successfully updated in the system. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-six-members-can-register-with-one-mobile-number-on-co-win-portal-1073310.html
21-01-2022||National||Top bureaucrat supports govt in plan to amend IAS rules||At a time when several states are expressing reservations about a proposed change in rules to allow the Centre to call any IAS officer on deputation, a top bureaucrat on Friday came out in support of the Narendra Modi government’s move, saying there has to be a level playing field as some officers choose to remain at state for their full tenure. Expressing his “personal views” during a press conference, Information and Broadcasting Secretary Apurva Chandra said one could find some cadres from which all the time one finds officers at the Centre, while there are cadres like Maharashtra from where virtually nobody wants to come to Delhi. A Maharashtra cadre IAS officer, Chandra said there are only 22 officers from his home cadre at present at the Centre against a quota of 93. His comments came when he was asked about West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi objecting to a draft amendment to rules that allow the Centre to transfer any IAS officer to the Centre even without the consent of states. Similar amendments are also contemplated for IPS and IFoS officers. The Centre has argued that the amendment in IAS (Cadre) Rules is needed as the number of officers available on deputation currently was not sufficient enough and needed powers to summon officers to even without concerned state’s consent. Besides West Bengal, states like Kerala, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Odisha are said to have expressed their disagreement about such a move. There are also reports that NDA-ruled states like Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Meghalaya are also not in agreement. Chandra said, “There has to be some level-playing field that everybody has to work in the Government of India as well as in states. This is my personal view,” he said. He said central deputation works well for an officer as it gives a “very broad perspective”, as it is not just for the sake of the Centre. He said the experience at the Centre would help the officer when he returns to the state and vice versa. “If you remain in the state, you develop a provincial mindset. Then what is the difference between a state service officer and an IAS officer?” he said, adding that faster promotions are the only benefit if one stays in state. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-bureaucrat-supports-govt-in-plan-to-amend-ias-rules-1073316.html
21-01-2022||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for Indian Environment Service||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a plea seeking the establishment of 'Indian Environment Service', following a recommendation by a high-level committee and several environmental issues across the country. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh sought a reply from the Union government on a petition filed by Samar Vijay Singh. Referring to the air pollution crisis in Delhi NCR, the plea said that the pollution has crossed the safe limits of breathing and made policymakers look for instant solutions to bring relief to the citizens. The plea also said that the issue of environmental degradation is one of the primary causes of diseases and health issues. It sought a direction to set up an Indian Environmental Service Academy to train officers for environmental law enforcement. "The prayer made is for creation of “independent” Indian Environment Service as an All-India Service. This prayer is stated to be arising from the recommendation of the T S R Subramanian Committee,” the bench said. During the hearing, the bench, however, said that it has prima facie doubt whether a writ of mandamus can be issued on such a prayer.  Petitioner Singh cited a report submitted by the committee constituted by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF), in 2014, under the chairmanship of former Cabinet Secretary Subramanian.  The plea contended that this committee recommended the creation of a new All-India service, the “Indian Environment Service”. It also pointed out that the committee noted the need for an institutional framework to meet future needs, and in its report proposed a National Environment Research Institute on the lines of the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-indian-environment-service-1073322.html
21-01-2022||National||No data leaked from Co-WIN portal, says government||The Union Health Ministry on Friday clarified that no data has leaked from its Co-WIN portal, soon after reports emerged that personal data of thousands of Indians got leaked from a 'government server. "It is clarified that no data has leaked from the Co-WIN portal and the entire data of residents is safe and secure on this digital platform," the Health Ministry said in a statement. The ministry said that it will look into the substance of the reports, as prima facia it doesn't seem correct. "It is also clarified that while the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will enquire into the substance of the news, prima facie the assertion is not correct, as Co-WIN collects neither the address of the person nor the RT-PCR test results for Covid-19 vaccination," said the ministry. It also tweeted, "We are getting the matter examined. However, prima facie it appears that the alleged leak is not related to Co-WIN as we neither collect any information on address or the Covid-19 status of beneficiaries". Earlier in the day, cyber security researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia Rajaharia had said in a tweet, "PII including Name, MOB, PAN, Address etc of #Covid19 #RTPCR results &amp; #Cowin data getting public through a Govt CDN. #Google indexed almost 9 Lac public/private #GovtDocuments in search engines. Patient's data is now listed on #DarkWeb. Need fast deindex." In another tweet, he said: "I am not reporting any #Vulnerability here. I am asking people to #Beware for any Fraud #calls/#offers/#treatment etc related to pre/post #Covid19. The data is already up for sale on a #DarkWeb Forum." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-data-leaked-from-co-win-portal-says-government-1073333.html
21-01-2022||National||Man attempts self-immolation near Supreme Court over unpaid salary||A 50-year-old man attempted self-immolation near the new building of the Supreme Court here on Friday, police said. He has been identified as Rajbhar Gupta, a Noida resident. According to police, Gupta worked as a security guard at an exhaust fan making factory and was not getting salary for the past three months. A video of the purported incident also went viral on social media. In the footage, police personnel can be seen helping the victim remove his burnt clothes. The victim can be heard saying, ‘Sahab ji, main gareeb aadmi hun. Mera parivar bhooka marr raha hai’ (Sir, I am a poor man. My family is starving). This is the second such incident in the city in the last six months. On August 16 last year, a 27-year-old man and a woman allegedly attempted suicide outside the Supreme Court by setting themselves on fire. The man had sustained 65 per cent burn injuries, while the 24-year-old woman suffered 85 per cent burns. The police had said the woman was from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur and was allegedly raped by Bahujan Samaj Party MP Atul Rai in 2019. The MP was subsequently arrested. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-attempts-self-immolation-near-supreme-court-over-unpaid-salary-1073335.html
21-01-2022||National||Indian-origin brothers offer ‘Jabs with Kebabs’ service in UK||A pair of Indian-origin pharmacist brothers are using their restaurant business to offer a special ‘Jabs with Kebabs’ service this weekend to encourage their community in Kent, south-east England, to come forward for their Covid-19 vaccines. Rav and Raj Chopra, who own the popular restaurant Punjabi Grill in Gravesend, set up the walk-in vaccine centre after their father became unwell with Covid-19 last year. The duo is among thousands to volunteer for the National Health Service (NHS) vaccine programme, hoping the offer to grab some Indian food at the venue will prove attractive to those still hesitant about getting their vaccines. “Having suffered the debilitating effects of Covid-19 last year, our dad had strongly urged us to temporarily give up the day-to-day running of our pharmacies and dedicate our efforts to the NHS vaccine programme,” the brothers said on Friday. “So, we’re making the most of our place in the community to offer people vaccine advice with a side of spice and jabs with kebabs, and would strongly urge those who haven’t already taken up the offer to come forward this weekend – we’re just one of the many walk-in sites in the south-east, it’s never been easier to get your jab,” they said. NHS England said Rav and Raj’s Punjabi Grill is running alongside hundreds of pop-up sites across the country, with experts at hand to offer medical advice and administer the vaccine. This includes so-called Jab Cabs and Booster Buses taking people to vaccine appointments in Birmingham and Manchester, where take-up has been lower than in other areas. “We want to make sure everyone has the opportunity to get their jab so we’re going into the homes of those who are housebound, care homes, and putting on these incredible transport offers in tandem with local authorities, volunteer organisations and of course the taxi and bus providers themselves,” said Dr Nikki Kanani, the Indian-origin Deputy Lead for the NHS Covid Vaccination Programme. “If anyone has not yet had their booster or either of their first two doses, then please do come forward – you can even grab a jab with a kebab in Kent this weekend. The evidence is clear that having two vaccinations does not give you enough protection from the Omicron strain so get boosted now,” she said. The NHS says it has delivered more than 114 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine across England, including almost 31 million top-up boosters. In Newcastle and London, there are so-called vaccine buses that bring the jabs to the door, while some local sites are also using support networks to help those who need support booking, travelling to and attending their appointment. UK Health Secretary Sajid Javid said: “Our vaccine programme has been a phenomenal success thanks to the NHS, our dedicated volunteers and everyone who has come forward for their jabs. “The latest data shows that Omicron is in retreat but it’s not the end of the road – it was the jabs that have got us this far, and the jabs can keep us here too, so please 'Get Boosted Now'.” Nottinghamshire and Blackpool are among the places offering free bus trips to those who need them, while there are more Jab Cab or free taxi services available across Liverpool, Sheffield, Swindon, Solihull and Cambridgeshire as part of efforts to reach as many people as possible. The NHS said there are more than 3,000 vaccination sites across the country and jabs have been given at football stadiums, music festivals, places of worship, and restaurants. Its “Grab A Jab” website offers guidance to walk-in centres in local areas. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-brothers-offer-jabs-with-kebabs-service-in-uk-1073337.html
21-01-2022||National||Ex-Mumbai police officer A A Khan passes away||Famed police officer A A Khan — who inspired the formation of Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) type units in the country and carried out several actions including the Lokhandwala Complex shoot-out — passed away in Mumbai on Friday.  Khan (81) breathed his last at the Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital around 3 pm surrounded by his near and dear ones. In 1990, Khan, an officer of 1963 cadre of IPS, had inspired the formation of the ATS of Maharashtra Police on the lines of Special Weapons and Tactics of the United States.  He took premature retirement in 1997 as Additional Director General of Police (Training) and later set up his own security agency. He also briefly joined politics.  The Bollywood film Shootout at Lokhandwala was based on his 1991 encounter at the Swati Building at Lokhandwala Complex in Mumbai, in which seven gangsters including Maya Dolas were gunned down. Khan was then an Additional Commissioner of Police. More than 450 rounds were fired in the daylight encounter. Sanjay Dutt played the role of Khan while Vivek Oberoi essayed the role of Maya Dolas and Amrita Singh the latter’s mother. Khan himself played the small role of the then Mumbai Police chief. The encounter itself had led to controversy given the fact that nearly 450 rounds were used.  Known for his no-nonsense approach, Khan commanded tremendous respect from his officers and had excellent ground-level intelligence. Khan had also served on central deputation being the Deputy Inspector General (Sector Commander) of CRPF in Punjab, Joint Director of Intelligence Bureau in Haryana. During his stint in Maharashtra, his teams had eliminated militants and terrorists. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-mumbai-police-officer-a-a-khan-passes-away-1073354.html
21-01-2022||National Politics||PM targets Congress; says post-1947, new construction took place only for 'few families from Delhi'||In a veiled attack on the Congress, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that after Independence, new construction took place only for a "few families from Delhi", but his government brought the country out of this "narrow thinking" and is building new monuments of national importance. Speaking after virtually inaugurating a newly-built circuit house near the famous Somnath temple in Gir Somnath district of Gujarat, he said that earlier there used to be hesitation in talking about our religious and cultural heritage. "Our ancestors have left many things for us, but there was hesitation in talking about our rich religious and cultural heritage," Modi, who is also the chairman of Somnath Temple Trust, said. "After Independence, new construction took place only for a few families from Delhi. We have brought the country out of this narrow thinking and are building new national monuments and adding glory to the existing ones," he added. For the development of tourism sector, four things are required - cleanliness, facilities, respect for tourists' time and a modern mindset - the prime minister said. He also said that development of religious or heritage places will give a boost to the economy of the areas they are located in. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-targets-congress-says-post-1947-new-construction-took-place-only-for-few-families-from-delhi-1073196.html
21-01-2022||National Politics||Aazad promises free education, farm loan waiver, anti-mob lynching law in Uttar Pradesh||The Azad Samaj Party (Kanshiram) on Friday launched its manifesto for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Polls, announcing free healthcare and education for all, fertilizer and seeds to farmers and waiver on all farm loans. The manifesto was shared on social media by party president Chandra Shekhar Aazad, who will be fighting his debut assembly poll from the Gorakhpur (Urban) seat, against UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, among others. If voted to power in UP, the ASP (K) promised to fix a minimum support price (MSP) for all crops and pay sugarcane farmers within 10 days. Keeping in mind the inflation, it said all tolls would be made free for commuters. The party said the Muslim Waqf will be freed of mafia and government control and the benefits would be used for uplifting the community. After clearing encroachment on Waqf properties, schools and universities would be built on them, it added. The ASP (K) also promised to bring in an anti-mob lynching law under an independent panel of retired judges. The one-year-old political outfit promised to create 80 lakh jobs in the state. It also resolved to implement reservation in contractual government jobs for Class C and D and regularising jobs after five years of work. The ASP (K) has also promised to re-start all pension schemes. “All types of agricultural loans will be waived, fertilizers and seeds will be given free to all the farmers. A 50 per cent subsidy on the purchase of equipment used in agriculture will also be given and agricultural markets will be formed in every village within 30 days of the formation of the government,” the manifesto read. The state will be freed of stray cattle and there will be no restriction from taking animals from one animal market to the other or from the UP to other states, it added. “The salary of Aanganwadi, Asha workers and mid-day meal cooks would be increased to Rs 10,000 and their jobs would be regularised,” the ASP (K) said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aazad-promises-free-education-farm-loan-waiver-anti-mob-lynching-law-in-uttar-pradesh-1073213.html
21-01-2022||National Politics||Can BJP's OBC allies garner votes of their communities to its UP kitty?||After the exit of several key OBC leaders, including Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan and Om Prakash Rajbhar, days ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP is now dependent almost completely on the Apna Dal and the Nishad Party for the votes of the community in the state, especially in the 'Poorvanchal' (eastern) region. Apna Dal (AD) claims to have a support base among the 'Kurmi' community, and the Nishad Party (NP) claims to wield considerable influence over the 'Nishad' (fishermen, boatmen) community. However, the AD's claim of a complete hold over the 'Kurmi' community has been challenged by the party national president Anupriya Patel's mother Krishna Patel, who has formed her own outfit, Apna Dal (Kameravadi), and allied with the Samajwadi Party (SP), BJP's main rival in the assembly polls in the state. The mother and daughter have been fighting for the legacy of Sonelal Patel, Krishna Patel's husband, who had formed the AD in 1985 after leaving the BSP. As both Anurpirya and Krishna Patel would be vying for the 'Kurmi' votes, there is every possibility that there might be a division in their votes, which could hit the BJP's electoral prospects in the region. The NP, which was the other OBC ally of the BJP, too was not alone in claiming the support of the 'Nishad' community. In fact, there were several local leaders from the community in different parts of the state, who also made similar claims. And to add to the BJP's discomfort, the Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP), which was an NDA ally in Bihar and represented the community, had also decided to field its candidate in the forthcoming polls on the seats where 'Nishads' were in sizable strength. VIP president Mukesh Sahni, who was a minister in the NDA government in Bihar, calls himself 'son of mallah' (son of boatman) could queer the pitch for NP, with whom the BJP was currently holding talks for seat sharing. Besides, the NP found itself on a sticky wicket as its demand for the inclusion of the community in the list of the scheduled caste (SC) and giving them reservation in government jobs was yet to be fulfilled by the BJP government. NP president Sanjay Nishad had to face the anger of the community members during a rally of the party in the state capital, where Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah also spoke. Irked over not getting assurance on the reservation issue by Shah, the community members created a ruckus at the meeting and went on a rampage, damaging chairs and disrupting the speeches by their leaders.  It remains to be seen if these OBC allies of the saffron party are able to offset the loss of the likes of Maurya and Rajbhar in the forthcoming polls. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/can-bjps-obc-allies-garner-votes-of-their-communities-to-its-up-kitty-1073217.html
21-01-2022||National Politics||Channi to file defamation case against Kejriwal over 'dishonest man' comment||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said he would file a defamation case against AAP leader Arvind Kejirwal, who allegedly dubbed him a dishonest man after the ED carried out raids in the state, including at the premises of the Congress leader's nephew. Channi alleged that Kejriwal was in the habit of levelling accusations to malign the image of others and that in the past it was seen how he had to later apologise to BJP leaders Nitin Gadkari, late Arun Jaitley and SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia. Speaking to reporters in his constituency of Chamkaur Sahib, he claimed that Kejriwal has now crossed acceptable limits and that he has requested his party for permission to file a defamation case against the AAP leader. "I will file a defamation case against Kejriwal and have requested my party to give permission to do so. I am compelled to do this...he is dubbing me as dishonest and he has put that on his Twitter handle," he said. Opposition parties, particularly the AAP, have stepped up attacks on Channi and the Congress in the wake of the Enforcement Directorate raids. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal had said that Channi will be defeated in his Chamkaur Sahib seat in next month's assembly polls, while stressing that people were shocked to see crores of rupees being seized from the home of Channi's nephew. Asked to comment on this, Channi replied, "Now, what has happened, money has been (seized) from someone else, raids are conducted on someone else, but he (Kejriwal) is dubbing me as dishonest by putting photos showing bundles of notes (seized during ED raids) with my photo over social media." "He is calling me dishonest...did he call himself dishonest when his nephew was caught?" asked Channi. "Why photos of bundles of notes with my photos on social media accounts? Which money came to me, what is my fault in this?. Why are you dragging me into this? Some money of someone else seized...there was a raid at ten places in Punjab, why are you linking me with this. Had money been seized from me, ED would have conducted raids at my house, arrested me, questioned me," said Channi, seeking to clarify his position vis-a-vis accusations levelled by the opposition after his nephew was raided.  The Delhi chief minister had on Wednesday said Channi is not a common man but a "dishonest man" as he sought to corner the Congress leader over the ED raids. The ED on Wednesday said it seized cash amounting to over Rs 10 crore, including about Rs 8 crore from a relative of Channi's, during raids conducted in connection with an anti-money laundering investigation against illegal sand mining operations in the poll-bound state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/channi-to-file-defamation-case-against-kejriwal-over-dishonest-man-comment-1073223.html
21-01-2022||National Politics||Congress party workers enthused, rivals amused on Priyanka as Congress' Uttar Pradesh CM face||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's indication on Friday that she was the party's chief ministerial candidate in Uttar Pradesh enthused the party workers but her rivals rejected assertions that she would be able to revive the electoral fortunes of the grand old party in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state. UP Congress leaders said that they had been urging the party leadership for several months to declare Priyanka as its CM face in UP. "The declaration, though not official, has come at the right moment," said a senior Congress leader. The leader said that Priyanka, who was also the in-charge of the state unit of the party, had been able to "galvanise" the party workers in the state and give them a ''new hope''. UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Lallu also echoed a similar sentiment and said that Priyanka was a "fit" candidate for the post of the CM. "She has all the qualities to become the chief minister of the state," he said. Senior Congress leader and party MLA Aradhana Mishra also said that Priyanka had been taking up the issues concerning the common people and under her leadership, the party had launched several agitational programmes in the state against the misrule of the BJP government. The rival BJP, Samajwadi Party (SP) and the BSP, however, said that Priyanka would not be able to revive the party in the state. "Congress is a fringe player in the state... it has no presence...it even struggles to find candidates,'' a senior BJP leader said. UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had earlier termed Priyanka a "Twitter Politician" while many of his party colleagues had called her a "political tourist", who would 'disappear' once the elections were over. SP president Akhilesh Yadav had also remarked recently that Congress would not be able to open its account in the forthcoming assembly elections. Political analysts here opined that Priyanka had been able to boost the morale of her party workers to some extent but they remained sceptical about the grand old party's revival in the state. "Congress does not have any organisation in the state...it also lacks good leaders....the caste equation in the state also does not favour the party," said J P Shukla, a Lucknow-based political analyst. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-party-workers-enthused-rivals-amused-on-priyanka-as-congress-uttar-pradesh-cm-face-1073261.html
21-01-2022||National Politics||BJP releases first list of 34 candidates for Punjab polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday released its first list of 34 candidates for the upcoming Punjab Assembly polls. Union Minister and BJP state election co in-charge Hardeep Singh Puri, general secretaries Tarun Chugh and Dushyant Gautam released the first list for the polls to be held on February 20. Chugh said that names include 12 candidates from farmers' families, eight from the Scheduled Caste (SC) community and 13 Sikhs. "We have given tickets to doctors, lawyers, people related to religious organisations, sportspersons and all other sections of society," Chugh said. The list includes two women candidates, Renu Kashyup from Dina Nagar and Nimisha Mehta from Garhshankar. Kabbadi player Ranjit Singh Khojewala has been fielded from Kapurthala assembly seat. Retired IAS officer SR Laddhar has been fielded from the Gill assembly constituency. Gautam hit out at the Congress government in Punjab over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security breach and said, "The Punjab government did not even care about the dignity of the post of Prime Minister of the country. January 5 incident in Ferozepur shows that the security arrangements of the Prime Minister are not important for Congress government in Punjab." Gautam also slammed the Punjab government for corruption, misgovernance and the problem of drug addiction, and said no progress has been made in Punjab. Referring to the recent raid by the ED, Gautam said: "It must be investigated how Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi managed to amass such wealth in just three months." The BJP is jointly contesting the Punjab Assembly election with former chief minister Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). The three parties have formed a six-member committee, two each from three parties to decide the seat-sharing formula. The three parties will also make a common manifesto. Polling for 117 seats of Punjab assembly will be held on February 20 and counting of votes will take place on March 10. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-releases-first-list-of-34-candidates-for-punjab-polls-1073273.html
21-01-2022||North and Central||'Isolation' not mandatory for foreign arrivals testing Covid positive||Travellers arriving in India from any country who will test positive for Covid-19 shall be treated/isolated as per the laid down standard protocol and will not mandatorily be managed at an isolation facility, authorities have said. According to the revised ‘Guidelines for International Arrivals’ released on Thursday, the new norm will apply from January 22 till further order. The rest of the provisions have remained the same in the revised guidelines. The existing guidelines state that travellers coming from any country including from those considered ‘at-risk’ shall be managed at isolation facility and treated as per laid down standard protocol. The revised guidelines removed the clause that mandated staying at “isolation facility” upon arrival. Passengers found to be symptomatic during screening shall be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility as per health protocol. If tested positive, their contacts shall be identified and managed as per protocol. Foreign arrivals who test positive will still have to undergo home quarantine for seven days even after they test negative and undertake RT-PCR test on the 8th day of arrival in India.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/isolation-not-mandatory-for-foreign-arrivals-testing-covid-positive-1073173.html
21-01-2022||North and Central||L-G rejects proposal to lift Delhi weekend curfew||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday rejected Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's proposal to lift weekend curfew and fully open markets in the national capital. However, private offices have now been allowed to function with 50% attendance. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued a fresh order making it clear that night curfew and weekend curfew will continue as per the existing guidelines. While it did not comment on refusal to lift weekend curfew, the Delhi government issued a statement describing as “unfortunate” the rejection of the proposal to open markets. “It is unfortunate that LG has rejected the strong demand of traders and the business community. LG has rejected the proposal of the elected government despite the fact that corona cases are reducing at a very fast pace. When all markets of Gurugram and Noida are open, why should the business community of Delhi be made to suffer by BJP’s Central government,” it said. Kejriwal has earlier sent a proposal to lift the weekend curfew and reduce other Covid-19 related curbs. The proposal also included ending the system of odd-even in the opening of shops in markets and allowing all shops to open as well as allowing private offices to run with 50% capacity. Explaining the rationale of the proposals, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the peak of Covid-19 cases has passed and the cases were declining considerably.  He said that the curbs were initially put in place after the cases started rising in the capital earlier this month.  "On January 12, the capital reported the highest number of cases of this Covid season, which was nearly 28,000. About 8-10 days back, the positivity rate was around 31%, but now it has come down to 17%. Seeing the current graph of cases, we are currently in the situation to relax restrictions. On Friday, Delhi reported around 10,500 cases," he said. "Now that the cases are coming down, it would be wrong to restrict people from moving out to earn for their survival. We are in a position where we can relax Covid-19 restrictions now. Businesses across the city have already suffered huge losses due to previous waves. We have started getting good news about declining positivity rates and Covid-19 cases," he said earlier in the day. He said the weekend curfew and odd-even system in markets, as well as private offices to run fully on work from home mode, have helped in curbing the spread and there were reasons to ease curbs. Delhi recorded around 3.23 lakh Covid-19 cases this month so far.  On January 13, there were 98,832 tests and the positivity rate was 29.21% while on January 14 and 15, the positivity rate was at 30.64% but the cases had come down to 24,383 and 20,718 cases respectively. The cases and positivity rate have decreased since then. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/l-g-rejects-proposal-to-lift-delhi-weekend-curfew-1073182.html
21-01-2022||North and Central||Opposition attacks Centre over Amar Jawan Jyoti-National War Memorial flame merger||Opposition on Friday attacked the Narendra Modi government over the extinguishing of the eternal flame 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' at the India Gate even as government sources claimed that the flame is not being extinguished but merged with the one at the nearby National War Memorial. The Opposition leaders felt that the ruling BJP was attempting to rewrite history and employing "memory erasure" tactics on the history of India while government sources alleged that it was "ironic that people who did not make a National War Memorial for seven decades" are now making a "hue and cry when a permanent and fitting tribute" is being made to our martyrs. However, government sources said that there was a lot of misinformation regarding the Amar Jawan Jyoti. Sources mentioned that the Amar Jawan Jyoti is not being extinguished and is being "merged with the flame" at the National War Memorial, which is 400 metres away from the Amar Jawan Jyoti. Sources went on to say that it was "odd" to see that the flame at Amar Jawan Jyoti paid homage to the martyrs of the 1971 and other wars but none of their names is present there. "The names inscribed on the India Gate are of only some martyrs who fought for the British in World War 1 & the Anglo-Afghan War & thus is a symbol of our colonial past," they said adding names of all martyrs from all wars are inscribed at the war memorial. "Hence it is a true shraddhanjali to have the flame paying tribute to martyrs there," they said defending the decision. In February 2019 while briefing on the National War Memorial, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff Lt Gen PS Rajeshwar had said that a new flame will come up at the war memorial "but the eternal flame at Amar Jawan Jyoti will stay. We have inherited that flame." Top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "it is a matter of great sadness that the immortal flame that used to burn for our brave soldiers will be extinguished today.Some people cannot understand patriotism and sacrifice - never mind… We will once again light the Amar Jawan Jyoti for our soldiers!" Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said, "how many more ideas and monuments we hold dear need to be reworked to make way for a ‘New India’?Sad and Anguished....PS: Spare me gyaan on merging it with another flame at War Memorial. Why can’t we keep both?" Senior RJD MP Manoj K Jha said, "it was understandable that the present regime may not have a sense of attachment/belonging with the 'glories of the past but it is beyond comprehension when you resort to such 'memory erasure' tactics..It is neither good politics nor good optics. Jai Hind." Congress Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari said, "whatever is being done is a national tragedy and an attempt to rewrite history. Merging Amar Jawan Jyoti with War Memorial Torch means erasing history. BJP has built a National War Memorial, that does not mean they can extinguish Amar Jawan Jyoti." A former IAF pilot, Congress' Lok Sabha MP Uttam Kumar Reddy said he felt sad to read about the decision. "Highly inappropriate! Most countries have several war memorials!! No need to extinguish existing Amar Jawan Jyoti!!" he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-attacks-centre-over-amar-jawan-jyoti-national-war-memorial-flame-merger-1073195.html
21-01-2022||North and Central||L-G Baijal allows private offices in Delhi to run with 50% staff||Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Friday approved the Delhi government's proposal to allow private offices to function with 50 per cent staff but suggested maintaining the status quo on lifting weekend curfew and removing odd-even rule for the opening of shops in the markets, sources said. Any decision on lifting the weekend curfew could be taken once the Covid-19 situation in Delhi improves further, they said. Earlier in the day, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said in a press conference that the Delhi government has proposed lifting weekend curfew, ending the odd-even system for opening of shops and allowing private offices to run with 50 per cent staff in the city. The proposal approved by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been sent to Lt Governor Anil Baijal for his consent, he said. The decision to ease the restrictions was taken in view of declining number of Covid cases in the city and its effect on the livelihood and business activities, he said  The traders in many parts of the city have demanded lifting of curbs including the opening of shops of non-essential goods on alternate days based on odd-even system.  The weekend curfew imposed because of rise in Covid cases will be in place from 10 PM Friday and continue till Monday 5 AM. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/l-g-baijal-allows-private-offices-in-delhi-to-run-with-50-staff-1073219.html
21-01-2022||North and Central||Bihar heading for midterm polls with NDA in turmoil, claims Chirag Paswan||Bihar is tipped for midterm polls as constituents of the ruling NDA are at each other's throats, former ally Chirag Paswan claimed here on Friday. Paswan claimed that the likelihood of early polls became evident when Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, "who does not venture out until faced with elections", recently planned a state-wide tour. He was replying to queries from journalists about recent squabbles between Kumar’s JD(U) and the BJP, primarily over the manner in which liquor prohibition law is being implemented in the state. "Since the day assembly polls results came out, I have been saying that this government is not going to last. The straw in the wind is now for all to see," said Paswan who heads a splinter group of Lok Janshakti Party. An ugly spat ensued after a JD(U) spokesman took potshots at state BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal over his offer of help to family members of those who died in a hooch tragedy in West Champaran district last year. Jaiswal is also engaged in a war of words with Upendra Kushwaha, the JD(U)'s parliamentary board chief, over the alleged denigration of Emperor Asoka by a Sahitya Akademi winning playwright, who is perceived to be close to the saffron party. Paswan further pointed towards notes of discord struck by Mukesh Sahni, a minister whose Vikassheel Insaan Party had joined NDA just ahead of the assembly polls in 2020. His party's MLA from Bochaha died recently and Sahni threatened to exit the alliance if the BJP or the JD(U) staked a claim for the seat in a by-election. "All these things indicate man bhed (rift) as distinct from mat bhed (divergence of views). It is bad for any alliance," said Paswan. The former president of undivided LJP was also asked about the possibility of his return to the NDA, which some in the saffron party seem to be in favour of. "My priority is to expand the footprints of my party. Future alliances will be thought about at the time of elections, not before that," said the Jamui MP, who is also being wooed by the RJD-led opposition. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-heading-for-midterm-polls-with-nda-in-turmoil-claims-chirag-paswan-1073237.html
21-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi court expresses anguish over ED's 'casual and cavalier' approach in PMLA probe||A Delhi court has expressed “anguish” over the “casual and cavalier approach” in which investigation was conducted by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. Special Judge Dharmender Rana made these observations while granting bail to a businessman Jatinder Pal Singh in a case of money laundering related to a corruption deal, as it found various discrepancies in the investigation and the arguments made before the court. “Before proceeding to deal with the issue on merits, in pains, I must admit at the very outset that the conduct of ED in the instant matter is highly disappointing, if not deplorable as suggested by the defence. "In its zeal to ensure the sustained detention of the applicant/accused, ED seems to have thrown out the baby with the water,” the judge said. According to the ED, Singh purchased cloth worth Rs 6.60 crore from Astonishing Pvt Ltd and sold it to Shree Shyam Dhani Trading Company, a proprietorship concern of one Sanjay Kumar, for Rs 12.23 crore. ED claimed that both --  Astonishing Private Limited and Shree Shyam Dhani Trading Company - are sham companies and were not traceable. “In my considered opinion, the activities ascribable to accused are merely layering activities and accused appears to be a mere cog in the wheel,” the judge said in the order passed on January 17. He said that under such circumstances, the focus of investigation should in fact be the 'source of money' used to purchase the fabric, so as to decide the crucial issue as to if the money came from a tainted source or not. “However, unfortunately, instead of focusing upon the source of money, accused is the focus of investigation in the instant matter,” the judge noted. He further observed that having failed to detect the source of money and apprise the court if it came from a tainted source or not, ED, during the course of arguments, improved upon its own case and came up with an altogether different contention that the 'commission generated' by the accused on account of fabric shown to have sold off by them to Shree Shyam Dhani Trading Company was in fact the proceeds of crime in the instant case. “However, if the said contention is accepted to be correct and the proceeds of crime in the instant matter is admitted to be the commission generated, the very arrest of accused in the case at hand becomes seriously questionable,” the judge said. The court further noted that as per ED records while the knowledge about the generation of commission came into the notice of ED only on January 12, 2022, the permission to accused's arrest was accorded on December 30, 2021 and was made on December 31, 2021 itself. “A fact which came into the notice of ED on January 12, 2022 only could obviously not have been a reason to grant permission to sanction the arrest of accused. Therefore, it is apparent that either the source of money till date remains undetected or the contention now adopted by the ED regarding the proceeds of crime is merely an afterthought and the arrest of the accused was absolutely unjustified on December 31, 2021,” the judge held. The judge held that in either case, the accused deserved to be admitted on bail. Advocate Zoheb Hussain appeared for the ED. In its order, the court also rejected ED's contention that the investigation was at an initial stage, saying the agency made a conscious choice to arrest the accused without doing proper preliminary enquiry. “Having made a conscious choice to place the cart before the horse and apprehend the accused upon the basis of half baked facts, ED cannot cry hoarse now that the investigation is at a nascent stage,” the judge said. He further said that the contention of the defence that the ED seemed to be perturbed by the bail granted to the accused by the court could not be brushed aside lightly as ED “seems to have acted in haste and the focus of investigation seems to be accused and not the crime or the actual criminals”. Under such circumstances, ED cannot claim that the investigation is at nascent stage. More so, the raid in the instant matter was carried out on February 10, 2020 and the accused has been remanded to ED custody for a sufficiently long period, the court said. “Now the continued detention of accused seems to be absolutely unwarranted,” it said. In it's order, the judge further added, “Before parting, this court is constrained to bring on record its anguish regarding the casual and cavalier approach in which the investigation is being conducted. "Unfortunately, even the supervisory officers have miserably failed to guide the Investigating Officer in the instant matter to ensure fair and impartial investigation.” He said that it appeared that the officers involved in the investigation of the instant matter had even attempted to hoodwink their own Special Director while procuring the permission for arrest under Prevention of Money Laundering Act by not disclosing the facts in its entirety or at least in the correct perspective before the worthy Special Director. “In view of the same, I deem it appropriate to bring the matter to the notice of higher echelons of ED,” the judge said. The judge, however, put various conditions on the accused, including that he shall continue to cooperate in the ongoing investigation and will not leave the country without the permission of the court. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-expresses-anguish-over-eds-casual-and-cavalier-approach-in-pmla-probe-1073257.html
21-01-2022||North and Central||SC declines to consider plea to censor Kangana Ranaut's social media posts||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a PIL for a direction to censor all future social media posts by Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, for allegedly making sacrilegious statements against the Sikh community, especially in connection with the protest against the farm laws. The plea was filed by advocate Sardar Charanjeet Singh Chanderpal, who appeared in person before the court. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Bela M Trivedi told Chanderpal that the court respected his sensitivities but the more he gave publicity to her utterances on social media, the more he would help her cause. The petitioner also sought clubbing of the FIRs lodged against her in many states at the Khar police station of Mumbai for allegedly making sacrilegious statements against the Sikh community. The bench said it is not possible for a third person to interfere, as the matter is between her and the state government. However, Chanderpal contended that she had made several sacrilegious statements against the Sikh community and some form of action must be taken against her.  The bench, however, said that by giving her publicity, the petitioner was doing a disservice to his cause. "There are two ways, ignore or take remedy under the law," the bench said, adding that for every wrong there was a remedy and the petitioner can avail it under the criminal law. The plea sought direction to instruct all social media platforms to censor, modify or delete Ranaut’s posts before allowing its official release if it results in law-and-order problems in India. The plea said Ranaut's utterances made on social media platforms like Instagram developed a sense of racial discrimination and hate based on different faiths and could lead to a lot of heated arguments and have the potency of triggering riots. “The remarks are not only outrageous and blasphemous but also intend to cause riots, hurt religious sentiments, they were defamatory and portrayed Sikhs in a totally anti-national manner. It also justifies killing of Sikhs. The remarks are totally against the unity of our country and the actress deserves serious punishment. They cannot be brushed aside or excused," the plea, filed through advocate Anil Kumar said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-to-censor-kangana-ranauts-social-media-posts-1073263.html
21-01-2022||North and Central||West Bengal to construct second airport for Kolkata||With an aim to decongest Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport (NSCBIA) in Dumdum, the West Bengal government has decided to construct a second airport in the vicinity of Kolkata, a senior official said on Friday. The state government has started looking for land in neighbouring South 24 Parganas district, he said, adding that Bhangar is among the possible locations. In a recent communication, Chief Secretary H K Dwivedi has directed South 24 Parganas District Magistrate P Ulganathan to earmark land for the proposed airport, which will have facilities of an international airport, the official said. "There is a lot of pressure on Dumdum airport in North 24 Parganas district. We have felt the need to construct a new airport in the vicinity of Kolkata. The best possible place will be in South 24 Parganas. This will probably be the second biggest airport in the state," the IAS officer told PTI. Ulganathan has been asked to find land where an airport with a "three-km-long runway" could be built, he said. "We need to build another airport of international standards with facilities akin to NSCBIA. Bhangar has open spaces. The possibility of building the proposed airport will be better there. We need to construct a hangar and runway that can accommodate bigger aeroplanes such as Boeing 777. The search for land is on," the official said. Bagdogra airport in Siliguri, which caters to the north Bengal districts, is another big airport in the state, although it is much smaller than NSCBIA. Incidentally, to cut down pressure on Bagdogra airport, the state government has decided to revamp the Balurghat, Coochbehar and Malda airports. A central team has recently conducted a survey of the three airports. The state government is also planning to build another airport in Chharrah in Purulia district, the official said. "However, this is in a very early stage. Once built, the airport will bring development to the region," he added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/west-bengal-to-construct-second-airport-for-kolkata-1073307.html
21-01-2022||Oasis||The need to get started||Arthur Ashe, the legendary tennis player once said, “Start where you are. Use what you have. Do what you can.” His words become significant when we recognise how daunting and difficult it is to get started. Consider this. A jet uses a whopping one-tenth of its entire fuel capacity only for its take-off. Writers spend maximum time on their first few paragraphs before they can overcome the writer’s block. Athletes have to warm up before they can reach their peak performance. In fact, jumping out of bed in the morning after six to seven hours of sleep is often the toughest task of the day. And so it is in any area of our lives. To begin anything takes effort. Yet nothing can ever be attempted or accomplished until we start.  "You don’t have to be great to start but you have to start to be great," said Zig Ziglar, the famed American author and motivational speaker. This philosophy takes greater importance as we begin this New Year 2022, amidst the ongoing pandemic of Covid-19 showing no signs of waning or ending. Most of us are beginning the year with the heaviness of grief and despondency. For some it’s the loss of their loved ones to the pandemic; for others, it is the loss of their jobs and incomes; for several others, it is coping with the debilitating effects of long Covid; for still many, it is a dip in morale and estranged relationships; and for almost every one of us, it is the frustration of having to live in these changed circumstances for days on end. Under these conditions, it is tempting to look at the New Year with little or no enthusiasm. It is natural to feel uninterested and unexcited about making new beginnings. It is justifiable to be stuck where we are with little motivation to begin again. Even so, it is imperative that we get started on improving and enhancing our lives. Let us not put off what we need to commence because of the desperate situation we currently find ourselves in. As the renowned Saint, St. Francis of Assisi said, “Start by doing what's necessary; then do what's possible, and suddenly you are doing the impossible.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-need-to-get-started-1073005.html
21-01-2022||Opinion||In Goa, the turn of the turncoat||Goa's power and personality-based carousel politics, which has whittled down the significance of a political party, ideology and policy commitments, has afflicted all political parties in the state. Facing unpopularity and anti-incumbency from a ten year power run, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which announced it will contest all 40 assembly segments solo for the first time, is half scared of its own bravado. Senior leaders were tweeting until the eleventh hour, hoping by some miracle that its former regional party partner would change its mind, ditch the new entrant Trinamool Congress (TMC) and rejoin a saffron alliance that yielded high dividends from consolidated Hindutva votes, rather than splitting them along caste lines. Hindutva split and advantage turncoats  Deeply insulted over the BJP's repeated tardy dismissals of its ministers and engineering defections in its ranks, including poaching two of its probable 2022 candidates and nominating them on January 20 - the regional Maharasthrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) has once again snubbed the BJP's overtures. Anti-incumbency factors and a split in Hindutva votes were the same twin factors that had reduced the BJP from its 2012 high of 21 seats to 13 in 2017. Taking no chances after the MGP's snub and its embrace of the TMC, the BJP battened down the hatches to offset its disadvantages, opting for an aggressive winnability-above-all factor as sole criteria for candidate selection. As the BJP went seat by seat, choosing winnability over ideology, integrity or loyalty, this has spelt out advantage Congress imports and turncoats, even at the cost of angering loyal hardcore supporters, alienating and scattering its cadres across several segments. The party could well see a bigger rebellion in its ranks after its repeatedly postponed candidate announcement. In several seats, loyal leaders have lost out. Former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar lost out again when the party nominated Congress defector Dayanand Sopte on January 20. Across 17-20 seats, the BJP will be opting for Congress, independent or MGP imports. But the perception drama of a party with no difference is far more dismal for the party in its Panaji seat, represented for over 25 years by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, credited with building the BJP's legislative and ruling presence in Goa.  BJP Goa election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis has repeatedly rebuffed Panjim seat aspirant and Parrikar's son, Utpal Parrikar, as he plugged obviously for another Congress defector, the winnable Atanasio Monserrate, who was finally nominated on January 20. The irony for Utpal Parrikar is that his father crafted the BJP's winnability above all formula for its 2012 win, and his rival in Panjim was heralded into the BJP-led government on an earlier occasion by his late father as well. . The big question for the BJP will be how it deals with the situation, in case Utpal Parrikar decides to contest as an independent. Monserrate and his wife, Jennifer, have both been given tickets and were on the long list of couples seeking a BJP ticket, which had stalled its process. The other is ex-Congress MLA Vishwajit Rane, whose wife will now contest the seat his Congressman father Pratapsing Rane held for eleven consecutive terms. Another Congress import, the ailing Pandurang Madkaikar, wants his wife Janita to get the ticket in his stead, pitting her against the son of Union Minister Sripad Naik. This seat has not been called yet. Congress troubles However, the BJP's woes are nothing compared to the Congress party's, which is fighting off aggressive and resource-rich entrants, namely the TMC and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Being resource-rich is an obvious advantage in Goa's paid news ecosystems, where major newspapers and channels pass off political plugs as front-page news.  The TMC has gone on a rampage against the Congress for the past four months, and the BJP and AAP have gained from that ugly contest, say some analysts. The latest salvo from the TMC was its smoke and mirror offering of an alliance-via-Twitter. The Congress also rebuffed that via Twitter. Congress election observer for the Goa polls, former Union finance minister, P Chidambaram, told national TV the TMC made no concrete offer.  "I suspect the TMC's Twitter alliance offer, which seems to me as posturing, because they have been on a consistent rampage against the Congress in Goa, is more aimed at engineering a national narrative and painting a particular picture of the Congress for its 2024 leadership tussle. That narrative may fly at the national level but will not have any traction in Goa. Here their actions seem to have belied their words. They have said less against the BJP, not much on Goan issues, but have gone all out to weaken the Congress," says columnist and analyst Manoj Kamat.  TMC failing to connect There's a belief that the TMC may be attempting to protect itself from blame if the BJP gains, having skidded the anti-BJP plank in Goa off-kilter. There's a growing sense the TMC has failed to connect with the electorate in Goa, as leaders have begun to exit that party and return to the Congress.  A month after he ditched the Congress for the TMC, MLA Alexio Reginald Lourenco left the TMC, saying he had faced a "tremendous backlash" from his constituents for joining the TMC. He sought re-entry into the Congress but will now contest as an independent. The TMC's surprise announcement that it wanted its Rajya Sabha MP, Luizinho Faleiro, to contest an assembly segment in Goa does not seem to have gone down well with the senior leader, in a move that could potentially see the BJP pick up one more seat due to a split in votes. Cluttered opposition space The opposition space is already levelling up for multi-cornered contests with the AAP, TMC-MGP alliance, Goa Su-Raj Party, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)-Shiv Sena (SS) crowding the opposition space with the main opposition party - the Congress-Goa Forward Party (GFP) alliance. The NCP and Sena arrived on the scene in the past week and mopped up candidates that lost out in the Congress nominations. The NCP lost its leverage in the Goa space when its lone MLA Churchill Alemao defected to the TMC weeks ago, after spending his term unofficially allying with the ruling BJP, a move that went unchecked by the NCP. Despite its insignificant presence in Goa, the NCP-SS were also feeding into the national narrative that the Congress had failed to form an alliance with it in Goa, a la Maharashtra. Chidambaram said talks held until recently with the NCP-SS yielded no meeting ground.  Making an early start with its nominations, the Congress will contest 37 seats, leaving three for alliance partner GFP, which had sought five seats. Sticking to its no re-entry to defectors, the party, however, faces the loss of several of its winnable MLAs, who are now with the BJP.  With Goa having witnessed 27 defections this term, public irritation with this phenomenon is high, but, thus far, there is little sign of this translating into electoral rejection by the voting public. One compromise that the party made was inducting BJP minister Michael Lobo into the Congress and allocating his wife and an associate three seats in North Goa's Bardez taluka. Faced with a resurgent BJP making winnability its end-all and armed with a significant cache of its former party leaders, the Congress has been forced into reverting to some smart politics instead of sticking with its initial losing gamble of all new faces. (The writer is a journalist based in Goa) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-goa-the-turn-of-the-turncoat-1073124.html
21-01-2022||Opinion||Netflix will need more than price increases to win over investors||By David Wainer Netflix Inc. delivered a slew of hits in the fourth quarter, with “Red Notice” and “Don’t Look Up” among its top three most-watched movies ever. But quarterly results underscored why programming success no longer automatically translates to a level of subscriber growth once common for the streaming giant. Netflix added 8.3 million net new users globally, falling shy of the company’s projection of 8.5 million. But the bigger disappointment was Netflix’s projection that it will add a paltry 2.5 million subscriptions this quarter. Analysts had expected the company to sign up well over six million new subscribers in the current period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Netflix shares slid 20 per cent in after-hours trading. The weak outlook, which the company attributed to a “Covid overhang” and economic hardship in places like Latin America, sent jitters through the streaming world. Shares of streaming companies including Walt Disney Co. and Roku Inc. dropped in after-hours trading as investors anticipated the slowdown in subscriber growth would be widespread. The slowdown raises concerns over whether the market is becoming increasingly saturated, with a shrinking available pool of subscribers. At the same time, Netflix admitted competition from other streaming companies may be affecting its growth. One surprise for Netflix was its strong performance in its home market. In the US and Canada, the company added 1.2 million subscribers, around double what analysts were anticipating, bringing its total paid membership count to 75.2 million in the region. That growth allowed Netflix to boost prices in the US last week by between $1 and $2 a month, making it one of the most expensive services in an increasingly crowded market. The decision was greeted warmly by investors because it signaled increasing pricing power in the US   But it was a brief reprieve for shareholders, who have seen Netflix’s once high-flying stock drop 16 per cent since the start of the year as of today’s close amid growing concern about the high costs of incessant content creation needed in the streaming business. Some investors are wondering whether the streaming business will ever be highly profitable. “As an investor, I want to understand when will I get mine? How does Netflix answer this question to investors?” Mark Stoeckle, chief executive officer and senior portfolio manager at Adams Funds, said ahead of the earnings announcement. The company’s free cash flow for 2021 ended up at negative $159 million, and Netflix reiterated on Thursday it expects to be free-cash-flow positive this year and beyond. Netflix said fourth-quarter revenue was $7.71 billion, in line with analyst estimates. Because Netflix’s growth in North America isn’t what it once was, it now needs to extract more value from customers by boosting a metric known as ARPU, or average revenue per user. From 2018-2020, North America revenue growth was balanced between bringing in new subscribers and charging them more, but in 2021 prices started driving much of the revenue growth, said Justin Patterson, equity research analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets.  Netflix reported average revenue per member in the fourth quarter of $14.78 in the US and Canada, compared with $8.14 in Latin America and $9.26 in the Asia-Pacific region.  Netflix’s comfort with its pricing power stands in contrast to its rivals. Days after last week’s price increase, WarnerMedia’s HBO Max offered potential subscribers 20 per cent off its monthly plans, perhaps in an effort to lure some Netflix customers. But price increases aren’t enough to keep investors content, and Netflix can only go so high before customers start to question the service’s value. With US and Canada subscriber growth performing relatively well, the focus turns to global growth, where Netflix is seeing signs of weakness. Netflix is pouring billions of dollars into local language content around the world. The Asia-Pacific region is thought to represent Netflix’s greatest opportunity for growth, and the company has spent more than $1 billion on programming in Korean, including on last year’s smash hit Squid Game. In India, Netflix recently slashed prices by as much as 60 per cent as it seeks to claw back market share from Amazon.com Inc. and Disney, the two dominant streaming services in the country. Streaming companies are expected to spend more than $230 billion on content in 2022, according to a report from Ampere Analysis. Shareholders are clearly struggling with those eye-popping figures — most of the companies have underperformed the S&P 500 Index over the past 12 months. Netflix’s disappointing outlook won’t do anything to allay those fears.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/netflix-will-need-more-than-price-increases-to-win-over-investors-1073146.html
21-01-2022||Opinion||Udupi hijab ban: Karnataka competing with UP and Assam||One does not know what should shake us more - the murder of Sameer by a violent Hindu mob or the forcible ouster of eight Muslim students from their classes by the authorities of a government college in Udupi for wearing hijab and disallowing them to speak in Urdu or use 'salam' to greet others.  The two images are from Karnataka and tell you that Karnataka is competing with states like Uttar Pradesh and Assam to be known as the most dangerous, unsafe and insecure for Muslims and Christians. Sadly that is a race various state units and chief ministers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are involved in: Who can be the most vicious, the most uncouth hatemonger? The two incidents mentioned above also tell you about the ecology of Islamophobia spread by the BJP, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and other extremist Hindu organisations like the Ram Sene in Karnataka, which affects nearly all aspects of the lives of Muslims and Christians. Sameer was murdered by a mob instigated to attack and beat up Muslims by a Bajrang Dal leader. Sameer died while his friend Shamsher suffered grave injuries. A video has gone viral in which a Bajrang Dal leader openly calls for violence against Muslims and challenges the police to do whatever it wants. The police officers can be seen watching his violent call. Soon after, the attacks took place, and Sameer was murdered. The lives of Muslims and Christians are being made difficult by law, violence, and vicious propaganda demonising them in the eyes of Hindus. Laws to hit the practices of these two religious groups are enacted. Street thugs attack Muslims and Christians without any fear of law. The leaders of the RSS network and sections of Kannada media keep spewing hatred against them. Laws against conversion and so-called 'Love Jihad' have been talked about. The bogey of forced conversions of Hindu women has been used to justify these proposed laws. Christian groups have objected strongly, but the Karnataka government is adamant. The propaganda of the threat of the increasing Muslim population never ceases. Muslims are also portrayed as people fracturing the universal and uniform Kannadiga identity. The decision of the Udupi government college to not allow some hijab-wearing Muslim students to attend their classes is the most recent example. The chairman of the managing committee of the college, a BJP MLA, defended the decision claiming that it is being done to ensure uniformity. The students rightly say that hijab does not violate any law. The Constitution of India sanctions them to observe their religious beliefs. If Muslim students say that hijab is part of their religious practice, college authorities cannot deny that. Moreover, there is no rule prescribed by the college or made a condition for enrolment which prevents the students from wearing a hijab. The students are on record claiming that the college authorities and some faculty members also took offence to their use of Urdu and 'salam' as a form of greeting. If true, it should shock us. But we know it does not. In an article in Scroll, Umang Poddar has cited the judgments of the Kerala High Court, which hold that the right to wear hijab flows from Article 25(1) of the Constitution, which ensures the "freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion". It can, of course, be regulated keeping in mind the demands of public order, morality and public health. But the orders of the Kerala High Court leave no room for ambiguity in the matter of wearing the hijab.  In 2016, the court held that the hijab forms an essential part of the Islamic religion. It does not offend public order, morality or health, nor hampers other fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. The article quotes from an earlier judgment of the Kerala High Court stating clearly, "It cannot be insisted that a particular dress code be followed failing which a student would be prohibited from sitting for the examinations." In the matter of wearing of hijab as a religious right, the orders of the Kerala High Court remain the law of the land. No authority can violate that.  The authorities of the government college are violating the law of the land by denying the students entry into their classes for wearing hijab. The debate should end here. Is the insistence of the students for hijab is internalised patriarchy, or is it a method of subjugating women using religion are not the questions to be discussed at this stage. The allegation of the college authorities that some organisations have instigated these students to wear hijab is irrelevant. It is also immaterial that other Muslim students do not wear hijab. It only shows that there is diversity in the ways of living of Muslims. Even if they are only eight, all that matters is that they want to wear hijab and have the Constitution's sanction to do so. The insistence of the college authorities that they can access their classes only after removing the hijab is a violation of constitutional law and practice.  The students have rightly asked, "We are practising Muslims, and the hijab is a part of our faith. Along with that, we are also students with aspirations for a career and a good life. Why are we suddenly expected to choose between our identity and our education? That isn't fair at all." It must disturb us that the college authorities have turned a non-issue into a major controversy. The secularism of India is unique in the sense that it takes a relaxed view of the public presence and demonstration of religious symbols. Unlike Laïcité, the model of French secularism which seeks to outlaw any public display of religion, Indian secularism makes room for them. It has helped Indians get initiated into the modern practice of secularism without feeling any violent break from their traditions. But recently, the Hindu mode of living is being presented as the only universal Indian way of living and other ways as sinister ploys to distort it. Urdu has been a language of Karnataka for long, and 'salam' isn't unfamiliar to the ears of the Kannadigas. But now, the RSS and its affiliates are promoting an aggressive Hinduisation of all social and public spaces. It is alienating Muslims and Christians from all kinds of publicness. The refusal of the college authorities to allow the students education and the reluctance of political parties to stand for their rights must disturb us. It is this which emboldens open calls for violence against Muslims. The erasure of identity markers ultimately leads to physical elimination. (The writer teaches at Delhi University) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/udupi-hijab-ban-karnataka-competing-with-up-and-assam-1073154.html
21-01-2022||Opinion||West UP's Jat-Muslim equation key to Phase One||Ticket distribution is always a tricky time for parties in a fiercely contested election such as that in Uttar Pradesh, which votes in seven phases starting February 10 to March 7. The tickets for the seats that vote in the first phase have been announced, and various eruptions have taken place. Some problems have been articulated in what is called the Jat belt of West UP, and there have been loud fights and complaints and sulking hopefuls in the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD)-Samajwadi Party (SP) combine. In one seat, the RLD candidate has also filed his nomination, although the joint leadership has decided that the seat would go to the SP. In another seat, a wealthy Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) defector, who got a ticket from RLD, mysteriously announced he could not contest the election, giving rise to speculation about income tax and enforcement threats forcing him to withdraw. Things have been smoother for the BJP in ticket distribution as the party is not structured in a manner in which candidates would loudly protest against the leadership. Some may leave, but since many had no real standing and won on a Modi wave -- that extended from the 2014 Lok Sabha to the 2017 assembly polls and again in the 2019 national elections -- they are inclined to accept the party diktat.  Yet things are challenging for the national party on the ground, as visible in the viral video clip of BJP MLA and candidate Vikram Saini, shared on January 20, from Khatauli in West UP being chased away by villagers of his constituency. He represents the Saini OBC group. In another instance, there were reports of the Gujjar OBCs driving out a BJP candidate. Yet, it is the Jat community that played an epic role in the growth and consolidation of the BJP in UP in recent times, just as they now could be the catalyst to an anti-BJP sentiment palpable in parts of West UP. Flashback to the year 2013—2014: anti-incumbency was rising against the ruling UPA at Delhi, completing its second term, and the Anna Hazare movement of 2011 had by then created an electric mood for change. Against this backdrop, the Muzaffarnagar riots broke out in August-September 2013 between Jats and Muslims and actually laid the ground for a certain momentum that the BJP rode on. This was the era when rumours about "Romeo squads" allegedly of Muslim youth were spread, and Hindu-Muslim relations ruptured. The worst othering of minorities since Partition reached a pitch on the grounds of West UP. In 2014, Narendra Modi shifted to national politics, promising "Ache Din" (Good Days) even as the soil was fertilised with communal propaganda. (It must be noted that although the Ram Janmabhoomi movement had catapulted the BJP to national prominence, it is only in the post-Modi era that the BJP made a thorough conquest of the nation's most populous state.) Against the backdrop of the damaged social relations with Muslims, present in large numbers in UP's Jat belt, the Jat community voted vigorously for the BJP in 2014, 2017 and 2019. According to the Lokniti-CSDS data, in 2014, 77 per cent of UP Jats voted for the BJP, while in 2019, due to the Pulwama-Balakot cycle of events in the run-up to the general election, as many as 91 per cent of Jats voted for the BJP. The 2013 riots had also ruptured the traditional vote bank of the RLD, which is now led by Jayant Chaudhary, the grandson of Charan Singh, a former PM and arguably the tallest UP Jat peasant leader. A vocal community with high representation in the armed and police forces, Jats are spread across Punjab (Jat Sikhs), Haryana, parts of Rajasthan and the sugarcane belt of UP. But the mood would again dramatically change after the Modi government brought in the farm laws. The Jats of Punjab and UP were at the forefront of the year-long agitation, in the course of which many decided, along with other farming communities, that the BJP is an anti-farmer force. This was clearly the main reason why Prime Minister Modi abruptly withdrew the farm laws on November 20, 2021, just before election season began. The farm movement also repaired some of the social fissures. The Jat-Muslim combine, the traditional RLD, and Charan Singh social base can, if it works perfectly, be a deciding factor in many assembly seats that vote in phase one of the election. One rough estimate is that Muslims make up nearly 29 per cent of the population and Jats about 7 per cent. Combine the two, and it's a formidable grouping. There are challenges, such as the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) putting forth several Muslim candidates and the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM also pursuing the Muslim vote. However, most minority voters would still be opting for the 'front' more likely to challenge the BJP in the state. Simultaneously, it would be prudent to note that this anti-BJP sentiment is more absolute in Punjab than in UP, where a small section of Jats will still vote for the BJP if they do not like the candidate put up by the RLD-SP alliance. And after the current round of seat distribution, they are unhappy about candidates in a few seats. In one instance, a Muslim candidate has been put up on a seat named Siwalkhas that currently falls in district Meerut. The Jats believe the RLD should have fielded a candidate from their community. The joint candidate, Ghulam Mohammad, an old SP hand, will contest on the RLD symbol. Indeed, that seems to be the rub of the problem, with many Jats complaining that the RLD symbol has in some seats been given to candidates that the SP has selected. Yet, it would be incorrect to see this through the prism of a Jat-Muslim divide, although the BJP on the ground is projecting it as such. This emanates from the intense competition for tickets and the Jat belief that they shifted the narrative for this election with the farm agitation and should, therefore, have a larger chunk of seats and representation. Besides, farmers' leader, and Jat figure, Rakesh Tikait is again expected to go to Lakhimpur-Kheri, where a minister's son ran over protesting farmers. That can keep the anti-farmer pitch of the opposition alive. Meanwhile, unity between Jats and Muslims in the first phase of voting is more than just an arithmetical composition. If it holds, it sends a signal against the communal polarisation that was so much part of the architecture of the house that the BJP built for itself in Uttar Pradesh. (Saba Naqvi is a journalist and an author) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/west-ups-jat-muslim-equation-key-to-phase-one-1073161.html
21-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Waiting for Saturday!||I see Deccan Herald has a Saturday page for the younger folks to wait for and contribute to. It takes me back by eight decades or more, to Madras and the Saturday issue of Madras Mail, which was the prime newspaper of those times. A A Hayles was its iconic editor. We children waited for that paper every Saturday to grab our page and head straight for Wendy Hut! Wendy Hut was a kind of club that invited children to join it and participate in its various offerings — puzzles, games, stories, and so on. My sister and I joined Wendy Hut and were excited to receive our membership card — a beautiful, palette-shaped white card with a confirmation of membership calligraphically recorded in golden script! A popular feature of that page was the riveting story of Count Curly Wee and his exploits to take on the wicked and right all wrongs. He was a formidable-looking pig, dressed impeccably in a three-piece suit and a polka-dotted tie. The narration was in a 10-line verse under the changing pictures of the Count in action! Then there were advertisements targeting children with free samples of products in daily use. There were forms waiting to be filled in and mailed free, and very soon the postman would bring little parcels to be opened with great excitement. “Have you Macleaned your teeth today” was the slogan of Macleans toothpaste. This toothpaste was very popular for the cool and foamy brushing it gave and a feeling of fresh breath! Kolynos and Forhans were mere followers. Nestle chocolates offered the picture of a different western film star with each slab. These pictures were to go into an album with blank spaces, with the names of the film stars underneath. The idea was to fill all blank spaces with the pictures from the slabs of chocolates. The albums, when fully done, would be submitted to Nestle in return for a box of chocolates to start the process all over again! Errol Flynn, Olivia de Havilland, Merle Oberon, Charles Chaplin, Eddie Cantor are some of the names of the stars that come to my mind. Wrigley’s chewing gum was another favourite advert which put ideas in our minds — four annas for a packet of four! Times have changed, and I cannot see any child being influenced by all that childish stuff in the current times. Anything that any youngster wishes to see these days is on tap and can be summoned at will to the screen of the mobile phone. I would, however, choose any day to wait expectantly for that one day a week for my own page!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/waiting-for-saturday-1073004.html
21-01-2022||Second Edit||Unfair treatment of teachers must end||The ongoing strike by guest lecturers serving in government degree colleges and teaching in postgraduate courses has drawn attention to their pathetic plight and the poor conditions in which they work. The lecturers, who teach the younger generations and shape their minds and lives, are treated like wage labourers and have been routinely denied their due and legitimate rights. Many of them hold PhD degrees and have cleared the National Eligibility Test (NET) and are equally or even more qualified than regular teachers on the rolls. They also work for an equal number of hours. But the maxim equal pay for equal work is wantonly flouted in their case and they are paid much less than the regular staff. Till recently, they were paid a paltry salary of Rs 12,000 to Rs 16,000 a month. The government has now doubled this to Rs 26,000 to Rs 32,000, depending on qualifications and experience, but this is more of an eyewash. It also comes with a catch, because with the increase in salaries, guest lecturers will have to engage classes for 15 hours a week, which is almost double the workload of regular teachers. Guest lecturers will now be hired for the entire academic year and not on a semester basis as was the practice earlier. This, too, is an unjust practice as the government ensures that there is a break in service for the lecturers at the end of the annual contract before reappointing them for the next academic year. The objective is to ensure that they do not stake claim to a permanent job on grounds of continuous service. As a result, they will not be eligible for statutory allowances like provident fund, gratuity, medical reimbursement or leave travel concession. The fact that some of these teachers have been serving for over a decade only shows that vacancies exist. But instead of filling them up permanently, the government has resorted to appointing guest lecturers with the sole objective of saving some money. This is also true of contract employees in other departments. By denying them their rights and claims with impunity, the Karnataka government has emerged as an unfair employer.  ‘Equal pay for equal work’ means there should not be any discrimination in terms of salaries and other allowances among those engaged in similar work within an organisation. It flows from the constitutional right to equality. The government should not only absorb eligible teachers on the rolls but should shun the unhealthy practice of appointing guest lecturers against regular vacancies. The humiliation of teachers, who deserve the highest respect from society, must end forthwith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/unfair-treatment-of-teachers-must-end-1073007.html
21-01-2022||South||Telangana extends Covid-19 restrictions up to January 31||The Telangana government on Thursday extended its earlier orders prohibiting rallies, public meetings, among other measures, till January 31 as part of steps to check the spread of Covid-19. On January 1, the government issued an order prohibiting rallies, public meetings and mass gatherings of all types, including religious, political and cultural events. Among other directives, the order said the managements of public transport, shops, malls, establishments, offices and others should ensure strict compliance in the mandatory wearing of face masks, physical distancing and frequent sanitation of premises. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-extends-covid-19-restrictions-up-to-january-31-1073102.html
21-01-2022||South||Kerala CM urges PM Modi to include Kerala's tableau in Republic Day parade||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make interventions to include Kerala's tableau in the Republic Day parade. The Centre's decision not to include Kerala's proposed tableau featuring social reformer Sree Narayana Guru had triggered strong protests in Kerala. Vijayan said in a letter to Modi on Thursday that the proposed tableau had a very strong social message and was highly relevant in the contemporary social scenario. It included the image of Sree Narayana Guru who led the renaissance movement of Kerala and his thoughts had attracted worldwide attention. Hence the tableau can send valuable messages to the younger generation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-urges-pm-modi-to-include-keralas-tableau-in-republic-day-parade-1073104.html
21-01-2022||South||Kerala HC defers actor Dileep's anticipatory bail hearing to Saturday||The Kerala High Court posted for Saturday the hearing of an anticipatory bail plea by Malayalam film actor Dileep, in a woman actor abduction case. This is for the fourth time that the hearing in the case has been postponed. Deferring the case on Friday, the court told both sides that since there is a need for a detailed hearing, a special sitting will be held on Saturday despite it being a holiday. Several twists surfaced early this month after film director Balachandra Kumar made fresh revelations related to the case. The trial, which was progressing smoothly for the accused, turned topsy turvy when Kumar made an appearance and claimed that Dileep, soon after being released on bail, had seen the visuals of the woman actor being assaulted by her abductors. Until then, only the trial court had seen it. Besides, Kumar made more disclosures and testified before the police and a magistrate. Based on the disclosures, the police probe team registered a fresh case and Dileep sensing that he might be arrested sought anticipatory bail. Dileep was arrested in 2017 and lodged in prison in a case related to a gang sexually assaulting a frontline heroine of South Indian movies and filming it. After two months in jail, he was released on bail. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-defers-actor-dileeps-anticipatory-bail-hearing-to-saturday-1073177.html
21-01-2022||South||School infra development sees no progress in Andhra Pradesh||On August 16 last year, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the second phase of his ambitious flagship programme ‘Mana Badi: Nadu-Nedu’ (our school, then and now) to refurbish over 16,368 state-run schools in Andhra Pradesh at a cost of Rs 4,535 crore. Five months since, the programme is still stuck at the starting point as the School Education Department is devoid of money. Giving a fresh coat of paint to government school buildings with thematic pictorials adorning the walls, installing new furniture in classrooms along with fans and fluorescent lights, building swanky-clean toilets, providing safe drinking water, setting up English language labs and building kitchen sheds for preparing mid-day meal were the main works under Mana Badi: Nadu-Nedu. In all, the government proposed to give a complete facelift to over 45,500 schools in the state in three phases at a total cost of Rs 16,000 crore. However, even the first phase of the programme, launched on Children’s Day in 2019, is yet incomplete though the Chief Minister “dedicated” the revamped schools to the students on August 16, 2021. Works worth over Rs 300 crore in about 900 schools were still “in progress” in different districts under Phase-1, wherein a total of 15,715 schools were supposed to have been renovated. Besides, the government is yet to clear payment of Rs 323 crore for works completed under Mana Badi Phase-1, according to official sources. The total estimated cost for Phase-1 works was Rs 3,699 crore, out of which Nabard extended a loan of Rs 1,800 crore. Construction of compound walls for schools in the first phase, taken up under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, remained incomplete, as the state government could not release its share of funds. “We will now take up the compound wall works under Nadu-Nedu and subsequently claim reimbursement under NREGS,” a top official of the department said. With bills of hundreds of crores of rupees yet to be cleared, contractors are said to be shying away from taking up works under Nadu-Nedu Phase-2. Also, the government has not yet achieved the required financial closure as banks are not inclined on lending money. “We require a total of Rs 4,800 crore for the Phase-2 works but so far we could tie-up loan for only Rs 2,300 crore, with Nabard and World Bank agreeing to part-fund the programme. Chances of getting loans from commercial banks look bleak as of now,” the official told PTI on condition of anonymity. Of the Rs 2,300 crore, over Rs 600 crore could go towards clearing the Phase-1 bills. Though the Chief Minister launched (Phase-2) works for refurbishing 16,368 schools, the government subsequently reduced the number to only 12,680, given the meagre availability of funds. “The cost estimates are now being prepared and will hopefully be done by the end of this month. After that the necessary administrative sanction from the government will be issued,” the official said. There has been a cold response from contractors to the tenders for works. “If we achieve financial closure, we may convince the contractors to come forward, with a guarantee for timely payment. But we have to cross the first hurdle and tie-up for funds soon,” the official said. The government has targeted to commence the civil works, under Phase-2, from February 1 and complete them by August 15 this year. But that will be subject to the availability of loans. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/school-infra-development-sees-no-progress-in-andhra-pradesh-1073199.html
21-01-2022||South||Former Kerala CM V S Achuthanandan hospitalised after testing Covid-positive||Former Kerala Chief Minister V S Achuthanandan was admitted to a hospital here on Friday after he tested positive for Covid-19. The 98-year-old CPI(M) leader was shifted to a private hospital in the city after he contracted the virus from the nurse, who has been taking care of him. "He was quarantined at home... Unfortunately, the nurse who was taking care of him tested positive for the virus and father also was found to be positive yesterday. He was admitted to a hospital here," Achuthanandan's son V A Arun Kumar said in a social media post. Achuthanandan was the chief minister of Kerala from 2006 to 2011. Last year, he had resigned from the post of Chairman of the Administrative Reforms Commission citing health reasons. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-kerala-cm-v-s-achuthanandan-hospitalised-after-testing-covid-positive-1073205.html
21-01-2022||South||Actor Dileep charged with conspiracy to murder cops in woman actor assault case||The Kerala police seems to be tightening the grip on actor Dileep by invoking charges of conspiracy to murder police officers. The move came at a time when Dileep's anticipatory bail plea in the case is pending before the Kerala High Court. The High Court posted the case for hearing on Saturday. The Crime Branch registered a fresh case against Dileep earlier this month, accusing him of hatching conspiracy to threaten and harm the investigation officer of the woman actor assault case, in which Dileep is an accused. Recent revelations by filmmaker Balachandra Kumar that he was privy to the conspiracy and certain audio clips in this regard formed the basis of the case. Raids were also conducted at the house and firms of Dileep and other accused, including his brother, brother-in-law and a Kochi-based businessman. On Thursday the Crime Branch had strongly opposed the anticipatory bail plea of Dileep, maintaining that it was for the first time that such a case of accused in a criminal case launching conspiracy to attack police officer being reported in the state. In a report submitted before the judicial first class magistrate court in Aluva in Ernakulam on Friday, the Crime Branch said that on further investigation, it was found that the accused in the conspiracy case was found to have hatched a conspiracy to murder the investigation officer and hence the relevant sections of IPC was also being involved against the accused. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actor-dileep-charged-with-conspiracy-to-murder-cops-in-woman-actor-assault-case-1073245.html
21-01-2022||South||Political row over rejecting Kerala's tableau for Republic Day||The rejection of the Kerala tableau for the Republic Day parade by the Centre is assuming much political significance this time as the proposed tableau featured known renaissance leader Sree Narayana Guru. Sree Narayana Guru was from the Hindu Ezhava community that constitutes over 20 per cent of the Kerala population and is also the largest among the Hindu community. It comes in the OBC category. For these reasons the rejection of the tableau featuring Sree Narayana Guru is triggering many protests in Kerala. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday seeking intervention to include Kerala tableau in the Republic Day parade. Vijayan had highlighted the significance of the tableau featuring Sree Narayana Guru in the present social scenario. Congress had also flayed the decision to reject the tableau featuring the Guru. The centre maintained that the tableau of all states could not be included in the Republic Parade every year and it was for this reason that Kerala's tableau could not be included. Meanwhile, the CPM was also using the issue against the BJP leadership in Kerala. Education Minister V Sivankutty asked BJP leaders in Kerala to respond on the matter. The Sree Narayana Dharmaparipalana Yogam and Sivagiri Mutt founded by the Guru had also flayed the rejection of the tableau featuring the leader of the renaissance movement. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-row-over-rejecting-keralas-tableau-for-republic-day-1073272.html
21-01-2022||South||95% criminals nabbed by Kerala cops let free on station bail: Report||About 95 per cent of criminals nabbed during a crackdown by the Kerala Police over the past month have been let off under station bail. Police conducted searches for 43,980 persons, raided 20,054 houses and summoned 13,054 people to stations. 1,182 accused who were absconding were taken into custody during the operation and the bail of 63 persons was cancelled, the report added. Despite this, many, including those convicted of rape and murder have been let free. Additionally, many of them were drug addicts. The Covid-19 pandemic, the reluctance of authorities to lodge cases under the Kerala Anti Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) appear to have led to the release of a number of criminals. As many as 543 such prisoners managed to secure parole and/or bail owing to a Supreme Court order that said jails must not be crowded owing to the Covid-19 situation in the country, the publication stated, adding that 720 more such individuals are seeking release from jail in line with the apex court's directive. Check out the latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/95-criminals-nabbed-by-kerala-cops-let-free-on-station-bail-report-1073287.html
21-01-2022||South||Stalin for action against officials responsible for gift hamper fiasco||Amid allegations of irregularities in procurement and distribution of Pongal gift hampers, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday directed action against officials concerned and firms that supplied “poor quality” products.  Stalin also asked officials to ensure that only “quality products” are distributed to people at fair price shops and asserted that he will not stay silent to the attempts being made to “discredit” the government.  The Chief Minister’s remarks came at a meeting he chaired to take note of the complaints on the poor quality of products distributed as part of the Pongal gift hampers to over 2 crore ration cardholders in the state.  During the meeting which was attended by Food Minister R Sakkarapani and senior officials, Stalin asked officials in districts to ensure that the products sold or distributed at ration shops are of “good quality” and that they should not hesitate to act against those who commit wrongdoings.  “After a detailed review, the Chief Minister advised that action should be taken against officials responsible for complaints to arise in the Pongal gift hampers. He also said actions like blacklisting should be taken against firms that supplied products that are of poor quality,” an official statement from the government said.  The action by Stalin came after Opposition parties like the AIADMK, and BJP alleged irregularities in procuring 21 grocery items that were part of the Pongal gift hampers. Several people had taken to social media to complain about the “poor quality” of the products which were provided free of cost to the people.  Pongal, the harvest festival, was celebrated on January 14 this year and the government decided to provide a gift hamper with 21 grocery items, including 100 gm of ghee produced by state-owned Aavin, to 2.15 crore ration cardholders.  The AIADMK government had in 2019 and 2021 added a cash gift along with the hampers distributed for Pongal. However, the DMK government decided to drop the cash part from the hamper.  The grocery items were packed inside a cloth bag that says ‘Tamizhar Thirunaal Vaazthukkal’ (Tamil festival greetings) and does not contain the name Pongal. Many scholars describe Pongal as the festival of Tamils.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-for-action-against-officials-responsible-for-gift-hamper-fiasco-1073298.html
21-01-2022||South||Kanimozhi responds to rejection of TN's Republic Day tableaux with video of freedom fighters from state||Days after the Union Government rejected Tamil Nadu’s tableau for reportedly featuring “less known” freedom fighters from the state, DMK MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi on Friday released a 3-minute video in English with Hindi subtitles on V O Chidambaranar, the man who launched the Swadeshi movement.   The video posted on Kanimozhi’s verified Twitter page became the talk of the day as it comes amidst plans by the Tamil Nadu government to feature the tableau at the Republic Day celebrations hosted by the state administration in Chennai and take it across the state for public viewing.  The reported remarks of the expert committee questioning the popularity of V O Chidambaranar (VOC), Marudhu Brothers, and Velu Nachiyar who were featured in the tableau triggered a massive controversy in Tamil Nadu, though the Defence Ministry, which oversees Republic Day celebrations, did not attribute any reason for rejected the state’s proposal.  Media reports also said the committee also questioned whether VOC was a businessman.  Tamil Nadu proposed a tableau highlighting the contribution of men and women from the state in India’s Independence struggle. Though the state’s proposal was discussed in three meetings and suggestions were given for modification, it did not make it to the fourth round.  The DMK government took the rejection as an “insult” and announced to use the tableau in the celebrations in Chennai. In what is seen as a clear attempt to take freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu outside the state, Kanimozhi posted the video which explains in brief the life of VOC, who hailed from Thoothukudi, her Lok Sabha segment.  Beginning with a disclaimer that the sole intention of the video was to highlight the “significance” of Tamil leaders in English with Hindi subtitles for “broader reach and better understanding”, the video ends with two Hindi words – samjah? samajlena – in Tamil superstar Rajinikanth’s voice from his 2018 movie Kaala. The video talks about the contribution of illustrious men from Tamil Nadu like Veerapandia Kattabomban, Subramania Siva, Subramania Bharathi, Tiruppur Kumaran, Sathyamurthy, and Vachinathan. Born into a royal family of Thoothukudi, VOC is known as Kappalotiya Tamizhan for he launched Swadeshi Steam Navigation Company in 1906 in protest against the monopoly of the British India Steam Navigation Company (BISNC). He was later imprisoned by the then British regime.  The video also says VOC is an “everlasting name” not just in the history of Tamil Nadu but also in the history of India’s Independence. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kanimozhi-responds-to-rejection-of-tns-republic-day-tableaux-with-video-of-freedom-fighters-from-state-1073315.html
21-01-2022||South||Kerala's active cases tally crosses 2 lakh mark with 41,668 more cases||Kerala's active case tally crossed the two lakh mark on Friday as the state reported 41,668 more fresh cases during the day. Test positivity rate on Friday further increased to 43.7 per cent. State capital Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi had the highest number of cases. Health department sources said that of the 2.23 lakh active cases, only three per cent required hospitalisation. Meanwhile, 54 more Omicron cases were detected, taking the total infections confirmed so far to 761. Health Minister Veena George said that a total lockdown would be considered only as a last resort measure. The minister also said that all people above the age of 18 had received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Around 83 per cent or 2.67 crore have gotten the second dose. In the 15-17 age group, 53 per cent of the target population of 15.17 lakh have so been given the first dose. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-active-cases-tally-crosses-2-lakh-mark-with-41668-more-cases-1073319.html
21-01-2022||South||Telangana seeks Centre's support for Kakatiya Mega Textile Park||Telangana's IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao has sought the Centre's early approval for “the country’s largest” textile park the TRS government has planned in Warangal. In his letters to Union ministers Nirmala Sitaraman and Piyush Goel, Rao has requested for sanction of Rs 898 crore for taking up the infrastructure works of the Kakatiya Mega Textile Park (KMTP) in an expanse of 1200 acres. Kerala based apparel maker Kitex Group had earlier announced an investment of Rs 1000 crore under its “Phase-1” investment in KMTP. Warangal is a tier-2 city located about 150 kms northeast of Hyderabad, which the state wants to develop as an alternative to Hyderabad in the IT and other sectors. “KMTP, the country’s largest Textile Park, is expected to house state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities with a development strategy based on the ‘Fiber to Fashion’ concept,” Rao said. In his letters to the union finance and textiles ministers on Friday, Rao has asked the centre for finalization of a policy for ‘Development of Manufacturing Regions for Textile and Apparel Sector (MRTA)’ “so that projects of such scale-like KMTP can be suitably benefitted.” The minister has also urged the Union government to establish an Indian Institute of Handloom Technology (IIHT) in Telangana. “After the bifurcation of united Andhra Pradesh, the existing IIHT located at Venkatagiri went to the residuary state. At present, there is no such Institute in Telangana to offer courses like Diploma in Handloom Technology.” Rao added that sufficient land with constructed building facilities is available at the handloom park at Pochampally for the establishment of IIHT. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-seeks-centres-support-for-kakatiya-mega-textile-park-1073320.html
21-01-2022||South||Andhra Pradesh govt employees to strike work from Feb 7 over pay revision||The Andhra Pradesh government employees and teachers on Friday announced they would launch an indefinite strike from February 7 protesting against the new pay revision orders issued by the state government on January 17 and demanded that the orders be withdrawn forthwith. Briefing reporters after a cabinet meeting presided over by Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) said the three Government Orders have been ratified. The various employees’ associations came together on a single platform and formed a joint PRC (Pay Revision Commission) Struggle Committee to step up their 'fight for justice'. The strike notice would be served on the Chief Secretary on Monday, the Committee leaders told reporters after two rounds of meetings here on Friday. The Committee also announced an intensified agitation programme under which round-table conferences would be conducted in all district headquarters on January 23, followed by rallies and dharnas on the 25th. On January 26, memorandums would be submitted at the statues of B R Ambedkar demanding immediate withdrawal of the GOs and implementation of the 11th PRC recommendations as such. Relay fasts would be organised in all district headquarters from January 27 to 30 and a 'Chalo Vijayawada' programme conducted on February 3. The employees would begin a non-cooperation movement from February 5 in the run-up to the indefinite strike from the 7th, Committee leaders Bopparaju Venkateswarlu, Bandi Srinivasa Rao, K Suryanarayana and K Venkatarami Reddy said. They said, among other things, they would fight for scrapping of the Contributory Pension Scheme as well. The leaders said they would invite staff of the AP State Road Transport Corporation, now under the Public Transport Department, to join the indefinite strike. "The government should immediately withdraw the GOs or at least keep them in abeyance. Otherwise, we will not even go for talks," the leaders asserted. The Committee leaders later met Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma and denounced the pressure being exerted on the treasuries department staff to prepare salary bills for January in accordance with the new GOs. "We have requested the CS to withhold the Finance Department’s memo to treasuries officials on new salary bills," the leaders said. They said no political party would be involved in their agitation, though members of the Legislative Council, belonging to the Progressive Democratic Front, and teachers and trade unions would be permitted to take part in the struggle. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister’s own media house spread a "leak" on Friday that the Cabinet decided to constitute a committee of ministers to engage the agitating employees in talks to resolve the issue. When questioned about this, Minister Perni Venkataramaiah pleaded ignorance but said such a committee, comprising three ministers, the government advisor (public affairs) and the Chief Secretary, might have been constituted to "cajole" the employees. "The government’s wish is to see the employees did not take to the streets. Nothing could be achieved by badmouthing or cursing the Chief Minister," Nani maintained at the post-Cabinet briefing. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-employees-to-strike-work-from-feb-7-over-pay-revision-1073326.html
21-01-2022||South||Andhra Pradesh govt approves pay revision as employees protest||Even as the state government employees are agitating, the Andhra Pradesh cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has on Friday approved the 11th pay revision. Employees, including lakhs of teachers, have been threatening to go on strike from February first week, demanding a better pay revision from the YSRCP government. A revision announced recently through the government orders, the employee unions say, cuts the already available benefits like HRA while the effective salaries would also be lower in comparison. Treasury department employees are also refusing to process the salaries bills based on the “unacceptable” revisions. Information and Public Relations minister Perni Venkataramiah said the government “did its best for the employees” even in the difficult revenue situation arising because of Covid-19. The state cabinet has also approved a plan to increase the government employees' retirement age from 60 to 62 years and a proposal to provide jobs on compassionate grounds for family members of government employees who lost their lives due to Covid-19. The cabinet has green signalled the reservation of 10 per cent plots in Jagananna Smart Townships for government employees, five per cent for pensioners while offering a 20 per cent rebate for the government employees. YSRCP government has recently launched Jagananna Smart Townships, offering developed plots to middle-income groups at a “discounted price.” Perni said that the cabinet has discussed the third wave of Covid-19, measures taken for containing the spread, vaccinations to ensure zero deaths in the state. The Reddy cabinet also gave in-principle approval for the construction of 16 new medical colleges at an expenditure of Rs 7880 crore and the development of the existing medical colleges with Rs 3820 crore. It also sanctioned eight additional directors of medical education posts along with 78 posts in dispensaries under the Ayush department. The minister stated that the allocation of five acres of land in Tirupati to ace badminton player Kidambi Srikanth for setting up an academy was also authorised. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-approves-pay-revision-as-employees-protest-1073332.html
21-01-2022||South||Andhra Pradesh cops arrest man who gave CM Jagan an online death threat||The Andhra Pradesh police has arrested a person who threatened to kill chief minister Jaganmohan Reedy “by blowing himself up like a human bomb.” GR Radhika, Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes CID, said the man — Rajupalepu Pavana Phani hailing from Rajahmundry — confessed he is a Janasena Party supporter and a big fan of Pawan Kalyan. He was found to be regularly tweeting objectionable content against the YSRCP, TDP and CM Reddy. The Cyber Crimes cops had arrested Phani — an employee of a private firm in Hyderabad — on Thursday. The tweet was posted on 16 January from his handle Busine$$man @kannabhai. Police said that intention was to provoke other users against the AP CM and rebel against the government. However, out of fear, he later deleted the tweets, deactivated his account, switched off his phone, hid in his house, and even took leave from his job. CID sleuths traced him with the use of advanced technology. “We caution the public not to post any kind of objectionable content against the government on social media. Please do not be under the impression that use of fake accounts, Virtual Private Networks, and deletion of posts later would not reveal who you are. We have all the latest technology to trace such activities and provisions to arrest the people involved,” Radhika told DH. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cops-arrest-man-who-gave-cm-jagan-an-online-death-threat-1073366.html
21-01-2022||State||Power tariff revision is inevitable, says Karnataka Energy Minister||Karnataka Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar on Friday hinted at a possible revision in power tariffs, saying that development works taken up in the sector warranted a hike. Responding to queries at a news conference, Kumar said: "Increasing power tariffs is inevitable. Whenever the pace of development increases we have to revise." The works taken up by the department has led to a surge in costs, he added.  The Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has already sought to hike power bills by Rs 1.58 per unit in 2022. The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) is expected to hold hearings in various parts of the state based on the petition and pronounce the final tariff order by April or May. Kumar said that a Rs 8,000 crore project under the Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS) of the Centre will be taken up by his department. On pending dues, Kumar said that various state government departments owe Rs 12,000 crore to the Energy Department. The departments with highest dues are Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR), Water Resources, Urban Development and Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), he said. Among them, RDPR dues are Rs 4,000 crore. "We have held meetings with various departments to clear the dues. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is also scheduled to chair a meeting soon about the issue," he said. He also allayed fears of power shortage in the summer months. The state has received good rainfall ensuring enough hydro power. Supply from renewable energy sources is adequate to meet the demand, Kumar said, adding that the state's power demand has surged from 14,000 MW per day to 15,000 MW.  Vacancies for 1,872 posts in the department are filled. Orders will be issued in 15 days finalising the appointments, he said. Classical Kannada Kumar, who also holds the Kannada & Culture portfolio, said that he would travel to Delhi after Republic Day to seek funds for the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada along the lines of its Tamil counterpart. To a question, he said that it is not right to oppose the Sanskrit university. Though the state should give more funds for Kannada, opposition to Sanskrit is uncalled for, Kumar said. The department will hold a programme to familiarize youth with key locations related to freedom struggle in Karnataka, he added.   Four more cultural centres The Kannada and Culture Department will construct four more cultural centres in the city along the lines of Ravindra Kalakshetra, Kumar said. While three centres will come up at Devanahalli, Suryanagar and Devikarani estate, identification of land for another centre is in progress. "We will finalise the venues and seek funds in the next budget," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/power-tariff-revision-is-inevitable-says-karnataka-energy-minister-1073222.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 11 patients with TB and Covid co-infection||After the devastating second Covid wave during which 288 Covid patients were co-infected with tuberculosis (TB) because of compromised lungs, double infections have again started in the third Covid wave despite talk of reduced lung involvement with Omicron. In less than two months (in December last and January), after the third wave started, the health department found 8,885 TB patients out of whom eleven tested positive for Covid-19 too. The Health Ministry has added TB as one of the high-risk criteria to the clinical management protocol of Covid issued on January 14. The Centre has asked the states to subject the Covid patients having coughs that persist for two to three weeks to TB investigation. The TB wing of the state health department said a circular will be sent to all districts to check for double infections. Dr Ramesh Reddy, Joint Director, TB, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said, “We have already told district officials over the phone to test those with coughs that persists for two to three weeks. Official communication will be sent today (Thursday). We consider such cases as ‘presumptive TB’ cases and subject them to sputum tests or nucleic acid tests.” As per the health department’s data, in a population of 7,16,41,821, as many as 69,876 people were presumed to have TB in December 2021. Out of whom 5,667 were diagnosed with the disease and 5,547 of them were put on medical treatment. “In December, out of 5,967 TB cases, seven were Covid positive. Till January 20, as many as 2,918 TB cases were diagnosed and four of them tested Covid positive. Presumptive cases of January (whole month) will be available in the first week of February,” Reddy said. Patients suffering from both infections in December were found one each in Chikkaballapur, Ballari, Bagalkot, Gadag, and Uttara Kannada. Koppal had two patients with dual infections. In January, one patient each with Covid and TB were found in Dharwad, Koppal, Bengaluru, and Tumakuru. “In the second wave, Covid infection used to adversely affect the lungs. Also, there was heavy steroid use. This makes people vulnerable to tuberculosis. When we screened eight lakh recovered Covid patients for TB, we found 288 TB patients. In this wave, lung involvement is less,”he said. CBNAAT test cartridges The state which was grappling with a shortage of CBNAAT test cartridges for TB testing has finally got a consignment of 10,000 cartridges 20 days ago from the Central government. The state has also received a budget of Rs 60 crore for procurement of test cartridges which it has, in turn, disbursed to the districts. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-11-patients-with-tb-and-covid-co-infection-1073081.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC preparatory exam timetable out||The department of Public Instruction has released the timetable for preparatory examinations for class 10. As per the timetable, the preparatory examinations will be held between February 21 and 26 and the details are as follows: February 21: First Language; February 22: Social Science; February 23: Second Language; February 24: Mathematics; February 25: Third Language and February 26: Science. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-preparatory-exam-timetable-out-1073082.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru hits pandemic record with 30,000 Covid cases||Bengaluru Urban breached its second wave record of highest single-day tally, with 30,540 Covid-19 cases being reported on Thursday. Karnataka also registered a steep spike of 47,754 new cases and 29 fatalities.  The state had recorded 41,457 infections on Tuesday and 40,499 on Wednesday. Bengaluru had reported 26,756 cases on April 30, 2021, the highest during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. Amid the inflow of new cases, the percentage of Covid-19 hospitalisations rose from 1.55per cent six days ago to 1.82per cent on Thursday evening. The current data shows that the bed occupancy rate during this one week rose by 143per cent, mostly driven by people with little or no symptoms.  Out of the 5,344 hospital beds occupied in the state on Thursday, 3,897 patients were people on general beds, while only 467 patients required an ICU or ICU-ventilator bed.  Dr Thrilok Chandra, Special Commissioner (Health), Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), said that there has been a trend of people going to hospitals even when it is not necessary. “In the last week, in Bengaluru, there have been consistent admissions of 160 to 200 people per day in private hospitals and most of them go into general beds. This is an indication the pandemic is driving some unnecessarily to hospitals,” he said. A notification from the Department of Health And Family Welfare earlier this week had attempted to stem such hospitalisations by noting that mildly symptomatic individuals and those not in need of emergency critical care should not visit hospitals. “The notification aims to prevent any unnecessary strain on the medical infrastructure,” Dr Chandra explained. However, according to the Private Hospital and Nursing Home Association (PHANA), most of the people turning up at hospitals are those with the disease and comorbidities, or with continuous 100°F fever or a deteriorating oxygen saturation. Many are also said to be people aged 60 and above. Dr T R Hemkumar, an Internal Medicine specialist at Sakra World Hospital, corroborated this, saying that most patients who are hospitalised are people “with severe comorbidities like heart disease, kidney disease or immuno-suppressed patients". But if the scale of Covid-related teleconsultations, which doctors say have also surged, is an indication, there are a mass of cases building up. According to Dr H M Prasanna, president of PHANA, the actual number of positive cases may be double that of official case figures — due to the widespread prevalence of unreported home tests.  “Many of these people are educated but do not want to announce their result to the government for fear of being triaged and repeatedly contacted by the government,” he said. The mounting caseload means that people must visit hospitals if they choose to, because in some cases, not doing so could be detrimental. “The government cannot ask people to abstain from going to hospitals unless their symptoms are severe. This was also seen in the second wave, where people were told not to come to hospitals unless their condition was serious. When people in home isolation waited until their symptoms turned serious enough for hospitalisation, they found that there were few available beds,” he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-hits-pandemic-record-with-30000-covid-cases-1073092.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||KPL: Fixing not cheating under IPC, says HC||The High Court quashed the proceedings against four accused in the Karnataka Premier League (KPL) match-fixing case. Declining to accept the prosecution case that match fixing amounts to cheating under IPC section 420, Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar said that a “general feeling of cheating” does not constitute an offence. The court said cricket being a sport cannot be brought within the ambit of definition of “gaming” under the provisions of Karnataka Police Act. The court accepted the argument by counsel for the petitioners (accused) that the essential ingredients for invoking IPC section 420 was not found in the chargesheet. The essential ingredients are deception, dishonest inducement of a person to deliver any property or to alter or destroy the whole or any part of a valuable security. Additional Advocate General Dhyan Chinnapa argued that fans buy tickets to watch the match and thereby they are induced to part with their property, which is their money. “Of course money is property, but his (AAG) argument that they are induced to buy tickets cannot be accepted. They may have a feeling they will witness a fair game, but they buy tickets voluntarily. So, the question of inducement is ruled out,” the court said. The court also said that though a general feeling arises that a player has cheated the lovers of the game when he indulges in match fixing, this does not give rise to an offence. “The match fixing may indicate dishonesty, indiscipline and mental corruption of a player and for this purpose the BCCI is the authority to initiate disciplinary action. If the BCCI bylaws provide for initiation of disciplinary action against a player, such an action is permitted but, registration of an FIR on the ground that a crime punishable under section 420 IPC has been committed, is not permitted. Even if the entire charge sheet averments are taken to be true on their face value, they do not constitute an offence,” the court said. Advocate for one of the petitioners, Hashmat Pasha cited BCCI v/s cricket association of Bihar case in which the Apex Court had mandated the Law Commission to study the possibility of legalising betting in the country. It was argued that betting amounts to gaming which is an offence under the Karnataka Police Act. “If section 2 (7) of Karnataka Police Act is seen, its explanation very clearly says that game of chance does not include any athletic game or sport. Cricket is a sport and therefore even if betting takes place, it cannot be brought within the ambit of definition of ‘gaming’ found in Karnataka Police Act,” the court said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kpl-fixing-not-cheating-under-ipc-says-hc-1073093.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru school shows the way to kids with little means||At a time when the pandemic has pushed children from vulnerable communities out of the formal education system, this school has come up with unique ways to retain students.  Sri Padmashree High School in Binnypet caters to students from deprived sections, many of them first-generation learners. The pandemic-imposed financial crisis and technological barriers for online classes would have forced several of these children out of school, if not for timely intervention. Many students did not have a mobile phone or tab. Not only did the school provide them tabs, but it also reached out to students’ neighbours. "We called up the neighbours and asked them to lend their phones for online classes,” principal Rajeshwari, who started the school in 2005, says. If the house is not conducive for learning, children could access online classes from the school.  Finance was another challenge. Shakti Priya, a parent whose daughters study here, said, “In other schools, children weren’t allowed for online classes unless they paid the fee. Our kids continued school as we were excused from fees for the most part of the pandemic. Even now, we have the option of paying fees in EMIs.”  The school made “wellness calls” to students, at least twice a week to check on them, a practice that continues during the third wave. The school also tied up with a stationery shop for notebooks where students can buy books and the school pays for it later.  The school raised funds for 40 children in the neighbourhood who had dropped out of schools during Covid and ensured they returned to classes.  Factoring in mental health during the pandemic, the school lightened up academics with activities that did not require buying anything. “While other parents struggled to engage kids, our children never faced boredom during the lockdown,” said Jamuna, a parent.  Where does the money come from? Money pooled by parents and staff is used, says Rajeshwari, a first-generation learner herself. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-school-shows-the-way-to-kids-with-little-means-1073094.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||KRIDL panel to oversee 111-feet pontiff statue||The state-run Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL) has formed a nine-member committee to oversee the construction of a 111-feet statue of spiritual leader Shivakumara Swami, the late pontiff of the Siddaganga Mutt.  The committee will be headed by retired High Court Justice G Patri Basavana Goud, according to an order by KRIDL.  The influential Lingayat pontiff, who was known as ‘Walking God’, died in January 2019 aged 111, following which the government said his native village Veerapura in Magadi, Ramanagara will be developed as a cultural centre.  His 111-feet statue standing atop a two-storey base will come up in Veerapura. The project has been awarded to PSAP Architects whereas Galagali Associates will be the project management consultancy.  The government has approved ₹25 crore for the works.  The committee that will oversee construction of the statue includes former DGP Shankar Bidari, former IAS officer MB Dyaberi, senior Congress leader Eshwar Khandre, former Bengaluru Mayor BS Puttaraju, former professor K Basavaraju, Chitrakala Parishat principal Tejendra Singh Baoni, Rudresh and the KRIDL superintending engineer of the BBMP zone. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kridl-panel-to-oversee-111-feet-pontiff-statue-1073116.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka government lifts weekend curfew; night curfew remains||In a respite for citizens and businesses, Karnataka decided Friday to lift the stay-at-home order on weekends, while retaining all other curbs such as the daily night curfew and 50 per cent capacity in restaurants. Schools and colleges in Bengaluru Urban, where the positivity rate among children is high, will remain closed for in-person classes for students of classes 10, 11 and 12 (pre-university). They continue as per the directions currently in place.  The decision to withdraw the weekend curfew was taken in a two-hour-odd meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and attended by senior ministers, officials and the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).  “We have decided to cancel the weekend curfew based on the report by experts. But, this is conditional,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka said. “If the rate of hospitalisation crosses 5 per cent, then we will impose the weekend curfew again. So, we request people to be careful and follow guidelines.”  Ashoka said that the hospitalisation rate is the yardstick the government is following. “There are 2.93 lakh active cases. Of them, 2.86 lakh are isolated at home. Totally, there are 5,343 people in hospital, with 340 in ICU and 127 on ventilator (support),” he said.  The government was under tremendous pressure to end the weekend curfew. “One opinion that emerged in the meeting was that the state should be considered as one unit. Some argued that Bengaluru needs curbs as there are more cases here. But, we decided against having different rules for different places,” Ashoka said.  He justified the continuation of the night curfew every day from 10 pm to 5 am. “There’s a need to restrict night activities like partying. Also, people should be aware that Covid is still around.”  Primary & Secondary Education Minister BC Nagesh said that except in Bengaluru Urban, schools and colleges will continue. “School will be considered as one unit. Local officials will decide on closing a school for three days if, say, 3-5 kids test positive. If 25-30 kids test positive, then the school will be closed for seven days,” he said.  The overall positivity rate of Covid-19 is 19.94 per cent, whereas it is 8 per cent for children.  “Out of 5.33 lakh tests, the positivity rate among children aged 6-15 is 5.94 per cent,” Nagesh said. “There are six districts where the positivity rate in this age group is 9 per cent whereas it is less than 5 per cent in all other districts.”  Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-government-lifts-weekend-curfew-night-curfew-remains-1073225.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 48,049 new cases; 29,068 in Bengaluru||Continuing to register a surge in cases, Karnataka on Friday logged 48,049 new cases of Covid-19, and 22 fatalities, taking the tally to 34,25,002 and the death toll to 38,537. The state had recorded 47,754 fresh infections on Thursday. Of the new cases today, 29,068 were from Bengaluru Urban which also saw 7,196 people being discharged and 6 virus-related deaths. The total number of active cases across the state is now at 3,23,143. There were 18,115 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 30,63,292, a health department bulletin said. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 19.23 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.04 per cent. Of the 22 deaths, six are from Bengaluru Urban, Udupi (4), Mysuru (3), Haveri (2), followed by others. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Tumakuru recorded the second highest with 2,021 new cases, Hassan 1,889, Mandya 1,506, Kalaburgai 1,164, and Bengaluru Rural 1,036. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 15,42,092 cases, followed by Mysuru 1,94,070 and Tumakuru 1,35,212. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 13,02,027, followed by Mysuru 1,82,644 and Tumakuru 1,23,039. Cumulatively, a total of 6,01,14,815 samples have been tested, of which 2,49,832 were raken on Friday alone. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-48049-new-cases-29068-in-bengaluru-1073317.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Plan to amend IAS rules is 'evil', says Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday wrote to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai urging the state government to oppose the Centre's proposed amendment to the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954.  The proposed amendment will essentially take away the power of states to override New Delhi’s request seeking officers on central deputation. The Centre has asked the states to get back with its opinion before January 25.  "As per the proposed amendment, the Centre can summon IAS and IPS officers and send back them to the state at its will," Siddaramaiah stated. "At present, the state government has to permit an IAS/IPS officer to go on central deputation. The Centre has now come forward to blatantly throw away this power of the states."  Siddaramaiah said the proposed amendment is against federalism. "Authority over officers means control over administration. If state governments don't have control over their officers, how can people's work get done? The Centre is attempting to bring this evil amendment to exert control over elected state governments," he said.  "We must tell the BJP government in the Centre to act in line with the ideals of the founding fathers of the Constitution. Therefore, I demand that an emergency meeting be called with opposition parties to discuss this and convey the state's disapproval to the Centre," he said.  In the Centre's proposal sent to all chief secretaries of the states on January 12, the Rules will be inserted with the following clause: “In specific situations where services of cadre officer(s) are required by the central government in the public interest, the central government may seek the services of such officer(s) for posting under the central government…and the state government concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government within the specified time.” According to the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR), Karnataka has 267 IAS officers and 18 of them are on central deputation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/plan-to-amend-ias-rules-is-evil-says-siddaramaiah-1073334.html
21-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Tiger census at Nagarahole, Bandipur, BRT from January 22||The forest department is making all arrangements for a tiger census at Nagarahole National Park in Hunsur taluk in Mysuru district and at Bandipur and Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve areas, starting this week. The tiger census is conducted once in four years. The census is being conducted at Nagarahole from January 23 to February 5. Hence, the department has cancelled the morning safari and boating safari from January 23 to 25 at Kakanakote. There will be no changes in the safari timings from January 26 to 29. There will be no morning safari from January 30 to February 1. At Nagarahole, the morning safari is cancelled from January 23 to 25. Similarly, it will be cancelled from January 27 to February 1, according to a press release from Tiger Project Director Mahesh Kumar. In Bandipur The tiger census will be conducted from January 22 at Bandipur and it will commence at BRT from January 27. Around 300 department personnel will take part in the tiger census in three phases in Bandipur. According to the last census held in 2018, there were 173 tigers in Bandipur. The figure is around 52 to 80 in the BRT range. Each team will have three people. The details will be uploaded on the software developed by the National Tiger Conservation Authority and Wildlife Preservation Society of India (Dehradun). No volunteers are allowed to take part in the census, this year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Only the personnel of the department will participate, said Bandipur Tiger Project in-charge director V Karikalan. The ranges are divided into three divisions for the purpose of the census. Six days have been allotted for each division. Besides, the personnel will also observe other wild animals like elephants, deer, gaur and the situation inside the forest for conducive tiger breeding, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tiger-census-at-nagarahole-bandipur-brt-from-january-22-1073379.html
21-01-2022||West||3 arrested for 'obscene' Clubhouse chat against Muslim women||Mumbai police have arrested three men in the age group of 19 to 22 from Haryana in connection with the chats on the Clubhouse app, in which objectionable and abusive comments were allegedly passed against women, an official said on Friday. The cyber police station of the Mumbai crime branch made the arrests late on Thursday night. While two of the accused - Jaishnav Kakkar (21) and Yash Parashar (22) - were held from Faridabad, the third one, identified as Akash Suyal (19), was nabbed from Karnal, he said, adding that they are being brought to the city. Parashar is a law student, while Kakkar studied in the commerce stream. Suyal has completed Class 12 education, the official said. "A complaint had been lodged on January 19, 2022, by a woman at the Cyber police station, following which an FIR was registered. In her complaint, the woman had alleged that the participants of the Clubhouse chats had used objectionable remarks against women. She also complained that her photographs, as well as those of her childhood friend, were used in the chat room on October 27 and November 27 last year during a discussion about women," Milind Bharambe, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) said. During the probe, police found that two chat rooms had been created on the Clubhouse app on January 16 and 19 (this year), he said. "Some of the participants discussed and made derogatory statements about women. They also talked about auctioning female body parts," he said. Although there were around 300 participants in each of these two chat rooms, those who used objectionable language against women are the accused in the case, he said. A Twitter user 'Jaimine' had uploaded a video of the Clubhouse chats, which were also shared on Instagram from an account named 'Lotus Watch'.  As objectionable and abusive language against women was used, it created an uproar, the official said. "A user named as KIRA XD was the moderator and the main speaker of those Clubhouse chats, which were widely circulated on social media on January 16 and 19. It was found that Akash Suyal had created the KIRA XD account and he was the alleged moderator and main speaker," he said. Based on the woman's complaint, a case was registered by the Cyber police under IPC sections 153 (A) (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc), 195 (A) (threatening a person to give false evidence), 354 (A) (sexual harassment), 354 (D) (stalking), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 500 (defamation) and section 67 of IT Act was registered, he said, adding two separate teams were formed to investigate the case. Following Suyal's arrest from Karnal, the city police have got his custody for three days, the official said. Kakkar was known on Clubhouse by account name @jaishnav and Yash Parashar was known as Sher Singh ka Papa, Biker gang 5, pardhan@haryana_aala, he said. Meanwhile, in a tweet posted early this morning, Shiv Sena's Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi praised the city police for the arrests in the case. "Kudos @MumbaiPolice, they have got cracking on the Clubhouse chats too and some arrests have been made. Say no to hate. #Clubhouse," she said in the tweet. On Wednesday, the Delhi police had written to the Clubhouse app and search engine Google, seeking details about the organiser of the alleged audio group chat in which "obscene comments were made against Muslim women". Official sources had said that the police had also identified some members of the group audio chat, which included men and women from both communities, as part of the investigation. A Mumbai-based organisation had also lodged a complaint with the city police on Wednesday in connection with the Clubhouse app, seeking its deactivation, and also registration of a case, the official said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-arrested-for-obscene-clubhouse-chat-against-muslim-women-1073162.html
21-01-2022||West||Two Maharashtra ministers reject proposal of salt pan development||In a significant development, Maharashtra ministers Dr Jitendra Awhad Aaditya Thackeray have declared that salt pans in Mumbai would not be opened for development — residential or commercial. Their statements came soon after the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) received bids for appointing a consultant to draft a master plan for the development of the city's salt pans.  "Salt Pan lands in Mumbai should not be given for construction purposes, residential or commercial; it will prove disastrous for Mumbai," said Awhad. “Being asked about allowing residential/commercial construction on salt pan lands, I reiterate that there will be none of such residential or commercial construction allowed on salt pan lands. There is more than enough space apart from these lands to construct on,” state tourism minister Thackeray said. Salt pans come under the Centre but permission is required from the state's Housing ministry, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation and other civic bodies.  The salt pan lands measuring 2,177 hectares are located in Dahisar, Goregaon, Mulund, Bhandup, Kanjur, Nahur, Ghatkopar, Turbhe, Mandale, Chembur, Wadala and Anik.  The lands are distributed in 31 salt works and 4 salt factories, of which 24 salt works (107 ha) are under licence and 7 salt works (1032 ha) are under lease. These lands are located in 13 revenue villages. Salt pans are crucial to Mumbai’s ecology and also act as protection from floods. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-maharashtra-ministers-reject-proposal-of-salt-pan-development-1073163.html
21-01-2022||West||NCP's parliamentarian essays role of Nathuram Godse, draws flak||In a development that has sparked off a political issue in Maharashtra, NCP MP and actor-turned-politician Dr Amol Kolhe essayed the role of Nathuram Godse leading to differences in opinion within the Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation. Kolhe played the role of Godse, who killed Mahatma Gandhi, in a film titled Why I killed Gandhi. The controversial film is set for release on January 30, the day Gandhiji was assassinated in 1948, months after Independence.  A doctor, who turned into an actor and switched to politics, Dr Kohle is the MP from Shirur in Pune. He is best known for essaying the role of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Marathi TV series Raja Shivchatrapati, which was aired on Star Pravah and Swarajya Janini Jijamata on Sony Marathi. Besides, he had also played the role of Shivaji’s son Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj in Marathi TV series Swarajyarakshan Sambhaji on Zee Marathi.  Opposing the film, NCP leader and state housing minister Dr Jitendra Awhad said, "I have opposed all anti-Gandhi films. It is an ideological opposition that I have. When an actor plays a particular character, then he gets into the thought of the character, becomes that character, without that one cannot be an actor." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncps-parliamentarian-essays-role-of-nathuram-godse-draws-flak-1073230.html
21-01-2022||West||Snake found in Bombay HC judge's chamber, rescued by NGO||A snake was discovered early Friday morning inside the chamber of a judge of the Bombay High Court. The 4.5 to 5 feet long, non-venomous snake was found by the court staff at around 9.30 am when Justice N R Borkar was not present in his chamber, which is on the ground floor of the three-storey High Court building. Officials said police was alerted, who in turn called NGO 'Sarpmitra', which specializes in rescuing reptiles and reintroducing them into their natural habitat. The snake has been rescued and will be released into its appropriate surrounding, one of the officials said. The HC is holding hearings virtually at present due to the surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, which has also led to reduced footfalls in the premises. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/snake-found-in-bombay-hc-judges-chamber-rescued-by-ngo-1073242.html
21-01-2022||West||Maharashtra reports nearly 50,000 new Covid cases, 52 deaths||As India continues to reel under Omicron-triggered third wave, the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra zoomed ahead on Friday and crossed the 48,000 - the highest in the present sweep of the pandemic. During the last 24 hours, Maharashtra reported 48,270 cases and 52 deaths.  This took the progressive total - since March 2019 - to 74,20,027 and 1,42,023, respectively.  The active cases in the state now stand at 2,64,388, according to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department.  During the day, Mumbai recorded 5,008 cases and 12 deaths while the same for the larger Mumbai metropolitan region was 10,493 and 27. From the trend, it appears that Mumbai has crossed the peak and the flattening of the curve has started, however, cities like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur showed an increase.  Pune recorded the highest of the third wave with 8,301 cases. “Pune, Nashik and Nagpur circles are showing an increase,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild.  Meanwhile, Maharashtra government’s Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said: “Don't miss Delta in this Omicron wave especially in geographies like Maharashtra, South India and North-East where the tail was present when Omicron came. Guess the estimate is 10 to 20 per cent is still Delta but Omicron is the dominant strain now. Stay safe and mask”. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-nearly-50000-new-covid-cases-52-deaths-1073349.html
