22-01-2022||Comment||The Ferozepur fiasco||The Ferozepur security scare during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab earlier this month kicked up so much dust, emanating from the responses of two warring political tribes, going down to recklessly low standards, that the real lapses have not been sufficiently focused on in the national discourse marked by a shocking disregard of institutional norms and decorum.   That the Prime Minister’s cavalcade could be trapped on a flyover just eight kilometres short of the venue of a public function by a 50-strong crowd and an unannounced and unorganised roadblock resulting in grave exposure of the Prime Minister in a very sensitive area just 30 km from the Pakistan border is a national disgrace and throws up several questions on the efficacy of our protection system.  The Special Protection Group (SPG) tasked with close proximity security of the Prime Minister — raised after the cruel assassination of Indira Gandhi by two of her own security guards in October 1984 — and armed with the SPG Act and clear instructions contained in the ‘blue book’, has evolved a zero-error security cover to the Prime Minister.  When the Prime Minister is in Delhi, the complete system is directly controlled and managed by the SPG; when he is on tour to the states, the host states’ role is crucial as micromanagement of the inner and outer security cordons, access control, securing the routes and meeting venues, etc., are responsibilities vested on them.  An elaborate Advance Security Liaison is carried out – a joint exercise by the SPG, IB (Intelligence Bureau), state police/administration and the event organisers. Even the minutest details are fine-tuned, like the drill on landing at the airport, reception line-up, the change-over to a helicopter, safehouses, routes, contingency routes, including medical contingency, etc., and the proceedings are well-recorded. The report thus drafted goes to all concerned, including the Prime Minister’s Office. The SPG IG or DIG, after the Advance Security Liaison (ASL), stays back with his team to ensure compliance and cover the visit. The Director of the SPG, accompanying the PM, ensures that the fixed programmes/drills are not compromised with, through the in-charge of the Close Protection Team (CPT), who is always next to the protectee and in a position to brief him.   In all movements by helicopter, arrangements for a contingency road journey are put in place, with skeletal deployment and anti-sabotage checks of vulnerable points. There is no reason to believe that this had not been done in the instant case (in Punjab) as cancellations of helicopter journeys are common and to be expected due to inclement weather and the fact that the Air Force VIP squadron does not take any chances when they fly a VVIP.  Supplementing the earmarked route with a reinforced deployment of force would have taken some time, and as per reports they got 20 minutes. The cavalcade, under the command of the SPG, will have commenced movement only on receiving clearance from  Punjab Police. There are advance pilot vehicles carrying armed policemen, running much in advance and giving clearance/warning to the regular pilot of the motorcade where an SPG officer is positioned.  Thus, in speeding up, slowing down, unscheduled halts and contingency diversions/getting away, etc., the SPG wields obvious control.  In view of the farmers’ unrest and reported reactivation of pro-Khalistan elements, the security environment was arguably vitiated in Punjab. But having fixed the route for a probable road movement during the ASL and having given clearance for it on cancellation of the chopper journey, what happened in the last phase of the road journey was a monumental failure arising out of dereliction.  The local leader who had led the 50 or so farmers of BKU(krantikari) has himself claimed ignorance of the approaching PM’s cavalcade and has said that he thought that the police (who tried to clear the path) were bluffing since the route would have been secured much in advance if indeed the PM was travelling by road!  This shows how shabbily the whole matter was handled by Punjab Police, which is otherwise known for tough actions and is feared by the local people. With the PM’s cavalcade having covered about 100 km by road without any hazard, had the police intervened in time and effectively to tackle this unannounced and primitive highway hold-up, Punjab Police would have earned laurels. Prima facie, it appears that the handling of the situation was lackadaisical and unprofessional. The “play it safe” attitude and taking clearance from the top-most political authority of the state even during such grave and emergency situations is the style of functioning of “handpicked” officials who are too willing to please the political masters on whose patronage they obtain key positions, sidelining officers of higher integrity and efficiency capable of more resolute and professional response.  The two most important unitary features of our federal system — the institution of Governors and the provision of All-India Services — have enabled the Centre to effectively exercise an upper hand in the matter of VVIP security so far. But because of logistical reasons and the constitutional position, the SPG cannot act in isolation in the states. It has to depend on state police when in their jurisdiction.   This incident, coupled with the low-level politicisation that followed is an indication of growing challenges and it does not bode well for the health of our Republic. Congress president Sonia Gandhi's gesture of pulling up the Congress Chief Minister in Punjab was, of course, the saving grace.   It is time to review and take a relook at the security of the Prime Minister, as it cannot be taken lightly.   Causing harm to the Prime Minister, irrespective of the party he/she belongs to, is the easiest way to destabilise the nation and threaten our democratic system, which has been attained and retained after great sacrifices. (The writer, a former IG, CRPF, was in the SPG on deputation and headed the Close Protection Team (CPT) of five former Prime Ministers — Chandrashekar, Narasimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, H D Deve Gowda and I K Gujral).||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-ferozepur-fiasco-1073330.html
22-01-2022||First Edit||Don’t slack off on Covid testing now||There are mixed signals on the Covid front in the last few days. The country reported about 3.5 lakh new Covid cases on Friday, 12% higher than the previous day’s daily cases. There is a view that the pandemic is flattening in some areas, especially in Delhi and Mumbai. After the third wave started, there were occasional dips at the national level on some days. But the positivity rate has continued to rise, except in some pockets. The weekly positivity rate is above 16% for the nation. In Kerala, where testing is high, the positivity rate has gone past 40%. That should make it clear that the dip in the number of cases on some days may have been caused by a reduction in testing. Testing was declining for some time and a new set of guidelines issued by the ICMR recently may have further slowed it down. These guidelines had said that asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 patients did not have to be tested. The number of tests in most places came down after this notification as it was felt that the benchmark for testing had been lowered for technical or other reasons.  But the Union health ministry has done well to reiterate that there should not be any laxity in testing. The health secretary has written to all states about this. But there is the need for more clarity on the matter because the letter has also endorsed the ICMR guidelines. It is not advisable to issue guidelines that are ambiguous and could be interpreted differently. As the letter stated, the basic objective of testing is early detection of infection, and this remains as valid in the case of Omicron as in the case of Delta.  Experts have said that the rates of hospitalisation and death should be the most important metrics to judge the impact of Omicron. But the high transmissibility of the variant can result in greater number of infections within a given time. Testing is an important tool to understand the incidence and trajectory of the disease. It helps in the identification of clusters and hotspots, which in turn help to set up containment zones and adopt other measures. All this will ensure reduction in mortality and morbidity. Testing now is only about 40% of what it was in the middle of last year but the caseload is about the same. That shows that the positivity rate is much higher now. That is why it should remain a key element of Covid management. Correct and ample data is needed for a better understanding of the disease and for the formulation of strategies, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/don-t-slack-off-on-covid-testing-now-1073328.html
22-01-2022||In Perspective||Bose — 'Prince among the patriots’||“With such purity of character and with such an unprecedented following, why has the Mahatma failed to liberate India? While he has understood the character of his own people, he has not understood the character of his opponents. The logic of the Mahatma is not the logic which appeals to John Bull or Mr Winston Churchill – the best policeman of the Englishmen” – Netaji Subash Chandra Bose wrote in his book The Indian struggle, published in England in 1935. The book was unavailable in India under British Raj. It was made available after Independence -- by Jawaharlal Nehru, who is these days painted as Bose’s envious opponent. Of course, the so-called nationalists of today must not have read this book. Netaji had functional differences with Gandhiji, but he recognised that “the Mahatma will not play second fiddle to anyone. But his popularity and reputation does not depend on his political leadership, but largely on his character, unlike other political leaders.” Netaji was forced to resign from Congress presidentship by the Congress ‘right-wing’, a group led by Sardar Patel. Though Rabindranath Tagore had told Gandhiji that Nehru and Bose were the only two modernists in Congress, Gandhiji wrote to Nehru and Tagore of his preference for Pattabhi Sitaramayya to become Congress president (after Nehru declined to contest) over a second term for Bose in 1939. When a contest became inevitable, Bose won the election. Govind Ballabh Pant, a key member of the Patel group, moved a resolution affirming that “the fundamental policies of Gandhi are the only basis for the functioning of the Congress”. The progressive Bose had to resign. Rajaji, who drafted the resolution, later said, “There are two boats -- an old boat piloted by Gandhi, a tried boatman; but the new boat of Bose is leaky. The new boatman says, ‘If you don’t get into my boat, at least tie my boat to yours’. It is impossible to tie a good boat to a leaky boat.” Rajaji’s metaphoric words explain the situation that existed then. To Gandhiji, Bose seemed too independent and in too great a hurry to obtain freedom. To the Leftist Bose, “The Mahatma has endeavoured in the past to hold together all the warring elements – Landlord and Peasant, Capitalist and Labour, Rich and the Poor. That has been the secret of his success, as surely as it will be the ultimate cause of his failure”. Bose strongly believed that the ‘haves’ would in the future ditch the ‘have-nots’ and would incline towards British-advocated economic policies. To him, British rule was not just political “foreign rule” but “imperialist exploitation.” He believed that economic issues should be brought to the fore along with the freedom struggle. But to Gandhiji, social issues were important. Bose was also opposed all types of fundamentalism, and to capitalist elements joining Congress with ulterior motives. His daring escape from house arrest, meeting Fascist Mussolini in Italy and Nazi Hitler in Germany were all done in the conviction that only an armed struggle would free India. He shook hands with Mussolini and Hitler and joined Japanese forces marching towards India because they were opposed to the British. His Indian National Army was funded by Indians, including Nehru, and consisted of Indian soldiers. Gandhiji could never hate anyone despite his strong differences with them. When news of Bose’s death came, Gandhiji’s immediate reaction was one of denial. His “inner voice does not accept” that a great patriot like Bose could die in such a tragedy, he said, though later “with a heavy heart” he “reconciled to the fact.” Though Bose parted ways with Gandhiji, he never indulged in any acrimonious attack on him. He always referred to him as “the Mahatma”, and it was indeed he who first called Gandhiji ‘Bapu’, Father of the Nation, in a radio address from Singapore in 1943. That Bose named his INA brigades after Gandhiji, Nehru, Maulana Azad and himself, and the women’s brigade after the Rani of Jhansi, says much about who Bose regarded as India’s foremost patriots and leaders. In turn, Gandhiji called Bose the ‘Prince among the Patriots’. But in our ‘New India’, much hullabaloo was made about declassifying the Netaji papers. After using him as a propaganda tool, he is now to be coopted by the self-proclaimed nationalists on Republic Day with a ‘hologram statue’, while denying Bengal its right to put up a tableau featuring Bengal’s great son! The reaction of Bose’s daughter from his Austrian love Emilie Schenkl, Anita Bose-Pfaff, sums up the mindset of exploiting him for political purposes.   Bose differed with Gandhi as a well-intentioned son would from his ‘Bapu’. His supreme sacrifice re-energised Gandhiji’s freedom movement, ultimately forcing the British out. But our great nationalists of today have not spared even these two great sons of India to further their political aims, many a times even falsifying historical truths. (The writer is an author and educationist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/bose-prince-among-the-patriots-1073329.html
22-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Book on collection of speeches seeking recognition for Tulu and Kodava languages in Parliament released||Tulu – Kodava Bhashegala Alivu – Ulivu, a collection of speeches by B K Hariprasad in the Parliament, demanding recognition for Tulu and Kodava languages, was released by the former vice-chancellor of Karnataka Folklore University and folklore expert, Prof K Chinnappa Gowda. Speaking on the occasion, MLC B K Hariprasad said that Hindi is not the national language but only a communicative official language. "Just like the 22 official languages, including Kannada, Hindi is also an official language. If Hindi is being made a national language, then Kannada should also be given the same status," he said. Seeking the inclusion of Tulu in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, the MLC said that more than 20 lakh people speak the language. "When an MP from Kerala sought recognition for Tulu in the Parliament, the Central government had clarified that there was no such proposal before it to include the language in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. In spite of so much demand, it is a tragedy that it is not included," he said. "The Central government has spent Rs 1,040 crore for the promotion of Hindi and Rs 940 crore for Sanskrit. However, Kannada gets only Rs three 3 crore. There should not be any disparity," he said. While 19,000 languages are spoken in India, Bengaluru has people speaking 108 different languages and Pune 98 languages. "Instead of respecting this multi-culture, the government is going ahead with the ideologies of 'One Nation, One Ration', 'One Nation, One Election' and 'One Nation, One Education'", Hariprasad said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/book-on-collection-of-speeches-seeking-recognition-for-tulu-and-kodava-languages-in-parliament-released-1073459.html
22-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Plastic Park in Ganjimutt gets final approval from Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers||The Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers, department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals has given final approval for the setting up of a plastic park at Ganjimutt in Dakshina Kannada. A tweet from Mangalore North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty said that the project will be implemented by a special purpose vehicle (SPV) incorporated by KIADB with a total project cost of Rs 6277 lakh including a Central grant of Rs 3138.775 lakh. Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Bhagwanth Khuba, and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the proposed plastic park will come up on 104-acre land and will help in generating employment. In fact, the plastic park to Mangaluru was announced when Ananth Kumar was the Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers way back in 2015. As a Minister, D V Sadananda Gowda had given in-principle approval for the Plastic Park in January 2021 and had directed the department of commerce and industry of Karnataka to submit a detailed project report on the same. The park will have an ecosystem with state of the art infrastructure building and enabling common facilities to consolidate and synergise the capacities of the domestic downstream plastic processing industry, Gowda had said while giving the approval. According to sources in MRPL (Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited), the Plastic Park will provide employment to hundreds of unemployed youth. The Polypropelene unit in MRPL would supply raw plastic to units located in Plastic and Polymer park in Ganjimutt. Presently MRPL’s raw plastic is being sent to Gujarat and Maharashtra. The plastic park will not only utilise raw plastic but also will be saving on transportation costs. Sources told DH that over 32 companies had registered with the department on setting up units in Plastic park. Even entrepreneurs from other districts had evinced keen interest in setting up plants in Plastic parks, sources added. In a letter to Dr N Shivashankara, Chief Executive officer of KIADB, Under Secretary to Government of India Dharam Vir said that scheme steering committee constituted under the Scheme for setting up plastic park has approved Rs 240.70 lakh for site development and constructing retaining walls, Rs 695.88 lakh for the development of roads and drains, Rs 418.44 lakh for water supply, Rs 599.99 lakh for developing sewerage system, Rs 18 lakh for solid waste management, Rs 984 lakh for power supply, Rs 25 lakh for telecom and IT infrastructure. The remaining amount is for export building, admin building, plant, equipment, warehouse facility, and so on. The letter further said that the SPV will complete the setting up of the plastic park within the timeframe provided in the scheme guidelines unless an extension has been accorded by the department of chemicals and petrochemicals. In case the project is not started within a responsible period of time from the date of sanctions, the scheme steering committee may withdraw the sanction so that the limited resources available under the scheme could be re-allocated to other deserving projects.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/plastic-park-in-ganjimutt-gets-final-approval-from-ministry-of-chemicals-and-fertilisers-1073470.html
22-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru woman kills husband over family dispute||A woman allegedly murdered her husband over a family dispute at Mullur village in Sargur taluk in the district late on Friday. Neetravati, 26, killed her husband Basavaraju (41). According to the police, Neetravati and Baasavaraju used to fight often as Basavaraju had extramarital affair. On Friday also, the couple picked up a clash and Neetravati hit on his private parts and killed him. The couple had a five year old son. Police arrested Neetravati and produced before the court which remanded her to judicial custody. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-woman-kills-husband-over-family-dispute-1073557.html
22-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Elephant electrocuted in Karnataka||An elephant, aged around years, was electrocuted after it came into contact with a live wire at a farmland in Gowdahalli in the taluk on Friday night. The incident occurred at Mahadevappa’s farmland.   Range Forest officer Lokesh Murthy visited the spot and said action would be initiated against the landowner. However, the farmers took severe exception against the statement and staged a flash protest. The farmers said the animal was killed as the electric wire fell on the ground and the farmer played no role in it. No case should be registered against Mahadevappa. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-electrocuted-in-karnataka-1073588.html
22-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Elephant herd damage crops ||A herd of 23 elephants have been raiding coffee, banana, and areca nut at villages of Cheekanahalli Gram Panchayat limits for the last one week. The elephants have been damaging crops at Kogodu, Siraguru, Kumbaarahalli and Anughatta. The villagers alleged that though the matter was brought to the notice of the forest department officials, they were reluctant to take measures to drive away from the elephants. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-herd-damage-crops-1073591.html
22-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Change in safari timings from January 23 to February 1||The safari timings for the tourists will be changed following the tiger census at Nagarahole Rajiv Gandhi National Park from January 23 to February 1, said Tiger Reserve Director Mahesh Kumar. The safari at Veeranahosalli, Nanacchi Gate, Kakamanakote and Jungle lodge and resorts in the morning has been cancelled. There is no change in safari timings in the noon. No census will be held on Republic Day, wherein safari will be held in the morning and noon. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/change-in-safari-timings-from-january-23-to-february-1-1073643.html
22-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Bommai calls all-party meeting to take call on Karnataka's water disputes||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will convene an all-party meeting in the first week of February to discuss Karnataka’s water disputes involving neighbouring states, which he said have reached a “crucial” stage.  This was one of the outcomes of Bommai’s meeting with Karnataka’s legal team and senior officials where they discussed the Krishna, Cauvery and Mahadayi disputes. “In the first week of February, an all-party meeting will be held with advocates, senior ministers and floor leaders in the Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council,” Bommai told reporters after the meeting. “We will discuss the status of these cases and how we should move forward. When it comes to land and water issues, we’ve always worked together, even when we were in the Opposition.”  Bommai said that Karnataka is a mid-riparian state. “So, the states above and below us keep raising disputes,” he said. “When it comes to the Krishna basin, the Bachawat and Brijesh Mishra tribunals have delivered their award and the notification is awaited as the case is before the Supreme Court,” he said.  “In the case of Mahadayi, the tribunal order has come, but the SC is hearing cases as all three states (Karnataka, Maharashtra and Goa) have filed objections on the water allocation,” he said. “In the case of Cauvery, the tribunal order has been notified. But Tamil Nadu has moved SC on various issues, including Mekedatu.” Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol said that it was decided to request the SC registrar to reconstitute the bench on which two judges have recused themselves from hearing the Krishna dispute. “The Mekedatu case is coming up before the SC on February 16. Another meeting will be held before that to take stock of our preparation. And, the Mahadayi case is in the final stages in the SC. We decided to seek faster hearings,” he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-calls-all-party-meeting-to-take-call-on-karnatakas-water-disputes-1073568.html
22-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Is Tumakuru your father's property, HDK charges at Siddaramaiah||Former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy locked horns again after the JD(S) leader launched a strongly-worded attack against the Congress leader on Saturday. In a series of tweets, Kumaraswamy lashed out at Siddaramaiah for questioning the ideological stance of the regional party. On Friday, Siddaramaiah had urged the people of Tumakuru to oust JD(S) from the district. "The party has no ideology. They will one day be with BJP and swing the other way later," he alleged, calling the regional party BJP's B-Team. In retort, Kumaraswamy said it was just a matter of time before the leader of the opposition was ousted from Badami. "Is Tumakuru your father's property? Forget ousting JD(S) from Tumakuru, the people of Chamundeshwari have sent you packing and the next will be in Badami," he said. While Siddaramaiah keeps alleging that JD(S) is BJP's B-team, in reality, it was he who was responsible for the BJP government to come to power, Kumaraswamy alleged. "Siddaramaiah has no capability to nurture leadership. He is on one had greedy to become the next Chief Minister and on the other is also insecure that he may not get the opportunity. The only politics he will play is to hijack JD(s) leaders while thwarting the opportunity of Congress leaders," he charged. An irked Siddaramaiah told media persons on Saturday that Kumaraswamy' statements "showed his political culture". "Everyone in his family has lost elections including himself. He has no right to comment on me losing elections," Siddaramaiah said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/is-tumakuru-your-fathers-property-hdk-charges-at-siddaramaiah-1073624.html
22-01-2022||National||DH Toon | An 'Amar Jyoti' for tax payers?||The estimated project cost of the new Parliament building may increase by more than Rs 200 crore due to higher expenditure on steel, electronics and other works, and the CPWD is expected to get the Lok Sabha Secretariat's approval for the enhancement, sources said on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-an-amar-jyoti-for-tax-payers-1073433.html
22-01-2022||National||India no longer signs FTAs just to be part of a group; we are looking at reciprocal access: Goyal||India is no longer signing free trade agreements (FTAs) just to join a group and instead it is looking at reciprocal access, good market conditions, and fair play in trade in both goods and services, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday. However, he added that FTA is a two-way traffic and industry should inculcate a greater appetite for risk taking as these pacts cannot give one-sided access for Indian goods and services alone. India has launched negotiations for such pacts with the UAE, Australia and UK and would launch talks with Canada and GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council). Under such agreements, two trading partners significantly reduce or eliminate import/customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them, besides easing norms to promote trade in services. "India no longer signs FTAs just to be a part of a group, or for the sake of it. We are looking at reciprocal access, good market conditions and equitable and fair play in trade in goods and services. "We are looking at robust FTAs with like minded nations with values of democracy, transparency and mutual growth," Goya said at an event organised by the Merchants' Chamber of Commerce and Industry. All these agreements are going to be two-way traffic, he said, adding "we will certainly need your cooperation from industry in maintaining these bilateral fruitful discussions." Elaborating, he said in an FTA, some items will come from abroad, while some will go to those countries. "Our focus is wherever we have comparative or competitive advantage, we should look at market access and wherever the advantage is with some other country, we don't have to force the Indian consumer to buy expensive," the minister said. Replying to a question about industry's apprehensions on such trade pacts benefitting India's trading partners more, the minister said the government is engaging with industry before taking a decision on extending concessions in any sector. "But bear in mind that ultimately in the globalised world, our industry also wants access. We also want to expand labour-oriented sectors where there's good potential and we are losing market share," he noted. The minister further said India has already implemented FTAs with Japan and Korea, and it is not as if the country does not have market access. "In fact, there will be more access to different markets. Hopefully, products will be available to us at competitive prices on which we can do value addition, particularly in labour oriented areas and expand our business," he added. The minister cited an example of the textiles industry, which is facing issues due to zero-duty benefits being enjoyed by Vietnam and Bangladesh in many developed markets. Goyal, who is also the textiles minister, said India is trying to get zero-duty exports to the UK for the textiles sector and also discussing the same with the European Union. In response to a query about the release of funds under the Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme, Goyal assured disbursement of funds after due diligence and verification of pending claims. He also asked the printing industry to take up with the finance ministry duty waivers against Export Promotion Credit Guarantee obligations to such units defaulting in recent years due to the pandemic and the resultant shrinking of export orders. Further, the minister listed three expectations from the industry associations, including proactive participation by giving suggestions on issues related to FTAs, non-tariff barriers, and market access. "Highlight where we can reduce compliance burden and enhance ease of doing business. Identify processes that the government can digitise. Suggest areas where legal framework can be simplified and laws can be decriminalised," he said. Meanwhile, the ministry in a separate statement said Goyal held a review meeting of the National Single Window System (NSWS) on January 19. In that meeting, Goyal said there should be complete end-to-end testing of one set of approvals for each of the integrated ministries on the NSWS portal. So far, 14 states are on board and the process for inclusion of six more is in progress. The minister said a Chief Information Security Officer should be nominated to work exclusively for the security and risk monitoring of the portal. The Know Your Approvals (KYA) service is live on the NSWS with 544 approvals across 32 central ministries/ departments. A total of 3,259 approvals are listed. Efforts are underway to ensure that 13 more ministries/departments are onboarded by March 31, 2022, with another 360 approvals/registrations. The first approval through the portal was granted on January 11 to CMR-Kataria Recycling Pvt Ltd for a vehicle scrappage facility RVSF at Kheda, Gujarat with a capacity of 67,000 vehicles. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-no-longer-signs-ftas-just-to-be-part-of-a-group-we-are-looking-at-reciprocal-access-goyal-1073436.html
22-01-2022||National||India logs over 3.37 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 488 deaths||India added 3,37,704 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,89,03,731, which includes 10,050 cases of the Omicron variant, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have increased to 21,13,365, the highest in 237 days, while the death toll has climbed to 4,88,884 with 488 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. There has been a 3.69 per cent increase in Omicron cases since Friday, the ministry said. The active cases comprise 5.43 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 93.31 per cent, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 17.22 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 16.65 per cent. The data stated that 71.34 crore tests have been conducted so far and 19,60,954 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. So far, 161.16 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered, it said India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19, 2020. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23 last year. The 488 new fatalities include 106 from Kerala, 52 from Maharashtra, 38 from Delhi and 35 from West Bengal. A total of 4,88,884 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,42,023 from Maharashtra, 51,607 from Kerala, 38,537 from Karnataka, 37,145 from Tamil Nadu, 25,541 from Delhi, 23,022 from Uttar Pradesh and 20,265 from West Bengal. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-over-337-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-488-deaths-1073454.html
22-01-2022||National||Goods train derailed in Mathura, traffic hit||Rail traffic was completely obstructed between Mathura and Delhi following the derailment of a Ghaziabad-bound freight train here in Vrindavan, officials said on Saturday. The accident occurred at 11.30 pm Friday when several coaches of the train coming from Chittoor Nimba station derailed, they said. “Both up and down routes and the third line have been affected owing to the derailment,” Agra division railways PRO SK Srivastava said. Over 300 men are working continuously to remove the coaches, which were loaded with cement, he said. About 15 wagons of the train covered all three railway lines and the traffic may resume only by evening, said the official.  The train derailed between Bhuteshwar and Vrindavan road stations of Mathura-Palwal section of the North Eastern Railway, the official said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goods-train-derailed-in-mathura-traffic-hit-1073467.html
22-01-2022||National||Former India footballer Subhas Bhowmick dies at 72||Former India footballer Subhas Bhowmick died at a city hospital on Saturday following prolonged illness, sources in the medical establishment said. Bhowmick (72), popularly known as ‘Bhombolda’ was hospitalised with diabetic problems and kidney ailments and died at around 3.30 am on Saturday, they said. Bhowmick was a striker and played for East Bengal and Mohun Bagan and represented India in several international tournaments. He was a successful football coach and had coached clubs like East Bengal, Mohun Bagan, Mohammedan Sporting, Salgaocar and Churchill Brothers. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-india-footballer-subhas-bhowmick-dies-at-72-1073476.html
22-01-2022||National||Defer vaccination, including boosters, by 3 months in Covid positive cases: Centre||The Health Ministry has asked the states and UTs to defer vaccination, including the precaution dose, by three months if the beneficiary tests positive. "In case of individuals having lab test proven SARS-2 Covid-19 illness, all Covid vaccinations including precaution dose to be deferred by three months after recovery", said Vikas Sheel, Additional Secretary &amp; Mission Director (NHM) in a letter to states and UTs. The letter further reads that the requests had been made from various quarters for guidance with regard to the administration of precaution dose to the eligible persons having Covid illness. The guidance is based on scientific evidence and the recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group (NTGAI), which adds further. The vaccination drive for adolescents aged 15 to 18 years started from January 3, while the administration of precaution dose for Health Care Workers, Front Line Workers and persons aged 60 years and above with co-morbidities began from January 10. The prioritisation and sequencing of the precaution dose are based on the completion of nine months i.e. 39 weeks from the date of administration of the second dose. With the administration of over 67 lakh vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid inoculation coverage has reached 161.16 crore as of this morning. Meanwhile, India on Saturday reported 3,37,704 fresh Covid cases with 488 deaths in the last 24 hrs. With the addition of 488 new deaths, the total deaths toll has climbed to 4,88,884. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defer-vaccination-including-boosters-by-3-months-in-covid-positive-cases-centre-1073485.html
22-01-2022||National||Indian-origin scientist creates 1st molecular structure of Omicron protein||An Indian-origin researcher at the University of British Columbia (UBC) has created the world's first molecular-level structural analysis of the Omicron variant spike protein. Published in the Science journal, the analysis which is done at near-atomic resolution using cryo-electron microscopy, reveals how the heavily mutated Omicron variant attaches to and infects human cells. "Understanding the molecular structure of the viral spike protein is important as it will allow us to develop more effective treatments against Omicron and related variants in the future," said the study's lead author Dr Sriram Subramaniam, a professor at UBC's department of biochemistry and molecular biology. "By analysing the mechanisms by which the virus infects human cells, we can develop better treatments that disrupt that process and neutralise the virus," Subramaniam added. The spike protein, which is located on the outside of a coronavirus, enables SARS-CoV-2 to enter human cells. The Omicron variant has an unprecedented 36 mutations on its spike protein -- three to five times more than previous variants. The structural analysis revealed that several mutations create new salt bridges and hydrogen bonds between the spike protein and the human cell receptor known as ACE2. The new bonds appear to increase binding affinity - how strongly the virus attaches to human cells. "The findings show that Omicron has greater binding affinity than the original virus, with levels more comparable to what we see with the Delta variant," said Subramaniam. "It is remarkable that the Omicron variant evolved to retain its ability to bind with human cells despite such extensive mutations." The Omicron spike protein exhibits increased antibody evasion. In contrast to previous variants, Omicron showed measurable evasion from all six monoclonal antibodies tested, with a complete escape from five. The variant also displayed increased evasion of antibodies collected from vaccinated individuals and unvaccinated Covid-19 patients. "Notably, Omicron was less evasive of the immunity created by vaccines, compared to immunity from natural infection in unvaccinated patients. This suggests that vaccination remains our best defence," Subramaniam informed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-scientist-creates-1st-molecular-structure-of-omicron-protein-1073495.html
22-01-2022||National||Elections to be held in Jammu and Kashmir soon, says Amit Shah||Assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir will be held after completion of the ongoing delimitation process and statehood will be restored once the situation in the union territory becomes normal, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday. Virtually releasing India's first "District Good Governance Index", he said Jammu and Kashmir is a priority for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and multipronged efforts are being made for the all-around development of the union territory. "As far as the democratic process is concerned, the delimitation process has started. After its completion, we will hold the (assembly) elections. "Some people have said many things, but I want to tell you that I had given assurance in Parliament that the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir will be restored. Once the situation in Jammu and Kashmir becomes normal, the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir will be restored," he said. Shah said some people want to create confusion in the minds of the people of the valley and he wants to request everyone not to fall into their trap. He said democracy has reached the lowest level of society after the implementation of the Panchayati raj system and that is why some people are worried. He said Jammu and Kashmir can be developed only through democracy, and people can be happy and youths can get jobs also through democracy. "But to sustain the democracy, peace is necessary for Jammu and Kashmir. I want to appeal to the youths of Jammu and Kashmir not to get instigated by the statements of vested interests. I want to tell the youths to have faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have faith in Jammu and Kashmir administration," he said. Shah said some people were spreading lies for their narrow political interests. "I want to appeal to everyone, especially the youths to ask these people some questions. Those who are saying that the valley's land will be usurped, they should be asked whose land has been taken away so far. By spreading such lies, they are trying to put barriers to the development of Jammu and Kashmir. "Those who were saying that violence will enhance. They should be asked whether violence has gone up or reduced. They had said no investment will come, but the fact is that already Rs 12,000 crore investment has come. Tourists arrivals have also gone up and Jammu and Kashmir is marching towards development," he said. Shah said many changes have taken place in Jammu and Kashmir under the initiative of the local administration and the guidance of the prime minister. "I want to tell everyone, especially youths, youths of the valley, to give attention towards development, be part of the development process," he said. The home minister said till August 2019, when Article 370 was abrogated, Jammu and Kashmir were electing 87 MLAs and 6 MPs and only three families were ruling the erstwhile state. "Now, 30,000 people's representatives (panchayat members) are serving the people. The benefits of the implementation of the Panchayati Raj Act is before the people of Jammu and Kashmir. There has been speedy development after the implementation of the act," he said. The home minister said some political parties were hurt that the Panchayati raj system has been implemented and these people have said that the law and order situation has deteriorated after the abrogation of Article 370. Some people have gone to even to the extreme and said that until Article 370 is restored, law and order in Jammu and Kashmir can never be good, he said. "I want to tell all of them that there has been a 40 per cent reduction in terror-related incidents and a 57 per cent reduction in deaths since Article 370 was abrogated. It shows that peace has no connection with change. Peace has a connection with the administration. When people get good administration, people get involved with the administration," he said. Lauding the Jammu and Kashmir administration's efforts, Shah said that the union territory stood within the fifth rank among all states and union territories in implementing central government development schemes like providing electricity, LPG gas connections, toilets, 100 per cent vaccination, oxygen supply, setting up oxygen plants. "People are getting direct benefits. Therefore, naturally, middlemen are upset. Modi is clear that people of Jammu and Kashmir should get clean administration without any intervention of the middlemen," he said. Shah said Jammu and Kashmir has tremendous potential for tourism. But the way some leaders are making statements shows that they don't want the growth of tourism. "I want to tell them there is no impact from your statements. This winter, there has been recording tourists arrivals in Jammu and Kashmir. This number will keep growing in the coming days," he said. The home minister said everyone knows that tourism has direct connection with employment, but by making such statements, a conspiracy has been hatched so that there is fewer tourists arrivals and the youths get fewer employment opportunities. "I want to tell those people who had to go to Pakistan or other foreign countries to study medicine that since independence till 2014, Jammu and Kashmir had just four medical colleges with 500 seats. Now, nine medical colleges were built, 15 nursing colleges were set up, 1,100 MBBS seats and 600 paramedical seats are available," he said. Shah said there was just Rs 12,000 crore investment in Jammu and Kashmir in 70 years. But in just one year, Rs12,000 crore investment has come and Rs 2,000 crore groundbreaking has been done so far. All together Rs 50,000 crore investment will come. He said that budget of Jammu and Kashmir has been increased from Rs 9,000 crore to Rs 21,000 crore. "No other state has got such two and half time more budget. It shows that Jammu and Kashmir is a priority for Modi," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elections-to-be-held-in-jammu-and-kashmir-soon-says-amit-shah-1073502.html
22-01-2022||National||Rahul Gandhi terms Mumbai fire 'tragic', urges party workers extend help||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday condoled with the families of those who died in a fire in Mumbai. He wished for a speedy recovery to the injured and urged party workers to provide assistance to the affected. "The tragic news of fire in a Mumbai high rise is disturbing. My condolences to the family of those who've lost their lives. Wishing a speedy recovery to the injured," Gandhi said in a Facebook post. "I appeal to Congress workers to be of every possible assistance," he said. At least six people died and 15 others were reported injured in a massive fire that broke out this morning in a Mumbai high-rise. The fire reportedly broke out on the 18th floor of Kamla Building opposite Gandhi Hospital at Gowalia Tank in city's Tardeo area. Video clips shared on social media showed a plume of dense smoke bellowing from the top of the building. Rescue work is still on.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-terms-mumbai-fire-tragic-urges-party-workers-extend-help-1073506.html
22-01-2022||National||'Operation Snow Leopard' still on, troops on alert: Army Commander||The ‘Operation Snow Leopard' is still on with troops on alert and ready to meet any eventuality as the focus of disengagements in Ladakh continues to be through talks, Army's northern commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi said on Saturday. Joshi, the General Officer-Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), was speaking at the northern command's investiture ceremony at its headquarters here in Jammu and Kashmir, where the units involved in the Ladakh operation ran away with major share of the appreciation certificates. He presented GOC-in-C's appreciation to 40 units and GOC-in-C's ‘Certificates of Appreciation’ to 26 units for their ‘outstanding’ and ‘distinguished’ performance in the command theatre. The GOC-in-C's Appreciation was given to units for their performance in Operation Meghdoot, Operation Rakshak, Operation Northern Borders, and other operations. The GOC-in-C's Certificates of Appreciation were given to units involved in Operation Snow Leopard, which was launched after China refused to move back and restore status quo ante in eastern Ladakh. “The importance of both the union territories of J&K and Ladakh is well known and we have played our role as far as the security of this region is concerned with full dedication and devotion and are maintaining our complete dominance, whether it is Line of Control, Line of Actual Control (LAC), Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL) and International Border (IB),” the army commander said in his address. He said the brave soldiers of the northern command foiled the aggressive designs of the enemy. Referring to the developments in Ladakh in the wake of Chinese aggression, he said disengagement with People's Liberation Army (PLA) was completed from various areas in a peaceful manner and efforts are on through dialogue for disengagement from other areas. However, the troops are maintaining alertness on the snow-bound peaks, he said. On counter-insurgency campaign undertaken under Operation Rakshak, he said the people of Kashmir have rejected terrorism, separatism, and gun culture, and after many years, the number of terrorists has gone below 200 in the valley which is a “big achievement”. “The ceasefire along the LoC has provided relief to the border residents. But the attempts of infiltration of terrorists is going on, which are being foiled by our alert security personnel,” he said. “There has been a reduction in terrorist related incidents, stone pelting activities and protests as a result of tireless efforts of the security forces and the people of J&K,” Joshi said. He congratulated local police, the CRPF, and other agencies for their role in counter-insurgency operations. Joshi said technology is being used to assist the troops in keeping vigil and maintaining security. “We are fully inducting the state-of-the-art technology in our army,” he said. Referring to the current wave of Covid-19, he said like the previous two pandemic waves, the northern command is always there to help the government and the people. “We are fully with you and ready to serve you,” he said, saluting the healthcare workers of the command who reached out to the people without caring for their safety. The Army Commander lauded all ranks of northern command for their dedication and devotion to duty in the highest traditions of the Indian Army. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/operation-snow-leopard-still-on-troops-on-alert-army-commander-1073512.html
22-01-2022||National||Aspirational districts now eliminating barriers to progress: PM Modi||Aspirational districts are now eliminating the barriers to the progress of the country and they have become accelerators for growth instead of impediments, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he interacted with District Magistrates (DM) In his remarks at the virtual interaction with DMs and some chief ministers, Modi said the teamwork of Centre, states and local administration was yielding good results in aspirational districts. "Today, aspirational districts are eliminating the barriers to the progress of the country. With the efforts of all of you, aspirational districts are becoming accelerators of growth instead of impediments," he told the DMs. Modi said that for development in aspirational districts, a direct connect between the administration and the public as well as an emotional connect is very important. A sort of 'top to bottom' and 'bottom to top' flow of governance is needed, he said, adding that an important aspect of this is technology and innovation. Officials in aspirational districts now feel a great deal of satisfaction when they see lives of people improving with their efforts, Modi said. The prime minister told the district magistrates that every district needs to learn from the success of others and also evaluate their challenges. Aspirational districts have proved that removing silos in the implementation process can result in one and one becoming eleven, Modi said. Launched by the prime minister in January 2018, the aspirational districts programme aims to quickly and effectively transform 112 most under-developed districts across the country. Chief Ministers of states such as Gujarat, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh also participated in the interaction. The interaction was aimed at taking direct feedback about the progress and status of implementation of various government schemes and programmes.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aspirational-districts-now-eliminating-barriers-to-progress-pm-modi-1073513.html
22-01-2022||National||R-Day parade: Navy's tableau to depict 1946 uprising; woman officer to lead marching contingent||The Indian Navy's tableau will depict the 1946 naval uprising, which contributed to the country's independence movement, and its marching contingent would be led by a woman officer at this year's Republic Day parade. The tableau will also show the navy's theme of 'Combat Ready, Credible and Cohesive'. "The naval contingent comprises 96 men, three platoon commanders and one contingent commander," the navy said in a statement. It will be led by Lieutenant Commander Aanchal Sharma, who is an observer officer posted at the Indian Naval Air Squadron (INAS) 314, it mentioned. Sharma, who was commissioned in June 2016, said that the enthusiasm and energy of the contingent is unparalleled and it is indeed an honour to be leading it at the Republic Day parade. As the nation is celebrating 75 years of independence as 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav', the navy's contribution to the Indian freedom struggle will have a special mention in the tableau, the statement said. Lieutenant Mayank Bhagour said the forward part of the tableau depicts "the naval uprising of 1946, an event which contributed in India's struggle for independence". The rear section of the tableau illustrates the 'Make in India' initiatives of the Indian Navy, particularly for the period 1983 to 2021, he mentioned. The model of indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant with Light Combat Aircraft in the air takes the centre stage, Bhagour said. These will be flanked by models of the indigenous missile corvette Kora, destroyer Visakhapatnam, frigate Shivalik on left and P-75 submarine Kalvari, frigate Godavari and destroyer Delhi on the right, he noted. Frames on the lower section of the trailer will depict indigenous construction of naval platforms, Bhagour said. The Indian Navy's statement said that its 72-men band at the parade will be led by Vincent Johnson, Master Chief Petty Officer Musician and Hon Sub Lieutenant. This would be the 18th time he would be participating in a Republic Day Parde, it added. He would lead the naval band as a drum major, the statement mentioned. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-day-parade-navys-tableau-to-depict-1946-uprising-woman-officer-to-lead-marching-contingent-1073534.html
22-01-2022||National||Covid-positive foreign travellers no longer need to stay at isolation facility||Travellers from any country arriving in India, who test Covid positive, will not mandatorily be managed at an isolation facility from Saturday, but have to quarantine themselves at home according to protocols, authorities said. In its revised 'Guidelines for International Arrivals' released on Thursday, the government said foreign arrivals, who test positive, will still have to undergo home quarantine for seven days even after they test negative, and undertake RT-PCR test on the eighth day of arrival in India. The revised guidelines came into effect from Saturday. Earlier the norm was that travellers coming from any country, including those considered 'at-risk', would be managed at an isolation facility and treated according to the standard protocols, the government said. In the revised guidelines, this clause that mandated staying at 'isolation facility' upon arrival, has been removed. The government said still passengers found to be symptomatic during screening will be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility. If tested positive, their contacts shall be identified and managed according to norms, it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-positive-foreign-travellers-no-longer-need-to-stay-at-isolation-facility-1073535.html
22-01-2022||National||Indian missions ascertaining details of four deaths at US-Canada border||With a family of four Indians, including an infant, found dead near the US-Canada border, government sources here said Indian missions are in touch with Canadian authorities for ascertaining the details of the tragedy and the post-mortem of the victims is likely to be carried out on January 24. US authorities have detained seven people without proper documentation, as well as one US citizen, for allegedly being involved in human trafficking from Canada to the US, they said. The sources said that on January 19, US authorities in Minnesota State, near the US-Canada border, came across a group of people who were apparently without proper documentation. Based on information obtained from them, Canadian authorities launched a search and found four bodies in Manitoba province on the Canadian side of the border, they said. The four people -- a man, a woman, a teenage boy and an infant -- appeared to have died due to cold, the sources said. The people without proper documentation on the US side, as well as the dead people on the Canadian side, appear to be Indian nationals, they said. However, further efforts are underway to identify them and confirm their nationalities, the sources added. Post-mortem examination of the victims is likely to be carried out on January 24, the sources said. "US authorities have detained seven people without proper documentation, as well as one US citizen, for allegedly being involved in human smuggling activity from Canada to the US. One of them is still hospitalised due to cold-related injuries. Earlier one more person had been hospitalised," a source said. The Consulate General of India in Toronto immediately sent a consular team to Manitoba, which is now liaising with local authorities to render any consular help regarding the four dead people, the sources said. The Consulate General, as well as the High Commission in Ottawa, are also in touch with Canadian provincial and federal authorities for ascertaining details of this tragedy, they said. On the US side, the Consulate General of India in Chicago has urgently sent a consular team to Minneapolis, which is now coordinating and rendering consular assistance. They have sought consular access to the detained persons, the sources said. The Consulate and the Embassy in Washington DC are also in touch with the US Department of Justice, and the US Customs and Border Police. Indian missions and posts will continue to extend all assistance, the sources said. A criminal complaint was filed on Thursday in the US District Court for the District of Minnesota against 47-year-old US citizen Steve Shand, who has been charged with human smuggling. On Thursday, the Manitoba Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said that the bodies of four people -- two adults, a teen and an infant -- were found on the Canadian side of the US/Canada border near the Emerson locality in south central Manitoba on Wednesday. The family, believed to be Gujaratis, died from exposure to extreme cold weather. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-missions-ascertaining-details-of-four-deaths-at-us-canada-border-1073544.html
22-01-2022||National||Beating Retreat to miss Mahatma Gandhi's favourite hymn 'Abide With Me'||Mahatma Gandhi's favourite hymn 'Abide With Me' will not be played at the Beating Retreat ceremony, the culmination of Republic Day celebrations, on January 29, for the first time in the history of national day celebrations since 1950. In 2020, there were reports that the hymn had been dropped, which triggered a controversy, for 'Vande Mataram' but in 'Abide With Me' found its place at the end along with the national song then.  'Abide With Me' is a Christian hymn penned by Scottish Anglican Henry Francis Lyte and has been played at the end of Beating the Retreat ceremony held at Vijay Chowk with the President, Prime Minister and other senior dignitaries in attendance. This time, the official list of the 26 tunes to be played in the Beating The Retreat ceremony shared with media does not mention 'Abide with Me.'  A startup supported by the Technology Development Board, under Department of Science and Technology (DST) and incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, will conduct the drone show, the science and technology minister said. India will be the fourth country after China, Russia and the UK to carry out such a large-scale show with 1,000 drones, Singh said. The Beating the Retreat is a centuries-old military tradition dating from the days when troops disengaged from battle at sunset. As soon as the buglers sounded the 'Retreat', the troops ceased fighting, sheathed their arms and withdrew from the battlefield. At the end of Beating the Retreat ceremony, the flags are lowered against the backdrop of the setting sun followed by the lighting up of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block, South Block and Parliament House in unison. Officials said 44 buglers, 16 trumpeters and 75 drummers will participate in the ceremony, which starts with the 'Fanfare by Buglers' and followed by Veer Sainik composed by Major Ashok Kumar and played by Mass Bands. The Pipes and Drums band will play six tunes -- 'Hey Kanchha', 'Channa Bilauri', 'Jai Janam Bhumi', 'Nritya Sarita', 'Vijay Josh' and 'Kesaria Banna.' This is followed by 'Veer Siachin', 'Hathroi' and 'Vijay Ghosh' by the CAPF band. Four tunes -- 'Ladaakoo', 'Swadeshi', 'Amar Chattan' and 'Golden Arrows' -- will be played by Air Force Band. The tunes played by Navy Band will be 'Swarn Jayanti', 'INS India', 'Yashasvee' and 'Jai Bharati.' The Army Band will play 'Kerala', 'Siki A Mole', 'Hind Ki Sena.' At the end, Massed Bands will play three more tunes 'Kadam Kadam Badhaye', 'Drummers Call', 'Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon' followed by the retreat by buglers playing 'Sare Jahan Se Acha.'  Around 1,000 drones also will light up the sky for 10 minutes at the Beating the Retreat Ceremony next week. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beating-retreat-to-miss-mahatma-gandhis-favourite-hymn-abide-with-me-1073559.html
22-01-2022||National||Republic Day parade to have 25 tableaux, 16 marching contingents, 17 military bands||This year's Republic Day parade will have 16 marching contingents, 17 military bands and 25 tableaux of various states, departments and armed forces, the Indian Army said in a statement on Saturday. The Army will be represented by a mounted column of cavalry, 14 mechanised columns, six marching contingents and a flypast by advanced light helicopters of its aviation wing at the Republic Day parade-2022 (RDP-2022), it said. The mechanised columns of the Army will show one PT-76 tank, one Centurion tank, two MBT Arjun MK-I tanks, one APC TOPAS armoured personnel carriers, one BMP-I infantry fighting vehicle and two BMP-II infantry fighting vehicles, it stated. One 75/24 Pack howitzer, two Dhanush howitzers, one PMS bridge-laying system, two Sarvatra bridge-laying systems, one HT-16 electronic warfare system, two Taran Shakti electronic warfare systems, one Tiger Cat missile system and two Akash missile systems will also be part of the mechanised columns. The six marching contingents of the Indian Army will be of Rajput Regiment, Assam Regiment, Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry, Sikh Light Infantry, Army Ordnance Corps Regiment and Parachute Regiment, according to the statement. One marching contingent each of the Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy will also participate in RDP-2022, the statement said. From the central paramilitary forces, five marching contingents of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Police Force (CISF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Indian Coast Guard (ICG) and Border Security Force (BSF) will participate in RDP-2022, it stated. Overall, there will be 16 marching contingents from the armed forces, central paramilitary forces, Delhi Police, National Cadet Corps (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS) along with 17 military bands, pipes and drum bands at the parade, it noted. Two Param Vir Chakra and one Ashok Chakra awardees will also participate in this year's parade. Before the commencement of RDP-2022, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the nation in paying homage to the soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice by laying a wreath at the National War Memorial, the statement said. RDP-2022 will begin at 10.30 am and end at 12 noon, it said. Twenty-five tableaux of various states, departments and armed forces will be part of RDP-2022, it said. Two teams -- one male team of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and one female team of Border Security Officer (BSF) -- will do the motorcycle display. Lieutenant General Vijay Kumar Mishra, General Officer Commanding Delhi Area, will be the parade commander and Major General Alok Kacker, Chief of Staff Delhi Area, will be the second-in-command of the parade, the statement said. RDP-2022 will march from Vijay Chowk to the National Stadium through the traditional route of Rajpath, it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-parade-to-have-25-tableaux-16-marching-contingents-17-military-bands-1073565.html
22-01-2022||National||ECI extends ban on physical rallies, road shows till January 31||The Election Commission on Saturday extended the ban on physical rallies and roadshows till January 31 in the five poll-going states, but allowed public meetings with a maximum of 500 people in the constituencies going to poll in the first two phases and relaxed door-to-door campaign rules. In a statement, it said the limit of five persons for door-to-door campaign has now been enhanced to 10 persons, excluding security personnel. For the phase 1 polling on February 10, political parties and contesting candidates can hold "physical public meetings" with a cap of 500 people from January 28. For the phase 2 polling on February 14, such meetings can be held from February 1. Video vans for publicity have also been permitted at designated open spaces with Covid-19 restrictions. Announcing the dates for elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur on January 8, the poll panel had announced a ban on physical rallies, roadshows and bike rallies and similar campaign events till January 15. On January 15, the commission extended the ban until January 22. It had, however, granted a relaxation for political parties to hold indoor meetings of maximum 300 people or 50 per cent of the capacity of the hall. After considering the present situation, facts and circumstances, as also the inputs received in a series of virtual meets on Saturday, the Commission said it has decided that no roadshows, padayatras, cycle, bike or vehicle rallies and procession will be allowed till January 31. Since contesting candidates for Phase 1 elections will be finalised on January 27, the Commission has decided to allow "physical public meetings" of the political parties concerned and contesting candidates "in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 persons or 50 per cent of the capacity of the ground or the prescribed limit set by state disaster management authorities (SDMA), whichever number is lesser, from January 28 till February 8", excluding the 48-hour silence period. Similarly, since contesting candidates for Phase 2 elections will be finalised on January 31, the Commission decided to allow physical meetings of the political parties concerned and contesting candidates from February 1 till February 12 (excluding the silence period). The EC has already granted relaxation for the political parties to the extent that indoor meetings of a maximum of 300 persons or 50 per cent of the capacity of the hall or the prescribed limit set by SDMA is allowed. Uttar Pradesh will have the first two phases of polling on February 10 and 14. Uttarakhand and Goa will have single phase polls on February 14. The Commission, the statement said, has also allowed video vans for publicity with usual Covid-19 restrictions at designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 viewers or 50 per cent of the capacity, or the limit set by SDMA, whichever number is lesser, in the five poll-going states. It cautioned that the video van events should not cause inconvenience to the people and should not be a hindrance to smooth flow of traffic. It will be the responsibility of the district election officer concerned to identify and to notify the designated spaces in advance for the events. The EC issued the orders after it held a review meeting with the Union Health Ministry through virtual mode. The Commission also held virtual meetings with chief secretaries, chief electoral officers and health secretaries of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. The poll panel held a comprehensive review of the present situation with respect to status and projected trends of the Covid pandemic in the five poll-going states. The Commission also reviewed vaccination status and action plan for expeditiously completing vaccination for first, second and booster doses for eligible persons amongst polling personnel. The poll panel will now review the situation on January 31.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eci-extends-ban-on-physical-rallies-road-shows-till-january-31-1073582.html
22-01-2022||National||Experts discuss carbon capture & utilisation solutions to combat climate change||Experts from India and the US discussed the challenges and opportunities to combat climate change through technology-led carbon capture and utilisation solutions. Carbon capture is capturing carbon dioxide before it enters the atmosphere, transporting it, and storing it for centuries or millennia. The discussions were held at the Indo-US Scoping Workshop on Carbon Capture on Friday, jointly organised by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) and the United States Department of Energy. DST Secretary S Chandrasekhar said that at the recently concluded COP-26 in Glasgow, Prime Minister Narendra Modi brought forth the country's remarkable performance as well as ambitions to meet the climate goals despite being one of the fastest-growing economies in the world. "The PM has given a mandate for all of us to become a net-zero emissions nation by the year 2070," Chandrasekhar highlighted in his opening remarks. "Under a strict climatic regime, we can realise the identification and adoption of a right balance of portfolio of emission curtailment technologies," he said. Chandrashekhar said carbon capture, utilisation, and storage (CCUS) is among such key pathways to reduce emissions while continuing to develop sustainably at an unprecedented pace. CCUS clearly aligns with five of the seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). He briefed the gathering about the recent initiatives of the Department of Science and Technology towards technology-led RD&D in the area of CCUS. He informed that India became part of the transnational multilateral platforms such as Mission Innovation and Accelerating CCUS Technologies (ACT) along with other member countries, including the US, for collaborative RD&D in the area of CCUS. He further added that the DST and the US Department of Energy are jointly organising these series of Indo-US Scoping Workshops on carbon capture, utilisation and storage, scheduled to be held from January 21 to February 25, for exploring the complementary strengths and gaps in the area of CCUS between the two countries and evolve collaborative technology-led endeavours for together working towards achieving net Zero Carbon goals. Jennifer Wilcox, Acting Assistant Secretary, Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management (FECM), US Department of Energy, said that India is a valuable partner in developing new technologies to help in combating climate and clean energy goals. Wilcox gave an overview of the US initiatives regarding clean energy and said it is a global crisis and requires a global response in clean energy technologies and an international partnership to achieve carbon net-zero status. She hoped that this workshop would provide an opportunity to broaden and deepen collaborations and engagements. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-discuss-carbon-capture-utilisation-solutions-to-combat-climate-change-1073586.html
22-01-2022||National||Explained | Supreme Court's verdict on inheritance of daughters||The Supreme Court this week maintained that the sole surviving daughter of a Hindu male is rightly entitled to the inheritance of the father who died without executing a will. The apex court has ruled that the daughter is competent for the inheritance property that can be both self-acquired or share received in the partition of coparcenary property. The court also effectively ended a long-standing case spanning several decades over the inheritance. It also significantly documented for the coming years that the only daughter is the heir of a Hindu male who has died intestate, or death in absence of a will, and not others such as his brother. After studying, Supreme Court said the right of a daughter or a widow to inherit property is not only documented in customary Hindu law but also in previous judicial pronouncements. What is the case? One Marappa Gounder died intestate in 1949 leaving behind a daughter, Kupayee Ammal, who also passed in 1967 issueless. Marappa has a brother called Ramasamy Gounder. Gurunatha Gounder and four other daughters are the children of Ramasamy. One of those daughters, Thangammal, sought legal intervention demanding a one-fifth share in the property of Marappa. She contented in court that after Marappa's death, the property was passed on to Kupayee Ammal, the man's daughter, and after she died childless, it ended up with Ramasamy Gounder, Marappa's brother, and that is how she is an heir and thus she's entitled to one-fifth share of the inheritance. And on the other side, the children of Gurunath, who is the son of Ramasamy, maintained that Kupayee Ammal had no right to inherit the property in the first place. Since Gurunath was the sole inheritor available, they are the rightful heirs to the property. The matter in the trial court and High Court The trial court, dismissing Thangammal's case in 1994, noted that since Marappa died before Hindu Succession Act, 1956 came into force, she and her sisters were not entitled as heirs to the inheritance. The High Court dismissed the appeal against the trial court order in 2009. When the issue reached Supreme Court  The top court in the country had two questions before it. Whether a sole daughter could inherit her father's property when died intestate and if yes, then what is the order of succession after the daughter's death? What the Supreme Court said A two-judge bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari noted that “right of a widow or daughter to inherit the self-acquired property or share received in partition of a coparcenary property of a Hindu male dying intestate is well recognised not only under the old customary Hindu Law” but also under previous judicial pronouncements. Adding, “if a property of a male Hindu dying intestate is a self-acquired property or obtained in partition of a co-parcenery or a family property, the same would devolve by inheritance and not by survivorship, and a daughter of such a male Hindu would be entitled to inherit such property in preference to other collaterals”. The court upheld that the Hindu Succession Act of 1956 shall apply considering the question of succession in the case only opened after the death of Kupayee Ammal in 1967. Subsequently, Thangammal, the appellant, is defined as an heir and is entitled to the one-fifth share of the inheritance. The judgment further clarified that if a female Hindu dies intestate and childless, the property she inherited from her father or mother would go to the father's heirs. And the property she received from her husband or father-in-law would go to the husband's heirs. And in case a female Hindu dies leaving a husband behind, then the properties passed on to the husband and her children would include the inheritance from her parents, according to Hindu Succession Act. Studying older Hindu laws and judicial pronouncements According to the Supreme Court, the Mitakshara law recognises inheritance by succession of property owned by an individual, male or female. And over the years, various sub-schools of the law added multiple female relations to define heir to the inheritance. The court, after noting several such previous judicial clauses, concluded that it is abundantly clear that a daughter was in fact capable of inheriting the father's separate estate. With agency inputs. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-supreme-courts-verdict-on-inheritance-of-daughters-1073592.html
22-01-2022||National||How the Covid-19 pandemic affected states' child expenditure||States with a higher number of Covid-19 cases have spent lesser budgetary allowances on children as compared to states with a low caseload, a study has revealed. The study, conducted by the Bengaluru-based Centre for Budget and Policy Studies (CBPS) revealed that states like Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal were states with low cases that had high expenditure on children. On the other hand, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Maharashtra were the states with a high number of cases that slashed expenditure on children. The study, titled 'Public Expenditure on Children – An Analysis of Pre and Post Covid period’, looked at the impact of Covid-19 on children, livelihoods, economy and education across 14 states. “The report analyses public expenditure on children in the age-group of 0-18 years during pre and post-pandemic period and argues for greater attention to their needs to build resilience and compensate for the losses they had to suffer due to the pandemic,” a statement from CBPS read.  As part of the study, CBPS did a comparison of the states with the Covid-19 pandemic caseload to understand the focus on child expenditure. They looked at the growth of child expenditure in 2020-21 compared to 2019-20.  “It is very clear that the states which had high pandemic load could not increase the child expenditure while they were able to maintain or record a low growth in the expenditure during 2020-21 compared to that of the pre-Covid period,” the report stated. States like Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal which had a relatively lower pandemic load share (less than 10 per cent) were able to record relatively higher growth of child expenditure. The study also noted that states like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha did not prioritise expenditure on children despite low caseloads. “Considering the fact that Andhra Pradesh has not prioritised in both age and sector, also endorsed by the fact that Andhra Pradesh’s education sector has seen a consistent fall in resources from 16.44% of total expenditure in 2015-16, to 13.08% in 2018-19 (pre-pandemic period),” the report said. The report further said that what also came across during the study was the effect of demonetisation and implementation of Goods and Service Tax. “While the demonetisation had dealt a big blow to the informal sectors which largely worked on cash, it also had a negative impact on the growth of small and medium industries at least in the short and medium-term. The Goods and Service Tax, though a very well thought out one which would have removed the cascading effect of taxes, failed to realise the objective in the short run owing to its lack of preparedness across states,” the report said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-the-covid-19-pandemic-affected-states-child-expenditure-1073606.html
22-01-2022||National||Delhi HC directs ICAI to create framework for disclosure of criminal cases by candidates||The Delhi High Court has asked the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India to create a framework for disclosure of criminal cases faced by a candidate or member, since it is duty of the professional body to maintain the purity of its register. "This court has not been shown any policy or disclosure requirements that are asked for from candidates or CAs either at inception or thereafter," Justice Pratibha M Singh noted. The court said there is a clear need for the ICAI to create a framework wherein there is proper disclosure by candidates who apply to become Chartered Accountants, at the inception itself. There is also a need for a continuing disclosure, may be on an annual basis for members to inform the ICAI if there are any criminal cases or conviction etc against them, so that the ICAI is not kept in the dark. "The power, discretion and duty of ensuring the purity of the Register of Members is upon the ICAI. Thus, in the case of convictions, the factum of the said conviction and the offences qua which the applicant was convicted ought to be disclosed," the bench said. In the case of an FIR or a criminal complaint having been filed, there ought to be an obligation upon the applicant to keep the ICAI informed and updated, as to the progress in the said complaint or case, the bench added. The High Court dismissed a writ petition filed by Mohit Bansal who sought quashing of a show cause notice for removal of his name from the register of CAs for having been convicted under Sections 354 and 506-II of the IPC and sentenced to a period served by him during the judicial custody. It said the petitioner’s conviction would be attracted by the disability of ‘moral turpitude’ as contemplated under Section 8(v) (disabilities) of the Chartered Accountants Act. The only condition upon which a person convicted can be entered into or can continue on the register of ICAI, would be if the person has been granted a pardon, the court pointed out. It directed the ICAI to give reasonable time to the petitioner to file a fresh reply to the notices, hear him in accordance with the principles of natural justice and decide his case as per law. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-directs-icai-to-create-framework-for-disclosure-of-criminal-cases-by-candidates-1073617.html
22-01-2022||National||CPI(M) to work on strengthening people's struggles against Modi govt: Yechury||The CPI(M) would work towards strengthening people's struggles to unseat the Modi government as the Constitution, democracy, communal harmony and others have come under attack in the present NDA regime, party general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on Saturday. "In the coming days, this type of danger to the country's Constitution, democracy, communal harmony, social justice, Centre-State relations, the answer to all these is strengthening people's struggles. Our experience has shown this," he said in a virtual address to the CPI(M) Telangana unit's conference. The party's national conference to be held in April in Kerala would take decisions on strengthening the struggles while the Telangana unit would take a view on the tactics to be adopted, he said. Ousting the Modi government to save the country is inevitable, he claimed. This would happen by strengthening people's strife and on the back of its strength, he said. CPI(M) should take along other Left parties and Left forces against the BJP, he said. There is no other way to end the alleged anti-people policies of the Modi government and to usher in pro-poor policies, he said. The successful agitation against the farm laws forced the NDA government to withdraw them, he said. He stressed on a united battle against the alleged loot in the capitalist system. Speaking to reporters in Hyderabad earlier this month after the conclusion of the party’s three-day central committee meeting, Yechury said the CPI(M) would work towards maximising the pooling of anti-BJP votes in the five poll-bound States and would support the Samajwadi Party (SP) in Uttar Pradesh. Reacting to a question on a national-level alliance and association with other political parties, Yechury had said whenever elections are due these sorts of discussions begin over a third front, fourth front or regional parties' front but eventually the government is formed by a front that is formed after the election. No pre-election front can succeed because of the diversity of the country, he had said, adding that decisions would be taken State-wise as and when elections approach in that State or when general elections approach.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-to-work-on-strengthening-peoples-struggles-against-modi-govt-yechury-1073645.html
22-01-2022||National Politics||Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma to contest polls from Pathankot||Punjab BJP President Ashwani Sharma will contest the upcoming Assembly polls in the state from Pathankot, the party announced. The BJP announced the candidature of Sharma while releasing the second list for the polls late Friday. Issuing a statement, party national general secretary Arun Singh said that BJP's Central Election Committee has decided to field Sharma from Pathankot. After being nominated, Sharma tweeted: "I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party's national president J P Nadda, party's state election in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhwat and the BJP family that they trusted and fielded me from Pathankot." On Friday evening, the BJP released the first list of 34 candidates for the state polls. In the first list, the saffron party nominated 13 people from the Sikh community, 12 farmers and eight from the Scheduled Castes. Besides expressing faith in veteran leaders of the state, the BJP has also fielded other leaders who have switched to the saffron party. The BJP has fielded Dinesh Singh Babbu from Sujanpur, Renu Kashyap from Dinanagar, Jungilal Mahajan from Mukerian, Namisha Mehta from Garhshankar, Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi from Firozpur city, Gaurav Kakkar from Faridkot, Sanjeev Khanna from Dera Bassi, Kanwar Veersingh Toda from Amloh, Kabaddi player Ranjeet Singh Khojewala from Kapurthala and Arvind Khanna from Sangrur. Punjab is slated to go to the polls on February 20. For the first time, the BJP is contesting elections in the role of 'elder brother' in alliance with Captain Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-bjp-chief-ashwani-sharma-to-contest-polls-from-pathankot-1073474.html
22-01-2022||National Politics||PIL filed in Supreme Court against freebies by political parties||A PIL was filed in the Supreme Court on Saturday claiming that promise or distribution of irrational freebies from public funds before elections could unduly influence the voters, shake the roots of a free and fair election, and disturb the level playing field, besides vitiating the purity of the election process. The plea, filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, contended that such decisions by the political parties violated Articles 14, 162, 266(3) and 282 of the Constitution.  It sought directions to the Election Commission to seize election symbols and deregister political parties that promised to distribute irrational freebies from public funds. The plea claimed political parties' arbitrarily promises or irrational freebies for wrongful gain and to lure voters in their favour is analogous to bribery and undue influences. The injury to the citizens is extremely large because Punjab needs Rs 12,000 crore per month to fulfil the political promises if AAP comes in power; Rs 25,000 crore per month if SAD comes in power and Rs 30,000 crore if Congress comes to power, although GST collection is only Rs 1,400 crore, it pointed out.  "In fact, after debt repayment, Punjab government is not able pay even salaries-pensions, then how will it provide freebies? The bitter truth is that Punjab’s debt is increasing every subsequent year. State’s outstanding debt has increased to Rs 77,000 crore, with Rs 30,000 crore accumulating in present financial year itself," it claimed. The petitioner said that the time is not too far away when one party will say that “we will cook food for you in your residence” and another will say that “we will not only cook, but also feed you” as each party tried to undo each other in terms of populist promises. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pil-filed-in-supreme-court-against-freebies-by-political-parties-1073480.html
22-01-2022||National Politics||Won't contest polls if BJP fields a better candidate, says Utpal Parrikar||Utpal Parrikar, son of late Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar, who quit the BJP and announced to contest next month's Goa Assembly elections from Panaji as an independent, has said that quitting the party was the "most difficult" decision, but he is ready to withdraw from the poll race if the saffron party fields a "good candidate" from the constituency. Parrikar was denied a ticket by the BJP from Panaji, a constituency which his father had represented for more than two decades. Upset over the decision, Parrikar on Friday quit the BJP and said he would fight the February 14 elections from the Panaji seat as an independent. The BJP has nominated its sitting MLA Atanasio Monserrate, one of 10 legislators who had joined the saffron party in July 2019 after quitting Congress, from Panaji. Monserrate is facing criminal cases, including a case of rape of a minor. Talking to PTI on Saturday, Utpal, the elder son of Manohar Parrikar, said the BJP is always in his heart and he is fighting for the party's soul. He said the decision to quit the party was not easy for him. "It was the most difficult decision. All this while I was hoping that I won't have to take such a decision," he said. He said he was trying to avoid such a situation (where he had to resign and contest as an independent). "I am not happy that I had to take this decision, but sometimes, you have to take tough decisions. But I am ready to withdraw the decision if the party fields a good candidate from Panaji,” he said. Without elaborating much, Parrikar claimed that the denial of ticket to him is similar to the 1994 situation, when attempts were made to throw his father out of the party. "The one who has been witness to the history will understand what I am saying. It was the time when the BJP was trying to establish itself in areas where the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) was prominent," he said. "Those who have been with the party since then will know what I am saying. That time, Manohar Parrikar could not be thrown out because he enjoyed the support of the people," he said, adding that those people (who were against his father) are still in the party holding "high positions", while a person like him is "with the people". Referring to the 2019 Panaji by-election, which was necessitated due to the death of his father, he recalled that he was denied a ticket even at that time. "I was denied ticket despite having the support. I believed in the party institution and respected the decision," he said. Parrikar said that the BJP as an organisation is "crumbling" in Goa. "When Naddaji (BJP chief J P Nadda) came to Goa, there were five couples, who had sought party tickets (for the next month's polls). Had Manohar Parrikar been alive, not a single male politician would have dared to seek a ticket for his wife," he said. The BJP has fielded Monserratte's wife, Jeniffer, from the Taleigao Assembly constituency. The party has also given candidature to Health Minister Vishwajit Rane and his wife Divya Rane from different seats. Referring to it, Parrikar recalled how his father was vocal against "family raj" in politics. Speaking about not getting BJP's ticket, he said that some people thought they will not allow "another Parrikar" in the party. “That is why I had to come forward and take the decision," he said. Utpal said he had not sought a ticket as the son of Manohar Parrikar. "If I wanted to do sot, I would have done it last time (during 2019 bypoll)," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wont-contest-polls-if-bjp-fields-a-better-candidate-says-utpal-parrikar-1073496.html
22-01-2022||National Politics||Uttarakhand polls | Harak Singh Rawat's long history of jumping political ship||Not even a week following his removal from the BJP, Uttarakhand minister Harak Singh Rawat returned to the Congress almost six years after his departure. Rawat, who was removed from the saffron party over alleged indiscipline, joined the Congress along with his daughter-in-law Anukriti Gusain on Friday, in the presence of Congress leader Harish Rawat, who had initially opposed the entry of Gusain. The Congress put up a united face on Friday — with PCC president Ganesh Godiyal, Leader of Opposition in the Uttarakhand Assembly Pritam Singh and state party in-charge Devender Yadav in attendance — despite Harak Singh Rawat having played a key role in bringing down Harish Rawat’s government in 2016. Harak Singh had joined eight other MLAs to bring down the Congress government in the state, after he was allegedly refused more portfolios, including PWD and Power. However, this was not a first, as he has a history of changing parties. Harak Singh had joined the BJP in 1984, following which he contested the assembly elections in the then undivided Uttar Pradesh. He lost out, but not for long. In 1991, he won the election from Pauri to become the youngest minister in the Kalyan Singh cabinet. But not everything was rosy. He defected to the Bahujan Samaj Party soon after and upon being denied a ticket, jumped ship to the Congress in 1998. After Uttarakhand was separated in 2000, he won the 2002 and 2007 elections from Lansdowne for the Congress, even becoming the Leader of Opposition from 2007 to 2012.  True to form, after losing the 2012 elections in the race for the CM’s post, Harak Singh moved back to the BJP in 2016. Despite his chequered history, his long history of election wins is an attractive proposition for any party. Current standing While Harak Singh may have hoped to have better bargaining power with Congress, his dismissal from the BJP may have reduced his standing. Talking to The Indian Express last month, Harish Rawat had indicated he would be accommodating, to an extent. “I have already said we will not take those involved in dislodging the government. But later I also said that if the party thinks it right, then we can consider. However, the person has to regret that the step at that time was against Uttarakhand and democracy… Regret for toppling the government is a must,” he had said. BJP spokesperson Suresh Joshi claimed that the decision of the Congress to induct Harak Singh proved that all the allegations the latter had once made against the party were correct. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttarakhand-polls-harak-singh-rawats-long-history-of-jumping-political-ship-1073508.html
22-01-2022||National Politics||Congress slams govt for dropping Mahatma's Gandhi favourite hymn 'Abide With Me' from Beating Retreat||The Congress on Saturday attacked the government over the dropping of one of Mahatma Gandhi's favourite Christian hymns 'Abide With Me' from this year's Beating Retreat ceremony, alleging that it was another attempt to erase his legacy. "Abide With Me", written by Scottish Anglican poet and hymnologist Henry Francis Lyte in 1847, has been part of the Beating Retreat ceremony since 1950. According to a brochure released by the Indian Army on Saturday, "Abide With Me" does not figure in this year's Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29. Reacting to the development, Congress Spokesperson Shama Mohamed tweeted, "Mahatma Gandhi's favourite Hymn is dropped from the Republic Day Beating Retreat Ceremony. This is yet another attempt by this petty BJp govt to erase Bapu's legacy." "No action was taken against @SadhviPragya_MP for her comments against Gandhiji. This is BJP's love for Godse!" she said in another tweet. Another Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said there was an "ideological war" going on between thoughts of Gandhi and the thoughts of his assassin Nathuram Godse. "Currently, the government that is governing is a strong believer in the thoughts of Godse. They don't take any action on people who say bad words for Gandhi ji. Government has time and again showed that it is against Gandhi ji's ideas," he alleged. Congress leader Ajoy Kumar tweeted, "New India , No Amar Jyothi no Abide in Me during the Beating Retreat. Sicko's BJP." Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi also attacked the government over the issue and asked that to rewrite 'New India', is it important to let go of precious traditions. "Amar Jawan Jyoti without the eternal flame. Beating Retreat ceremony without the Abide with Me tune. To rewrite new India, is it important to let go of precious traditions?" she said in a tweet. "A confident nation does not need to wipe out remnants of the past. Anyway, here's to the end to another one," Chaturvedi added. This year's ceremony will conclude with 'Sare Jahan Se Acha', the brochure stated.  The Beating Retreat used to end with the "Abide With Me" hymn. The brochure also listed 26 tunes that will be played at this year's ceremony at Vijay Chowk. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-slams-govt-for-dropping-mahatmas-gandhi-favourite-hymn-abide-with-me-from-beating-retreat-1073641.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||Gorakhpur: Rape accused shot dead outside court||A rape accused was shot dead in front of the district courts on Friday. The dead has been identified as Dilshad Hussain, a resident of Muzaffarpur (Bihar). Two security guards were present at the gate of the court and the vehicle stand manager nabbed the attacker. After this incident, advocates started protesting against the incident in court. Following this, Additional Director General of Police Akhil Kumar assured that action will be taken pertaining to the security lapse. The cantonment police said at 1 pm on Friday, a man identified as Dilshad Hussain (25) reached the gate of the court on the call of his lawyer Shankar Sharan Shukla. Before the lawyer could reach there, a man identified as Bhagwat Nishad shot Dilshad in the head with his licensed pistol. Senior Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada said the attacker has been arrested. The body has been sent for a post-mortem and a case will be registered after the report is received. Police said Dilshad Hussain used to run a puncture shop in front of the house of retired BSF jawan Bhagwat Nishad at Patnaghat Tiraha of Badhalganj, Gorakhpur. His minor daughter was kidnapped by Dilshad on February 12, 2020. After this, on February 17, Bhagwat filed a case of rape. On March 12, 2021, police arrested Dilshad in Hyderabad and rescued the minor girl. Dilshad was booked under Sections 363, 366 and 376 (kidnapping and rape) of the IPC and the POCSO Act, police said. ADG Akhil Kumar said an inquiry will be conducted as to how the retired constable entered the court premises. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gorakhpur-rape-accused-shot-dead-outside-court-1073423.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||In a first, Amit Shah to release district-based Good Governance Index for Jammu and Kashmir||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will release the District Good Governance Index for 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, the first of its kind index for a union territory. Dr Jitendra Singh, Union Minister for State Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions and Manoj Sinha, Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir will also address the event to be organised jointly by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) and Jammu and Kashmir Institute of Management, Public Administration and Rural Development in association with the Centre for Good Governance, Hyderabad. Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions said in a statement that Union Home Minister Shah will release the District Good Governance Index for 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. The District Good Governance Index of Jammu and Kashmir was prepared by DARPG in collaboration with the Government of Jammu and Kashmir in pursuance of the announcements made in the “Behtar e-Hukumat – Kashmir Aelamia” resolution adopted on July 2, 2021, in the Regional Conference on Replication of Good Governance Practices in Srinagar, it said. The exercise on the formulation of the District Good Governance Index was set in motion in July 2021 which has now been completed, and Jammu and Kashmir will become the first union territory in the country to have a Good Governance Index, it said. The District Good Governance Index of Jammu and Kashmir represents a major administrative reform in benchmarking good governance at the district level and a significant step for timely collation and publication of statistics at the state/district level, according to the statement. The index is a milestone and it is expected that it will provide a robust framework for evidence-based assessment of the performance of all the districts in Jammu and Kashmir, it said. During the occasion, a presentation on the formulation of District Good Governance Index will be made by the Centre for Good Governance, Hyderabad, the statement said, adding that it will be followed by district presentations by selected 12 District Development Commissioners, who will be showcasing achievements of various sectors. Thereafter a panel discussion will be held on District Good Governance Index - A Way Forward for futuristic 2.0 version of DGGI for measuring and benchmarking performance and improvement of districts in future as well. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-a-first-amit-shah-to-release-district-based-good-governance-index-for-jammu-and-kashmir-1073429.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||Earthquake jolts Jammu and Kashmir's Doda region||An earthquake of 4.0 magnitude hit Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district in the early hours of Saturday, an official said. The quake occurred at 2.53 am. There are no immediate reports of any damage, Director Disaster Management Aamir Ali said. He said the epicentre of the tremor was 10 kilometres below the surface of the earth in the Doda region.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/earthquake-jolts-jammu-and-kashmirs-doda-region-1073458.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||2021 watershed year for armed forces in J&K and Ladakh: Army Commander||A top army officer on Saturday called 2021 a “watershed year” for the armed forces on Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir and Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. He said the troops displayed boldness in standing up to the “aggressive designs” in the two Union Territories. General Officer-Commanding-in-Chief, northern command, Lt Gen Y K Joshi said there has been a reduction in terrorist-related incidents and stone-pelting activities in Jammu and Kashmir. “There has been a reduction in terrorist-related incidents, stone-pelting activities and protests as a result of tireless efforts of the security forces and the people of J&K,” Joshi said, addressing the northern command investiture ceremony at its headquarters here in J&K. Earlier in the ceremony, he presented GOC-in-C's appreciation to 40 units and GOC-in-C's ‘Certificates of Appreciation’ to 26 units for their overall 'outstanding' and 'distinguished' performance in the command theatre. The GOC-in-C's Appreciation was given for the performance of units in Operation Meghdoot, Operation Rakshak, Operation Northern Borders, and other operations in the command. The GOC-in-C's Certificates of Appreciation were given for the performance of units in Operation Snow Leopard, which was launched after China refused to move back and restore the status quo ante in eastern Ladakh. “The ceremony was a solemn occasion to appreciate and recognise the professionalism in operational roles performed by the units during their tenure in northern Command,” a defence spokesman said. The army commander praised all ranks of the northern command for their dedication and devotion to duty in the highest traditions of the Indian Army. He also conveyed his heartfelt gratitude to the brave men who laid down their lives in internal security challenges. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2021-watershed-year-for-armed-forces-in-jk-and-ladakh-army-commander-1073487.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||Clubhouse chat case: Delhi cops arrest teenager from Lucknow||An 18-year-old boy has been arrested from Lucknow by the Delhi Police in connection with a derogatory discussion on Muslim women on the Clubhouse app. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) of Delhi Police's Special Cell) K P S Malhotra said the arrested person has been identified as Rahul Kapoor, who allegedly created a user ID 'Bismillah' and participated in the Clubhouse discussion. This is the fourth arrest in the case with earlier three being made by Mumbai Police from Haryana on Thursday. The discussion was held on Monday afternoon on the audio platform, where account holders can discuss issues in groups. The arrest came after technical surveillance by a team sent to Lucknow, where Kapoor was arrested. "Kapoor had registered himself with the user-ID 'Bismillah'. He has claimed that he created the audio chat room on the instructions of a person whom he identified as ‘Sallos’. He later handed over the moderator key to him. Kapoor’s mobile phone has been seized," Malhotra said. After registering a case on the basis of a complaint from a woman on January 19, Mumbai Police had arrested Jaishnav Kakkar (21), a commerce student and a law student Yash Parashar (22) from Faridabad while Akash Suyal (19), a Class XII graduate, was apprehended from Karnal. The Clubhouse chat created an uproar after videos of the discussion were posted on Twitter and other social media platforms. This comes two weeks after the Bulli Bai App case where doctored photographs of Muslim women were uploaded and auctioned. Five youths were arrested — three by Mumbai Police and two by Delhi Police. One of the arrested was the creator of a similar app called Sulli Deals six months ago. Following the registration of a separate case in the capital, Delhi Police had written to Clubhouse seeking information about those who created the chatroom to discuss "Muslim Gals (sic) are more beautiful than Hindu Gals (sic)'. The DCW in its notice to Delhi Police had said that it has taken sou-moto cognisance of how Muslim women were being referred to in a disparaging way. "In the said conversation, the participants are clearly heard making obscene, vulgar and derogatory remarks targeting Muslim women and girls. The Commission took strong note of the case and has sought from Delhi police urgent and strict action against the persons involved," it said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/clubhouse-chat-case-delhi-cops-arrest-teenager-from-lucknow-1073489.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||MP HC junks plea against renaming Habibganj station, imposes fine||The Madhya Pradesh High Court has dismissed a petition challenging the government's decision to rename Habibganj railway station after Gond queen Rani Kamlapati and imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on the petitioner. A division bench of Justices Sheel Nagu and Sunita Yadav dismissed the petition, terming it as a 'frivolous' and 'vexatious' piece of litigation which has consumed precious time of the court. The court dismissed the plea observing that it does not perceive any public cause involved in the petition, which appears to have been filed to gain cheap publicity. "This court fails to comprehend as to how the name of a particular Railway Station would lead to furtherance of public cause," it said. The court further noted that a cause of public is served by quality and quantity of amenities and facilities available at a railway station and in facilitating ease of travelling by train. This act of facilitation has nothing to do with the name of a particular Railway Station. "The present petition stands dismissed with cost of Rs 10,000 which shall be paid by the petitioner in the Registry to be utilised for purchasing necessary articles and equipment for dealing with the crisis arising out of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic," the court said. The petition was filed by a Seoni-based lawyer, A.S. Qureshi on the ground that in 1973 one Guru Habeeb Miyan had donated his land to the Railways on which the station was constructed. Therefore, the station's old name (Habibganj) should be restored. The Habibganj railway station which has been renovated and facilitated with world class amenities for the passengers has been renamed after Gond queen Rani Kamalapati during a visit of Prime Narendra Modi's visit in Bhopal on November 15, 2021. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-hc-junks-plea-against-renaming-habibganj-station-imposes-fine-1073490.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||Gunfight underway in Kashmir's Shopian||A gunfight is underway between terrorists and security forces in Kashmir's Shopian district, police said on Saturday. A joint team of the police and the security forces cordoned off the Kilbal area and launched a search operation on the basis of specific information about presence of terrorists. As the security forces zeroed in on the spot where terrorists were hiding they came under a heavy volume of fire that triggered the encounter. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gunfight-underway-in-kashmirs-shopian-1073518.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||Maoists blow up, torch mobile towers in Jharkhand's Giridih||Maoists blew up a mobile phone tower and torched another one in Jharkhand's Giridih district in the early hours of Saturday, police said. The incidents marked the first day of the "resistance week" being observed by the Maoists to protest the arrest of their top leader Prashant Bose, a police officer said. The Maoists at first torched an Airtel tower in Khukhra police station area, he said. It was ascertained that two Maoists arrived at the spot on a motorcycle and set the tower on fire, Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) of Dumri Manoj Kumar said. Around 1 am, the Maoists blew up an Idea tower with bombs in Madhuban, a pilgrimage site of Jains, he said. "The Maoists are indulging in such violence out of desperation as they have lost their ground," Kumar said. Anti-Maoist operation in the area was intensified following the incidents, the officer said. Prashant Bose alias Kishan Da, carrying a bounty of Rs 1 crore, was arrested in Jharkhand along with his wife Sheela Marandi, the Jharkhand Police confirmed in November. Bose, the secretary of the CPI (Maoist) eastern regional bureau, was in charge of Maoist activities in several states, including Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, as per police. To protest his arrest, the Maoists are observing the "resistance week". They have also given shutdown calls in Bihar and Jharkhand on January 27. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maoists-blow-up-torch-mobile-towers-in-jharkhands-giridih-1073539.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||Two militants belonging to proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba were killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Acting on specific input about the presence of militants in Kilbal area of the south Kashmir district, security forces launched a cordon and search operation there, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting searches in the area, the hiding militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, ensuing the encounter in which two militants were killed, the official said. He said those killed were locals of The Resistance Front (TRF), a shadow group of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the site of the encounter. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-1073548.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||Woman allegedly raped by cop forced to withdraw complaint; Delhi court seeks report||A Delhi court has sought a report from a senior police officer after a rape victim alleged that she was being pressured to sign certain documents in his office, with the court saying that investigating agencies cannot conduct themselves out of the bound of due process of law. The 22-year-old woman had moved the court alleging rape by a head constable, claiming that he used her as a honey trap to arrest a wanted criminal, and sought action against him. The court had earlier called an action taken report from the police on her plea.  The rape victim had on Friday appeared before the court through video conference and alleged that she was called to the office of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and made to sign certain documents. She further claimed that the accused cop was pressuring her to withdraw the complaint.  On her complaint, Metropolitan Magistrate Vaibhav Chaurasia asked the ACP to answer on what documents the complainant was forced to sign.  “Report be called from the ACP as to for what reasons the complainant has been called to the ACP office and further the averments to being pressured to sign on certain documents are true or not. It is directed that the investigating agency cannot conduct themselves out of the bound of due process of law,” the judge said. Furthermore, the court directed the deputy commissioner of police to ensure safety and security of the rape victim.  In a complaint filed through advocate Amit Sahni, the woman had alleged that she came in contact with the head constable in November 2020, when she made a complaint at the police control room against a harasser.  She stated that the complaint was marked to the head constable, who was then posted at the Shahbad Dairy Police Station. He started spending time with her and expressed his desire to marry her. She further alleged in the complaint that the accused established forceful physical relation with her in November 2020. The woman also told the court that the accused misused her photographs via a social media account to contact a wanted criminal Pankaj Sura and let her talk to the criminal over voice and video calls in 2021.  She said the criminal was arrested in June 2021 with her help. She, however, got badly injured in an accident caused by police officers when she was riding the bike with the criminal.  The complainant alleged that the police officers did not pay any attention to her and got busy in arresting Sura near the Rithala Metro Station. The woman further claimed that she has invited enmity from the associates of the criminal for assisting the police and was attacked on July 25, 2021, but no action was taken by the police. Explaining her ordeal, she alleged that she got pregnant and on July 10, 2021, the accused took her to some private hospital and aborted the child against her consent.  She said that she had made several complaints to SHO of Budh Vihar and senior police officers in December, but no action was taken following which she moved the court.  The woman requested the court to summon the cop and try him for rape, causing miscarriage without her consent and attempt to murder, and punish him in the interest of justice. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-allegedly-raped-by-cop-forced-to-withdraw-complaint-delhi-court-seeks-report-1073563.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||HC directs ICAI to create disclosure of criminal cases by candidates||The Delhi High Court has asked the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India to create a framework for disclosure of criminal cases faced by a candidate or member since it is the duty of the professional body to maintain the purity of its register. "This court has not been shown any policy or disclosure requirements that are asked for from candidates or CAs either at inception or thereafter," Justice Pratibha M Singh noted.  The court said that there is a clear need for the ICAI to create a framework wherein there is proper disclosure by candidates who apply to become Chartered Accountants, at the inception itself. There is also a need for a continuing disclosure, maybe on an annual basis for members to inform the ICAI if there are any criminal cases or convictions etc against them so that the ICAI is not kept in the dark.  "The power, discretion and duty of ensuring the purity of the Register of Members are upon the ICAI. Thus, in the case of convictions, the factum of the said conviction and the offences qua which the applicant was convicted ought to be disclosed," the bench said. In the case of an FIR or a criminal complaint having been filed, there ought to be an obligation upon the applicant to keep the ICAI informed and updated, as to the progress in the said complaint or case, the bench added. The High Court dismissed a writ petition filed by Mohit Bansal who sought quashing of a show-cause notice for removal of his name from the register of CAs for having been convicted under Sections 354 and 506-II of the IPC and sentenced to a period served by him during the judicial custody. It said the petitioner’s conviction would be attracted by the disability of ‘moral turpitude’ as contemplated under Section 8(v) (disabilities) of the Chartered Accountants Act. The only condition upon which a person convicted can be entered into or can continue on the register of ICAI would be if the person has been granted a pardon, the court pointed out. It directed the ICAI to give reasonable time to the petitioner to file a fresh reply to the notices, hear him in accordance with the principles of natural justice and decide his case as per law. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-directs-icai-to-create-disclosure-of-criminal-cases-by-candidates-1073578.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi BJP chief urges L-G to end weekend curfew, odd-even rule of opening shops||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Saturday urged Lt Governor Anil Baijal to end weekend curfew, odd-even based opening of shops as well as allow restaurants and gyms with 50 per cent capacity in the city. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on Friday allowed private offices to function with 50 per cent staff but decided against lifting the weekend curfew and removing restrictions on the opening of shops amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. The order came after the Lt Governor, who chairs the DDMA, turned down a proposal approved by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for lifting the weekend curfew and odd-even basis of opening of shops till further improvement in the coronavirus situation. "Trading activities are the lifeline of any city and due to the restrictions, these activities have badly suffered and traders are suffering huge losses. Thousands of people who work with them are facing salary cuts, while daily wage labourers are losing their livelihood," Gupta said in his letter to Baijal. The BJP leader demanded Baijal to end the odd-even basis of the shop opening system and withdraw the weekend curfew, claiming the third wave of Coivid has subsided. Restaurants and gymnasiums too should be allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity, he said. "In the wake of rising in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the DDMA headed by you had in public health interest imposed several restrictions on commercial activities here. Traders and the general public of Delhi have fully cooperated and observed the restrictions," he said. According to the Covid data released by the Delhi government, the spread of the virus is now under control. The infection rate has reportedly now come down to single-digit, the Delhi BJP said. Moreover, public transport is running on full seating capacity and has not reported any specific spread of infection, he pointed out. "I request you to immediately convene a meeting of DDMA to review the restrictions and orderly withdrawal of odd-even system for markets along with the lifting of the weekend curfew,” he said. The Lt Governor had suggested that a decision about lifting weekend curfew and ending the odd-even system of shop opening should be discussed at the DDMA meeting after further improvement in the Covid situation in the city, sources at the L-G office had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-chief-urges-l-g-to-end-weekend-curfew-odd-even-rule-of-opening-shops-1073584.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||To wean away Punjab youth from drugs, Congress proposes to fund 'home based' ventures||Punjab’s spiraling drug menace and the political narrative around it remain conjoined in this poll season as well. The ruling Congress distances itself from all that was done in the four-and-half years of its rule under Capt Amarinder Singh as chief minister, be it the war on drugs or poll promises made in 2017. The gritty Congress leadership under Navjot Singh Sidhu has now come out with an elaborate plan to tide over the drug crisis in Punjab and help the youth stand on their feet. Sidhu today announced a ‘home-based entrepreneurship’ policy that will facilitate every household keen to initiate some entrepreneurship from their home. “Anyone who wants this will get collateral and interest-free loans up to Rs 2 lakh to open home-based enterprises including e-commerce, cloud kitchen, marketing, virtual assistance, designing, tutoring, art and craft, etc. As many as 23 world-class skill centres will be opened on the basis of the home clusters in partnership with Industries in the area,” Sidhu said today. He said all the stakeholders including education institutes, government and industry will have to come together and successfully achieve the drug-free goals for the youth of Punjab. What Congress intends to do is to ensure one or the other occupational avenue for the youth at their home that will be backed by a sustained financial support system to enable them to stand on their feet. This way the youth will remain focused and Punjab will win the battle against drugs, the party state leadership said. A Rs 1,000 crore seed fund for investment in new businesses for youth will be earmarked. Once trained to achieve levels of innovation and entrepreneurship, the state, Sidhu said, will be responsible to provide the youth a support structure that will be created in the form of this Rs 1,000 crore Venture Capital Fund by the government in partnership with corporates. This capital is expected to provide seed funding support programme up to Rs 16 lakhs at 6 per cent interest rate for start-ups especially run by youth entrepreneurs. The state’s economic empowerment of its youth will witness ‘yuva sway rozgaar’ (youth self-employment) groups in villages and cities. Sidhu said a group of more than 5 entrepreneurs will be provided with government mentorship, skills, 25 per cent corpus investment, affordable loans and access to market. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/to-wean-away-punjab-youth-from-drugs-congress-proposes-to-fund-home-based-ventures-1073590.html
22-01-2022||North and Central||Every stateless day an affront to federalism: J&K parties on Shah's remarks||Political parties in Jammu and Kashmir reacted to Union minister Amit Shah's remarks on Saturday that the UT's statehood would be restored once the situation gets normal, saying the Centre's statement was self-contradictory and that every stateless day was an affront to federalism. "After quite literally terrorising people of Jammu and Kashmir into silence to create a false normalcy narrative, GoI's admission that situation still isn't normal is self contradictory. Also proves that silence shouldn't be misconstrued as normalcy," PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti wrote on Twitter. Reacting to Shah's remarks, Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone asked who will define normalcy. "Who will define normalcy? And in a federal structure, can we really use normalcy as an excuse to assume power. Irrespective of the definition of normalcy, possibly coined by the union government, every single stateless day is an affront to federalism and to the people of J&K," Lone said on Twitter. He said "non-popular" governments mean a "humiliating existence" for the inhabitants of that particular place. "And to the people of India who are mute bystanders, Inshallah you too will one day taste statelessness and helplessness. We don't wish it for even on our worst enemies (sic)," Lone said. The People's Conference chairman said the central rule in any place is a "kick in the teeth for federalism".  "And self-styled pat on the back, oh, doing so well, this is all so nauseating," he added. CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami said the people of the Union territory were being denied the right of participation and representation which was one of the fundamental principles of good governance. "One of the principle fundamentals of good governance is participation and representation, a right which continues to be denied to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. Releasing such indexes is intended to help the government in optics-wise," he said. Tarigami said the "ground reality" of dilapidated roads, erratic power supply, inaccessibility of portable water combined with huge unemployment, social unrest is reflecting the "contrasting picture".  Assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir will be held after completion of the ongoing delimitation process and statehood will be restored once situation in the union territory becomes normal, Shah said on Saturday. Virtually releasing India's first "District Good Governance Index", he said Jammu and Kashmir is a priority for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and multipronged efforts are being made for the all round development of the union territory. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/every-stateless-day-an-affront-to-federalism-jk-parties-on-shahs-remarks-1073602.html
22-01-2022||Opinion||Charging against the charge of crony capitalism||How should one read the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government's acquisition of equity in Vodafone and Tata Teleservices this month? In the same way, I would argue, one should read the various Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes rolled out over the past couple of years. The government has begun to show a strong ability to engage with the private sector upfront. It is a remarkable turnaround from one of the biggest accusations any party or coalition in power in India over successive decades has faced. How to engage with the private sector? Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to step back in 2015 against the colourful epithet of "suit-boot ki sarkar". It was essentially the same class of fear that has hobbled a swathe of economic policies for years, ranging from disinvestment to public-private partnerships. All governing parties have been scared of being charged with crony capitalism.  As a result, each party ruling in the states or at the Centre has been wary of straightforward engagements over the decades. In his first Independence Day address, PV Narasimha Rao had to sell his first set of reforms as bringing back the real socialist state. But he was not alone in adopting this subterfuge. There would be a promising start in each phase of policy where the private sector needed to be involved, but soon the wheels of engagement would judder to a halt.  The stop and start process gave enough space for politicians to practice a nod and wink version of reforms. The reason why any vigilance or audit report would get immediate currency with the public was this environment. Ministries and departments were most reluctant to make public details of contracts when they dealt with the private sector. In the climate of fear, the contacts have often inserted one after the other punitive clauses which have baulked investors. For example, look at the contracts railways have offered to private parties for handling station development for years. There is no scope for termination of the contracts gone wrong by the contractors. It is only now that those are being erased.  Since any contact with the private sector was the proverbial kiss of death for a political career, a timid minister would choose to overlook salient details written by their officers, while those looking to extract personal benefits decided to keep vital information with themselves.   The malaise had spread downwards. If there are media and several oversight bodies at the Centre to bring to light these problems, albeit with delay, the states wrote contracts where no serious investor would take the plunge.  In Andhra Pradesh, Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy terminated PPA (power purchase agreement) contracts with renewable energy developers, confident that the public would be pleased if he could wave the flag of crony capitalism against the contracts signed by the previous state government.  Going back further, India missed out on deploying SEZs (special economic zones), a fantastic manufacturing opportunity, again fearing this epithet. Former Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit paid a heavy political price for apparently being cosy with the private sector companies. She was hemmed in, and so were other progressive policies because the parties in power did not come out ab initio with the extent of financial commitment the state shall make in the deals. They coughed up the data under the pressure of public opinion, and those were too late.   This is why the current set of policies is remarkable. The PLIs have problems for sure. Whenever the state shall play pick and choose among investors to subsidise, there is going to be an element of subjectivity. There is also the risk that the companies weaned on a diet of subsidy under PLI shall refuse to improve their competitiveness to take on challenges abroad. Yet it is also true that no significant economic powerhouse in Asia has pushed its manufacturing sector ahead with just a free trade environment. Whether it was Bangladesh's textile companies, Malaysia's auto ancillary sector or the South Korean chaebols, upfront state support was essential.  The advantage of the PLI schemes is they make clear the government's financial commitment to each company in all the 13 sectors covered. Consequently, this is a far better political policy than the tax exemptions to diverse sectors, which were available for decades but never spelt out who were the beneficiaries and the extent of the draw on the public exchequer. In PLI, the government is making an upfront commitment to how much of the Rs two trillion shall be offered to each company. It has never been so black and white before.  The same holds for the equity stake the Centre has picked up in VodafoneIdea and Tata Teleservices. Both the companies have decided to convert their interest dues liability payable to the government into equity. In turn, the government can sell these shares at an appropriate time and receive the amounts due. Since these are listed companies, the public can at any time gauge the loss or profit the government is making on its holdings. It is a far better course than the realisation that throughout the 1980s, successive budgets were sweetening the textile sector by changing the tax treatment of raw materials and finished products. The preferred company was known by all and not known to anyone. In comparison, the new practice of making the benefits from the taxpayers' kitty known makes for an informed public debate.  (Subhomoy Bhattacharjee is a journalist and writes on economic issues) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/charging-against-the-charge-of-crony-capitalism-1073439.html
22-01-2022||Opinion||India and Nepal need to talk with, not at each other||For now, the heat and dust seem to have settled swiftly on the latest round of bickering between India and Nepal over the territorial dispute involving Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura after both issued back-to-back statements asserting their competing claims. Both countries stake claim to the 335-sq km of land located at the tri-junction of India, Nepal and Tibet.  India issued a statement first amidst growing outrage in Nepal over remarks made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rally at Haldwani in Uttarakhand on December 30, where he said that the road to Lipulekh was being widened. The reference to Lipulekh did not go down well in Nepal, among the political parties as well as the common people, with the mention of Lipulekh being perceived as undermining its territorial integrity. The Indian embassy's statement in Kathmandu held that India's "position on the India-Nepal boundary is well known, consistent and unambiguous". It also said that "the established inter-governmental mechanisms and channels are most appropriate for communication and dialogue". The Sher Bahadur Deuba-led Nepal government, in turn, came under tremendous pressure to counter the Indian statement not just from opposition parties, including the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist), or CPN-UML, led by former PM KP Sharma Oli but also members of his coalition – the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre) and the CPN (Unified Socialist) - and his party, the Nepali Congress. It, therefore, responded by saying that Lipulekh was an integral part of Nepal. But Kathmandu's assertion was not belligerent, noting that it was "committed to resolving the border issues on the basis of historical treaties and agreements, facts, maps and evidence through diplomatic channels as per the spirit of friendly relations between the two countries." The conciliatory note struck by both New Delhi and Kathmandu indicated that neither side wants the territorial dispute to gain further traction in Nepal, where it is an extremely emotive issue. But what is amply clear is that the boundary dispute remains a major irritant in bilateral relations. It has become a festering wound with the potential to take a turn for the worse at any time. With parliamentary elections in Nepal slated towards this year-end, the political parties there will seek to rake up the boundary issue and whip up anti-India sentiments once again. Bilateral relations had gone into a tailspin for nearly a year after India published a new map in early November 2019 following the bifurcation of the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories. It showed the disputed Kalapani as a part of India's territory. In retaliation, the then Nepal government led by Oli published a new map in May 2020 that showed Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani as part of the Himalayan country's territory. The following month, the Oli government steered a constitutional amendment through both houses of Parliament, allowing for a change in the national emblem of Nepal to show the new map. It was passed by an overwhelming majority by both the houses. Undoubtedly, Oli's shrewd move to change Nepal's map was driven by his desire to burnish his "nationalistic" credentials and strengthen his position as PM in the face of serious challenges to his leadership from within the coalition. However, matters may not have reached such a pass had New Delhi acceded to Kathmandu's demand for talks at the foreign secretary-level to discuss the territorial dispute instead of making the pandemic an excuse not to hold such a meeting even as virtual meetings were being held with other countries. It is imperative that New Delhi and Kathmandu begin to engage on this dispute instead of allowing matters to drift any further. Indeed, it is incumbent upon India, as the bigger neighbour with its avowed 'Neighbourhood First' policy, to take the lead in initiating a dialogue to resolve the dispute, intractable as it might seem now that Nepal has altered its map to include the disputed territories within its boundaries. Such a move may also help disabuse the notion within the Nepalese establishment that when it comes to complex issues, India is unwilling to discuss them. As a Nepalese ambassador to India once told me, "We have very close and deep-rooted ties with India. And yet, there's one thing that's missing in our ties. When differences arise, India just doesn't talk to us. Whatever may be the problem, at least we need to show that something is being done about it." The Indian side may say diplomacy is conducted behind closed doors. But in the case of the boundary dispute, a visible effort by New Delhi to engage with Kathmandu may go a long way in checking the anti-India sentiment that builds up in Nepal over sensitive matters. The unofficial blockade imposed by India on Nepal in 2015, for instance, remains a sore point to this day. Miffed as New Delhi has been with Kathmandu's alteration of the map, it needs to engage with Nepal on the boundary issue. This is also necessitated by the 'China factor' as it woos Nepal with resources and investments. China's imprint on Nepal's politics and polity has been steadily growing, with its envoy in Kathmandu openly and unabashedly meddling in the country's domestic politics. Nepal, of course, is also not averse to playing the China card with India. In such a scenario, it is vital for India to protect its strategic interests. While PM Deuba's visit to India earlier this month had to be shelved owing to the Omicron surge, the Nepalese leader should be able to make the trip in the coming months. A beginning should then be made towards resolving the simmering territorial dispute instead of letting it boil over. (The writer is a senior New Delhi-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-and-nepal-need-to-talk-with-not-at-each-other-1073475.html
22-01-2022||Opinion||Aparna Yadav's switch to BJP surprised few in Lucknow||The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership is busy flaunting what they describe as their "big catch" – Samajwadi Party (SP) patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav's daughter-in-law Aparna Bisht Yadav, who switched loyalties to the BJP earlier this week. It was hot news of the day and widely described by much of the mainstream media as a tit-for-tat by the ruling dispensation that had suffered repeated political onslaughts by the rival SP. Doubtlessly, SP chief, former UP chief minister, Akhilesh Yadav, had stolen three influential ministers from the Yogi Adityanath cabinet, besides the ruling party's 11 MLAs. Undeniably, that seemed almost like a mini coup bound to rattle anyone in Adityanath's position. Significantly, the three ministers - Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan and Dharam Singh Saini - belong to the extreme backward castes (EBCs). Narendra Modi had taken pains to woo the EBCs into the BJP since 2014. The BJP circles were agog with speculation that the high command has chastised the UP chief minister over the losses inflicted by Akhilesh Yadav. Under the circumstances, perhaps Aditynath could not think of a better option than ushering in Aparna Yadav. Considering her virtually non-existent political profile, which began and ended as the "younger daughter-in-law of Mulayam Singh Yadav", she was not a patch on what the BJP had lost. In any case, Aparna Yadav's desperation to get political space in the BJP was an open secret. On several occasions, she was seen at events with the UP chief minister, whose original 'Bisht' family lineage (before he turned a monk) came in handy for her to strike a good social chord with him. 'Bisht' is Aparna's maiden surname too. "Her Bisht connection has apparently allowed her to fulfil the political ambitions that she could not avail in the Yadav clan," remarked a prominent SP leader. In 2017, Mulayam Singh had insisted that she be given an SP ticket to contest from a local assembly seat in Lucknow. However, she lost pretty badly to the BJP's Rita Bahuguna Joshi. No sooner did the BJP ride to power and Adityanath begin his innings as the chief minister, Aparna Yadav started to connect with the 'Bisht' in him. What began with the chief minister's visit to a gaushala (cowpen), ostensibly adopted by Aparna Yadav, eventually extended her the opportunity to now wear the saffron hat under Adityanath's patronage. She did not hesitate to publicly shower praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the UP chief minister. The message was loud and clear – obviously, she was not getting her desired political space in the Yadav family and would cross over to the BJP at the first opportunity. But, it was misplaced to consider her plunge into the BJP a big deal for the ruling party. More than anything else, it was a win-win for Aparna Yadav, who would achieve her goal if the BJP were to allow her to contest the forthcoming state elections from the same Lucknow Cantt constituency where she witnessed defeat in 2017.  To that extent, her switch is a symbolic win for the BJP, but it surely cannot be treated as any significant dent in the SP's number one family. After all, it is common knowledge that the Yadav clan was already a divided house the day Mulayam Singh anointed Akhilesh as his political heir in 2012. Even though Mulayam Singh named his younger son Prateek Yadav as the inheritor to business ventures allegedly running in multi-billions, Prateek Yadav's mother Sadhana Yadav was understood to be looking for a share in political inheritance too. Akhilesh Yadav's chief ministerial term had made it evident that he would not allow that. It was precisely this tug-of-war for succession that caused a rift in the Etawah family in which yet another contender was Mulayam Singh's younger brother, Shivpal Singh Yadav, who felt equally deprived. No wonder Akhilesh Yadav was left isolated against a visibly far more formidable combine of Prateek-Aparna-Sadhana under the patronage of a powerful Shivpal Singh, who together wielded the potential to influence Mulayam Singh. What gave this clique further strength was Mulayam Singh's man Friday, Amar Singh, who also pitched in to oppose Akhilesh Yadav. Thus, it was no mean task for Akhilesh Yadav to fight back and save his crown. Mulayam Singh's ouster as the SP president resulted from that battle for survival, culminating with Akhilesh Yadav stepping into his father's shoes as the party's supremo in the run-up to the 2017 polls. Under the circumstances, Aparna Yadav naturally did not see much scope to fulfil her political ambitions in place of her husband Prateek Yadav's. The latter by then seemed to have come to terms with the big real estate business he had in hand. Aparna Yadav went about making efforts to enter the rival BJP camp. Adityanath eventually opened the doors for her to pay Akhilesh Yadav in the same coin that the latter had dealt him. However, the fact remains that Aparna Yadav's family owes much to Mulayam Singh, be it her mother's job in the Lucknow Municipal Corporation and subsequent shifting to a prized slot as an officer in the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) and her journalist father Arvind Singh Bisht's appointment as one of the state information commissioners. Adityanath was also always obliging towards the Bisht family was demonstrated when he allowed Aparna Yadav to retain a big type-6 house in an upscale government colony under the name of an allegedly non-functional non-governmental organisation (NGO). She does not live in the house. Interestingly, not long ago, her mother Ambi Bisht had faced serious corruption charges for which action was also initiated against her by the then vice-chairman of LDA. However, despite Adityanath's much-hyped "zero tolerance" to corruption, the inquiries against her are believed to have been closed. Such is the clout Aparna Yadav had enjoyed even before she was formally inducted into the ruling party. (Sharat Pradhan is a journalist and author based in Lucknow) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/aparna-yadavs-switch-to-bjp-surprised-few-in-lucknow-1073484.html
22-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Under the Amla tree||The Amla tree was planted by Papa long before we started living in our home in Hoshiarpur, a city in Punjab. Before the house was built, Papa had brought the Amla plant from a salubrious garden and planted it on one edge of the land. Over the years, the plant grew in shape and size. It looked like any other tree to me, trying to find its roots, trying to make itself at home, just the way I was learning the ropes of living in a new city amidst new circumstances. A bond grew and I found comfort beneath the branches of this tree. This tree whose leaves looked to me like spicules had paper-thin light branches. I could separate them with the edge of my finger. I must have caused it a lot of pain back then without realising my folly. Its trunk went on to become strong and so did the little hands of my daughter who hugged it tightly as we played peek-a-boo around this harbinger of hope.  As the tree grew in size, our affection and attachment with it increased manifold. Papa used to draw a chatai under its shade in those gruelling summer days, ditching the comfort of AC while watching the leaves sway with the cool summer breeze. Perhaps, it was then that I noticed the arrival of tiny perfectly round green things — the fruit!  "Don’t pluck them now, wait, let them grow," Papa had said when I had plucked some unripe Amlas from the tree, unable to contain my excitement. I had never seen an Amla fruit growing to fullness. Here was my chance to witness the growth of the fruit from a baby to a teenager to adulthood. The Amla fruit, when it was fully mature, was as big as an apricot. To me, those fruits looked like a miracle of nature. The tree gifted us with an abundance of fruits. And thus began the round of Amla chutney, murabba and pickles. I made it an indispensable ingredient of my after-gym smoothies. The tree grew in leaps and bounds, overshadowing the guava trees. The inevitable and painful decision of cutting one overenthusiastic branch saddened Papa like nothing else. "Will the tree take offence," I wondered. Will it stop producing fruits now? But the yield that year was more than what it was in the last couple of years, as if the rest of the branches had shared the weight of the lost branch. One fine day Papa left for heavenly abode. He was cremated in our garden, close to the Amla tree.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/under-the-amla-tree-1073331.html
22-01-2022||Second Edit||Needed: Policies to tackle inequality||Inequalities have always been present in societies and economies, and individuals and groups have lived with them, coping with them and trying to reduce them. Ideologies have tried to explain the problem and to solve it in various ways. Catastrophes, natural and otherwise, exacerbate the problem by widening the divide and breaking bridges and links, leading to more dire situations. The Covid-19 pandemic has done that, and the latest to highlight the rising inequalities is the Oxfam report published ahead of the World Economic Forum (WEF) meet. The report says that in 2021, 84% of Indian households lost their incomes considerably while the number of billionaires increased from102 to 142. The richest 98 Indians have come to own the same wealth as the bottom 552 million people. The top 10% of the country account for 57% of its wealth and the bottom half owns just 13%.  Inequality has deepened at the international level also. The report says, 99% of the global population have lost their incomes and over 160 million more people have been forced into poverty. This has happened for countries too, with the gap between the rich and the poor countries widening in the last two years. Developing countries have been hit hard, and within countries, the vulnerable sections, including women, children and minorities, have been most affected. At least 21,000 people die every day as a result of hunger or illness that is linked with inequality. The report says that the world’s response to the pandemic has led to a deepening of every kind of inequality. It concludes that “not only does inequality create unhealthier, unhappier societies – it is violent. Inequality kills.’’ The report proposes a number of steps and policies to address increasing inequality and alleviate its impact. It seeks a legal framework that will better protect the weaker sections and workers, and argues for policies that give them more representation in decision-making. It seeks a waiver of intellectual property rights for vaccines to ensure speedier vaccination of people in poorer countries. The report makes a strong case for governments to tax the new wealth created during the pandemic and invest the trillions thus collected on “universal healthcare and social protection, climate change adaptation, and gender-based violence prevention and programming." It has noted that the US and China are considering such policies. India needs to look at measures and policies that would speedily and effectively address inequality because the problem is acute and getting worse in the country. The report has many proposals for mobilisation of resources to finance health and education sectors and welfare measures that will reduce the high levels of inequality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/needed-policies-to-tackle-inequality-1073327.html
22-01-2022||South||Hyderabad cops seize 800 kg ganja from truck||The Cyberabad police busted an interstate ganja smuggling gang and seized 800 kilograms of marijuana from a truck transporting ginger. A special operations team nabbed six interstate drug peddlers, identified as Ashok Khule, Amol Athawale, Rahul Kumar Singh, Vilash Jagannath Phachore, Firoz Momin and Sudam Ghotekar. Besides 800 kilograms of contraband, one car, one DCM and five mobile phones, all worth about Rs 1.8 crore, were seized. The main accused, identified as Vikas Jadhav, of Nashik, to whom the supplies were routed and the supplier, Subhash Kumar alias Rahul Kumar, of Koraput, are still absconding. The gang was running a ganja transportation network from Koraput in Odisha to Maharashtra via Hyderabad. The police said that the consignment was packed in 156 packets, each containing five kilograms of dry ganja, concealed under the bags of ginger in the truck. To avoid police vigil, the truck was driven in routes without tolls, but was stopped at a checkpoint in Miyapur of Hyderabad on Friday morning. According to Cyberabad police commissioner Stephen Raveendra, the accused purchased marijuana at Rs 3,000 per kilogram and sold it for Rs 20,000 per kilogram. Following the instructions of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao a few months ago, the Telangana police have increased its surveillance to curb the spread of the ganja menace. Under the Cyberabad commissionerate limits alone, 2,863 kg of marijuana was seized in the past year and the PD [Prevention of Dangerous activities] Act was invoked in 25 instances. A total of 222 cases were registered in 2021 and 2022, with 459 persons arrested. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-cops-seize-800-kg-ganja-from-truck-1073452.html
22-01-2022||South||TN announces financial aid to owners of fishing boats in Sri Lankan custody||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to the owners of mechanised boats and Rs 1.5 lakh each to the owners of country boats that are presently in the custody of Sri Lankan authorities. At least 128 mechanised boats and 17 country boats are in the custody of Sri Lankans at present. The Chief Minister's office made the announcement on Friday evening. Stalin also announced a package of Rs 5.66 crore compensation for the 105 fishing boats and equipment that were damaged during the Northeast monsoon that lashed the state. Fishermen association leader S. Bharathi said that the state government's announcement is a major support to the beleaguered fishermen of the state who are being hunted down by the Sri Lankan Navy and police on trivial charges. In 2021, five fishermen lost their lives during an attack by Sri Lankan authorities, including Naval personnel. Sixty-eight fishermen were arrested and 15 were released from prison recently. The remaining 55 fishermen are still languishing in Sri Lankan jails. The Union Ministry of External Affairs has already entered a diplomatic discussion with the Sri Lankan authorities on the arrest of Indian fishermen and the complaints being lodged by the fishermen of Rameswaram, Mandapam, and other areas of Tamil Nadu who were facing tough times in the sea near the Katchatheevu island as well as the International Marine Boundary Line (IMBL). Krishnaswami Rajendran, who is the owner of a fishing boat at Rameswaram, while speaking to IANS said, "The Sri Lankan Navy is creating problems with our fishermen and it is high time that the government of India takes stringent action against the perpetrators who are attacking Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu regularly. "There has to be an end to this. The real situation in the sea is really tough and we are being attacked regularly for no fault of ours." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-announces-financial-aid-to-owners-of-fishing-boats-in-sri-lankan-custody-1073473.html
22-01-2022||South||NDA ally in Kerala seeks action against CPI(M) for 'glorifying' China||The Democratic Party, an ally of the BJP-led NDA, on Saturday demanded action against the ruling CPI-M in Kerala for "glorifying" China at its ongoing party meetings. State party president George Sebastian said the Centre should take steps to initiate a probe in the matter. "They enjoy the country's democratic freedom and then glorify China at the ongoing district party meetings. This is nothing but an anti-national act and a case should be registered," said Sebastian. "The Centre should probe if they are getting funds for praising China," he added. Last week, Leader of Opposition V D Satheesan asked the CPI-M to spell out its policy on China as two of its top leaders have been speaking in different tones. Veteran CPI(M) politburo members S Ramachandran Pillai and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a gap of few days, had come out with divergent views on China following which Satheesan asked the party whether the national interest of their own country or that of China was more important. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nda-ally-in-kerala-seeks-action-against-cpim-for-glorifying-china-1073482.html
22-01-2022||South||AIADMK stages protests in Cauvery delta districts seeking relief for farmers||The opposition AIADMK staged massive protests in Tamil Nadu’s Cauvery delta districts on Saturday demanding the state government to immediately compensate farmers badly hit by the northeast monsoon rather than wait for Central assistance. The party also sought the implementation of an easy mechanism to procure paddy directly from the farmers instead of the newly-introduced online registration for this paddy procurement season. Leading the protest here, former minister for food and civil supplies R Kamaraj said the DMK government should take steps to provide Rs 20,000 as compensation to the ryots, as had been promised. “The relief is yet to reach the affected farmers despite a month after the northeast monsoon receded. The government should take steps to disburse the sum with the existing funds available with it instead of waiting for central aid," the former minister later told reporters. The rains that battered Tamil Nadu claimed at least 54 lives and injured 52 people. Apart from damage to cattle, huts and homes, agricultural crops raised in about 49,230 hectares as well as 526 hectares of horticulture crop were damaged. The state government had sought financial assistance of Rs 2,629 crore of which Rs 2,079 crore is for permanent relief and restoration work and Rs 550 crore for interim work. He claimed that about one lakh paddy bags stocked in the delta districts are yet to be procured by the state government. “The online registration to sell paddy for this procurement season is unfeasible to farmers. The government should come up with an easy mechanism facilitating farmers to sell their produce quickly,” Kamaraj said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-stages-protests-in-cauvery-delta-districts-seeking-relief-for-farmers-1073561.html
22-01-2022||South||Kerala HC gives Dileep interim protection from arrest, orders him to appear for interrogation||The Kerala High Court on Saturday granted interim protection to actor Dileep from arrest, but directed him and other accused to appear before the investigating officers on January 23, 24 and 25 for interrogation. The court was hearing the anticipatory bail plea of Dileep in a case registered against him and five others for allegedly threatening the officers probing into the sexual assault of an actress in 2017. Justice Gopinath P directed the accused to fully cooperate with the investigation and directed them to be available for interrogation from 9 AM to 8 PM on the three days. The court also directed the public prosecutor to submit a report on the interrogation and material evidence in a sealed cover on January 27, when the matter would be heard again. Besides Dileep, his younger brother P Sivakumar and brother-in-law T N Suraj have moved the court seeking the same relief. The Crime Branch had on January 9 registered the case on a complaint filed by an investigating officer based on a purported audio clip of Dileep, which was released by a TV channel in which the actor was allegedly heard conspiring to attack the official. The actor and five others were booked under various provisions of the IPC, including Sections 116 (abetment), 118 (concealing design to commit offence), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (criminal act done by several people). Dileep has claimed that this apprehension was borne out of the past conduct of the complainant officer who has been trying to falsely implicate him in the sexual assault case. The actress who has worked in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam films was abducted and allegedly molested in her car for two hours by some of the accused, who had forced their way into the vehicle on the night of February 17, 2017 and later escaped in a busy area. The entire act was filmed by some of the accused to blackmail the actress. There are 10 accused in the case and initially, police arrested seven people. Dileep was arrested subsequently and released on bail later. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-gives-dileep-interim-protection-from-arrest-orders-him-to-appear-for-interrogation-1073564.html
22-01-2022||South||Jagan cabinet approves ordinance for appointment of special invitees to TTD board||The Jaganmohan Reddy cabinet has approved an ordinance to amend the state endowments act, to allow the appointments of special invitees to the Tirumala Tirupati temple board. The Andhra Pradesh high court had in September last year put a stay on the two controversial orders of the YSRCP government nominating 52 members as special invitees on the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam board. “The cabinet gave its nod for the ordinance with amendments to Endowments Act 1987, regarding the appointment of TTD special invitees,” said Information and Public Relations minister Perni Venkataramiah after the Friday meeting. The opposition TDP and BJP are opposing the new composition of the Trust with an unprecedented 81 members including the chairman and 52 invitees. Various PILs, including that of a BJP and a TDP leader, were filed against the Reddy government's decision, contending the appointments as in violation of the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act 1987. Meanwhile, the court has on Friday reportedly deferred the matter to February after informed by the government about the amendments it intends to bring in the act in connection with special invitees. Former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu had earlier slammed his successor for expanding the board “to a jumbo scale, to accommodate his political and business interests.” The TTD board oversees the management of the famous Tirumala Venkateshwara Swamy temple, with about Rs 3,000 crore revenue annually. A name on the board, reconstituted every two years, has become a symbol of clout lately. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-cabinet-approves-ordinance-for-appointment-of-special-invitees-to-ttd-board-1073580.html
22-01-2022||South||MLA says girl's suicide due to pressure on conversion, seeks CBI probe||MLA and president of All India Mahila Morcha Vanathi Srinivasan on Saturday expressed the need for a CBI inquiry into the alleged suicide of a 17-year-old school student who, the MLA said, was driven to death owing to torture for forcible conversion. In a video message, the student had named a few people in the school for the pressure brought upon her for religious conversion and that forced to take the extreme step, said the MLA in a statement here. The video could lend credence to the declaration the girl made while dying, said the statement. Blaming the police for not taking action on the complaint from the student's parents, the MLA said the warden of the school hostel was taken into custody only after protests. Thanjavur Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya said there was no proof that suicide was the result of torture for conversion, said the MLA. Considering this, the MLA said Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin should let some other police officer probe into the matter and announce a compensation for the girl's parents. The girl consumed poison on January 9 and the Thirukattupalli police received the first information from her parents on January 15. The warden was remanded after the Thanjavur judicial magistrate took the dying declaration of the girl and following the recording of statement by the police. “The case is now under investigation,” she said and warned against anyone circulating or revealing the identity, photo, video, address of the victimised juvenile or her dying declaration in the social media as it is an offence. The girl’s condition deteriorated on January 15 and she was taken to the Thanjavur College Hospital. There, she gave her declaration implicating the warden, and died on January 19, said the police. According to the FIR, the student was staying at the hostel and that the warden allegedly forced her to do domestic chores on January 9. She allegedly attempted to take her life as she could not bear the cruelty. But, the BJP activists in the district claimed the girl died by suicide as she was forced to convert to Christianity. They even staged an agitation condemning the police. The party’s State president K Annamalai demanded an impartial enquiry into the case and said a fact-finding committee comprising the BJP women’s wing leaders has initiated an independent enquiry. Demanding an end to forced conversions, Annamalai said, “the government should enact the anti- conversion law.”  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mla-says-girls-suicide-due-to-pressure-on-conversion-seeks-cbi-probe-1073583.html
22-01-2022||South||TN within its right to implement Hogenakkal project, says minister||Tamil Nadu has rights both on legal and humanitarian grounds to implement the second phase of the Hogenakkal Drinking Water Project, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan said here on Saturday. Responding to his Karnataka counterpart Govind Karjol, Duraimurugan cited several aspects of the final award of the Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal including clause-18 and consumptive use and the Supreme Court judgment of February 16, 2018 to underscore that Tamil Nadu has rights to execute this project, which is essential for drinking water needs. In a statement, Duraimurugan said Tamil Nadu has rights both on legal and humanitarian grounds to implement the Hogenakkal project's second phase. "The Cauvery-Hogenakkal project's second phase will be implemented for sure," the Tamil Nadu Minister said, hours after Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced an all-party meeting in February to discuss inter-state water disputes. On January 20, Chief Minister M K Stalin had said that the Tamil Nadu government would prepare a detailed project report to implement the second phase of the Hogenakkal combined drinking water project for Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts at an estimated cost of Rs 4,600 crore. The first phase of the Hogenakkal project, for drinking water supply and fluorosis mitigation was implemented during the 2006-11 DMK regime. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-within-its-right-to-implement-hogenakkal-project-says-minister-1073611.html
22-01-2022||South||Kerala govt asks private hospitals to set aside 50% beds for Covid patients||Amid surging coronavirus cases in Kerala, the health department on Saturday instructed private hospitals in the state to set aside 50 per cent of beds for Covid-19 patients. The department asked private hospitals to hand over details of daily admissions in the ICUs, use of ventilators and beds to the District Medical Officers. "The private hospitals need to submit their daily admissions in hospitals including the number of occupants in the ICUs and use of ventilators to the DMOs concerned. Those hospitals which refuse to handover the data will face strict action," Health Minister Veena George said in a release. Kerala today reported 45,136 Covid-19 cases, taking the count to 55,74,702. The state had on Thursday logged 46,387 cases, the highest single day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020. "During the first and the second wave, we received immense support from the private hospitals. Even this time, we expect the same," the minister said. The decision to direct the private hospitals to set aside 50 per cent of beds for Covid-19 patients was taken during the rapid response team's daily evaluation meeting which urged eligible people to get their vaccination doses against the virus at the earliest. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-asks-private-hospitals-to-set-aside-50-beds-for-covid-patients-1073616.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Former PM H D Devegowda tests positive for Covid-19, asymptomatic||Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) president H D Devegowda tested positive for Covid-19, his office confirmed in a statement on Saturday morning. Devegowda is not exhibiting any symptoms of the infection and his condition is stable, Manipal Hospital has said. The JD(S) supremo chose to get admitted to hospital as a precaution, sources told PTI. They added that Gowda's wife Chennamma is negative for coronavirus and is at home. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has wished Gowda a speedy recovery. "I wish former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda a speedy recovery from coronavirus infection and to continue his work as usual," Bommai tweeted. Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar too prayed to God for the speedy recovery of Gowda. He further said he is in touch with the doctors treating the former Prime Minister and getting updates about his health. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-pm-h-d-devegowda-tests-positive-for-covid-19-asymptomatic-1073465.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka crosses 6 crore mark for Covid-19 tests||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Saturday congratulated healthcare workers and district authorities as the state crossed six crore Covid-19 tests. "Testing has been one of the cornerstones of Karnataka's success in fighting Covid. We have completed crore tests since the beginning of the pandemic, third highest in the country. Congratulations to all the health workers and district administration who made this possible," the minister tweeted. Later speaking to reporters, the minister said when the pandemic started in early 2020, National Institute of Virology units were used to conduct tests and Karnataka used to send samples to NIV centres in Pune. Karnataka gradually established labs across the state and now we have about 268 testing facilities including 99 government and 169 private labs, he added. According to him, Karnataka has tested 6,01,14,815 samples so far including 1,14,12,162 Rapid Antigen Test and 4,87,02,653 RT-PCR tests. While 1,41,96,065 samples were tested in 2020, 4,23,91,357 samples were tested in 2021 and so far 35,27,393 tests have been conducted in 2022, he noted. Sudhakar said, "Testing plays a vital role in this battle against pandemic. Karnataka has always been aggressive in testing and tracking and it has been one of our cornerstones in this direction against Covid. Karnataka has now achieved another milestone by crossing 6 crore tests." Further, the minister said that both Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education departments have always religiously followed 5T strategy of Test, Track, Trace, Triaging and Technology. "We have set up 3,678 comprising of 3,102 government and 666 private swab collection centres, which is one each for every 20,000 population. We have labs in government hospitals, medical colleges and also private hospitals," Sudhakar explained. He also said that initially only 10 to 12 government labs had Covid testing facility which has now increased to 57. "With 108 NA extractors and 139 RT-PCR machines we have capacity to test 1,20,800 samples per day in govt facilities," the minister said. After Omicron variant was found, the state mandated that at least 2 per cent of the tests should be conducted at airports, the minister said adding, the government then increased the target to about 80,000 to one lakh samples per day. Speaking about infection among children he said since it was opined that third wave could predominantly affect children, the state government mandated to conduct at least two per cent of the tests on children. "Out of total tests conducted between December 1 and January 20, 29 per cent of the tests were conducted on children. We are also conducting random RAT tests in schools, colleges, restaurants once in every 15 days," the minister told reporters. He also said that the testing target has been increased to two lakh per day from January 18. Further, targeted testing of symptomatic persons and primary contacts has been started, the minister said adding the RTPCR tests has been made mandatory for symptomatic persons even if RAT report is negative. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-crosses-6-crore-mark-for-covid-19-tests-1073540.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||I was not a bright student: Karnataka Home Minister||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said he would not have become a politician if he was a bright student during college days. He was speaking at an interactive programme with media persons organised by the Press Trust, here on Saturday. Jnanendra said he is now paying attention to studies. There are many politicians in the country who left politics after one electoral defeat. But he climbed the ladder of power after facing many defeats. “I come from an ordinary family and I don't have godfathers in politics. Iam determined to discharge my duties promptly as long as I will be in politics", he said. He also stated that the police department has earned a bad reputation due to the mistakes committed by some, but most police personnel are 'efficient and prompt'. Hence, the state is not facing any law and order issue, he said. The Home Minister further added that police are sacrificing their family life for maintaining law and order in the society so that people will be able to lead their lives peacefully. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-was-not-a-bright-student-karnataka-home-minister-1073566.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||No hasty decision will be taken on tariff hikes, assures Karnataka CM Bommai||With citizens staring at a hike in milk prices, water and power bills, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that the government will not make any “hasty” decision when it comes to revising tariffs.  “No decision has been taken. These things are common in administration. We will make a decision after considering all aspects. We won’t make any hasty decisions,” Bommai told reporters.  The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has sought to hike milk prices by Rs 3 per litre. The Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has sought to hike power bills by Rs 1.58 per unit. The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), too, has asked for a hike in water charges.  Earlier this week, Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar said that an upward revision in power tariff is “inevitable”.  The plans to hike utility bills received flak from Congress. “Life is already difficult because of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially those who live on small earnings. There should not be a hike in power or water tariffs,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said.  Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said the government should first take steps to increase citizens' income. “Once people have enough income, the government can hike bills.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-hasty-decision-will-be-taken-on-tariff-hikes-assures-karnataka-cm-bommai-1073589.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Jammers to be installed in Central prison to prevent threat calls: Jnanendra||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has said that in order to prevent inmates of Central Prison in Bengaluru from making threat calls to business tycoons and highly influential persons seeking money, jammers would be installed in the premises of the prison at Parappana Agrahara. Speaking at an interactive programme organised by Press Trust, here on Saturday, he said notorious rowdy sheeters have made phone calls to many business tycoons in the state, threatening that they would be killed if money is not transferred to the specified account numbers. So, it has been decided to install jammers in the premises of cells where notorious rowdy sheeters are housed. The cost would be Rs 60 crore. He also said National Investigation Agency's branch is likely to come up in Bengaluru, and the Centre has responded positively in this regard. Hi-tech forensic laboratories are coming up in Ballari and Belagavi in the state so that police will be able to get evidence and resolve the cases quickly. He also said the investigation of many cases is still pending as police are yet to get reports from forensic laboratories which prove highly beneficial for police to complete probes as soon as possible and file charge sheets. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jammers-to-be-installed-in-central-prison-to-prevent-threat-calls-jnanendra-1073610.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Former MP Padmashri Sudha Reddy no more||Padmashri awardee and former MP Sudha V Reddy passed away at the age of 95 on Saturday. Sudha represented the erstwhile Madhugiri Lok Sabha segment. She was awarded the Padmashri for social service in 1968. Her service activities were especially for the upliftment of women in need. She served as chairperson of the Karnataka Handicrafts Board and was a member of several other boards. During the China war, she collected funds and built houses for war widows, which was inaugurated by former prime minister Indira Gandhi. She was also a talented veena player. Sudha is survived by her children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, nieces, nephews, friends and many admirers, a statement from the family said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-mp-padmashri-sudha-reddy-no-more-1073621.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai launches website providing government programme information||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai launched a website providing information about central and state government programmes here recently. The portal should work as a communication bridge between the people and government, he said. The website would enable people to get detailed information on government programmes, their purpose and utility, he said. A book containing guidelines to avail the benefit of various programmes was also launched on the occasion. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-launches-website-providing-government-programme-information-1073622.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada not mandatory in colleges till final order by HC||The government has directed the higher education institutions in the state not to mandate Kannada language for undergraduate students this academic year, until the court pronounces its final verdict in the matter. Following the interim order from the Karnataka High Court telling the government that the students who do not wish to take the Kannada language shall not be compelled to pursue it till further orders, the higher education department has issued an order asking colleges and higher education institutions not to make it compulsory. However, officials from the department said that they have issued this order following the interim order dated December 16.  "This does not mean we are not fighting or the compulsory Kannada language learning decision is withdrawn. We have issued this order obeying the interim order from the court," said an official. The Kannada Development Authority (KDA) had opposed the petition filed by Samskruta Bharati Trust and others, questioning the compulsory Kannada language learning introduced by the government under the National Education Policy for undergraduate courses from the current academic year. Recently, the chairperson of KDA had announced that they will be impleading in the case. The PIL filed by Samskruta Bharati and others was severely criticised by pro-Kannada organisations and they even questioned the government's decision to provide land and funds for a Sanskrit university.   Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-not-mandatory-in-colleges-till-final-order-by-hc-1073623.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Habeas corpus plea seeking child custody: HC imposes cost on petitioner||The High Court of Karnataka has imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on a petitioner for filing a habeas corpus petition seeking direction to the police for the production of his two-year-old daughter from the custody of her mother. The petitioner submitted that his wife took away their baby girl from his custody on October 5, 2021, and since then he was not allowed to see the child. The bench noted that the petitioner could have filed a petition seeking custody of the child before the family court. "Because it is a habeas corpus writ petition and the personal liberty of a citizen is involved, this court being the Constitutional court has to reach out to the rescue of those innocent people. We are giving top priority to those cases. We are putting pressure on the police to investigate and secure and release these persons. But we find from our experience that in most of the cases, there is no cause much less sufficient cause for the parties to approach this court," a division bench headed by Justice B Veerappa said. The court said it was an abuse of the process of law and unnecessary waste of precious judicial time. "Thereby, the petitioner, instead of approaching the proper and appropriate court for custody of his minor child, has misused the state machinery as well as approached this court knowing well that his daughter is safe, hale and healthy with his wife. It is nothing but the abuse of the judicial process. Thereby, the petitioner is not entitled to the relief sought in the petition and the writ petition in form of habeas corpus is liable to be dismissed with costs," the bench said. The petitioner has been directed to pay the cost amount to the Police Welfare Fund. The bench also directed the Registrar Judicial to send the copy of the order to the jurisdictional Deputy Commissioner to recover the amount from the petitioner as arrears of land revenue, in case, he fails to deposit within the time stipulated. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/habeas-corpus-plea-seeking-child-custody-hc-imposes-cost-on-petitioner-1073625.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Airports coming up in 4 more districts, says Nirani||Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said new airports will be constructed in four districts, including Bagalkot. At a press conference here, he said the state has eight airports now. With the construction of these four airports, the state will have one airport for every 100 km jurisdiction, he added. He said the new airports will come up in Bagalkot, Raichur, Davangere and Hassan districts. Sites have been inspected for this purpose. At least 500 acres of land have been identified and the state will have an aeroplane manufacturing unit in the coming days, he said. Global Investors' Meet Nirani said the Global Investors' Meet will be held on November 2, 3 and 4. An estimated Rs 10 lakh crore investment will flow into the state, he said.  He said the previous edition of the GIM was a success and with the present edition, at least 10 lakh unemployed youths will get jobs. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/airports-coming-up-in-4-more-districts-says-nirani-1073629.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Temples Bill: A godsend to stop fund diversion or a move that aids graft?||Freeing up Hindu temples from state control is set to be the next big legislative agenda of the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government. Having moved the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 (anti-conversion Bill), Bommai has said that a new law will be drafted before the budget session in March to give temples autonomy. This means that they will no longer function under the Muzrai department, which currently controls nearly 35,000 temples. This has been a long-pending demand of the Sangh Parivar. The demand stems from an allegation that funds from the Muzrai department are being diverted to non-Hindu institutions and that the deregulation will allow temples exclusive control over their funds. Bowing to pressure from right wing groups, in 2021, the then Muzrai minister Kota Sreenivasa Poojary even directed the Muzrai department to ensure that no funds are diverted to other religious institutions. Autonomy to temples also allows temple trusts to plan activities of their choice, says BJP MLC N Ravi Kumar. “For instance, Dharmasthala’s D Veerendra Heggade has been doing social service. Other temples can also use their funds for building hostels or any other cultural activities they deem fit,” he says. This demand is not unique to Karnataka. In March 2021, spiritual leader Jaggi Vasudev started a campaign to deregulate temples in Tamil Nadu. The Tamil Nadu government did not budge. Meanwhile, officials in the Muzrai department contend allegations of fund diversion. According to one senior official, “Only those institutions under the Muzrai department get Tasdiq. No non-Hindu institution receives Tasdiq from the department. There is too much misunderstanding.” Tasdiq is the Urdu word for government grant given to temples. Muzrai department used to monitor all religious institutions until the Wakf Act was enacted in 1995. With this, Muslim religious institutions were handed over to the purview of the Wakf Board. Much as the BJP says freeing temples is a pro-Hindu move, temple priests who are a prominent stakeholders in this debate are unhappy. Speaking to DH, K S N Dikshith, chief organising secretary of Akhila Karnataka Hindu Temples’ Priests Federation, says privatisation will only spell doom. The federation has 80,000 priests working in ‘A,’ ‘B’ and ‘C’ grade temples. “Karnataka’s temples have properties worth Rs 1 lakh crore. It also has ornaments worth crores of rupees belonging to deities. Who will protect these properties? Once it is handed over to private trusts, there is no guarantee that the properties will be safeguarded,” he says, citing the example of corruption allegations involving the Tirupathi Tirumala Devasthanams (TTD) Board. Priests are also given Rs 48,000 per annum to maintain the temples. They may lose their jobs once private entities take over temples. “Rules keep changing as the governments keep changing. Priests should not be left in the lurch,” Dikshith adds. In a recent interaction with DH, Lingayat seer Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swamy also expressed concerns that privatisation of temples could lead to exclusion of a large section of the society from accessing places of worship. Expert panel The government has rolled the dice. Muzrai, Haj & Wakf Minister Shashikala Jolle tells DH that an expert committee will be constituted to look into deregulation of temples and that she will hold talks with Bommai soon. With no temples to regulate, what will be the Muzrai department’s role in the future? Officials in the department say they are clueless. Karnataka has 34,563 temples under the Muzrai department. Of them, 205 are in the ‘A’ category with an annual revenue of over Rs 25 lakh. There are 139 temples in the ‘B’ category (between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 25 lakh). The remaining 34,219 temples are in the ‘C’ category. Temples in the ‘A’ and ‘B’ categories earned Rs 1,383.63 crore between 2018 and 2020. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/temples-bill-a-godsend-to-stop-fund-diversion-or-a-move-that-aids-graft-1073631.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: 160 more med seats under government quota this year||An additional 160 seats will be available for the undergraduate medical (MBBS) course under the government quota in the state this academic year. The National Medical Council (NMC) recently cleared the request of the state to approve courses at the new government medical college in Chikkaballapur, where 100 students can be admitted in the first batch. Along with this, a private medical college in Mangaluru has received approval to admit 150 students, of which 60 seats (40%) will be given to the government to fill. With this, the state has got 160 more seats to offer this academic year. The department of medical education is hoping to get more seats as the applications seeking permission to start new government medical colleges in Chikkamagaluru, Haveri and Gadag districts are pending before the NMC. "We are hoping to get a green signal for the three colleges soon," said an official from the department of medical education. As per the schedule, the state has decided to start counselling for MBBS courses from January 27 and the exercise ends on March 31. "As we have almost two months' time, we are hoping to get the approval and add seats in the second and extended rounds," the official added. Currently, there are over 8,000 MBBS seats available at 48 medical colleges. The number of seats available under the government quota during 2020-2021 was 3,640. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-160-more-med-seats-under-government-quota-this-year-1073632.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Educationist T V Maruthi passes away||Educationist, silk merchant and political leader T V Maruthi (90) passed away due to age-related ailments on Saturday.  He served as the president of the National Silk Export Promotion Council and as president of the Karnataka Weavers’ Federation. He was also president of several education trusts, including the Acharya Patashala Education Trust, Kunchatiga Sarvajanika Vidyarthi Nilaya and Sheshadripuram Education Society.  He was an active member of the Congress and had even contested for Rajya Sabha elections.  The Kunchatiga Sarvajanika Vidyarthi Nilaya alumni association has expressed condolence on his demise. “He had a deep concern for people from the vulnerable communities. He has helped several students from backward sections and rural areas. We remember his services with great respect,” association president H G Chandrashekaraiah said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/educationist-t-v-maruthi-passes-away-1073633.html
22-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Case hearing at virtual mode in Karnataka HC benches||The cases before all the Bengaluru, Dharwad and Kalaburagi benches of the Karnataka High Court will be heard through virtual mode in both sessions. A notification with a fresh Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) has been issued in this regard. The notification stated that parties-in-person and litigants are not allowed to enter the court complex unless there is a specific order of the court to that effect and unless a soft or hard copy of the order is shown to the security personnel at the entry point at the principal bench in Bengaluru and benches in Dharwad and Kalaburagi. Holiday on Saturday Meanwhile, a holiday has been declared on Saturday (January 22, 2022) to the high court and district judiciary across the state to take remedial measures for combating the impending threat of Covid-19. The decision has been taken in pursuance of government orders dated January 4 and 11, 2022 and also as per the resolution dated January 17, 2022, of the committees in respect of SOP for the high court and district judiciary. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/case-hearing-at-virtual-mode-in-karnataka-hc-benches-1073635.html
22-01-2022||West||Six killed, several injured in 20-storeyed Mumbai building fire||Six persons were killed and 17 others were injured after a fire broke out in the Kamala Building at Nana Chowk in Grant Road area of south Mumbai on Saturday morning. According to the Mumbai fire brigade and police, the fire broke out on the 18th floor of the 20-storeyed building.  The fire, reported around 7:28 am, has been controlled and cooling operations are under way.  Fifteen injured have been admitted to the Bhatia Hospital of which 12 are stable and three are in ICU in critical condition. Four injured persons were rushed to the Nair Hospital of which two were declared dead.  Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the affected buildings and hospitals to inquire about the injured. Meanwhile, PM Narendra Modi has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the building fire. The injured would be given Rs 50,000. In a tweet, PM Modi said, "Saddened by the building fire at Tardeo in Mumbai. Condolences to the bereaved families and prayers with the injured for the speedy recovery." Aaditya Thackeray said, "The state government will provide a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to family members of those who lost their lives in this unfortunate fire." "There were reports about 2 hospitals refusing treatment, however both hospitals informed me that they have admitted and treated some of those injured in this fire," he tweeted. He said he visited the affected building and also spoke to the residents, whom he assured to provide "complete assistance". Talking to reporters, Thackeray said short-circuit was the prima facie cause of the fire and the building has been evacuated after the incident. n a social media post, Fadnavis, who is Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, said, "I am shocked and anguished to know nearby hospitals refused admissions to the injured persons, which resulted into more deaths. If it is true then, BMC and State administration should fix the responsibility for these deaths and take action against those who are responsible for the deaths." (With agency inputs) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/six-killed-several-injured-in-20-storeyed-mumbai-building-fire-1073455.html
22-01-2022||West||Naxals set afire 11 tractors, two JCB machines in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli||A group Naxals allegedly set on fire 11 tractors and two JCB machines engaged in road construction work in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra, police said on Saturday. The incident took place at Irapnagar village in Bhamragadh tehsil around 2 pm on Friday, during which they also torched one Poclain machine, a senior police official said. "Around 40 to 50 Naxals were involved in the incident. They are Dalam and militia members," he said. The burnt vehicles and other machinery belonged to contractors involved in the road construction work. According to the official, police have registered a case and launched a probe. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/naxals-set-afire-11-tractors-two-jcb-machines-in-maharashtras-gadchiroli-1073538.html
22-01-2022||West||There was loud sound followed by black smoke: Eyewitnesses in Mumbai building fire||Residents of the Mumbai building where fire claimed six lives on Saturday said they heard a loud sound followed by black smoke, and recalled the frenzy of those living there to get out to safety. “We heard a big noise and rushed outside. There was black smoke coming out of some floors above us. We immediately rushed downstairs and came into the open area,” a resident said. Residents of the Matrumandir building near Sachinam Heights attributed the blaze to an AC compressor explosion. “We were on the terrace early in the morning when we heard a loud noise, which sounded like some kind of an explosion. We saw the fire and smoke coming out of a flat and immediately called the fire brigade,” a resident of Matrumandir told reporters. “We then called other fellow residents of our society to make arrangements for rescued citizens of that building to rest in the open space area of our building,” he said. A resident of Sachinanm Heights said he had returned from Kurla railway station just before the blaze. “It was shortly after 7 am when the fire broke out. We were later told it was due to a short circuit. I had gone out to drop my mother at Kurla station. When I returned, I was in the room and heard a loud sound,” he said. “Suddenly the lights went off. I saw smoke in gallery. There was a melee of residents trying to get out. Many were injured. Some sustained head injuries. The injured included many senior citizens,” he said. A woman who lived on the 14th floor of the building said she came to know of the blaze after being woken up by a friend, following which they rushed outside. Another woman living on the fourth floor said, “We came to know of the fire shortly after 7 am. When we came outside the building, there was a “fat-fat” sound outside a cabin (which presumably housed the AC compressor). “There was smoke first and then there were flames,” she said. Asked how did she come out of the building, she said she used the stairs. Many residents of the Sachinam building were shifted to the Matrumandir building, where they were given tea and snacks by people there. The blaze erupted around 7 am in Sachinam Heights building located opposite Bhatia Hospital at Gowalia Tank, when many of its residents were still asleep, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. It took around six hours to extinguish the blaze, the official said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/there-was-loud-sound-followed-by-black-smoke-eyewitnesses-in-mumbai-building-fire-1073549.html
22-01-2022||West||62% parents in Maharashtra unwilling to send children back to school from Jan 24: Survey||About 62 per cent of surveyed parents in Maharashtra are unwilling to send their children to school from January 24, amid the state government's decision to allow reopening of schools from Monday. The findings were based on a survey conducted by online community platform LocalCircle across tier-I, tier-II/III and tier-IV cities of the state that received 4,976 responses. Of the total, 67 per cent respondents were men and the remaining 33 per cent women, the survey showed. Immediately after the onset of the Omicron-led third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government had on January 8 ordered closure of all schools and colleges in the state till February 15 to contain the spread of the virus. However, on January 20, the state education minister, contrary to earlier decision, announced that schools in the state for 1st-12th standard will reopen from January 24. While the BMC has allowed schools to reopen in Mumbai, the Maharashtra government has allowed local bodies to take the decision on reopening schools after assessing the Covid-19 situation in their respective areas. However, students will not be forced to attend physical classes where schools reopen. In cities like Pune and Aurangabad, it has been decided to keep schools shut while classes continue in the online mode. LocalCircles has been closely tracking parents' willingness to send their children to attend in-person classes in school at a national and state level since the pandemic started. Amid Maharashtra's announcement to reopen schools, LocalCircles has once again gone back to parents to understand their willingness to send their ward to attend classes at school from January 24, it said. In response, the majority — 62 per cent of surveyed parents of school children in Maharashtra — said that they are unwilling to send their children to school from January 24. "However, 11 per cent of citizens said, Yes (will send from January 24) and 16 per cent said they are already sending their children (to school),” LocalCircles said. At the same time, it said, 11 per cent did not offer any opinion. In summary, 62 per cent of the parents of school-going children surveyed in Maharashtra are unwilling to send their children to school from January 24 amid a surge of Covid cases and high test positivity rate between 20-25 per cent in the state, it stated. On Friday, Maharashtra reported 48,270 Covid cases from 2,05,938 tests conducted and there were 37 related deaths, as per the LocalCircles. Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in the state continues to remain high at 23.4 per cent, it said, adding with children under the age of 15 years being unvaccinated and 15-18 age group only partially vaccinated and the highly transmissible nature of Omicron, many parents are concerned about sending children for in-person school. In the community discussions, many of them have highlighted long-term implications of Covid and the need for in-person schools to only start when TPR falls to 5 per cent or lower, it stated. The platform also said it will share the findings of this survey with Chief Secretary of Maharashtra and Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare so that citizens' pulse is taken into account for Maharashtra as well as it is used as a reference as other states consider reopening schools. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/62-parents-in-maharashtra-unwilling-to-send-children-back-to-school-from-jan-24-survey-1073553.html
22-01-2022||West||Gujarat's Republic Day tableau to showcase tribal massacre 'worse than Jallianwala Bagh'||The Gujarat government on Saturday announced that the theme of the state's tableau to be exhibited in New Delhi on January 26 would be based on a "story highlighting tribal freedom fighters of Pal Dadhvaav", in which 1,200 tribals were said to have been massacred by Britishers, making it an event "worse than Jallianwala Bagh." The theme of the tableau, titled "Tribal Revolutionaries of Gujarat", would depict an around 100-year-old story in Pal and Dadhvaav villages of Sabarkantha district in north Gujarat. "The Britishers had massacred 1,200 tribals, an event worse than Jallianwala Bagh. This republic day, the Gujarat government, through a tableau, will present this untold story of bravery and sacrifices of the Tribals," a release issued by the government stated. "On the day of Amalki Ekadashi (March 7, 1922) just before Holi, freedom-seeking tribals gathered under the leadership of Motilal Tejawat, known as 'Gandhi of Koliyari, at a fair. At the very moment, soldiers from Mewad Bhil Corps arrived at the procession and under direction from its officer Major H G Saturn fired on the gathering. In the unprovoked firing, about 1,200 innocent tribals were killed," the release stated. It further stated that "Two wells — Dhekhadiya and Dudhiya — were overflowing with the bodies of about 1,200 innocent tribals." "This horrific incident, which took place just three years after the Jallianwala Bagh incident, was forgotten," the release states. It adds that "on April 13, 1919, around 600 innocent civilians were killed at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar, Punjab." It also mentions how the then chief minister Narendra Modi "brought this crucial chapter of history before the world" by building a memorial at the place where the event occurred. Arun Vaghela, head of History Department at Gujarat University, told DH, "There is a lack of evidence on the exact number of persons killed in the event but legend has it that hundreds of them were killed. There are songs and stories in the Bhil community that recounts the event. I appreciate the fact that the state government has chosen to highlight this historical event to represent Gujarat." Vaghela has written on book "Tribal Movements During Colonial Gujarat" where he mentioned about this incident. He added, "This is an important historical incident, which hasn't been highlighted as much as it should have been."  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-republic-day-tableau-to-showcase-tribal-massacre-worse-than-jallianwala-bagh-1073600.html
