23-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Case against professor for flouting quarantine rule||The chief officer of Town Municipal Council Shruthi Gaikwad has registered a complaint with the police against G C College Zoology professor S R Shirodkar on the charge of flouting quarantine rules and spreading Covid among students.  In the complaint, she said that the professor had come to the college without completing the 14 days of home quarantine and took classes on January 19, knowing well that there is a substantial probability of virus transmission. Thirteen students have tested positive for Covid. This is negligence and purposeful, she has charged. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/case-against-professor-for-flouting-quarantine-rule-1073935.html
23-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||'Kangilu' team from Udupi to be part of Republic Day programme||The ‘Kangilu dance’ team of Udupi will participate in the Republic Day cultural programmes to be held on January 26 in New Delhi. Nine students from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College and Poorna Prajna College, along with five others, are part of the team. The troupe will take part under the name ‘Udupi Feets’. The first round of selection took place in Bengaluru on December 11. The team is led by Kiran Padubidri. The team came fourth among 104 teams that took part in the second round of the final selection. MGM College, Kannada department head Dr Puttige Vasant Kumar said the selection was held on December 18 in New Delhi. The team is trained by Gurucharan Polipu and are taking part in the practice daily in New Delhi. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kangilu-team-from-udupi-to-be-part-of-republic-day-programme-1073948.html
23-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Congress, Left parties trying to divide society: Sunil Kumar||Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V Sunil Kumar accused Congress leaders in Karnataka including former chief minister Siddaramaiah and the Left parties of trying to divide society by creating a row over the tableau of Narayana Guru. "The Congress leaders are unnecessarily politicising the issue. The Left party-led government in Kerala had violated the guidelines while sending the proposal for the tableau to be part of Republic Day parade," said the Minister. "They have intentionally created issues to insult Sri Narayana Guru and Hindu society. The Kerala government has been falsely spreading the message that only the tableau proposal on Narayana Guru was rejected. In fact, the jury had opposed three tableau proposals sent by Kerala on Shankaracharya, Jatayu and Narayana Guru," he added. Stating that Narayana Guru had upheld the principles of equality and unity in society, Sunil Kumar alleged that the Left party and Congress are trying to divide the society. Welcoming the decision of various organisations to hold a rally with the portrait of Narayana Guru on January 26, the Minister said: “as a follower of Narayana Guru, I will also be part of such programmes. People should understand the political conspiracies of the Communists and Congress. It was the same Congress which had objected to the proposal of the Mangaluru City Corporation to rename the Lady Hill Circle after Narayana Guru,” he said. Procession Meanwhile, members of various like-minded organisations and Left and secular parties will take out a procession of the portrait of Narayana Guru on January 26. To condemn the rejection of the tableau of Narayana Guru proposal sent by the Kerala government to take part in the Republic Day parade, the members will take out a procession of the portrait of Narayana Guru from Clock Towers to DC’s office in Mangaluru. Sunil Kumar Bajal on behalf of the organisers said Narayana Guru had propagated equality and also fought for rights of women. “It was not right on the part of the BJP government to show disrespect to Narayana Guru owing to differences in ideology. The disrespect has hurt the sentiments of the people. By respecting Narayana Guru, we have TO show our commitment to build equality in the society,” he said. Rally To create awareness on the messages of Narayana Guru, youth wing of JD(S) of Dakshina Kannada will organise a rally from State Bank Circle in Mangaluru to Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple on January 24 at 11.30 am. MLC B M Farooq will flag off the rally, said a release from Youth JD(S) district president Akshith Suvarna. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-left-parties-trying-to-divide-society-sunil-kumar-1073823.html
23-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Non-invitation snub to Jarkiholis at Katti-led BJP leaders' meet||A ‘secret’ meeting of BJP leaders held here on Sunday, under the leadership of Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti, has set off speculations in political circles, especially since it was held without inviting the Jarkiholi brothers.    The meeting assumes significance in the light of the talk of a Cabinet reshuffle, which is likely to take place after the Uttar Pradesh elections.  Former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi had fielded his brother Lakhan Jarkiholi as an independent candidate from the Belgaum local bodies’ constituency in the recently held elections to the Legislative Council, which is said to be the reason for the defeat of the official BJP candidate Mahantesh Kavatgimath.  The Jarkiholi brothers not being invited to the meeting is seen as a snub to them in the wake of this development.  Among those present at the meeting held at the residence of Umesh Katti were BJP leaders from the region - MLC Lakshman Savadi, Lok Sabha member from Chikkodi Annasaheb Jolle, Rajya Sabha member Eranna Kadadi, MLAs Abhay Patil, Anil Benake, Mahantesh Doddagoudar, P Rajeev and Mahantesh Kavatgimath. Belgaum MP Mangala Angadi was not present at the meeting.  Other issues discussed at the meeting include appointments to boards and corporations and elections to the posts of mayor and deputy mayor of city corporation.    It was decided to demand that the CM give ministerial berths for Abhay Patil and Rajeev as also chairmanship of a board or corporation to Doddagoudar.   Sources said discussions were held on ways to prevent damage caused to the party by the Jarkiholi brothers, besides the setbacks faced by the party in the elections to the Council and the urban local bodies.         Meanwhile, Abhay Patil has demanded that the exercise of Cabinet reshuffle should be taken up at the earliest to put an end to rumours or not undertaken at all. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/non-invitation-snub-to-jarkiholis-at-katti-led-bjp-leaders-meet-1073934.html
23-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||‘BSY partially responsible for my political growth’||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department Minister K S Eshwarappa on Sunday claimed that former chief minister B S Yediyurappa was partially responsible for his political growth. “There is no doubt that my growth in politics is partially due to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and B S Yediyurappa. I haven’t worked against him,” Eshwarappa remarked at a function to install the newly-elected office-bearers of the Shimoga Urban Development Authority (SUDA). The rivalry between the BJP’s two senior leaders from Shivamogga is known in political circles. Eshwarappa had rebelled against Yediyurappa forming the Sangolli Rayanna Brigade in 2016 over the appointment of office-bearers by Yediyurappa, the then BJP state president. In March 2021, Eshwarappa had written a letter to the then-governor Vajubhai Vala claiming undue interference by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in his department matters to favour his kin. Eshwarappa’s supporter N J Nagaraj has been preferred over Yediyurappa’s supporter Jyothiprakash as the SUDA chairperson. The development is projected as a setback to Yediyurappa in the district. Eshwarappa added, "There has been a debate that the BJP has two factions in the state headed by me and Yediyurappa. Building a team to work against Yediyurappa meant betraying father and mother.”  MP B Y Raghavendra said that Nagaraj’s appointment was not a setback to anyone. He was chosen for the position as he worked hard for the party’s organisation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-partially-responsible-for-my-political-growth-1073936.html
23-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah is afraid of JD(S), says Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy continued his salvo against Opposition leader Siddaramaiah, on Sunday. The fresh attack against Siddaramaiah came following his remarks to ‘chase away’ JD(S) from Tumakuru. In a series of tweets, Kumaraswamy lashed out at the former CM saying that he need not learn about language and culture from someone who had no control over his tongue. “I have responded to ‘self-declared constitutional expert’ Siddaramaiah for speaking against us and our party. Shouldn’t he have the ability to digest my response? He doesn’t have the capacity,” the JD(S) leader said in a series of tweets. What kind of politics is it to ask people to chase away one party from a district in a democracy? he asked. “He says that he won’t talk about Kumaraswamy. But every time he speaks, he talks about me. Is it a lie that he relentlessly attacks JD(S)? The entire state has heard his remarks,” he said. Recalling Siddaramaiah’s statements that “Kumaraswamy was afraid of him,” he said that it was a myth. “He is desperate after realising that he will not be elected CM again,” he said. Siddaramaiah’s criticism against JD(S) clearly shows that he is afraid of the regional party, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-is-afraid-of-jds-says-kumaraswamy-1073938.html
23-01-2022||National||How are children coping with the pandemic?||Ritu* (16) had always been a topper at school. She had changed her school during Class 11 and had even made several friends during online classes, but found herself isolated when she eventually got to school.  She was lonely, refused to come out of her room when at home and would not go out to play in the evenings. Her studies took a back seat. She missed classes, and couldn’t submit her assignments on time, causing her further distress. Concerned, Ritu’s mother, with great difficulty, got her to speak to a counsellor online.  “She had slipped into depression,” the counsellor says, noting that the overachiever had no way of validating herself as she stepped into Class 11. “She craved to meet people she could talk to but there was no one.” To the counsellor, Ritu confided, “I am not like this, but I don’t know how else to feel.” When the pandemic began, no one gave serious thought to the effect of school closures on children. However, nearly two years in, conversations with counsellors and psychiatrists indicate that the mental health challenges children face have shot up. Even before the pandemic, the National Mental Health Survey from 2016 had indicated that at least 7.3 per cent of children between 13 and 17 years of age, some 98 lakh children, needed active mental health interventions. It also indicated that the prevalence of mental health disorders was nearly twice in urban metros when compared to rural areas. The scenario seems to have worsened. UNICEF’s State of Children report 2021 indicates that at least 14 per cent of youngsters (14 to 25 years of age), felt “depressed” or had “little interest in doing things”. Another worrying figure comes from the National Crime Record Bureau data. Figures show that the number of deaths by suicides among minors, which averaged around 9,000 between 2016 and 2019, had jumped by over 18 per cent to touch 11,396 deaths in 2020. “What we have noticed is that issues of children who have learning disabilities or other issues like Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADCD) and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) have gotten worse because of the pandemic,” says Dr Milan Balakrishnan, a consultant child and adolescent psychiatrist based out of Mumbai. Dr Balakrishnan cited the case of a young boy with OCD — excessive cleanliness and fear of God — whose symptoms worsened because of the pandemic. “He was doing reasonably well before the pandemic. What we have noticed is that in children who already suffer from mental disorders, symptoms have increased because of the pandemic. When schools start, we should think of fewer hours of teaching so children adapt well to learning,” he says.  So far, other than setting up helplines, the central government has not conducted a dedicated study investigating the effects of the pandemic on the mental health of children. A lost childhood It is a crucial year for Vinaya, a Class 10 student in Chennai. She starts her day at five in the morning, attending online tuitions. She then logs onto her regular classes at 9 am, which go on until 3 pm. She has her school work to finish after that. “I feel very low and strained sitting in one place,” Vinaya says. “Many of my friends have told me they are depressed. We chat online, but the emotional connection that we had in school is missing.” Bratati Roy Chowdhury, a Bengalurean, says her younger daughter who is four-and-a-half years old, was looking forward to attending school. But tentative plans to reopen the school were pushed back by the third wave.  Bratati now worries that prolonged isolation could hamper her daughter’s social skills or confidence and hopes the repeated lockdowns don’t have a long-term effect on the child’s mental health. Sunanda Vinayachandran, a psychologist from Bengaluru, says that apart from the loss of learning, the repeated lockdowns have left children confused. “Each time there is a drastic change, children reinvent themselves to fit in and belong, create their identity,” Sunanada says. But repeated changes can often lead to them giving up. “Some children have given up, not knowing where they belong, who their close associates are, whom to trust, how to keep engaged and feel validated. These are some of their prime questions,” she says. Coping with stress   Sreyoshi Sen, a senior associate at a Mumbai-based NGO that works to get youth job-ready, says children have become more closed-off and anxious after the pandemic. She added that this behaviour even extends to interactions with their peers. “More and more children have dropped out of courses or taken a long leave of absence.” “Motivation to go to school when it starts is also low. They have lost academic confidence and are scared that they would sit in class and understand nothing, so they prefer online classes,” Sen says. Not just confidence, children have also lost academic progress that happened over several years. About 92 per cent of children have lost at least one specific language ability and 82 per cent of children have lost a mathematical ability across all classes, adding to anxiety about academic performance.  Coupled with problems at home, children have a lot to do deal with.  Sreyoshi has noticed a distinct lack of agency, especially with young girls, during some counselling sessions.  “Their time involved in household chores and caregiving increased exponentially. They had no time for themselves. This has proved to be demotivating and restrictive,” she says. Job losses and financial difficulties at home have also pushed several children, especially young boys studying in Class 11 or 12, to pick up odd jobs so they can support the family. In the Govandi slum in Mumbai, 15-year-old Priya’s* family of five had increasingly come to depend on her for household chores. “Initially, I was excited when lockdowns were announced — it meant more time to spend with family. However, after my brother lost his job, my family bickered constantly. I also spent a lot of time doing housework,” Priya says. The teenager’s educational ambitions were only supported by her father, working as a labourer in the UAE. But with uncertainty about when the Class 10 exams would be held, Priya herself is unsure about her future. There is no doubt among teachers, educationists, NGO workers that there has been a tremendous impact on children due to the pandemic, points out Rishikesh B S, who leads the Hub for Education, Law & Policy at the Azim Premji University in Bengaluru.  “There have been children who have seen deaths or witnessed sorrowful events at close quarters. Their overall mental wellbeing has led many children into a depressive mental state. One reason is that children thrive on socialisation and in urban spaces, this is largely limited for the past two years,” he says. “Adolescent girls are facing immense pressure,” says Rishikesh. “Many of their peers have been married off, and they have not been able to reconcile with the fact that their friend would now spend time with older women, that now her concerns are different. These are all traumatic events,” he says. Rishikesh says that a big problem in India is that teachers do not have any exposure to counselling nor do our schools have trained counsellors, unlike in other countries, where they spend time learning to identify and be empathetic to these issues.  “All this work needs to happen to get the next generation to stand on their feet,” he says. “Schools have been doing a wonderful job of keeping children engaged,” says Sunanda. “But children need their peers, not elders to feel and laugh with,” she says. (With inputs from Varsha Gowda in Bengaluru) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-are-children-coping-with-the-pandemic-1073686.html
23-01-2022||National||Can a memorial be built to erase memories of a lived history?||The flame that burned under the India Gate to honour Indian soldiers was ceremonially extinguished on Friday, days before it could complete 50 years. For many generations of Indians, the site was embedded in their memories of national pride and military valour. They didn’t care who had built the India Gate and for what reason, or for the identity of the Indian soldier killed in Jessore in the 1971 War whose rifle and helmet were placed there. As with many other things, it has been appropriated into an Indian icon — a site for picnics, protests and photography. The controversy created by the Centre’s abrupt decision to merge — and thereby douse — the Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate is thus not merely political. When the National War Memorial was inaugurated in 2019, weeks before the parliamentary elections that year, senior military officers were on record to stress that Amar Jawan Jyoti “will continue to be there”. “A new flame will come up there (at the National War Memorial). But the eternal flame at Amar Jawan Jyoti will stay. We have inherited that flame,” the then Chief of Integrated Defence Staff Lt Gen P S Rajeshwar had said. The Indian Army’s Deputy Chief Lt Gen P J S Pannu stressed that the “Amar Jawan Jyoti is an inseparable part of our history. So much emotion is attached to it. And, it is located beneath the India Gate which itself is a war memorial, built during the British-era. So, if any old regiments wish to commemorate their important days and mark an event and pay respect, they can still do it there as well…Both flames will have their own importance.” Mind you, these were not officers speaking in their personal capacity as the retired generals and admirals today are, but giving out the considered official position of the armed forces, which had led the construction of the National War Memorial. Suddenly, three years later, the government decided to overturn that decision, and the only explanation that was forthcoming was a WhatsApp message to select journalists — reproduced faithfully by many — attributable to “PMO sources perspective”. That message, and the decision per se, has raised three distinct issues. One, the government has been concerned that the new war memorial has not got the kind of public attention and traction that it thought it would generate. There are myriad reasons for it but the underlying cause is that this memorial is owned by the military – it is not a site for the common public. Compare it with India Gate, with the Amar Jawan Jyoti inside it, that is perhaps the most iconic site in the national capital to capture the public imagination. That place has been defined totally by the public, without disrespecting the memory of the soldiers in any way. A staid, formal and stiff war memorial controlled by the military can scarcely hope to replicate that informal verve and vitality created by the masses. Two, by highlighting the colonial origins of India Gate, the government is trying to flatten the nuanced, complex history of the Indian Army. Undivided India lost more than 1,60,000 soldiers in the two World Wars and its soldiers are buried in more than 60 foreign countries. Another 26,500 soldiers have died in conflicts after Independence who are commemorated in the new war memorial. The Indian Army’s oldest battalion claims to have been raised in 1757 by the East India Company, while there are also battalions of the erstwhile state forces which fought for Mughal emperors like Akbar that have converted to regular Indian Army battalions now. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself celebrated the colonial legacy of the Indian Army when he visited the cemetery in Haifa, where Jodhpur Lancers, Mysore Lancers and Hyderabad Lancers (all state forces) fought in World War I. He has also visited the memorial at Neuve Chapelle in France that commemorates Indian soldiers of the British Army who sacrificed their lives in World War I. “She was like some ancient palimpsest on which layer upon layer of thought and reverie had been inscribed, and yet no succeeding layer had completely hidden or erased what had been written previously.” Jawaharlal Nehru said this of India in The Discovery of India, and it applies equally to the Indian Army. A complex legacy The Indian Army inherits a complex legacy and we need to accept that legacy and live with it — celebrate the valour, courage and sacrifice of our Indian soldiers, whether they fought under the British, the Mughals or the Azad Hind Fauj. A modern India has to be expansive enough to honour all those fallen in battle, and any politics that tries to deal with it simplistically ends up diminishing and undermining India. Finally, this gives us a moment to reflect on the real purpose of war memorials in the twenty-first century. When memorials were erected in the wake of World War I, it was a different world, with another set of values and norms. Modern societies, unless afflicted by insecurities of parochial nationalism, scarcely celebrate wars. Remembering wars are moments of reflection about the losses and the subsequent pain that society had to undergo because of conflict. Our most celebrated epic, the Mahabharata, speaks of ‘Ahimsa Paramo Dharmah’ in the Shanti Parva, and the victors in that great war ruminate over the futility of being victors when everything is destroyed. India claims to be the land of Buddha and Gandhi, and it can afford to glorify peace now. The best guarantors of peace are soldiers, who are also the biggest sufferers in war. To celebrate our soldiers in the cause of peace, while remembering the human costs of war, would be a wonderful message to emanate from a modern, confident and strong India. (The writer is Senior Fellow, Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-a-memorial-be-built-to-erase-memories-of-a-lived-history-1073688.html
23-01-2022||National||‘Integrate more experiential methods of teaching’||The ripple effects of the pandemic on children and adolescents are manifesting in their behaviour, learning, academic performance as well as mental and physical well-being. Often, families are unaware of coping mechanisms and care does not reach these children at the right time. In an interview with DH's Anupama Ramakrishnan, Dr Eesha Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Nimhans highlighted the issues in children and how to deal with them. How can teachers and parents help children cope with the pandemic?  Teachers and parents can help by being open and honest, responding to questions that children might have, collaboratively exploring options to keep the child engaged and ‘learning’, and being mindful and inquisitive about information children may come across online via social media or from friends. Several closed communities have allowed children’s parks and activity centres to stay open. While this access is a blessing to children, it is important for parents to talk to their children about continuing safety precautions. It would help if parents could take turns to supervise children in these spaces. Alongside the challenges the pandemic has thrown, in terms of continuing school curriculums, etc, it also presents an opportunity for all stakeholders to pause and reflect on teaching methods and content that has typically been part of the school curricula. It is time to mindfully integrate more experiential methods of teaching and to inculcate in children the ‘joy of learning’ rather than the need to ‘complete coursework’. It is also a time to discover new hobbies and family routines that would go a long way in building children’s resilience. Are children who need help from mental help professionals being supported by parents?  I have seen several parents organising or asking for online consultations for their children. I think parents' limitations in seeking help for their children stems from their pre-existing financial and social inequalities, and are not really specific to the pandemic. What would you advise children during these tough times? One can give advice when one has already learnt from experience. As far as this pandemic is concerned, we are all children! I would rather tell children ‘let’s face this together by sharing and cooperating and figuring out how to make the best of these times’. How will this situation impact the future of youngsters? How do we go forward from here?   There is a need to define and understand a ‘new, dynamic, evolving normal’. We have found ourselves lost and our lives turned upside down with the pandemic. We have no idea how long this is going to last or whether the erstwhile patterns of normalcy will still hold good in the future. What we are dealing with is a high amount of uncertainty. What might help is for us to encourage more openness to new ways of being, to new patterns of work environments, to new spaces and styles of learning. It is hard to say what might work, but being open to trying out at least gives us a chance that something will. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/integrate-more-experiential-methods-of-teaching-1073690.html
23-01-2022||National||Goa polls: TMC candidate Sandeep Vazarkar arrested in cheque bouncing case||Sandeep Vazarkar, the Trinamool Congress Party's candidate from Porvorim for the February 14 Assembly elections in Goa, was arrested on Saturday in a cheque-bouncing case on the orders of a Dehradun court, police said here. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Porvorim) Vishwesh Karpe said Vazarkar was arrested in the evening after a court at Dehradun issued bailable warrants against him in two different cases. The cases were registered under section 138 of the Indian Penal Code which deals with the 'bouncing' of cheques for lack of funds in a bank account, the deputy SP said, adding that Goa Police did not have more information about the matter. Earlier, on December 30, Vazarkar had been arrested by Mapusa police in an alleged case of fraud. He was later released on the bail. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-polls-tmc-candidate-sandeep-vazarkar-arrested-in-cheque-bouncing-case-1073694.html
23-01-2022||National||A ‘down to earth’ space scientist aims for the moon||Diving deep into his repertoire of technical and managerial skills, S Somanath had anchored the shaping of the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) Mk III, India’s most powerful rocket launcher, for years. Today, as Chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro), the ‘down to earth’ veteran rocket scientist will have to reshape it to launch India’s ambitious first manned space mission. Hit by pandemic turbulence, Isro’s flagship Gaganyaan mission had lagged considerably in its race to meet the strict 2024 deadline set by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Space scientists across platforms are convinced Somanath is just the right man for the job, and for a pretty good reason. They had seen Somanath navigate the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) as its director, keeping himself constantly updated with the fast-changing developments in the field. His previous avatar as the director of the Thiruvananthapuram-based Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC) prepared Somanath for the big challenges ahead.  “Over the last 10 to 15 years, he was being seen as a future Isro chairman owing to his qualities,” recollects former VSSC director M C Dathan. Somanath is one person who was exposed to the different entities associated with the country’s space development, having headed multiple agencies linked to Isro. As a team leader, Dathan recalls, Somanath gave due regard to every member, recognising their capabilities. Thanks to his mastery over Launch Vehicle (LV) technologies, Somanath was tasked with leading a team to integrate the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) during its early phases. As Project Manager, he studied in depth the LV’s mechanics, pyro systems and satellite launch service management. But the next space challenge produced his best effort: The Geostationary Launch Vehicle (GSLV) Mark III, Isro’s powerhouse and its chosen platform to launch the Chandrayaan-2 moon mission. This three-stage, heavy lift launch vehicle was his baby, says former Isro Chairman G Madhavan Nair. Nair had spotted Somanath’s streak of innovation right after he joined VSSC in 1985. He recalls how Somanath showcased his technical acumen, standing apart from the rest of his batch. Joining the GSLV MkIII project in 2003, Somanath as its Project Director from 2010 to 2014, completed the overall vehicle, mission and structural designs before the final integration. A senior colleague at VSSC attests to this, recalling Somanath’s leadership of the project as “exemplary”. “He would always motivate the team, leading the project right from the beginning to the concept review and aerodynamic stages, a prelude to the module. He laid the foundation for multiple progressions that eventually led to the first flight of the LVM3-X/CARE mission, the first experimental suborbital flight of GSLV MkIII,” says the senior colleague. Somanath, the VSSC official recalls, was also riveted to research and development. “He had submitted over 400 R&D proposals, and that thrust on innovation was visible in his laying the foundation for building a reusable launch vehicle.” He would go on to play a key role in three GSLV missions with indigenous cryogenic stages and 11 PSLV missions. Beyond Gaganyaan, Somanath will see expectations soar as Isro toys with another attempt at lunar landing with a Chandrayaan-3 mission. Chandrayaan-2’s failure in September 2019 still haunts the organisation, but a third mission could inject fresh momentum. Away from the limelight, Somanath had played a critical role in Chandrayaan-2, developing the throttleable engines for the lander component. His skill sets are seen as the right recipe for the space agency’s search for an all-new category of test rockets designed to test the crew module for the planned manned space flight. That one of the space agency’s brightest stars was the B Tech topper of the Mechanical Engineering batch of 1985 in TKM Engineering College, Kollam, Kerala, comes as no surprise. His college mates have recalled how despite his achievements, a sense of humility came naturally to him. But that never stopped him from dreaming big. More academic laurels awaited Somanath at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, where he earned his Masters in Aerospace Engineering with a Gold Medal, following which he was set to join the VSSC in 1985. A stint with LPSC, projects on GSLV and PSLV and there was no looking back for the recipient of the Astronautical Society of India’s ‘Space Gold Medal’. Cut to the present, and Somanath is eager to think beyond the milestones ahead. He had spelt it out on the day he was elevated: Open up India’s space sector to private players, enabling them to play roles in developing applications and even launching rockets. “The space sector needs to be developed into a business economy by making it a space service sector. Isro has its limitations and hence the role of the private sector is important,” he had explained. Having shepherded the powerful GSLV MkIII’s development and repeat launches, Somanath is aware that without innovation, Isro will find it tough to compete globally in the future. Design complexities of future engines would limit the growth potential of the space agency’s launch vehicle lift capacity. The road ahead, as he sees it, is clear: Build satellites that are more compact, integrate advanced electronics and go beyond the 5-tonne load capacity. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-down-to-earth-space-scientist-aims-for-the-moon-1073699.html
23-01-2022||National||DH Toon | 'Leaders are fighting each other in UP and elsewhere'||The exodus from the BJP in Uttar Pradesh of a number of ministers, legislators and leaders, most of them belonging to the Other Backward Classes (OBC), has imparted a new element to the electoral scene in the state. Three cabinet ministers and nine MLAs have resigned from the party till now, accusing Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the party leadership of ignoring the concerns of Dalits, backwards, farmers, unemployed youth and traders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-leaders-are-fighting-each-other-in-up-and-elsewhere-1073706.html
23-01-2022||National||NDRF Twitter handle hacked; restored later||The official Twitter handle of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was hacked late Saturday and fully restored by Sunday evening, officials said. The cyber attack at the handle '@NDRFHQ' took place around 10:45 pm on Saturday with some random messages being posted and the display name and photo being changed. NDRF Director General (DG) Atul Karwal told PTI that the account was fully restored and functional on Sunday after technical experts worked on the breach and restored the original display name and picture within 2-3 minutes of the attack. He said the force has lodged a complaint about the hacking with the Delhi Police cyber incidents investigation unit. The attack was also noticed by Twitter and the social media platform temporarily froze access to the account and hence, the already published messages of the force were not showing for hours. The account was later restored with full access to the force and it began posting messages beginning with a quote tweet of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) at 6:12 pm on Sunday. The DG said the force will conduct a security audit so that such incidents do not recur. The NDRF was raised in 2006 as a federal contingency force against natural and man-made disasters and it celebrated its 17th Raising Day on January 19. PTI NES AAR AAR Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndrf-twitter-handle-hacked-restored-later-1073715.html
23-01-2022||National||India reports 3.33 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 525 deaths||India logged 3,33,533 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,92,37,264, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have increased to 21,87,205, while the death toll has climbed to 4,89,409 with 525 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. The active cases comprise 5.57 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 93.18 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 73,840 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 17.78 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 16.87 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,65,60,560, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.25 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded  161.92 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 525 new fatalities include 132 from Kerala  and 48 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,89,409 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,42,071 from Maharashtra, 51,739 from Kerala, 38,563 from Karnataka, 37,178 from Tamil Nadu, 25,586 from Delhi, 23,038 from Uttar Pradesh and 20,302 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-333-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-525-deaths-1073718.html
23-01-2022||National||Dharam Sansad case: Plea in SC seeks SIT probe into hate speeches against Hindu community||An organisation, Hindu Front for Justice, through its president and others, has approached the Supreme Court to examine hate speeches delivered against the community. It has filed an intervention application in the hate speech case examined by the top court with regard to the Haridwar Dharam Sansad case. The plea claimed that since the top court has agreed to examine hate speeches against Muslims, then it should also examine hate speeches against Hindus, and cited over two dozen instances involving political leaders like Akbaruddin Owaisi and AAP leader from Delhi, Amanatullah Khan. “The applicants herein through the present application are praying to this court to direct an SIT to investigate the hate speeches given against the members of the Hindu community, their gods and goddess," the plea said. It further asked the court to direct investigation into the incident of hate speech given against the constitutional spirit as well as the unity and integrity of India.  The plea pointed out that leaders and preachers of the Muslim community have been propagating against the Hindu religion and against the sovereignty and integrity of India.  “The provocative speeches delivered by Muslim leaders have created an atmosphere of fear and unrest in the Hindu community. Such statements remind us of the working of Muslim league which resulted in the partition of the country," the plea filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain said. The National President of Hindu Sena also filed a plea to oppose the PIL, filed by journalist Qurban Ali, and another, which sought criminal action for hate speech against the speakers at the Dharam Sansad conclave held at Haridwar and another event in Delhi. The application sought directions to the state governments to register FIR against Asaduddin Owaisi, Tauqeer Raza, Sajid Rashidi, Amanatullah Khan, Waris Pathan for allegedly making hate speeches. On January 12, the Supreme Court issued notice to the Uttarakhand government and Centre with regard to hate speeches against the Muslim community at Dharam Sansad in Haridwar. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dharam-sansad-case-plea-in-sc-seeks-sit-probe-into-hate-speeches-against-hindu-community-1073720.html
23-01-2022||National||Book on India’s biggest civilian Everest expedition released||Everest, an english edition of the book on India's biggest successful civilian expedition to Mount Everest, was released coinciding with the 125th birth anniversary festivities of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.  The book has been authored by Umesh Zirpe, the leader of the expedition, who is associated with Pune-based adventure and mountaineering club Giripremi, and translated by Vivek Shivade. Eight mountaineers – Prasad Joshi, Ashish Mane, Tekraj Adhikari, Krishna Dhokle, Rupesh Khopade, Rahul Yelange, Chetan Ketkar, and Surendra Jalihal – reached the summit on May 19, 2012, under Zirpe’s leadership.  “It gives me immense pleasure to present the English edition of the book about the Everest expedition. Giripremi’s Everest expedition is so close to my heart. From raising funds to building a team to climbing the tallest peak in the world was an emotional joyride for me as a leader. "I tried to put everything in detail in the book. With English edition, the story of India’s biggest successful expedition to Everest is now going global. We all are excited,” Zirpe said.  Earlier, the Marathi edition has been released.   The story depicts the struggle of the team in raising a whopping 3.5 crore budget for the expedition. How the climbers and then the entire club made day out of night and reached all sections of society, how every Maharashtrian felt a close connection with this expedition, how over 25,000 individuals happily contributed to match the sum and so on.  “This book is not just about the story of the Everest expedition, it is a compendium of detailed planning, flawless execution, excellent people management and great leadership. I have already read the Marathi edition a few years back. When I read the English edition, I realised the soul of the original edition is perfectly intact,” said Ramchandra Rao, Executive Chairman, Indo Schottle Auto Parts Pvt. Ltd. Anand Awadhani, the publisher of the book, said, “This book is a classic example of crossing boundaries. It is one of such books which has been translated from Marathi to English and not otherwise. ‘Everest’ is a story about the journey of making the impossible possible. As a publisher, such books give us pleasure and inspiration both while working on it. We are happy to be a part of the Everest journey.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/book-on-india-s-biggest-civilian-everest-expedition-released-1073722.html
23-01-2022||National||Every Indian proud of Netaji's monumental contribution: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary and said every Indian is proud of his monumental contribution to our nation. Modi also greeted people on 'Parakram Diwas', which has been announced by his government to mark the Azad Hind Fauj founder's birthday.  The prime minister tweeted, "I bow to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his Jayanti. Every Indian is proud of his monumental contribution to our nation." सभी देशवासियों को पराक्रम दिवस की ढेरों शुभकामनाएं। नेताजी सुभाष चंद्र बोस की 125वीं जयंती पर उन्हें मेरी आदरपूर्ण श्रद्धांजलि। He is also scheduled to unveil Bose's hologram statue at India Gate in the evening.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/every-indian-proud-of-netajis-monumental-contribution-pm-modi-1073726.html
23-01-2022||National||Bal Thackeray will be remembered forever, says PM Modi||Paying tributes to Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray on his 96th birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that he will be remembered forever as an outstanding leader who always stood with the people. A hardline Hindutva leader, Thackeray was born in 1926 and founded the Shiv Sena, which was a BJP ally for a long time before it severed ties in 2019. Thackeray died in 2012.   I pay homage to Shri Balasaheb Thackeray on his Jayanti. He will be remembered forever as an outstanding leader who always stood with the people. Modi tweeted, "I pay homage to Shri Balasaheb Thackeray on his Jayanti. He will be remembered forever as an outstanding leader who always stood with the people." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bal-thackeray-will-be-remembered-forever-says-pm-modi-1073727.html
23-01-2022||National||All you need to know about Covid-affected Republic Day 2022 celebration||India is set to celebrate its 73rd Republic Day, second after the Covid-19 pandemic, that has killed over 55 lakh people globally, set in. Even so, events planned on Rajpath are expected to be as grand as every year albeit with a change of plans. The number of people allowed to attend the Republic Day parade this year would be curtailed by 70-80 per cent to approximately 5,000-8,000 due to the ongoing wave of Covid-19, senior officials of the Defence Ministry said. Approximately 25,000 people were allowed to attend the last year's parade. All Covid-19 protocol will be followed at the parade. Social distancing norms would be followed while making the seating arrangements, they mentioned, adding sanitiser dispensers will be available everywhere and wearing masks would be compulsory. Officials said the aim is to keep the people away and maintain social distancing at all times so that the parade does not become a super spreader event. Therefore, the numbers have been significantly curtailed. Largest flypast with 75 aircraft  Despite the curbs, the Republic Day parade at the Rajpath this year will see the "grandest and largest" flypast ever with the participation of 75 aircraft to mark the Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav celebrations, IAF PRO Wing Commander Indranil Nandi said. The flypast will conclude with seven jaguar fighter aircraft flying in the 'Amrit' formation to commemorate the 75 years of Independence. The Indian Air force also unveiled its tableau for the Republic Day celebrations, with assets like Light Combat Helicopter (LCH) armed with AT Dhruvastra missile, Ashlesha Mk1 radar, Gnat, Rafale, MIG 21 on display. No foreign head of state or government as chief guest There will be no foreign head of state or government as the chief guest for the Republic Day event this year, PTI sources said. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic continuing and the cases rising, this would be the second year in a row when there would be no foreign leader as the chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations. 25 tableaux part of parade The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will have two tableaux at the Republic Day parade this year displaying indigenously developed sensors, weapons and electronic warfare systems for light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas and air independent propulsion (AIP) systems for Indian submarines. Twenty-five tableaux of different states, departments and armed forces will be part of the parade on January 26. Rashtriya Bal Puraskar virtually Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardees on Monday via video conferencing. These awards are conferred by the President in a ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The awardees of PMRBP also take part in the Republic Day parade. However, in view of the Covid-19 situation in the country, it has not been possible to organise the award ceremony in New Delhi this year. (With DHNS/agency inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-covid-affected-republic-day-2022-celebration-1073739.html
23-01-2022||National||Next edition of 'Mann ki Baat' on Jan 30 to be at 11.30 am||This month Prime Minister Narendra Modi's monthly radio address 'Mann Ki Baat' will take place at 11.30 a.m. instead of 11 a.m. Prime Minister Modi said that 'Mann Ki Baat' will begin at 11.30 am after observing the remembrances to Mahatma Gandhi on his 'Punya Tithi' (death anniversary). The Prime Minister's radio address takes place at 11 a.m. on the last Sunday of every month. Prime Minister Modi has said, "'Mann ki Baat' which will take place on 30th January, 2022, will begin at 11:30 AM after observing the remembrances to Gandhi Ji on his Punya Tithi." The Prime Minister's Office tweeted, "This month's #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 30th, will begin at 11:30 AM after observing the remembrances to Gandhi Ji on his Punya Tithi." On January 19, Prime Minister Modi invited citizens to share their ideas and suggestions for 'Mann Ki Baat, which will take place on Sunday, January 30. In a tweet, the Prime Minister said, "On the 30th on this month, the first #MannKiBaat of 2022 will take place. I am sure you have lots to share in terms of inspiring life stories and topics. Share them on @mygovindia or the NaMo App. Record your message by dialling 1800-11-7800." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-on-jan-30-to-be-at-1130-am-1073743.html
23-01-2022||National||Actor Dileep, others appear before Crime Branch||Actor Dileep on Sunday reached the Crime Branch office here as directed by the Kerala High Court for interrogation in a case registered against him and five others for allegedly threatening officials probing the sexual assault of an actress in 2017. The High Court had on Saturday granted interim protection to Dileep from arrest but directed him and other accused to appear before the investigating officers on January 23, 24 and 25 for interrogation. Dileep, who reached the crime branch office at around 8.50 am, refused to interact with the media. The other accused have also reached the probe agency's office for questioning. Meanwhile, Crime Branch sources said the interrogation of the accused will be recorded as they suspect that the actor and others might approach the court alleging harassment during questioning. Justice Gopinath P had directed the accused to fully cooperate with the investigation and directed them to be available for interrogation from 9 am to 8 pm on the three days. The court had also warned the accused that in case of non-cooperation, the interim protection from arrest will be lifted and custody will granted to the Crime Branch. The court also directed the public prosecutor to submit a report on the interrogation and material evidence in a sealed cover on January 27, when the matter would be heard again. Besides Dileep, his younger brother P Sivakumar and brother-in-law T N Suraj among others were asked to present themselves for interrogation. The Crime Branch had, on January 9, registered the case on a complaint filed by an investigating officer based on a purported audio clip of Dileep, which was released by a TV channel in which the actor was allegedly heard conspiring to attack the official. The actor and five others were booked under various provisions of the IPC, including Sections 116 (abetment), 118 (concealing design to commit offence), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (criminal act done by several people). Dileep has claimed that this apprehension was borne out of the past conduct of the complainant officer who has been trying to falsely implicate him in the sexual assault case. The actress who has worked in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam films was abducted and allegedly molested in her car for two hours by some of the accused, who had forced their way into the vehicle on the night of February 17, 2017, and later escaped in a busy area. The entire act was filmed by some of the accused to blackmail the actress. There are 10 accused in the case and initially, police arrested seven people. Dileep was arrested subsequently and released on bail later. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-dileep-others-appear-before-crime-branch-1073745.html
23-01-2022||National||R-Day violence accused is Sanyukt Samaj Morcha candidate in Punjab||Gangster-turned-activist, Lakha Sidhana, who is accused in the 2021 Republic Day violence case, is the candidate of Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, a political front of farmer unions, from Punjab's Maur constituency in Bathinda district for the February 20 Assembly polls. Earlier, leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha distanced themselves from the programmes organised by 40-year-old Sidhana against the now repealed three contentious agricultural laws after the tractor parade by farmer unions on Republic Day last year. However, Sidhana, also known as Lakhbir Singh, has denied the charges of instigating the protesters to climb the Red Fort. Sidhana, who was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh for providing information about him, was booked by the Delhi Police for instigating violence. The case is pending against him. Since November 25, 2020, he had been quite active in the agitation on the borders of the national capital and aggressively lobbying for the agitation to gain momentum. In fact, he was dreaming of making big in politics through the farmers' agitation. Sidhana, a small-time gangster who aims to enter politics by reflecting himself a social activist, was acquitted in several cases before contesting the 2012 Assembly polls as a candidate of the People's Party of Punjab, once led by Manpreet Singh Badal, who is currently the Finance Minister in the state's Congress government, from Rampura Phul constituency. He polled 10,065 votes. Farmer leaders had, in fact, distanced themselves from Sidhana and blamed him for inciting violence at the Red Fort. Sidhana belongs to Sidhana village in Bathinda district. At one point of time, he used to work for Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). He was first jailed in 2004 and was put behind the bars many times till 2017. Of late, he has hogged the limelight as a social activist by demanding that all official signboards, other than English, should be in Punjabi first. Along with Sidhana, Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who was seen as protesters swarmed the Red Fort and even put up a religious flag on its ramparts, has been named the main accused in the violence. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-day-violence-accused-is-sanyukt-samaj-morcha-candidate-in-punjab-1073747.html
23-01-2022||National||Omicron in community transmission stage in India, dominant in multiple metros: INSACOG||The Omicron variant of Covid-19 is in the community transmission stage in India and has become dominant in multiple metros where new cases have been rising exponentially, the INSACOG said in its latest bulletin. It also said BA.2 lineage, an infectious sub-variant of Omicron, has been found in a substantial fraction in the country. The INSACOG, in its January 10 bulletin that was released on Sunday, said that while most Omicron cases so far have been asymptomatic or mild, hospitalisations and ICU cases have increased in the current wave and the threat level remains unchanged. "Omicron is now in community transmission in India and has become dominant in multiple metros, where new cases have been rising exponentially. BA.2 lineage is in a substantial fraction in India and S gene dropout based screening is thus likely to give high false negatives," it said. S-gene drop-out is a genetic variation like that of Omicron. "The recently reported B.1.640.2 lineage is being monitored. There is no evidence of rapid spread and while it has features of immune escape, it is currently not a variant of concern. So far, no case has been detected in India," the INSACOG said. The INSACOG, in its bulletin of January 3 which was also released on Sunday, also said Omicron is now in community transmission in India and has become dominant in Delhi and Mumbai where new cases have been rising exponentially. "Further spread of Omicron in India is now expected to be through internal transmission, not foreign travellers, and a revised sampling and sequencing strategy of INSACOG is being worked out to address genomic surveillance objectives in the wake of dynamic changing scenario of virus infection," the INSACOG said. "Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination are main shields against all form mutations of SARSCoV-2 virus," it said. The INSACOG, under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, reports genome surveillance of SARS CoV -2 across the country through sequencing of samples from sentinel sites and also detailed state-wise district analysis for some states. A total of 1,50,710 samples have been sequenced and 1,27,697 samples have been analysed so far by INSACOG. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-in-community-transmission-stage-in-india-dominant-in-multiple-metros-insacog-1073751.html
23-01-2022||National||India's economy has some bright spots, a number of very dark stains: Raghuram Rajan||The Indian economy has "some bright spots and a number of very dark stains" and the government should target its spending "carefully" so that there are no huge deficits, noted economist and former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan said on Sunday. Known for his frank views, Rajan also said the government needs to do more to prevent a K-shaped recovery of the economy hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Generally, a K-shaped recovery will reflect a situation where technology and large capital firms recover at a far faster rate than small businesses and industries that have been significantly impacted by the pandemic. "My greater worry about the economy is the scarring to the middle class, the small and medium sector, and our children's minds, all of which will come into play after an initial rebound due to pent up demand. One symptom of all this is weak consumption growth, especially for mass consumption goods," Rajan told PTI in an e-mail interview. Rajan, currently a Professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, noted that as always, the economy has some bright spots and a number of very dark stains. "The bright spots are the health of large firms, the roaring business the IT and IT-enabled sectors are doing, including the emergence of unicorns in a number of areas, and the strength of some parts of the financial sector," he said. On the other hand, "dark stains" are the extent of unemployment and low buying power, especially amongst the lower middle-class, the financial stress small and medium-sized firms are experiencing, "including the very tepid credit growth, and the tragic state of our schooling". Rajan opined that Omicron is a setback, both medically and in terms of economic activity but cautioned the government on the possibility of a K-shaped economic recovery. "We need to do more to prevent a K shaped recovery, as well as a possible lowering of our medium-term growth potential," he said. The country's GDP is expected to grow over 9 per cent in the current financial year that ends on March 31. The economy, which was significantly hit by the pandemic, had contracted 7.3 per cent in the last fiscal. Ahead of the Union Budget, Rajan said that budgets are supposed to be documents containing a vision and he would love to see a five- or ten-year vision for India as well as a plan for the kinds of institutions and frameworks the government intends to set up. On whether the government should go for fiscal consolidation or continue with stimulus measures, Rajan pointed out that India's fiscal situation, even coming into the pandemic, was not good and this is why the finance minister cannot spend freely now. While the government must spend where necessary at this time to alleviate the pain in the most troubled areas of the economy, he said, "We must target the spending carefully so that we do not run huge deficits." Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to present the Union Budget 2022-23 in Parliament on February 1. Regarding the rising inflationary trends, Rajan said inflation is a concern in every country, and it would be hard for India to be an exception. According to him, announcing a credible target for the country's consolidated debt over the next five years coupled with the setting up of an independent fiscal council to opine on the quality of the budget would be very useful steps. "If these moves are seen as credible, the debt markets may be willing to accept a higher temporary deficit," he said, adding that to convince markets that "we will be responsible, we should strengthen the institutional support to future fiscal consolidation." Further, Rajan said that one way to expand budgetary resources is through asset sales, including parts of government enterprises and surplus government land. "We need to be strategic about what we can sell, and how we can improve the economy's performance through those sales... Once we decide to sell, though, we should move fast, something we have not done so far," he opined. Regarding the upcoming budget, Rajan said that he would be happy to see more tariff cuts and far fewer tariff increases, and far fewer sops or subsidies to specific industries. "Particularly, (I) would welcome an independent assessment of the Production Linked Incentive schemes". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-economy-has-some-bright-spots-a-number-of-very-dark-stains-raghuram-rajan-1073755.html
23-01-2022||National||'Professor of management': Why Anand Mahindra praised this Chennai auto driver||Most auto drivers across India work on a typical model — ferry passengers from point A to B, often tackling issues like bad roads and traffic. But one auto driver from Chennai decided to be atypical, earning him fame and recognition, even from industrialist Anand Mahindra. Anna Durai is no common auto driver. He has his own Facebook and Twitter pages with over 20,000 followers between them, he's given speeches at TEDx and educational institutes like IITs and ISB, and he's often looked upon as a benchmark for customer service in the field. He shot to fame after he started introducing add-ons like WiFi, laptops and even in-ride snacks to his customers during traffic-heavy auto rides. Inspired by Durai's customer engagement skills, Mahindra said: "If MBA students spent a day with him it would be a compressed course in Customer Experience Management. This man’s not only an auto driver… he’s a Professor of Management." Anna Durai moved to Chennai when he was 4 years old. His father and brother are auto drivers and he says he was meant to follow them on the same path. “The original plan was to become a businessman and earn enough to solve our financial crisis. But the very same crisis forced me to drop out of Class 12 and start working. I chose not to complain, and instead bring my passion into what I was already doing. I began with placing newspapers in the backseat and gradually introduced new services,” Durai told The Better India. Careful not to go overboard with his services, Durai gradually introduced new things to his auto — WiFi, laptops, tablets and even in-ride snacks being some of them — as he worked and engaged with his customers and their needs. His education, he said, started the day he began identifying and prioritising ideas to win over customers. “One may think an auto ride is just about transporting a passenger from one area to another, but it can be so much more. Traffic jams in the IT corridor are frequent, so passengers tend to feel irritated while waiting. The WiFi keeps them engaged. Once a customer urgently needed a laptop and I felt bad for not being able to provide him with one. The next day, I had a laptop and tablet. These gadgets led to social media selfies which in turn increased my customers,” he told TBI.  “There are all kinds of people who take my ride — friendly, shy, sad, happy, or confused. I am always welcoming and for that, I learnt to say hello in nine languages. I even learnt the names of Hindi movies, scientists, freedom fighters, famous places across India, and sports to make them feel at home. They are surprised and happy when there is something common to talk about. People everywhere are the same, you just need to find that one hook,” he said. Durai also told the publication that he offers advanced booking for rides, which is especially beneficial to foreigners. He also offers free rides to teachers, and post-pandemic, he says he's offering them to sanitation workers, nurses and doctors. "Teachers shape engineers, doctors, lawyers, journalists and so on. Theirs is one of the noblest professions. This is my way of showing them gratitude for their tremendous work," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/professor-of-management-why-anand-mahindra-praised-this-chennai-auto-driver-1073758.html
23-01-2022||National||ED planning to arrest Satyendar Jain: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he has been informed by sources that the Enforcement Department (ED) may arrest his cabinet minister Satyendar Jain just before assembly elections in Punjab. However, he said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and workers do not fear these agencies as they have done nothing wrong.  “From our sources we have got to know that right before Punjab polls in coming few days the ED is going to arrest Satyendar Jain (Delhi Health and Home Minister). They are most welcome. Previously too, the Centre had conducted raids at Satyendar Jain but got nothing,” Kejriwal said in a virtual press conference here. He alleged that whenever the BJP realises that it is losing, it unleashes all the central agencies on its opponents.  “Since there are elections, raids and arrests will be made. We do not fear such raids and arrests because we have done nothing wrong,” Kejriwal said. He also said that previously raids were conducted at his premise, his deputy Manish Sisodia's premises, Jain's residence and also AAP's 21 MLAs were arrested but they got nothing. Punjab goes to polls on February 20. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-planning-to-arrest-satyendar-jain-kejriwal-1073770.html
23-01-2022||National||India's R-value further reduces, Covid-19 peak likely in next 14 days: IIT analysis||India's R-value which indicates the rate of spread of coronavirus has further reduced to 1.57 in the week from January 14-21 and the national peak of the third wave of the infection is expected to come in the next fortnight, according to a preliminary analysis by IIT Madras. R-value indicates the number of people an infected person can spread the disease to. A pandemic is considered to end if this value goes below 1. According to the analysis shared by IIT Madras with PTI, the R-value was recorded at 1.57 between January 14 and January 21. The number was recorded at 2.2 in the week of January 7-13 while it was 4 from January 1-6 and 2.9 from December 25- 31. The preliminary analysis was done by computational modelling by IIT Madras' Department of Mathematics and Centre of Excellence for Computational Mathematics and Data Science headed by Prof Neelesh S Upadhye and Prof S Sundar. According to the data, the R-value of Mumbai was 0.67, Delhi 0.98, Chennai 1.2 and Kolkata 0.56. Explaining further, Dr Jayant Jha, Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics, IIT Madras, said the R-value of Mumbai and Kolkata shows that peak is over there and it is becoming endemic while for Delhi and Chennai it is still close to 1. "The reason for that could be that as per the new ICMR guidelines they have removed the requirement for contact tracing and therefore there are less infections as earlier," he told PTI. Apex health body the ICMR has issued guidelines as per which contacts of coronavirus patients do not need testing unless identified as high-risk based on age or comorbidities. Jha further said as per their analysis, the coronavirus peak is likely to come in the next 14 days till February 6. The earlier prediction was that the peak of the third wave is likely between February 1 and February 15. The third wave of Covid-19 is being driven by the Omicron variant. India logged 3,33,533 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, raising the tally to 3,92,37,264.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-r-value-further-reduces-covid-19-peak-likely-in-next-14-days-iit-analysis-1073773.html
23-01-2022||National||'3 idiots' fame school yet to get CBSE affiliation after over two decades since its inception||More than two decades after it was founded, Druk Padma Karpo School in Ladakh, popularly known as "Rancho's school", may get the much-awaited CBSE affiliation this year as it got the clearance from the Jammu and Kashmir board after a long delay. As per the affiliation norms of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), schools require a ‘No Objection Certificate’ from the respective state board. The foreign schools require a similar document from the concerned Embassy or Consulate of India in the concerned country. The school which shot to fame after it featured in the Aamir Khan-starrer movie "3 Idiots" in 2009, is presently affiliated to Jammu and Kashmir State Board of School Education (JKBOSE). "We have been trying to get our school affiliated to the CBSE for many years," school principal Mingur Agmo told PTI. "Though we have all the required infrastructure in place, excellent result record, and focus on innovative ways of teaching and learning, we didn’t get the NOC from JKBOSE despite several attempts all these years," she said. "Finally, the document has been received this month and we will complete rest of the process for affiliation soon. We are hoping that we will get the affiliation this year and there will be no more hurdles," she added. The school has been trying to get the clearance since before Ladakh acquired a Union Territory status. Even after the bifurcation, schools in Ladakh continue to be affiliated to the Jammu and Kashmir board. A committee had last year proposed establishment of a new territorial board in Ladakh with an aim to fulfil the "realistic needs of the students as per the natural conditions of the region". The 21-year-old school is named after Mipham Pema Karpo (1527-1592), who is revered as a great scholar, while Padma Karpo means 'White Lotus' in Bothi, the local language. The wall of the school's building was featured in the closing scene of the Bollywood film in which one of the characters, Chatur, tries to urinate but gets an electric shock as two kids throw at him a light bulb connected with wire from a first floor window. While the 'iconic idiotic wall' -- part of a building which was damaged in the 2010 flash floods -- still remains on campus, the first floor, earlier made of bricks, has been replaced with wooden structures typically used in Ladakh. The school decided in 2018 to relocate the "Rancho's wall" to ensure students don't get distracted due to inflow of tourists. Students there study Bothi, English and Hindi, plus sciences, social studies, creative arts and sports, Agma said. She said they are also given training in life and livelihood skills, team work, presentation skills, leadership and problem solving through formal and co-curricular activities. "Currently, students are on a winter break and we decided that this winter break will be a 'no gadgets' holiday. “Due to the pandemic, we started classes through smartphones though it still continues to be a challenge as there is no internet stability in some of the hilly terrains so we have given only offline homework to students during the break," she added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-idiots-fame-school-yet-to-get-cbse-affiliation-after-over-two-decades-since-its-inception-1073778.html
23-01-2022||National||Centre's move of dropping 'Abide with me' hymn sad; sensitive people hurt by decision: Chidambaram||Objecting to the Centre's decision of dropping one of Mahatma Gandhi's favourite hymns 'Abide with me' from this year's Beating Retreat ceremony, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday said the government's move has hurt the "thinking and sensitive" people. 'Abide with me', written by Scottish Anglican poet and hymnologist Henry Francis Lyte in 1847, had been part of the Beating Retreat ceremony since 1950. The Indian Army announced on Saturday that it has been dropped from this year's ceremony. For this year's ceremony, the hymn has been replaced by the popular patriotic song "Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon", which was written by Kavi Pradeep to commemorate the supreme sacrifice made by Indian soldiers during the 1962 Indo-China war. Talking to reporters in Goa, Chidambaram said, "'Abide with me' is an old hymn that dates back to 1847. It was Mahatma Gandhi's favourite hymn. Ever since we became a republic in 1950, the ceremony called Beating the Retreat on the last of the Republic Day celebrations would always end with the march to the tune of 'Abide with me," he said. "It is very sad that an old Christian hymn, which is no longer a Christian hymn but a secular hymn, has been dropped from the Republic Day parade," he said. The former Union minister said it was sad that the government has decided to abandon the hymn in the 75th year of India's Independence. "It has hurt a lot of thinking and sensitive people. I hope that better sense will prevail and on the Republic Day it will be restored on which our troupe will march," the Congress veteran said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-move-of-dropping-abide-with-me-hymn-sad-sensitive-people-hurt-by-decision-chidambaram-1073797.html
23-01-2022||National||4 crore people pushed into poverty in India, says Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged that over four crore people have been pushed into poverty in the country and that there has been development of only Hamare Do. "'Vikas overflow' only for Humare Do! While our 4,00,00,000 brothers and sisters are pushed into poverty," he said on Twitter. ‘Vikas overflow’ only for ‘Humare Do’! While our 4,00,00,000 brothers & sisters are pushed into poverty. "Each of these 4,00,00,000 is a real person, not just a number. Each of these 4,00,00,000 deserved better. Each of these 4,00,00,000 is India!," Gandhi said, using the hashtag "BJPfailsIndia". Citing an Oxfam report, he put out a graphic alleging that the wealth two top businessmen has grown by billions of dollars during the year 2021 while over four crore people have gone below the poverty line in India during the pandemic since 2020. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-crore-people-pushed-into-poverty-in-india-says-rahul-gandhi-1073801.html
23-01-2022||National||Parliament panel examining Marriage Bill seeks suggestions from public, stakeholders||The Parliamentary Standing Committee examining the Bill to increase the marital age of women from 18 years to 21 years has sought views from the public and stakeholders. Those who intend to submit their views in writing or give oral evidence on the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill 2021 have 15 days, starting Sunday, to do so. According to public notice, those desirous of submitting views or giving oral evidence before the committee can visit the Rajya Sabha website for further details. The Bill, which has attracted criticism from a section of the civil society, was introduced in Lok Sabha during the fag-end of the Winter Session that concluded in December last year and sent to the Standing Committee on Education, Women, Youth and Sports headed by senior BJP MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe. Sources said the committee has set itself a three-month deadline. There has been a chorus for more women representation in the Standing Committee examining the Bill, as the panel had only one woman member -- Trinamool Congress' Sushmita Dev. There have been suggestions that all women Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs should be allowed to participate in the discussions on the Bill in the panel among others. At present, the BJP has 16 MPs in the 31-member panel while Congress has three and Trinamool Congress, DMK and CPI(M) have two each. Samajwadi Party, AIADMK, YSR Congress, Shiv Sena, BJD and JD(U) have one woman MP, each, in the panel. The lone woman MP, Sushmita, became part of the committee on September 27 last year. Committee member TN Prathapan, a Congress MP from Kerala, wrote to Sahasrabuddhe suggesting that the panel should meet all women MPs and tour the country to meet stakeholders from urban and rural areas. Sources said the committee during a meeting on January 5 was informed that all MPs are free to provide their inputs to the panel but it may not be possible to invite them to be part of the deliberations on the Bill.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-examining-marriage-bill-seeks-suggestions-from-public-stakeholders-1073802.html
23-01-2022||National||PM to unveil hologram statue of Netaji at India Gate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be unveiling a hologram statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on Sunday evening on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary. The statue is approximately 28 feet in length and 7.5 feet in width. The statue is powered by a 4k projector capable of delivering a brightness level of 30,000 lumens. The statue itself is powered by 2x30k lumens to help support the massive scale of the project. The statue is designed and developed by Tagbin. In a series of tweets on January 21, Prime Minister Modi announced that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose' grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. He said, "At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India's indebtedness to him. Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji's birth anniversary." The statue will be installed under the grand canopy. Earlier canopy had a statue of King George V, which was removed in 1968. CEO and Co-founder of Tagbin Saurav Bhaik said, "This is one of the world's largest holograms. The most difficult task was mounting a 40-foot holographic screen inside the canopy without taking support from the structure and without making it visible to the human eye. Because the hologram will be there until the granite statue is built, the screen should be able to withstand high winds and rain and remain stable in all weather conditions."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-unveil-hologram-statue-of-netaji-at-india-gate-1073806.html
23-01-2022||National||Covid-19 impact: EC's ban on physical rallies hits business of charter flight operators||The Election Commission's ban on physical rallies in five poll-bound states since January 8 due to the ongoing Covid-19 wave has hit the business of charter flight operators. Just 10-15 per cent of the 350-400 flight hours per month are election-related travel at this stage, the operators said. "Election travel has not really picked up. It had started to pick up initially, around mid-December, but then the EC announced the ban on rallies so that completely stopped most of the (election-related) travel," Rajan Mehra, CEO, Club One Air told PTI. Election travel is very limited, added Mehra, former India head of Qatar Airways. Kanika Tekriwal, CEO and Founder, JetSetGo Aviation, told PTI that as there is a ban on rallies due to Covid-19, the company has seen only 70 per cent of inquiries for election-related travel this year as compared to last year. However, no inquiry has been actually converted in actual flights as of yet and their conversion is in process, she added. "Since ban on physical rallies have been extended, we don't see much flights happening for elections this time for rallies," Tekriwal noted. JetSetGo Aviation and Club One Air have a fleet of 18 and 10 aircraft, respectively, to operate charter flights. Announcing the dates for elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur on January 8, the poll panel had announced a ban on physical rallies, roadshows and bike rallies and similar campaign events till January 15. On January 15, the commission extended the ban until January 22. On Saturday, this was extended to January 31. While election-related travel is not picking up for charter companies, the overall scenario for business aviation (charter flight operations) has been very good, Mehra stated.  Right after the first Covid-19 wave, safety has become an issue of paramount importance beyond luxury or anything else, he mentioned. "There has been a regularity of travel in private jets. So, before Covid-19, if we would on an average see around 150-200 flying hours per month, that has gone to up to 350-400 flight hours per month," he stated. "It might pick up once the EC announces (removing the ban on) rallies but right now it is 10-15 per cent for most operators," he mentioned. Last year, in the election season, approximately 30-40 per cent of the travel was for election rallies, he stated. Tekriwal said JetSetGo Aviation used to achieve its "major numbers" from business travel before the pandemic. However, leisure travel brings the major share of business right now. "We have received a positive response from our customers towards our 'Fly Safe' commitment to maintaining the Covid-19 protocol standards and experiencing a sharp increase in leisure travel bookings which is continuing now also," she .  "Our business travel requests have started showing positive redemptions which are slowly getting back to usual," she noted. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-impact-ecs-ban-on-physical-rallies-hits-business-of-charter-flight-operators-1073808.html
23-01-2022||National||Centre dropped 'Abide With Me' from Beating Retreat as Indian tunes more appropriate||The Centre decided to drop one of Mahatma Gandhi's favourite hymns "Abide With Me" from this year's Beating Retreat ceremony as playing more Indian tunes would be appropriate in view of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', which celebrates the 75th year of India's Independence, government sources said on Sunday. "Abide With Me", written by Scottish Anglican poet and hymnologist Henry Francis Lyte in 1847, had been part of the Beating Retreat ceremony since 1950. The Indian Army announced on Saturday that it has been dropped from this year's ceremony. The sources said that the Centre wanted to include maximum number of Indian tunes and consequently, it was decided that only Indian-origin tunes will be played at this year's ceremony on January 29. The Centre had in 2020 also planned to drop "Abide With Me" from the ceremony but had later retained it after an uproar.  For this year's ceremony, the hymn has been replaced by the popular patriotic song "Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon", which was written by Kavi Pradeep to commemorate the supreme sacrifice made by Indian soldiers during the 1962 Indo-China war. "Ae mere watan ke logo” is an Indian tune and pays respect to all who laid their life for the safety and integrity of the nation, the sources noted. The move to drop the hymn from this year's ceremony came days after the Centre's decision to merge the Amar Jawan Jyoti flame at the India Gate with the eternal flame of the National War Memorial (NWM). The merger took place during a brief ceremony on Friday. While some military officials defended the decision to merge the flame, several opposition parties, including the Congress accused the BJP-ruled Centre of "removing history". Additionally, the Congress on Saturday attacked the government over the dropping of 'Abide With Me' from this year's Beating Retreat ceremony, alleging that it was another attempt to erase his legacy. Government sources said on Sunday that the iconic tune and lyrics for "Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon" has a far wider connect with the people of India.  It is contextually far more appropriate to celebrate the valour and gallantry of the armed forces of India with "Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon" as compared to "Abide with Me" hymn, they mentioned.   Phasing out tunes handed down from a colonial past and including tunes that have a wider and deeper connect with the people of India is an ongoing exercise, they mentioned. "'Abide with Me" is a popular military tune but its lyrics are understood by a limited few, they stated. "Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon" is a celebrated song with a massive universal appeal and it imbibes a sense of sacrifice and respect for those who have made supreme sacrifice for India in the last 75 years, they noted. It is for this reason that in the 75th year of our independence, when we are celebrating "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav", the Centre is making this change in the concluding performance of the Beating Retreat 2022, they noted. The brochure released by the Indian Army on Saturday listed 26 tunes that will be played at this year's ceremony at Vijay Chowk. The 26 tunes that will be played at this year's ceremony include 'Hey Kanchha', 'Channa Bilauri', 'Jai Janam Bhumi', 'Nritya Sarita', 'Vijay Josh', 'Kesaria Banna', 'Veer Siachen', 'Hathroi', 'Vijay Ghosh', 'Ladaakoo', 'Swadeshi', 'Amar Chattan', 'Golden Arrows' and 'Swarn Jayanti', according to the brochure. 'Veer Sainik', 'Fanfare by Buglers, 'INS India', 'Yashasvee', 'Jai Bharati', 'Kerala', 'Siki A Mole', 'Hind Ki Sena', 'Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja', 'Drummers Call' besides 'Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon' are also part of the tunes that will be played on the evening of January 29, the brochure noted. The ceremony will see the participation of 44 buglers, 16 trumpeters and 75 drummers. Beating Retreat is a centuries-old military tradition dating from the days when troops disengaged from the battle at sunset, it said. As soon as the buglers sounded the retreat, the troops ceased fighting, sheathed their arms and withdrew from the battlefield, it added. Beating Retreat marks the end of nearly week-long festivities of Republic Day, which used to begin on January 24. But this year, the celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. Ahead of Bose's 125th birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Friday announced that a grand statue of the iconic freedom fighter will be installed at India Gate as a symbol of India's "indebtedness" to him.  Till the statue, made of granite, is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place, he said, adding that he will unveil the hologram statue on Sunday.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-dropped-abide-with-me-from-beating-retreat-as-indian-tunes-more-appropriate-1073812.html
23-01-2022||National||Mamata questions Centre's decisions on Netaji’s birthday||On Netaji’s birthday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee spoke critically of the BJP-led government at the Centre. Speaking at a public function in Kolkata on Sunday, Mamata criticised the Centre’s recent decisions - merging of Amar Jawan Jyoti flame with that of the National War Memorial, exclusion of Bengal’s proposed tableaux from Republic Day function, no concrete steps for solving the mystery surrounding Netaji’s last days, proposed amendments to IAS cadre rules, and alleged attempts at reinterpreting history.   Taking a dig at Modi-government’s recent decisions that allegedly could lead to reinterpretation of India’s history, Mamata said that the Centre is doing politics over ‘memorial’. She said that all martyrs are respectable irrespective of what faith or colour they represent. Mamata said that be it the slogan, Jai Hind, or the national anthem and the national song, Bengal has made contributions and nobody has the ability to eliminate it. Mamata said that it is not clear why Bengal's proposed tableaux was excluded from the Republic Day function. The tableaux will now be exhibited during the state’s Republic Day function in Kolkata.  Netaji’s last days remain a mystery still. While West Bengal has digitised and archived all documents it had (concerning Netaji), the Centre is yet to offer an answer that solves Netaji’s death, or disappearance. She questioned why the Centre couldn’t think of a Netaji-statue for so long? She claimed that people are too frightened to speak up.  Targeting the Centre’s proposed amendment to the IAS cadre rules, Mamata alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre is destroying the federal structure. She questioned why original rules were being withdrawn.  "Can they withdraw (officials) anytime without consent of the state government?", she asked. Mamata announced that West Bengal will have a Planning Commission. She said that rejection of the idea (of a commission, by the Centre) could only be condemned. The concept of economic planning traces its origins to Netaji (and other leaders in the 1930s). The Planning Commission that had existed in India since 1950 was dissolved and replaced by NITI Aayog, after the Modi-government came to power in 2014.  Several projects to commemorate Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations are being put in place, the chief minister said. These include a university, a monument remembering Azad Hind Fauj. A planned sports university will also be extended with cooperation of the government. On the lines of National Cadet Corps (NCC), Jai Hind Bahini will be introduced in schools and colleges. Also, as part of the 75 years of independence celebrations, a museum at Alipur Jail will be inaugurated. The state will remember freedom fighters across the state during 23-26 January, and during 15-21 August. Digitisation of documents concerning freedom struggle, booklets on women’s and contribution of the press are also among the planned activities.   Raising historical instances of Gandhiji, Vivekananda, the pluralism they practised, Mamata said that does she need to prove her religious beliefs, and seek a character certificate. “I don't need a character certificate from BJP, or any one. I need character certificate from people of this country, people of this land, people of this soil,” she said. Without naming any political faction, Mamata suggested that people who are today talking divisive politics on religious lines, should go and read Vivekananda, Subhas, Tagore, Gandhi and Ambedkar. In the context of history being reinterpreted, the chief minister said that it is a duty to teach students national and state history. Referring to the Calcutta Killings (communal riots in pre-independent India), Mamata said that at times some political parties talk of it. “Where were you, what was your role?” she questioned. The chief minister highlighted that Bengal has a significant contribution in the freedom struggle. At the cellular jail in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, most freedom fighters were from Bengal, followed by Punjab, she said. The CM criticised the Centre’s policies on the issues of demonetisation, handling the pandemic, and ‘destruction’ of heritage as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-questions-centres-decisions-on-netaji-s-birthday-1073816.html
23-01-2022||National||SC sets aside NGT order on firecracker factory blast in Tamil Nadu||The Supreme Court has set aside a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order directing compensation of Rs 20 lakh to the heirs of the victims of a firecracker factory blast in Tamil Nadu's Virudhunagar district last year in which 19 workers were killed. A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari noted that the NGT proceeded ex-parte and directed the tribunal to reconsider the case afresh. "Accordingly, in the interest of justice, we deem it appropriate to set aside the impugned judgment and order and relegate the parties before the National Green Tribunal for reconsideration of the entire matter afresh after giving an opportunity to the parties concerned, including the appellants, and to pass appropriate orders in accordance with the law," the bench in a recent order said. The parties appearing through counsel before the apex court were asked to appear before the tribunal on February 14, 2022, and the NGT was directed to proceed with the matter on that day or assign a suitable date for hearing, as may be convenient to it. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by Tamil Nadu Fireworks And Amorces Manufacturers Association challenging the NGT's order dated June 11, 2021. The tribunal had directed Tamil Nadu through District Magistrate, Virudhunagar to pay compensation of Rs 20 lakh to the heirs of deceased victims. It had directed the State Legal Services Authority to provide legal aid to ensure that payment is made to genuine heirs of the deceased and to the injured without undue hassle. The NGT had formed a committee headed by a former high court judge and directed it to submit a report on the firecracker factory blast in Tamil Nadu's Virudhunagar district. The explosion occurred on February 12, 2021 when some chemicals were being mixed to produce fireworks at the unit in Acchankulam village. The green panel had said that to secure credible facts, it is constituting an eight-member committee including former high court judge Justice K Kannan and representatives of the Union Environment Ministry. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sets-aside-ngt-order-on-firecracker-factory-blast-in-tamil-nadu-1073817.html
23-01-2022||National||Jharkhand joins chorus against IAS rules amendment, CM Soren writes to PM Modi||Jharkhand has joined the chorus against the Centre's proposed move to amend service rules to call IAS, IPS and IFoS officer on deputation even without state's consent with Chief Minister Hemant Soren saying that the "draconian" proposal is contrary to the spirit of cooperative federalism and an attempt to design a lever to exercise "indirect" control over the officers in Opposition-ruled states. Soren shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi warning that it has "immense potential to be misused for harassment of officers and vendetta politics" against the state government and could "further strain the already stressed" Centre-state relations. Urging Modi to "bury it at this stage only", he said it was high time for the Centre to introspect and find out the reasons for the "perceptible decline over a couple of the last few years" in the number of people opting to go on central deputation. Around a dozen states, including West Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, have already expressed their opposition to the Centre's move, a proposal which it says is necessitated because of shortage of officers at the Centre. Expressing his "strong reservations and apprehensions" about the move, Soren said it forces any officer of the All India Service serving in state to come on deputation to the Centre without the consent of the concerned officer and the no-objection certificate of the state. "If the objective is to meet the shortage of officers serving in the affairs of the Government of India then, I must say, it is not a desirable move because the state government exclusively get the services of only three category of officers – ie IAS, IPS and IFoS – whereas the Government of India every year gets a huge pool of officers from more than 30 odd other All India Services for which UPSC makes recommendations without faily. The shortage in the Ministries of the GOI can be easily met from this pool of officers," he said. Citing the "acute shortage" of officers -- 140 IAS officers serving in the state against a sanctioned strength is 215 and 95 IPS are working against a sanctioned strength of 149 -- in Jharkhand, he said many officers are holding more than one charge and their forced removal would make it "extremely difficult" for a state government in its functioning, including in the timely implementation of central government projects. Soren also expressed his apprehension about the sudden deputation as it could "demotivate the officer, lower his morale and create a fear psychosis in his mind". This could also have an impact on the officer's objectivity and efficiency as they may be unable to give candid opinion in matters which entail taking sides in sensitive matters of Centre-state disputes, which are in plenty in a mineral-rich state like Jharkhand. "I would also like to iterate here that the proposed amendments seem to be contrary to the spirit of cooperative federalism and fundamentally they appear to be an attempt to design a lever to exercise indirect control over the officers functioning in the affairs of the state where the political party in power is different from the one at the Centre," he said. "These amendments thus strike at the very root of the Constitutional scheme of federal governance. Undoubtedly this move is likely to further strain Centre-state relations. It has immense potential to be misused for harassment of officers and vendetta politics against the state government," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-joins-chorus-against-ias-rules-amendment-cm-soren-writes-to-pm-modi-1073822.html
23-01-2022||National||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre on plea for Indian Environment Service||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a plea seeking establishment of 'Indian Environment Service', following a recommendation by a high-level committee. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh sought a reply from the Union government on a petition filed by Samar Vijay Singh. Referring to the air pollution crisis in Delhi-NCR, the plea said the pollution has crossed the safe limits of breathing and made policymakers look for instant solutions to bring relief to the citizens. The plea also said the issue of environmental degradation, as one of the primary causes of diseases and health issues. It sought a direction to set up an Indian Environmental Service Academy to train officers for environmental law enforcement. "The prayer made is for creation of “independent” Indian Environment Service as an All-India Service. This prayer is stated to be arising from the recommendation of the T S R Subramanian Committee,” the bench said. During the hearing, the bench, however, said that it has prima facie doubt whether a writ of mandamus can be issued on such a prayer. Petitioner Singh, for his part, cited a report submitted by the committee constituted by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF), in 2014, under the chairmanship of former Cabinet Secretary Subramanian. The plea contended that this committee recommended creation of a new All-India service, the “Indian Environment Service”. It also pointed out that the committee noted the need for an institutional framework to meet future needs, and in its report proposed a National Environment Research Institute on the lines of the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-indian-environment-service-1073826.html
23-01-2022||National||Drop proposed amendments to IAS (Cadre) Rules: M K Stalin to PM Modi||Opposing the proposed amendments to the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday said the proposals strike at the “very root” of state autonomy while arguing that the Union cannot “usurp an existing provision” to the disadvantage of the state in a federal polity. In a strongly-worded two-page letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, Stalin said neither the bureaucracy nor the state governments, the two important stakeholders in this “serious issue”, welcome the move for amendment as they tend to weaken the “core principles” on which the country has been “painstakingly built over the past 75 glorious years.” “Demolition is easy, but reconstruction has always been a long process,” Stalin said in the letter, invoking independent India’s first deputy prime minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel who envisioned the “steel frame of India” which has the independence to speak out its mind, which has a sense of security, where their rights and privileges are secured. “I request you to drop these proposed amendments to IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954 instead engage with state governments to further strengthen the federal spirit of the nation and take forward the noble ideas of our forefathers with reference to the steel frame as enshrined in the Indian Constitution,” the Chief Minister said. Tamil Nadu is the latest to join the growing list of states that have risen in opposition to the proposed amendment to the rules. Stalin said the new rules would cause “irreparable damage” to the spirit of cooperative federalism that exist between the Union and the states and result in the concentration of powers with the Union Government. On one of the proposed provisions that will empower the Centre to unilaterally draft the services of officers without their consent and sans concurrence from the state governments, Stalin said the move will certainly demoralize and destabilise the steel frame of bureaucracy in India. “If implemented, the All India Service Officers would be spending their career under perpetual fear of being penalized by Union Government at any time. This does not augur well for the developmental path being vigorously pursued by our country. I am sure, you will agree that civil servants must be allowed to work with a free mind and stay apolitical,” he said. The “ramifications are ominous”, Stalin said, and added that the Union Government’s “hasty eagerness” in bringing about such drastic changes in the basic structures of the system of the country without going through the consultative process is once again “grossly violative of the federal structure of the nation.” Stalin said the new proposal will “eventually destroy” the uniqueness of All India Services, a basic feature of the Indian Constitution. While the Central services are fully administered by the Union, the idea of All India Services has served the nation well and stood the test of time through a cordial working relationship between the Union and states, he added. Highlighting that many state governments are “woefully short” of officers at specific seniorities, primarily due to the wrong cadre management policies followed by the Union Government, he said the state governments solely depend on the limited pool of IAS officers available in the state. “The proposed amendments would adversely affect not only the character and functioning of bureaucracy, but also complicate the cadre management in the states per se. Moreover, this will have a cascading effect on the administration of the state with a direct bearing on the welfare of the nation,” he said. The Chief Minister also complained that the Union Government’s lateral entry recruitment has also affected the morale of the officers who seek “deputation on their own willingness.” He also asked the Union Government to positively reconstruct the working and service conditions for All India Service officers through a transparent empanelment process and by ensuring professional space and independence instead of “imposing restrictive provisions to usurp the powers of states.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drop-proposed-amendments-to-ias-cadre-rules-m-k-stalin-to-pm-modi-1073833.html
23-01-2022||National||Healthcare professionals' battle with Covid fatigue continues as pandemic enters third year||Covid fatigue among healthcare professionals is real, says 39-year-old Dr Samir Khurana, recalling how the pandemic and its severe waves in the last two years have left him and many from his fraternity "mentally and physically exhausted". But for Khurana (name changed) the biggest fear was he becoming the spreader of the infection at home. "It was a huge part of the already stressful and tiring times we were facing," he said. "I vividly remember the day the first Covid case was diagnosed at the medical facility in Delhi that I work in. My shift had just begun and we were updated with the report. I wore my personal protective equipment (PPE) and started treating patients," he said. Khurana, who did not want his or the hospital's name to be revealed, said initially he felt claustrophobic in PPE, but "now it has become my uniform". "Since 2020, we are constantly on our toes. Covid fatigue is real for healthcare professionals who have been tirelessly working for the past two years," he said. Recalling how he lived in a small room on his terrace in isolation after his shift and on some days never returned home, Khurana said, "I had to protect my family, especially my elderly parents who are in their 80s." With the pandemic on the verge of entering its third year, Khurana said, "He and many others feel mentally and physically exhausted." "My daughter will start kindergarten this year and I feel I have missed the first two years of her life. Even now I isolate myself from my family members and do not participate in family functions," he said. The first case of Covid was reported in India in January 2020 and since then three waves of the virus have struck the country, infecting over 3.92 crore people and claiming 4.89 lakh lives. India is currently reeling under the third wave of Covid which is driven by the highly infectious Omicron variant. Experts say the pandemic has put healthcare professionals through an extreme test of resilience both physically and mentally. Medical officer in-charge at a government health facility in Delhi, Dr Sajid Anwar, said when the pandemic began, panic and hysteria was all around. "More than maintaining our safety it was necessary that our patients followed safety measures which they were not. They would not wear masks properly, and didn't maintain proper distancing while waiting. Even those with symptoms were not willing to get tested," he said. Anwar said though people are now aware of norms he still worries about the safety of his family. "On the work front I was confident that I could manage my patients, but personally it was a very difficult time. My daughter was two months old. For her safety, I sent her and my wife to her grandparent's house. Unfortunately, my wife got infected," he said. It was a stressful time, Anwar said, adding that the pandemic has taken a huge mental and physical toll on the healthcare fraternity. Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant, internal medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said in the beginning not much was known about Covid and this caused stress among doctors, especially on exposure and spreading the infection at home. "There was also stress regarding treatment of patients because outcomes were not known, and many patients wanted details of their treatment and clear-cut answers to their queries," he said. During the second wave due to lack of facilities, hospital beds and appropriate care, it became very stressful for doctors to see their patients suffering, Chatterjee said. Though there was immense stress and shortages, doctors were able to cope up. This is because of their training, he said, adding that "they know that life is unpredictable and are mentally and physically trained for any situation". He advised that the best practice for tackling Covid fatigue is to continue doing what they enjoy. To keep themselves mentally fit and tackle Covid fatigue, people and healthcare professionals alike must pursue their hobbies and the things they are passionate about. Many are doing this, Chatterjee said. As of November last year, the number of registered medical practitioners in India is more than 13 lakhs. Dr Prakriti Poddar, managing trustee, Poddar Foundation, said cognitive behavioural therapy can also help caregivers deal with personal issues be it work-related or at home. "Engaging in brain exercises before and after work is a good way to stay positive and healthy. Yoga has many mental exercises that can be beneficial. Apart from that healthcare providers should build a support system apart from family members and hospital peers," she said. "Friends and neighbours can be a strong support system. Music, dance, art therapies can calm the mind and bring about positivity and enhance creativity,” Poddar said. Many hospitals these days are introducing music and art based therapy for their staff, she said. Dr Manju Gupta, senior consultant, obstetrician and gynaecologist, Motherhood Hospitals, Noida, said the dedication and work of doctors continues even as the pandemic enters its third year. "To cope with the third wave, we have been taking all safety precautions to protect not just our staff but also the patients. The doctors continue to provide teleconsultations despite being sick themselves. Making sure the patients can access our services whenever they need us has been our priority, especially in these tough times," Gupta said. During the pandemic, as on November 29 last year, families of 1,509 health workers, who died due to Covid-19-related duties, have been paid insurance claims of Rs 50 lakh each.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-professionals-battle-with-covid-fatigue-continues-as-pandemic-enters-third-year-1073835.html
23-01-2022||National||Man hangs self after knifing wife in west Delhi's Khyala||A 32-year-old man allegedly died by suicide after attacking his wife with a surgical blade at her mother's house in west Delhi's Khyala area, police on Sunday said. The injured woman who sustained severe injuries in neck and face was operated and is still admitted in Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, they said. Constable Sudhir from Raghubir Nagar police chowki donated blood for her when her mother expressed the need for it, they said. Ramkumar, the woman’s husband, fled the house after attacking his wife, assuming she was dead, but was later found hanging at a house in UP’s Ghaziabad. The couple had got married recently and the accused was allegedly addicted to drugs, police said. The incident took place on Thursday at the maternal house of the victim where she had been living after having left her husband’s house in Raghubir Nagar area. According to the police, on Thursday a call was received at Khyala Police Station from a hospital in Paschim Vihar informing them that a woman had been admitted with injuries allegedly inflicted by her husband. Investigation revealed that the woman and her husband used to fight often and as a result she had returned to her mother’s house on January 15, police said. "On January 19, the husband came and requested his wife to accompany him to their matrimonial house in Naseeb Vihar near Loni in Gaziabad, but she refused. “He stayed in the house till evening of January 20 and kept requesting his wife in the presence of her mother,” a senior police officer said. "At about 7.30 pm, when her mother went to the market leaving the couple alone in house, the man attacked his wife with a surgical blade and caused multiple severe injuries around the neck and over both cheeks,” he said. A case under section 307 (attempt to murder) was registered against Ram Kumar and raids were made at multiple locations in Trans Yamuna area, but Ramkumar could not be found, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel said. With the help of technical surveillance and testimony of the woman, police found that Ramkumar had fled to the house of his brother-in-law, Babulal, in Ambedkar Colony in Loni area, she said. A police team took Babulal to the vacant house to raid it, and found it latched from inside. When Babulal peeked inside from a window, he found Ramkumar hanging from the ceiling, Goel said. Legal proceedings under relevant sections of the CrPC with respect to the death of the accused are being done by the local police of Ghaziabad, she said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-hangs-self-after-knifing-wife-in-west-delhis-khyala-1073838.html
23-01-2022||National||Venkaiah Naidu tests positive for Covid-19; 875 Parliament staff contract virus in Jan||A week before the Budget Session, Vice President of India and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time in 15 months. As many as 875 Parliament staff have also contracted the virus this month. Naidu is presently in self-isolation in Hyderabad for a week.  "The Vice President, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is in Hyderabad, tested Covid positive today. He has decided to remain in self-isolation for a week. He has advised all those who came in contact with him to isolate themselves and get tested," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted. The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, who is in Hyderabad, tested COVID positive today. He has decided to remain in self-isolation for a week. He has advised all those who came in contact with him to isolate themselves and get tested. This is the second time that Naidu has contracted the virus infection. Earlier, 29 September, 2020, Naidu had tested positive and recovered on October 12 that year. Separately, sources said 875 officers and staff in Parliament House, including allied services, have tested positive for Covid-19 this month. The Parliament House has conducted 2,847 tests out of which 875 have tested positive for the virus infection. Of this, 915 tests were on Rajya Sabha officials out of which 271 tested positive. The rest of the staff belong to Lok Sabha Secretariat and allied services. With the third wave rising, the Parliament House complex had reimposed restrictions on the attendance of officials and staff.  The Budget Session of Parliament will start on January 31 with the customary Presidential Address followed by Budget on February 1. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman Naidu have already asked Secretaries General of both the Houses to study the arrangements for sitting against the backdrop of a surge in Covid-19 cases during the third wave of the pandemic. The 2020 Monsoon Session was the first session held under Covid-19 protocol with Rajya sabha meeting in the first half of the day and Lok Sabha during second half. This was followed for the first part of the Budget Session 2021. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/venkaiah-naidu-tests-positive-for-covid-19-875-parliament-staff-contract-virus-in-jan-1073843.html
23-01-2022||National||PM Modi unveils Bose's hologram statue at India Gate||A hologram monument of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on Sunday was illuminated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who without naming Congress blamed the principal opposition party for making attempts to “erase the contribution of many great people after independence” during their four decades long stay at power in the central government. “It was unfortunate that after independence, along with the culture of the country, work was done to erase the contribution of many great personalities. Freedom struggle involved the penance of lakhs of countrymen, but efforts were made to limit their history as well,” Modi said at a function here on Sunday. “But today, after decades of independence, the country is correcting those mistakes. We have to seek inspiration from Netaji's 'can do, will do' spirit and march ahead,” he said. Earlier this week, the Modi government announced that a 28 feet tall and 6 ft wide granite statue of the iconic freedom fighter would be installed at the cupola behind the India Gate. The canopy used to house a statue of King George V, which was taken down in 1968. Since then the canopy has remained empty. The hologram is powered by a 30,000 lumen 4K projector that casts the light on a high-grain, 90% transparent holographic screen that is not visible to visitors. The hologram will be replaced by a granite statue, which is likely to be installed by August 15. The Prime Minister recalled his visit to Netaji’s ancestral house in Kolkata on the same day last year. “It is my good fortune that last year, on this very day, I had the opportunity to visit Netaji's ancestral residence in Kolkata... The car in which he left Kolkata, the room in which he used to study, the stairs of his house, the walls of his house, seeing him, that experience is beyond words,” he said. The BJP-led government has decided to include Netaji’s birth anniversary as a part of the Republic Day celebration henceforth, but turned down West Bengal’s this year’s Republic Day parade tableau themed on Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary, triggering a political feud with West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee. There will, however, be a central tableau with the same theme. The Prime Minister also gave away a set of awards named after Subhas Chandra Bose in the field of disaster management. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-unveils-boses-hologram-statue-at-india-gate-1073860.html
23-01-2022||National||Netaji's family seeks more than statue honour, researchers want end to death puzzle||With his death still shrouded in mystery and stories around his disappearance now part of popular folklore, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's family and those researching his life and work say the way to truly honour him is by following his ideology of inclusivity and secularism, and to unveil the suspense surrounding his demise. The Union government on Friday announced that a grand statue of Bose, the founder of 'Azad Hind Fauj', will be installed at India Gate in the national capital as a symbol of India's "indebtedness" to him. Till the granite statue is completed, a hologram statue of his would be set up at the same place, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced, adding that he would unveil the hologram on January 23, the birth anniversary of Bose. "My father dreamt of an India where all religions coexist peacefully. The statue shouldn't be the only tribute to Netaji, we must also honour his values," Anita Bose-Pfaff said hours after the announcement was made by Modi. Bose's grand-nephew Chandra Kumar Bose urged the government to implement the freedom fighter's ideology in the country. "Netaji cannot be honoured just by building his statue, setting up a museum, or making a tableau. A towering personality like Netaji can only be honoured by following and implementing his inclusive ideology of uniting all communities to build India that he envisioned," he said. While it is believed that Bose died more than 70 years ago, questions regarding the circumstances of his demise -- the time, year, and location of his passing away -- are still shrouded in mystery. In fact, the TMC has demanded that the Centre declassify files on Bose's disappearance in 1945, and said that the ashes preserved at a temple in Japan, believed to be that of the freedom fighter, should be sent for DNA analysis. Anuj Dhar, who has closely researched Bose's life and the mystery of his death and co-authored Conundrum: Subhas Bose's Life After Death, told PTI that while the location of the statue in the heart of the national capital was a magnificent tribute to the iconic leader, it was time to unravel the mystery behind his death. "The statue will be in the heart of Delhi and is the greatest tribute to Netaji's legacy. The cumulative findings of all that has been released so far on him is that he was the reason that India became free. We expect that in the time to come the issues surrounding his death will be addressed. "In fact, never has the time been so good for the declassification of all the files. For the first time, both the government at the Centre and that in the state are not hostile to Netaji. They are on the same page on the issue. The TMC has also demanded the declassification of files on Netaji's disappearance in 1945 and his death," Dhar said. Chandrachur Ghose, the author of Bose, The Untold Story of an Inconvenient Nationalist, and co-author of Conundrum: Subhas Bose's Life After Death, agrees that the installation of the statue has a symbolic importance as it is an official acknowledgment of Bose's position in the pantheon of freedom fighters. "The treatment accorded to Netaji in independent India has had two aspects. Firstly, always marginalised. Official recognition was never given to the fact that the exit of the British Raj was accelerated by his activities. Secondly, successive governments have kept the question of his fate under wraps. Even the current NDA government, which was vociferous on this issue against the previous government, has strangely decided to follow the UPA line. "Now that the first issue has been addressed by giving his statue the pride of place, making clear his position in the pantheon of national icons, it is time to address the second issue," Ghose said. The NDA government must re-open the case of Netaji's fate and bring closure to it by declassifying all intelligence files and appointing a multi-disciplinary empowered committee if necessary. The controversy over this mystery should not be allowed to linger," he added. While historians would want the politics around Bose to take a backseat, the announcement of the statue's installation has sparked a fresh spat on his life. "Perhaps we will take some time to realise how stupendous this act is of installing Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose to the pedestal where the statue of King Emperor George V once stood. Perhaps the PM's detractors have understood. That is why they are bleating, 'playing politics', said BJP leader and former governor of Meghalaya and Tripura Tathagata Ray. "Ever since Haripura Congress in 1938, and then his falling out with Mohandas Gandhi, the mainstream politicians of India have only been running down Netaji. This is the first time his greatness is being brought to the notice of the nation," he added. TMC Rajya Sabha MP Jawhar Sircar questioned if the BJP was trying to "hijack" Bose. "If Modi is so keen to hijack a staunchly secular Netaji, let him first adopt the three ideals Bose set for his Azad Hind Fauj: Itmad (Faith), Ittefaq (Unity) and Kurbani (Sacrifice)," he said. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday also raised questions on why the issue of Netaji's death has not been looked into by the Centre. "Till today we don't know about Netaji's whereabouts. They (Centre) had said that when they come to power, they will work on it but nothing happened. In fact, we (state) have released and declassified all files on Netaji Bose," he said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/netajis-family-seeks-more-than-statue-honour-researchers-want-end-to-death-puzzle-1073861.html
23-01-2022||National||Ex-Japan PM Shinzo Abe honoured with Netaji Award||Former Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe was on Sunday conferred with the Netaji Award 2022 by the Netaji Research Bureau on the 125th birth anniversary of the legendary freedom fighter. Consul general of Japan in Kolkata, Nakamura Yutaka, received the honour on behalf of Abe at a function organised by the bureau at the Elgin Road residence here of the national icon. Abe expressed his gratitude in a message read out by the consul general. "As former Prime Minister of Japan and in my capacity as a member of the House of Representatives, I am determined to do my utmost to continue contributing to the development of bilateral relations," he said. Abe said he sincerely hoped that Japan and India's friendship and global partnership will be further strengthened in wide-ranging areas including political, economic and cultural fields. Prof Sugata Bose, the grandnephew of Subhas Chandra Bose, and Director of the Netaji Research Bureau, described Abe as a great admirer of the freedom icon. Japan's ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki addressed the function virtually from Delhi. Sugata Bose later told reporters that he wants the new generation of the country to take lessons from the great patriot's ideals. "Several beautiful programmes have been held since morning on the occasion of Netaji's birth anniversary, including the one at the Netaji Bhavan here," he said. Sugata Bose, who also attended a ceremony where West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee garlanded the statue of the freedom fighter, said Netaji's 125th birth anniversary celebrations have gained international prominence. He welcomed the central government's decision to install a statue of Netaji at India Gate in the national capital. "The greatest tomb to remember a great man is to propagate his legacy, and in case of Netaji, it is his ideal of equality and unity; he brought together Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christians, men and women, people of different regions by giving them equal rights," he said. "Netaji’s life and work are transparent like glass," Sugata Bose added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-japan-pm-shinzo-abe-honoured-with-netaji-award-1073882.html
23-01-2022||National||India’s R value shrinks despite Omicron’s spread into community||India’s Covid-19 reproduction rate (R) has dropped considerably in the last three weeks after an upward movement in the first week of January, signaling a shrinking third wave, according to two scientific studies even as a government agency flags the virus’s community spread a fortnight ago. Seven out of top 24 states with more than 10,000 active cases including Maharashtra, Delhi and West Bengal have an R value - a mark of the epidemic's ability to spread - of less than one on Sunday. For an epidemic to subside, the value of R has to drop below one. “The ongoing wave seems to be showing signs of dissipating with R for India having gone down considerably from the peak value of close to 3 in early January. Currently it is at 1.3, around what it was during April-May 2020 when the nationwide lockdown brought down the sharply rising trend of cases,” Sitabhra Sinha, a scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai told DH. Others exhibiting a declining trend are poll-bound Uttar Pradesh as well as Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar, according to Sinha, who is tracking the pandemic with his disease forecast model since 2020. Among the metros, Pune and Bengaluru continue to have an R value of more than one whereas Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata show a decreasing trend. A similar forecast has come from the Indian Institute of Technology, Chennai with a team of IIT researchers showing a dip in India’s R value to 1.57 between Jan 14-21 from a high of 4.0 observed between Jan 1-6 in their forecast study. In Sinha’s model, India’s R value was 1.3 between Jan 15-21, as against the high of 2.98 between Dec 30-Jan 10. The latest bulletin prepared by India’s SARS-CoV-2 Genome Consortium pointed out that the Omicron variant was in community transmission around January 10 and became the dominant variant in multiple metros, where new cases rose exponentially. Health Ministry sources said Omicron was the dominating strain in almost all the metros barring Chennai. But the Omicron-driven third wave has been causing lower mortality compared to the previous two waves and serious cases in significantly reduced numbers of people requiring oxygen support, doctors from private tertiary care hospitals say in a report after comparing the flow of patients in their hospitals. Comparing the patients they received in their nine hospitals, the Max group in a report said the overall mortality in the first wave was 7.2% which increased to 10.5% during the ferocious second wave but came down to 6% during the ongoing surge. The requirement of oxygen and ICU beds are also substantially low compared to the two previous waves. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-r-value-shrinks-despite-omicron-s-spread-into-community-1073884.html
23-01-2022||National||Covid home-tests: Watch out for 'false negatives'||With home Covid-19 testing kits gaining popularity in the country amid spiking Covid-19 cases, people have been cautioned to treat the results with a grain of salt if they are negative despite exhibiting symptoms. In the event of showing Covid-19 symptoms despite the home test reading 'negative', one should isolate as a safety measure, he said.  "There are two kinds of tests that are being done. One is the home tests, which are the rapid antigen tests and these have quite a limited sensitivity. These are about 50 per cent as sensitive as the gold standard RTPCR test, so you may get a false negative test on these testing kits.", he told the publication. "In these home test kits, there are chances of not taking proper sampling from the back of nose or throat. As result, a 'positive' result might not come. The chances of false-negative reports in RTPCR tests are only 10 per cent since tested are done in the lab," Mahajan added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-home-tests-watch-out-for-false-negatives-1073928.html
23-01-2022||National Politics||Azad Samaj Party set to field murder, extortion suspect from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh polls||The list of 33 candidates released by Azad Samaj Party (ASP) leader Chandra Shekhar includes Bhupendra Bafar, a man charged with murders and extortion in western Uttar Pradesh. The ASP has fielded him from Siwalkhas seat in Meerut district. Bafar, 60, is facing 18 cases of murder, loot, extortion, in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. He is currently out on bail. The Uttar Pradesh police had, at a point in time, announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh on information leading to his arrest. Known to be close to a convicted absconder, Badan Singh Baddo, and another notorious criminal, Sushil Mooch, Bafar had fallen out with the two and is now their arch-rival. The Uttar Pradesh police came down heavily on Bafar after he helped another Muzaffarnagar-based gangster, Rohit Sandu, escape police custody on July 2, 2019, in which a sub-inspector was killed. On July 16, 2019, Sandu was killed in a police encounter. During investigation, Bafar's involvement was established and he was arrested on July 13, 2019, for his involvement in the attack, and sent to jail. Additional Superintendent of Police of Uttar Pradesh STF, Brijesh Singh said: "There are several criminal cases registered against Bafar in Ghaziabad, Muzaffarnagar, Dehradun, Bijnor, etc. He has links with all big criminals in west UP and had in 2013 even tried to kill Badan Singh Baddo while being brought to court under police protection. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/azad-samaj-party-set-to-field-murder-extortion-suspect-from-meerut-in-uttar-pradesh-polls-1073723.html
23-01-2022||National Politics||Harish Rawat faces twin battle in Uttarakhand polls||The Congress in Uttarakhand seems to have the upper hand with BJP leaders joining the party in the state and now, the party leaders are cautiously claiming stake for the top post. The Congress has appointed Harish Rawat as chairman of the campaign committee and he is spearheading the campaign. He is seen as the natural claimant for the top post if the party comes to power but he is facing challenges from his detractors within the party. Rawat currently has the upper hand in the first round, with the suspension of Kishore Upadhayaya and voicing reservations over Harak Singh Rawat's admission, which was a low-key affair. Rawat said that "the party has decided so he has no problem". But when asked about the post-election scenario, he said, "My focus right now is that the Congress wins the election." The veteran in Uttarakhand politics knows that each political move by other groups may create hurdles post-election. Sources said that he has already reached out to probable dissenters to seek their support. However, sources said that he is fighting a twin battle -- with the BJP and within the party. Another group, led by a former state president, is also not leaving any stone unturned as the detractors are lobbying hard with the AICC office-bearers. The group led by Preetam Singh is not putting up a straight challenge, but will wait for any opportunity to strike back. But Rawat has the trust and confidence of Sonia Gandhi, while the party workers have sympathy as he missed the bus of chief ministership twice -- once to ND Tiwari and then to Vijay Bahuguna. However, he was later roped in to replace Bahuguna. Harish Rawat rose from the grassroots level and understands the state better than anyone in the Congress party. He said that "we will focus on local issues" as he knows that the BJP doesn't want to come into the arena on the basis of performance but on emotive issues. A chief problem within the state Congress unit is that it does not have any leader who is acceptable to both the Garhwal and Kumaon regions after the passing away of ND Tiwari and Indira Hridyesh. Rawat is capable of balancing both, a party veteran said and also, he has good acceptability among the minority population in the plains. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/harish-rawat-faces-twin-battle-in-uttarakhand-polls-1073725.html
23-01-2022||National Politics||BJP will come to power in UP with bigger mandate than previous polls, says Keshav Prasad Maurya||The electoral battle in Uttar Pradesh has already begun with all parties going gung-ho with their poll preparations. The BJP government in the state has given the responsibility of repeating the 2017 state polls performance to Keshav Prasad Maurya, the Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister and senior BJP leader, who is working to get the caste equations right once again for the saffron party. Keshav Prasad Maurya, in a conversation with IANS, said that BJP is always ready for any election. He claims that the Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress will be routed in the polls will be declared on March 10. He said that as soon as his party wins the 2022 polls, it will start preparations for the 2024 general elections. Q: All opposition parties accuse the BJP of not fighting elections on the issue of development, but playing politics in the name of religion? A: The BJP is fighting elections in the name of development. The SP is taking credit for the inauguration and foundation stone of various developmental projects that have been undertaken during the last five years of the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. Therefore, I challenge SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav to contest elections from the Assembly constituency where maximum development was done during his term as the CM. If there has been any chief minister who is the biggest obstacle to development in the country, it is Akhilesh Yadav. He has been the most unsuccessful chief minister till date. During his tenure, there were a lot of rioting incidents and Uttar Pradesh was in complete turmoil. Q: CM Yogi Adityanath and you are also fighting elections, is the BJP not confident enough? A: Our political opponents are getting nervous because of us (Yogi and I) contesting the upcoming state elections. Yogi ji is fighting election from the Gorakhpur Assembly constituency. The party has given me an opportunity to fight election from my native land. The way we (BJP) had secured a thumping majority in 2017, we will again come back to power in 2022 with an even bigger mandate. Q: The BJP had given a slogan of 60 per cent votes out of 100 is ours. Now the SP has given a new slogan that 85 per cent votes of 100 is ours, there is division on the rest. A: This is a clear attempt by the SP to copy the slogan given by the BJP. Those who imitate others must know that imitation requires intelligence. But the people belonging to the SP have mortgaged their intelligence to gangsters and rioters. The SP had already tried contesting election alone and even by forming pre-poll alliances with other parties in 2014, 2017 and 2019. In all three elections, the people rejected the SP and voted in large numbers for the BJP. Q: Asked about the discontent among party workers on the ground level due to prominence being given to people joining the BJP from other parties? A: Before 2014, the BJP had 50 MLAs and nearly 10 MPs in Uttar Pradesh. But the number of MPs increased from 10 to 73 in 2014. Similarly, in the 2017 state Assembly elections, we (BJP) secured 325 seats. Leaders from other parties want to join the BJP and are being welcomed here. There is no question of giving tickets to all the leaders who have joined the BJP from other parties. Q: What about religious polarisation due to the Muzaffarnagar riots in the upcoming elections? A: The BJP always practices the politics of development. Who can forget the 700 riots in Uttar Pradesh? Who can forget those leaders from the SP involved in criminalising politics? How can it be forgotten that people had to migrate due to the fear of criminals in Kairana? Who can forget the ban on Kanwar yatra? The BJP is fighting elections in the name of development and is confident of securing victory. We will defeat those parties which vitiate the law and order situation in the state. Q: The opposition says that the entire vote bank of OBCs is standing firm with them? A: The Forward and Backward castes as well as Dalits are standing firmly with the BJP. The party is getting votes from every community. Of the 24 crore people in UP, more than 15 crore prefer to vote for the BJP. The issues raised by our party will become the basis of our victory. The SP and RLD have given tickets to criminals and mafia, that is why both the parties are taking time to announce their second list of candidates after releasing the first. The BJP is giving tickets to those people who deserve it. Akhilesh Yadav is not able to handle his own family, how will he handle a state like Uttar Pradesh? The BJP does not work for casteism, instead, ours is a nationalist party. The nationalism of opposition parties is a hoax. This will be decided by the mood of the people. Right now, this is just a trailer, the entire picture will be clear after the 2022 polls when Uttar Pradesh will develop at a much faster pace. Q: What about Akhilesh's statement about building the Ram temple? A: If Akhilesh Yadav's government was in power today, thousands of 'karsevaks' would have been killed by now. BJP's history as a party has been to relinquish political power for Ram bhakts (devotees of Ram). Maurya said that the SP, BSP and Congress are visible as a party only during the time of elections. They (opposition parties) have only one goal, which is to contest elections and attain power by any means. When these parties are in power, they protect criminals, mafias and rioters. Our policy is that after coming to power, our priority is to reach the poor and the deprived sections of society. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-will-come-to-power-in-up-with-bigger-mandate-than-previous-polls-says-keshav-prasad-maurya-1073736.html
23-01-2022||National Politics||Mining allegations by Akali Dal frivolous, says Channi||Reacting strongly to "baseless and frivolous" allegations levelled against him by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Majithia, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi dared him to present proof OF his involvement in sand mining across the state. "I have never denied my relationship with my nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey and being a relative, he might be present at some of my functions. It is not a crime if I get clicked with my relatives at my son's marriage or some other functions," Channi said in a statement, while categorically denying his any link in Honey's money laundering case investigated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Lashing out at Majithia for the slanderous and misleading campaign against him, Channi said the SAD leader is dancing to the tunes of the BJP government and is trying to take revenge from him for booking him in an NDPS case, as earlier, former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who is in "cahoots" with the SAD-BJP, had "covered up his sins". Channi said, "Let me remind Majithia that he was investigated by ED for his relations with drug peddlers and a drug kingpin named him for sheltering and facilitating smuggling of drugs. Majithia's photos were with them, does it mean he knew them and sheltering them?" The chief minister asked Majthia, former Chief Minister Parkash Badal and his son Sukhbir Badal to clear their stand on their relationship with drug peddlers, such as Anwar Masih, Bittu Aulakh, Jagdish Bhola, Gurdeep Ranu and Satpreet Satta, with whom they usually shared political stages and also attended public functions. Calling ED's raid and opposition scurrilous attacks a "political vendetta" ahead of the Vidhan Sabha elections, Channi said, "The BJP is using central agencies to take revenge after PM Modi fiasco, and opposition is now taking now playing politics over the issue in Punjab." Majithia, who has "annihilated the future of Punjab's youth" during the SAD-BJP governance for 10 years now questioning others' integrity is "amusing", Channi said. Reacting to audio recordings of the Salapur village Sarpanch Iqbal Singh and his son Binder, naming him, Channi said that a person might take his name for personal gain, but that doesn't guarantee their association. "They all are afraid and annoyed of me for selfless working for four months and spending government funds on the welfare of people, which they want to utilise on building their multi-crore empires," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mining-allegations-by-akali-dal-frivolous-says-channi-1073740.html
23-01-2022||National Politics||TMC's proposal for alliance in Goa not considered as it poached Congress leaders: Chidambaram||Congress veteran P Chidambaram on Sunday said the Trinamool Congress's (TMC) proposal of a pre-poll alliance for the next month's Goa Assembly elections was not considered by his party as the Mamata Banerjee-led party "poached" Congress leaders in the state. His statement comes three days after TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee said that if the Congress fails to dislodge the BJP from power in Goa, then Chidambaram, who is Congress' state election in-charge, should own up the responsibility and resign. Banerjee had also said that the TMC had approached Chidambaram with a formal offer for a pre-poll alliance for the February 14 Goa polls. Speaking to reporters, Chidambaram said there was a suggestion from the TMC for a pre-poll alliance with the Congress in Goa. "What I can say is that there was a suggestion from the TMC that we should form an alliance (in Goa). (But) Before and after that, certain incidents took place," the senior Congress leader said. He alleged that the TMC poached Congress leaders in the coastal state. "They poached Luizinho Faleiro, and even after the proposal of alliance, they poached Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, whose name was in the Congress's first list of the candidates. They also poached in other constituencies, like Mormugao and Vasco," he said, without naming any leader from these two seats. The former Union minister said that after these incidents, he did not get any instructions from the top leaders in the Congress over the alliance proposal. When asked about Abhishek Banerjee's statement against him, Chidambaram said, "I don't want to engage with the TMC general secretary. I occupy a humble position in the Congress party and I would not like to comment." He said that Congress leaders had met Shiv Sena and NCP leaders over a pre-poll alliance in Goa. "But there was no meeting point, so we did not take it further," he said. The Shiv Sena and the NCP have joined hands to contest the elections to the 40-member Goa Assembly, while Congress will be fighting the polls with the Goa Forward Party (GFP). The TMC has tied up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP). Replying to another question, Chidambaram said that Congress candidates in Goa will give their suggestion on whether to announce a chief ministerial candidate in the state. "We will take views of the candidates once the nomination process is over and then communicate it to AICC (All India Congress Committee)," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmcs-proposal-for-alliance-in-goa-not-considered-as-it-poached-congress-leaders-chidambaram-1073805.html
23-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19 again plays spoilsport for Kashmir tourism||The sudden third wave of Covid-19 has once again come as a shock for Kashmir’s fragile tourism industry with a sharp decrease of more than one lakh tourists registered this month. While 1.42 lakh tourists visited Kashmir in December, the number has come down to 35,000 in January as the Omicron-led third wave started to peak from the first week of this month. Since October 2021, the tourism sector had started to revive with 93,000 tourists visiting the Valley in November. However, what was looking like a promising winter tourism season on the eve of New Year, lost momentum as Covid-19 cases started rising alarmingly. An official of the Tourism department said that thousands of tourists have canceled their bookings to Kashmir in the last few days. “The latest wave of Covid-19 has unleashed gloom and doom on the tourism sector once again with famous ski-resort Gulmarg in north Kashmir being the biggest loser which witnessed major cancellation of tour and hotel bookings,” he said. In 2020, Kashmir recorded only 41,267 tourist arrivals as the region remained under severe lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic for most part of the year. Similarly after the Center abrogated the erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370 and imposed a strict security lockdown after August 5, 2019, only 43,059 tourist arrivals were recorded in Kashmir for five months from August to December 2019. Mushtaq Chaya, the President of J&K Hoteliers Club says that the Covid has once again “broken the back of tourism in Kashmir”. “After the last two years of slump, the tourism sector, especially winter tourism, seemed to be quite promising. However, large-scale cancellations have spoiled the entire season,” he said. However, Secretary Tourism, Sarmad Hafeez is hopeful that the third wave of Covid doesn’t last long and Kashmir bounces back sooner than later. “We can have fun and frolic activities in both leisure and adventure tourism in the coming season. There would be many tourist attractions lined up for the people visiting Kashmir lined up” he said Hafeez. Hafeez said whatever limited tourist footfalls are being received at the moment, are handled in a way that Covid guidelines don’t get violated. Recently, the government had fixed rates for tourism services to discourage the practice of fleecing tourists visiting Kashmir. The step was taken after complaints in recent years that tourists were being overcharged and exploited by transporters, hoteliers, and other service providers during peak season in Kashmir. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-again-plays-spoilsport-for-kashmir-tourism-1073769.html
23-01-2022||North and Central||Doctors, nurses among 50 to test positive for Covid-19 at Rajkot Civil Hospital||Around 50 staffers of the Civil Hospital in Gujarat's Rajkot city, including doctors and nurses, have tested positive for coronavirus, an official said Sunday. Since none of them are in a serious condition, they are in home isolation, Superintendent of Civil Hospital R S Trivedi said. "Healthcare staff members of the hospital, who come in direct contact with the patients, were tested for Covid-19. Almost 50 of them, including paramedical staff, nurses and doctors, were found infected. But the good thing is that nobody is in a serious condition, and most of them are in home isolation," he told reporters. On Thursday, Gujarat had recorded 24,485 infections, its highest single-day spike, pushing up the state's tally above the 10-lakh mark. Gujarat's tally of active cases has also crossed the one-lakh mark, and is currently at 1.29 lakh, with a total 244 patients on ventilators, as per the health department's Saturday evening release. There are 7,653 active cases in Rajkot district at present, as per the state health department's Covid-19 dashboard. The district has so far reported 69,414 infections and 61,025 recoveries, with 736 patients dying so far, as per the health department update. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctors-nurses-among-50-to-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-rajkot-civil-hospital-1073779.html
23-01-2022||North and Central||Damages caused during anti-CAA protests in Kanpur leave daily wagers in lurch||The anti-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019) protests in Becon Ganj of Kanpur in 2019 have left hawkers and daily wage labourers in the lurch, 21 of whom have paid Rs 13,476 each to the district administration for damages caused during the protest. The incident pertains to damages caused on December 21, 2019, when a government-owned Tata Sumo valued at Rs 2.5 lakh, two cameras, three windows and two doors valued at Rs 33,000 were damaged. While offenders in similar anti-CAA protests in Lucknow are pinning their hopes on appeals in the Allahabad High Court, the ones in Kanpur were not so lucky. According to the report, The Indian Express tracked down the families of 15 of the 21, following which it was revealed that none of them was aware of how the figure of Rs 2.83 lakh and their share of Rs 13,476 was arrived at. While families said that they paid the money from their savings or mostly borrowed to do so, they alleged constant pressure by the police. The 15 of them were jailed, but were released on bail, the report stated. “The police would visit every second day and say that our house will be auctioned. They said that if we pay, we will be safe for some time. We were left with no choice except to pay the money,” the father of one of the accused was quoted as saying. One of the accused, a daily wager, when asked why he did not challenge the notice, said: “We did not want to challenge the government, the administration and the police. We don’t have the resources.” Lawyers for seven of the 15 said that none challenged the recovery notice. “Some were in jail when the notices reached their houses. Some of them reached out to us after someone had already paid on their behalf. All the clients that I am handling in this case are poor,” said a lawyer, requesting anonymity. An FIR was lodged by the police after nine arrests were made in 2019, following which recovery notices continued to be sent to the 21 of them. “According to the report filed by the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), it is clear that on December 21, 2019, you indulged in vandalism and damaged public property. For this you have been charged along with nine named and 1200 unidentified people,” stated the notice delivered to one of the accused on January 24, 2020. “During the probe, your crime was found to happen under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984…Hence, you are ordered to be present in my court on January 28, 2020 and give me in writing why action should not be taken against you and you made to pay for the damages incurred to public property,” the notice stated. The lawyer for one of the accused who is also a daily-wager said he replied to the notice on January 24, 2020, rebutting the evidence presented by the administration. “The photograph shown by the administration and police as that of my client was not his. It was not a clear photograph and it was definitely not of my client. Despite my stating so, an order was passed that my client will have to pay for the damages,” said the lawyer. The then-ADM Vivek Srivastava, who had issued the notices and currently posted as Chief Revenue Officer of UP’s Ballia district, was quoted as saying “This is election time, and I can’t give you any version.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/damages-caused-during-anti-caa-protests-in-kanpur-leave-daily-wagers-in-lurch-1073788.html
23-01-2022||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu's advisor booked for 'hate speech'||Former Director General of Police (DGP) Mohammad Mustafa, an advisor to state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, whose wife Razia Sultana is a party's candidate, was booked on Sunday for his 'hate speech' during canvassing in Malerkotla, the Muslim-dominated town. He has been booked for promoting enmity among communities. Responding to the registration of case, Mustafa said: "I did not target Hindus as is being alleged on social media. I used word 'Fitne', which means law breakers. I was angry at a group of Muslims who had tried to attack me. I was warning them, not Hindus." In his video, Mustafa was purportedly heard allegedly threatening Hindus with dire consequences if they organise events near his event during a public meeting on January 20. Local AAP candidate Jamil-ur-Rehman said he had filed a complaint with the Election Commission against Mustafa. "He threatened to beat up AAP workers and candidate," Rehman had said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhus-advisor-booked-for-hate-speech-1073792.html
23-01-2022||North and Central||106 deaths in Delhi in January due to cold, claims NGO; officials deny||At least 106 people, mostly homeless persons, have died in Delhi this month due to cold conditions, non-government organisation Centre for Holistic Development (CHD) has claimed and written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal requesting him to make proper arrangements for such people during winters. While officials from the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) denied that deaths have occurred due to cold, officers of the Delhi Police acknowledged that the number of deaths among homeless people suffering from medical issues goes up during winters. ''There have been no deaths due to cold. However, fatalities among homeless people due to other issues, such as accidents, diseases, alcohol and drug-related problems, do take place, but DUSIB does not maintain such data," an official said, requesting anonymity. According to a report prepared by the NGO, 106 people have died due to cold in Delhi between January 1 and January 19. Of these, North Delhi district recorded the maximum number of deaths (33). North West Delhi recorded 13 and Southwest and Central Delhi saw nine fatalities each. West Delhi and New Delhi reported eight deaths each during the period, the report claimed. "These are homeless people who spend their nights in the open, on the roadside or outside shops. Most of the deaths occurred due to the cold conditions this month," Sunil Kumar Aledia from the Centre for Holistic Development claimed. CHD comprises lawyers, policy researchers and volunteers who actively analyse government policies and prepare ground reports to identify gaps for effective implementation. Aledia said CHD procured the data from Zonal Integrated Police Network, or the ZIPNet project, started by the Union Home Ministry in 2014. The NGO in its letter to Kejriwal, who is also the DUSIB chairman, claimed: "Amid cold weather in Delhi, 106 people, including six women, have died in Delhi till January 19." "A DUSIB survey in 2014 had identified 16,760 homeless people in Delhi. However, the actual number of homeless people who sleep on the roadside is more than one lakh," it claimed. According to DUSIB data, there are 308 shelter homes, including permanent buildings, temporary buildings, portacabins, and tents, in Delhi at present. These have a capacity of sheltering 9,330 homeless people. The latest data shows that around 8,200 homeless people have been spending their nights in these shelter homes. Aledia said a survey conducted by CHD found a large number of people sleeping in the open at and around Kashmiri Gate, Yamuna Pusta, Nigam Bodh Ghat, Jamuna Bazaar, Chandni Chowk, Delhi Gate, Asaf Ali Road, Jama Masjid, Azadpur, Okhla, Badli, Kingsway Camp, Nizammuddin and Sarai Kale Khan. A senior police official said though not all deaths can be attributed to cold, the number of fatalities among homeless suffering from medical issues do go up in winters. "Despite the initiatives taken and the availability of shelter homes, there is no denial about the death of homeless people due to cold. But these are those who sleep on the railway tracks, carts, roadsides, outside shops... this happens despite all agencies working together to save such people," the officer said. Delhi reported one of the longest cold spells this January, according to the India Meteorological Department. The maximum temperatures have been lower than normal since the second week of January. This is largely due to clouds and rain preventing long exposure to sunshine between January 9 and January 19, a weather expert said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/106-deaths-in-delhi-in-january-due-to-cold-claims-ngo-officials-deny-1073825.html
23-01-2022||North and Central||Over 27k police personnel deployed for R-Day security: Delhi Police chief||Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Sunday said over 27,000 police personnel have been deployed for Republic Day security duties in the national capital and anti-terror measures intensified. These personnel include deputy commissioners of police, assistant commissioners of police and inspectors, sub-inspectors. Armed Police Force personnel and commandos, officers and jawans of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) have also been deployed, he said. Briefing the media about the Republic Day security arrangements, Asthana said a total of 27,723 Delhi Police personnel including 71 DCPs, 213 ACPs and 753 inspectors have been deployed in the capital for the Republic Day parade. They are being assisted by 65 companies of CAPFs. The police chief said over the last two months, the Delhi Police has intensified anti-terror measures in coordination with other security agencies. "Since the last two months, we have intensified our anti-terror measures. These measures have been taken on 26 parameters very intensively. It is also because Delhi has always been a target for terrorists or anti-social elements. This year too we have been very much alert," Asthana said. According to a recent order, operation of sub-conventional aerial platforms, including UAVs, paragliders and hot air balloons, over the national capital has been prohibited in view of the Republic Day celebrations. The order came into effect on January 20 and would remain in force till February 15.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-27k-police-personnel-deployed-for-r-day-security-delhi-police-chief-1073855.html
23-01-2022||North and Central||Infant girl dies in Madhya Pradesh hospital after testing positive for Covid||A five-day-old girl, who had tested positive for coronavirus infection and also suffering from other health issues, died at a hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior district, an official said on Sunday. The girl was born at the health centre in Dabra, around 45 km from the Gwalior district headquarter, Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Bindu Singhal said. The girl was referred to Gwalior's Kamlaraja Hospital after she tested positive for coronavirus where she died, Singhal said. “It can't be said that the infant died only because of Covid-19 infection. She was suffering from other ailments and infections since she was born,” the CMHO added. A detailed report about the girl's death is awaited. As of Saturday evening, the Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh stood at 8,82,906 while the death toll was 10,562, as per the state health department. The positivity rate in MP rose to 13.4 per cent. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/infant-girl-dies-in-madhya-pradesh-hospital-after-testing-positive-for-covid-1073857.html
23-01-2022||North and Central||At 88.2 mm, Delhi logs highest January rainfall in 122 years||A spell of rain late Saturday night brought Delhi's cumulative precipitation this January to 88.2 mm, which is the highest in the month since 1901, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Before this, the capital recorded 79.7 mm of rainfall in 1989 and 73.7 mm in 1953, the IMD data showed. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, has recorded six rainy days and 88.2 mm of rainfall this month so far. It got 19.7 mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30 am on Sunday. The Palam Observatory also received a record 110 mm of precipitation this month, according to the data available on the IMD's website. On Sunday, the national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 10.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above the normal while the maximum temperature was at 14.9 degrees Celsius, six notches below the normal. The Relative Humidity recorded at 5.30 pm was 84 per cent, according to the IMD. The weatherman has forecast partly cloudy sky with moderate fog for Monday morning and cold day conditions at a few places in the national capital. The maximum and minimum temperatures on Monday is expected to settle at 16 and seven degrees Celsius respectively. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "poor'' category on Sunday, the Central Pollution Control Board data showed. The Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7.05 pm was recorded at 201 in Delhi, Faridabad (115) and Gurgaon (172), Faridabad (115), Ghaziabad (165), Greater Noida (140) and Noida (148). An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The rainfall had also brought the maximum temperature in the capital down to 14.7 degrees Celsius on Saturday, seven notches below normal and the lowest this season so far. The maximum temperatures have been lower than normal since the second week of January. Minimum temperatures have been close to and above normal. This is largely due to clouds and rain preventing long exposure to sunshine between January 9 and January 19, said Mahest Palawat, Vice President (Meteorology and Climate Change), Skymet Weather. The rains between January 7 and January 9 increased moisture in the air, which led to foggy conditions amid low temperatures. "Cold day conditions persisted in large parts of the capital and neighbouring areas till January 16 due to fog and low clouds. The day temperature fell again under the influence of back-to-back western disturbances (WDs) from January 16," he said. Delhi has recorded six WDs in January this year, as against a normal of three to four WDs in the month, Palawat said. "Delhi saw three WDs between January 1 and January 9. Three more have impacted the capital since January 16, the latest being on January 21," he said. Clouds and rain prevent exposure to sun, which reduces daytime temperature. Clouds trap the heat, which gets through during the day, keeping the night time temperatures above normal. The IMD predicted a dip of three to four degrees Celsius in Delhi's minimum temperature in the coming days. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-882-mm-delhi-logs-highest-january-rainfall-in-122-years-1073865.html
23-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi's Covid-19 cases fall below 10,000-mark after 19 days||Covid-19 cases fell below the 10,000 mark in the national capital on Sunday, the first time since January 4. The latest health bulletin issued by Delhi government showed that 9,197 cases were reported in the past 24 hours in the capital which also recorded 34 deaths. The positivity rate also showed a decreasing trend at 13.32% out of 69,022 tests. On Saturday, the capital had recorded 11,486 cases from 70,226 tests, recording a 16.36% positivity rate. Forty-five people were recorded to have died on Saturday. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain recently said that the third wave of Covid-19 appeared to have gone past in the national capital but it is not time yet to lower the guard. The capital had witnessed a record surge in cases with 28,867 cases registered on January 13 and the positivity rate at 30.64% on January 14 and 15. Since then, there has been a decrease in the number of cases. This month alone, the capital has witnessed 3,33,776 Covid-19 cases. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-covid-19-cases-fall-below-10000-mark-after-19-days-1073868.html
23-01-2022||Opinion||Trincomalee is a big win; more to do to get Lanka off China addiction||India’s assertive ‘neighbourhood first’ policy was once again in full view recently in Sri Lanka, providing Delhi with the much-needed window of opportunity to regain a larger foothold in the island-nation. Not too long ago, it had seemed that our southern neighbour was slipping into Beijing’s orbit unstoppably. This perception had grown over a period of time, but most especially since the elimination of the LTTE in 2009. Colombo had needed a large infusion of finance as well as support in the international arena against allegations of massive human rights violations during the last days of the civil war. Truth be told, at least some of the rights violations was collateral damage imposed by the retreating LTTE, which used civilians as human shields against the advancing Lankan army. Sri Lanka is once again on the threshold of economic breakdown, and is also likely to get hauled over the coals for the alleged war crimes dating back to 2009. The apathy of the West coupled with an imprudent foreign policy and tactless handling of the regional situation are pushing Lanka to the brink. India’s compulsions to toe the US policy of sanctions against Iran and Myanmar and punishing Sri Lanka resulted in Delhi forsaking its natural strategic space in the region to Beijing. Eventually, a total revamping of the contours of engagement with immediate and distant neighbours has brought Delhi back to a position of strength to challenge China’s hegemonic objectives in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) and the larger Indo-Pacific expanse. India and China have been engaged in vigorous diplomacy in Sri Lanka, practically compelling Colombo to be at its best in maintaining a balance between the two giants. In Colombo, the Rajapaksa clan is firmly in control, with three of its members ruling the roost as the country’s President, Prime Minister and Finance Minister, the last of whom who was in New Delhi last month to seek assurances for a currency swap and a bailout package. India’s demand to speed up the Trincomalee Tank Farm project in the country’s north, once a stronghold of the LTTE, was accepted and the agreement for the project firmed up. Trincomalee, one of the deepest natural harbours in the world, had gone to seed after the British left in 1948, leaving the 101 oil tanks with a total storage capacity of 1.2 million tonnes. The Sri Lankan State-owned oil major, Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC), could use only 15 of the tanks, which too were handed over to Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in 2004. The rest of the tanks had remained unused in the midst of the jungle, covered by thick foliage and overrun by the LTTE. In fact the annexure to the 1987 Indo-Lanka Accord, signed by Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and President Jayewardene, guaranteed India that “Trincomalee or any other port in Sri Lanka will not be made available for military use by any country in a manner prejudicial to India’s interests,” and assured that “the work of restoring and operating the Trincomalee oil tank farm will be undertaken as a joint venture between India and Sri Lanka.” Now, 35 years after the accord and after many bitter diplomatic battles, the agreement is set to be implemented. The Trincomalee project is both commercially and strategically important for India. On the opposite coast and just north of Colombo, the Chinese-built Muthurajawela Tank Farm Project has a capacity of two lakh tonnes – one-sixth the Trincomalee Tank Farm’s. The agreement between China Exim Bank and the Government of Sri Lanka, a $72 million loan deal maturing after 20 years, with a grace period of five years, for the Muthurajawela Tank Farm Project, was signed in 2001. Needless to say, New Delhi will have to complete the Trincomalee project much faster and more economically to win the perception battle. Colombo has been on Beijing’s radar for over three decades and many high-profile Chinese diplomatic and military officials have made a beeline there as the dragon’s ‘debt trap’ agenda gradually unfolded. After providing military hardware to Colombo in its fight against the LTTE, China’s national currency, the Yuan (renminbi) was allowed by Sri Lanka’s central bank in 2011 to be used in international transactions though India was the island-nation’s largest trading partner and donor. In October 2020, the then head of the Chinese foreign policy department Yang Jiechi visited Colombo. The messaging was clear -- the highest Chinese official to make a foreign visit to any country in South Asia in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic had chosen to go to Sri Lanka. He was followed by Gen. Wei Fenghe, Defence Minister and a member of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party (credited with the successful implementation of China-Pakistan defence cooperation) in April 2021. Last week, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi ended his long tour of Indian Ocean Rim countries with a visit to Colombo, where he floated the idea of an “Indian Ocean forum”, promising a leading role for Colombo in it, evidently to compete with India’s role in the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA). It is time for India to take charge of the IORA and link its activities to a broader Indo-Pacific platform, Quad and possibly even the AUKUS so as to cater to greater trade, enhanced security and strategic partnership with countries in the extended neighbourhood. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/trincomalee-is-a-big-win-more-to-do-to-get-lanka-off-china-addiction-1073674.html
23-01-2022||Opinion||Drowning in plastic||We move further into 2022 with the hope that the past two years of pandemic devastation are slowly giving way to global economic recovery. But while the stock markets may be up, it is also increasingly clear that we are in the middle of a global environmental crisis. The United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) defines this as a ‘triple planetary crisis’. Humanity’s future is under threat because of climate change, biodiversity loss, and pollution. Unsustainable economic production of goods, and unsustainable, unbridled consumption – in other words, our casual “use-and-throw” culture – are the main cause for this triple planetary crisis, as the UNEP reminds us. Plastics lie at the heart of this debate. The Environmental Investigation Agency, an independent international NGO, estimates that by 2040, there will be more plastic in the oceans than fish. Hundreds of studies from across the world tell us that microscopic particles of plastic are now everywhere. In our soil, food, water, in the air we breathe – and, inevitably, embedded in our bodies. The renowned naturalist and filmmaker David Attenborough brought the plastic crisis to global attention in 2017, with his award-winning documentary series. The Blue Planet II showed viewers the direct effects of plastic pollution on the ocean through heart-rending visuals, such as that of a family of whales in mourning after a calf was poisoned by plastic-contaminated milk. The BBC, which produced the documentary, was so moved that it committed to phasing out all single-use plastics by 2020. The European Union also mandated that all plastic bottle manufacturers should use at least 25% recycled plastic by 2025. But that has been harder to do than imagined. Lacking a well-designed process to collect and reuse plastics, most plastic continues to land up in landfills and water bodies. The plastic industry has now become the mainstay of large multinational oil and natural gas industries. Impacted by the global shift towards renewable energy, plastic production has become a key part of their strategies for future survival and growth. By 2030, a ‘Beyond Plastics’ report estimates that plastic production will contribute more to climate change in the US than emissions from coal! As consumers, we are exhorted daily to be ‘sustainable’ by carrying our own coffee mugs and glasses, taking cloth bags to the vegetable market, and staying away from bottled water. Indeed, we should do all of these things. But consumers have little influence in a world where more than 40% of all the plastic manufactured in the world is used for single-use plastic products such as “paper” cups (which are in reality coated in plastic), or shampoo sachets, which are difficult to avoid in rural or low-income areas where people may not have the money to buy an entire bottle at a time. The triple planetary crisis is a crisis of climate, biodiversity, and pollution. Plastic single-handedly emerges as one of the largest contributors to global warming, species collapse, and pollution. Unless we turn our attention towards plastic, we will not be able to move forward to a healthier decade. By July this year, India will join a number of countries across the world that are phasing out short-term plastic use, by banning most types of single-use plastic, including single-use food packaging, plastic bags, straws and plastic cups. But without a proper plan for what will replace these, and without enforcement, such plans face the danger of remaining on paper. Currently, only about 60% of the plastic produced in India is collected, largely by informal waste-pickers. Much of this is low-value and cannot be recycled, ending back in landfills. Yet, we need to solve this challenge, before it gets worse. Consumer action is one way – but consumer pressure is a far more effective way. We need public campaigns, public documentaries like Blue Planet II, and public anger – to compel industries to act. Can we?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/drowning-in-plastic-1073675.html
23-01-2022||Opinion||Indian Republic must thrive on love, not fear||An interesting thing about the drafting of the Indian Constitution – the apotheosis of which, of course, we celebrate every January 26 – was the way that the Drafting Committee responded to widespread communal violence and social unrest by adding new ideas into the Preamble. By introducing the term ‘fraternity’, the Committee willfully exceeded the mandate granted them by the Constituent Assembly. Their mandate had been to repurpose the unanimously-adopted ‘Objectives Resolution’, moved by Nehru in 1946, to function as the Constitution’s Preamble. Instead, Ambedkar decided to completely rewrite it, focusing upon the social as the foundation for the political. As he saw it, political democracy relied upon social cohesion, fraternity, for its success. In 1948, Ambedkar had sent the completed draft Constitution to the president of the Constituent Assembly, along with a cover note containing a confession about its departure from the Objectives Resolution: ‘The committee has added a clause about fraternity in the Preamble although it does not occur in the Objectives Resolution. The committee felt that the need for fraternal concord and goodwill in India was never greater than now and that this particular aim of the new Constitution should be emphasised by special mention in the Preamble.’ Partition, in particular, but long-enduring casteism, too, had alerted Ambedkar to the fact that Indian democracy could either be erected upon a foundation of fear, or upon brotherhood and love. By introducing the novel term ‘fraternity’ into the Constitution, Ambedkar was opting for love. The idea is reminiscent of Get Together, the hippie anthem recorded throughout the 1960s by artists like Joni Mitchell, David Crosby, Jefferson Airplane, the Carpenters, Johnny Cash, but made most famous by the Youngbloods. The song rather nicely captures something of Ambedkar’s thinking in its lyrics: You hold the key to love and fear/ All in your trembling hand…Come on, people now/ Smile on your brother/ Everybody get together/ Try to love one another right now. Fraternity was a concept of significance to Ambedkar for more than a decade prior to his work on the Drafting Committee. He had already spoken of it in his 1936 speech published as Annihilation of Caste, stating: ‘Fraternity…is only another name for democracy. Democracy is not merely a form of Government. It is primarily a mode of associated living, of conjoint communicated experience. It is essentially an attitude of respect and reverence towards fellow men.’ Ambedkar also spoke about fraternity in his famous 1949 speech to the Constituent Assembly. Each ensuing Republic Day, numerous commentators in the press remind us of Ambedkar’s ominous forecast for ‘a life of contradictions’ from this speech, but very rarely do they highlight that his solution was love: ‘Political democracy cannot last unless there lies at the base of it social democracy…a way of life which recognises…fraternity as the principle of life…Without fraternity, liberty and equality could not become a natural course of things. We must begin by acknowledging the fact that…we have in India a society based on the principle of graded inequality, which means elevation for some and degradation for others…On the 26th of January 1950, we are going to enter into a life of contradictions…’ Even years after the drafting of the Constitution, Ambedkar did not stop speaking of fraternity. But by this late date, he reconceived it in the light of Buddhist thought and practice: ‘The Buddha…gave the highest place to fraternity as the only real safeguard against the denial of liberty or equality—fraternity, which was another name for brotherhood or humanity…The proper term is what the Buddha called Maitri.’ Maitri, loving kindness. This was what Ambedkar ultimately rewrote the Preamble to include. He made his reasoning clear, and we should be reminded of it every January 26: the Indian Republic must thrive by love and not by fear. ‘Love is but a song we sing/ Fear’s the way we die…Come on, people now/ Smile on your brother/ Everybody get together/ Try to love one another right now.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indian-republic-must-thrive-on-love-not-fear-1073676.html
23-01-2022||Opinion||12 evidences of the lack of scholarly method and rigour||It came as a surprise that a 2022 calendar titled “Recognition of the Secret of the Vedas, Reinterpretation of the Indus Valley Civilisation, and the Rebuttal to the Aryan Invasion Myth: Twelve Evidences,” was published by IIT Kharagpur, given the lack of scholarly method and rigour presented in the content. There was neither analysis, nor data, nor an exploration of alternatives – just assertions presented as research. That people migrated into pre-historic India in multiple waves is accepted in scholarly literature. That there is little evidence of an Aryan ‘invasion’ (versus ‘migration’) has also long been accepted. There is no need of new assertions countering Aryan ‘invasion’ and confounding it with Indus Valley. The Indus Valley Civilisation predates any known presence of Steppe pastoralist descendants in India as established by recent DNA analysis at Rakhigarhi by Vasant Shinde, et al., 2019, and Narasimhan, et al., 2019. Harvard geneticist Prof David Reich, a co-author on both the papers, has also stated in an interview that, “Sometime in the first half of the second millennium BCE, descendants of Steppe pastoralists entered South Asia from the north, eventually contributing 0-30% of the genes of groups living today (varying depending on the present-day group), and also almost certainly bringing Indo-European languages.” The calendar excels in phraseology that confounds and confuses while not making a point. Take the assertions associated with the month of January: “The science of Palingenesis constitute the essence and practice of Indian spirituality. This is gnosis, and the ontology of ‘being and becoming’. Indian spirituality is therefore prognosis, gnosis, and return or diagnosis (Guruvada or Avatarvada). The gnostic foundation of Indian spirituality is an alien or unknown element to civilisations in Europe, whether from the Caucasus Eurasia or from the Steppes. It is also missing in the Semitic foundations of religions practiced in the West and in the Middle East. Therefore, the invading Aryans, if any, had nothing to offer to the development of Indian Cosmology!” The statement is obstruse and intended to mislead. Palingenesis is the concept of rebirth/reincarnation. Rebirth/reincarnation is referred to as gilul (cycle or wheel) in Kabbalistic esoteric mysticism and is very much present in Semitic literature. Gnosticism is the direct perception of the divine. The origins of Gnosticism are debated but Gnosticism is certainly present in Jewish and Christian mysticism. So, the statements in the calendar are either misinformed, misleading, or unclear. But more importantly, the statements do not help establish the hypothesis of the authors. Another example of just jumping off on faith is the assertion that the Indus ‘Unicorn,’ neuro-physiologically, is the spinal cord which shoots above the eyebrow of RisyaSringa (eka-sringa rishi). Such a leap! And this assertion is made while it is still being debated if the Indus ‘Unicorn’ motif is just a two-dimensional view of an animal where the second horn is just hidden behind the first. Page after page of the calendar is filled with similar unsubstantiated assertions. This work hence does not better the work of Western scholars in the mid-1900s who raced to conclusions without the benefit of rich data, context, and some of whom were biased by timelines of creationist beliefs. However, since the discovery of Harappa in 1921, there have also been scholarly research by both Western and Indian scholars on the people and the language of the Indus valley. There has been no conclusive declaration by the scholars, but they have created compendiums, provided research approaches, and suggested possible partial decipherments. The authors of the calendar take great pride in the number of calendars that have been ordered. They call the critics of the work “colonial minded”. These are not elections that the number of calendars sold determine scholarly merit. Also, peer review and critique are a standard process to publish scholarly literature without bypassing due process. Making a calendar is an ingenious way of avoiding peer feedback! Scholarly method requires a question, a hypothesis, experiment or data, hypothesis revisions, peer review, and acceptance. A bias and 12 assertions do not constitute research. Peer review and criticism is how we grow knowledge. This has also been highlighted by 125 alumni of IIT Kharagpur in their letter to the Union Minister of Education, expressing dismay over the publication of the calendar by their esteemed institution. Every citizen, in fact, should expect better from our taxpayer-funded premier institutions. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/12-evidences-of-the-lack-of-scholarly-method-and-rigour-1073677.html
23-01-2022||Opinion||The end of the world||When I set foot on Antarctica for the first time in December, every hair on my body stood on end. It’s impossible to describe the thrill and awe of the moment. I don’t believe in ghosts, but I swear the shades of Amundsen, Scott, even young Apsley Cherry-Garrard were there, handing us off the rafts and onto the storied White Continent. Disclaimer: A tourist trip to Antarctica today is not an adventure. You aren’t some giant of the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration, hauling survival supplies over crevasses and slaughtering your own food—those men who risked everything and suffered and died to make it possible for 21st-century Mindy from Des Moines or Rinky from Chandigarh to swing by on holiday. Tourists on Antarctica-bound ships are nannied and coddled to death, kept safe and warm and fed four-course meals. Your most critical survival job for the day will be to decide whether or not to have more dessert. Having said that—of course it’s a massive adventure! And for exactly the same reason. You’re little old Mindy or Rinky, not Shackleton. And yet here you are, in this alien place that most travellers don’t think of because it’s only a frilly little margin in a part of the map that nobody looks at. When I stood on Portal Point, our first landing, I was about 130 degrees of longitude and 106 degrees of latitude away from Delhi, and more excited than I’ve been in my whole life. Some people can’t work out what the big whoop is. Snow, ice, ocean are not that extraordinary, are they? I’m here to report that there’s nothing ordinary about Antarctica. It’s a different planet, though importantly on the same planet and critical to its health—magnificently beautiful and magnificently hostile to homo sapiens, yet filled with life adapted to its anti-life conditions of mind-bending cold and saw-toothed wind. Every day, we struggled into about four thousand layers of warm clothes and waddled off to the gangplank, where we were tenderly ladled into Zodiac rafts. Depending on the geography and the weather, we either cruised the water or crossed from ship to land. We saw crevasse-wracked glaciers flowing towards the Southern Ocean, huge craggy mountains that are a continuation of the Andean range (way back when, Antarctica was connected to South America), monumental icebergs compressed by time into almost neon shades of blue; watched whales breach and blow, saw seals basking and yawning on ice floes, and penguins doing penguin-y things, adorable and ridiculous—until they hit the water and are transformed into tiny torpedoes of grace and skill. I hit the water once too. It’s called the Polar Plunge. You put on your bathing suit while telling yourself you’re an idiot, go to the gangplank and wonder which big fat idiot asked you to do this, get tethered while thinking it’s good that you didn’t reproduce because the world’s biggest idiot could only have produced little idiots. Then you stand at the edge of the heaving black water, in which chunks of ice are floating by, and note that you can’t see your idiot reflection because it’s probably already been eaten by an orca. You jump in, but only to save idiot face. Then you climb out, sit at the bar with your skin on fire, and feel like a goddamn hero. There were snowfalls and bright sunny days. There was water in all its moods, from the sickening, crockery-shattering swells of the famously rough Drake Passage, to the glassy calm of Antarctic bays reflecting seven-storey icebergs like art pieces. There was open sea, and narrow channels thick with pack ice. There was still air, then wind so sudden and fierce that it blotted out the world and knocked us off our feet. You got sweaty hot, then froze. I began to think of our ship as a tiny spaceship, warm and comfortable and nourishing, in this vast inhuman landscape. Antarctica is lethal and if you’re unprepared, it will squash you like the sad little bug you are. But it is also so vulnerable that you aren’t allowed to leave any of your sad little bug scat on it, and scientists around the world are screaming about the rate of melt caused by climate change. If Antarctica feels poorly, the world will too. I couldn’t decide, as we re-crossed the Drake, escorted by albatrosses (said to be the souls of dead captains, ushering ships to safety), whether I was right or wrong to take my grotty carbon footprints to this last, grand wilderness. But I can’t help feeling blessed to have experienced it. (Mitali Saran thinks a good asteroid could solve all our problems.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-end-of-the-world-1073679.html
23-01-2022||Opinion||Taiwan: Fighting isolation and in search of allies||The number of countries recognising Taiwan is shrinking faster. In December 2021, Nicaragua switched its recognition from Taiwan to the People's Republic of China (PRC). Today the number of countries with official diplomatic relations with Taiwan stands at 14. The numbers have reduced fast since Tsai Ing-wen became the president. In 2016, this number stood at 21. The development has brought the ongoing friction between China and Taiwan to the fore. China has shown new zeal to reduce Taiwan's diplomatic space consistently. Chinese President Xi Jinping has again asserted the 'One-China' principle and called for reunification. Tsai Ing-wen, the Republic of China (Taiwan) president, and the country's ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP)'s call for more independent foreign and domestic policies have aggravated tensions. The more Taiwan asserts Taiwanisation; the more Beijing looks for ways to end its status as a functioning nation. The exit of Taiwan from Nicaragua is a clear signal of increasing Chinese financial clout in the region. The Chinese embassy is already functional, and the Taiwanese officials were given just two weeks to vacate the country. This change of diplomatic recognition comes after 30 years when, in 1990, Nicaragua had switched recognition from China to Taiwan. However, the re-election of Daniel Ortega has changed the dynamics, and he has claimed "ideological affinity" for his actions. Nicaragua received nearly a million doses of Sinopharm Covid-19 vaccines after the diplomatic switch.  It appears that even though the United States has asserted that countries should not switch ties from Taiwan, it has not been enough to prevent Nicaragua. This may be because of the current position of Washinton towards the incumbent Nicaraguan government. The elections were dubbed a "sham" by the US. It also highlights that China is still ready to work for its gains ignoring the global norms if it helps attain international clout against Taiwan. The luring away of another ally of Taiwan with the help of financial promises proves the point.  In addition to Nicaragua, China has increased pressure on Lithuania. The Chinese media and propaganda branch has been in full swing. A cartoon published in China Daily on January 7, 2022, shows how the people of Taiwan are the real victims. It portrayed the Taiwanese government using people's money to continue its diplomatic relations with Lithuania, arguing that Lithuania is leaning towards Taiwan because Taipei has been paying it. These images started after Lithuania allowed Taiwan to open a de-facto embassy. Most countries that accept the One-China Principle have Taiwanese offices. However, what is different here is that the one in Lithuania uses the name Taiwan instead of Chinese Taipei. Responding to this, China downgraded its relations with Lithuania. This issue will have a spiralling effect on the overall European Union (EU)-China trade relations as reports suggest Beijing is blockading trade with Lithuania. Even though Taiwan has promised investments and trade, the smaller country may have to bend to Beijing's wishes given China's size. It is a clear sign of financial clout and position, which Beijing does not shy away from using. It does the same thing that it accuses Taiwan of doing.  However, the question is whether diplomatic recognition is the only pillar of statehood. Suppose we float a hypothetical position (which may become a reality soon) that Taiwan loses all its diplomatic allies to China with Beijing wooing them away with the lure of investments, infrastructure and other assistance. Will Taiwan be not termed a fully functioning 'country'?  Taiwan does have an independent government that is democratically elected. The process of elections and government have been in place and have shown to be functioning. It also has a population that identifies with this democratically elected government. It has an independent judiciary, media and bureaucracy. It has successfully governed over a given land territory for more than seventy years. When coupled with a functioning economy and a population that identifies itself with the existing territory, these can be deemed the necessary criteria. Several surveys highlight the shift of the assertion of Taiwanese people from identifying themselves as Chinese to predominantly Taiwanese. The people of Taiwan have never been under the rule of the Communist Party of China (CPC). They have a different form of government and independent media. The call that CPC and Xi Jinping make when they describe Taiwan as a territory of China does not hold logical for the people living on that territory. The Chinese foreign minister has asserted, "There are still a few countries in the world that maintain "diplomatic ties" with Taiwan. He said the Taiwan authorities are engaged in "dollar diplomacy" in negligence of the well-being of the people in Taiwan". "Sooner or later, these countries will establish or resume normal diplomatic relations with China". It makes it clear that Beijing will not stop until it has completely isolated Taiwan. However, if that happens, how will the world perceive Taiwan - as an isolated country or a province of China. (The writer is Assistant Professor at the OP Jindal Global University) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/taiwan-fighting-isolation-and-in-search-of-allies-1073711.html
23-01-2022||Opinion||The future beckons AAP, but can it rediscover its idealism?||India has an ever-expanding political space. The ever-changing social dynamics throw up newer opportunities to new parties. The recent history of Indian politics of the last three decades is replete with instances of the rise and success of many such parties. During the forthcoming phase of assembly elections, Punjab will be the testing ground for whether political space has expanded significantly in that state to make way for the emergence of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).  With former chief minister Amrinder Singh joining hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) against the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal, and the AAP going solo, the contest in Punjab has become a four-cornered one. Suppose the AAP succeeds in leading the next government in Punjab or becoming a significant partner. In that case, it will be the only small, or regional, party to govern more than one Indian state. In the first decade of this century, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) governed three states - West Bengal, Kerala and Tripura. It has since waned in the eastern part of the country and is restricted to Kerala. The AIADMK and DMK still have the prospect of ruling Puducherry along with Tamil Nadu in the future. But Puducherry is too small to add much significance to the narrative. The AAP emerging as the third-largest party in Indian politics would get momentum if it were to, in addition to Punjab, win seats in Goa or Uttarakhand or both. However, it is not a sufficient factor. A decade ago, the AAP was born out of the idealism of clean politics - an idea that convinced people that change was possible. If the AAP has to grow, it needs to rediscover that spirit. The AAP took birth from the idealism of a corruption-free India, and it happened when various scams had besmirched the image of the government led by Manmohan Singh. So, essentially, the AAP was opposed to the Congress. Moreover, the AAP was expected to be equidistant from the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). But it was Arvind Kejriwal himself who killed the 'idea' by gravitating too close to the Congress. It is also true that in 2013-14, the BJP managed to hijack that plank of idealism and change. But the abysmal failure of demonetisation dented the BJP's claims of being an effective agent of fighting corruption. Its abysmal failure on the economic front, particularly in containing inflation, has further eroded its sheen. At this juncture, the AAP has course-corrected, which has helped it shed the baggage of being labelled ''anti-Hindu''. The party has not given up the image of the protector of the Muslims but has disassociated itself from the 'secular' parties and its criticism of everything having an overtone of Hindu fervour. Instead, Kejriwal, the AAP chief and Delhi's chief minister, has embraced a soft Hindutva line.  On December 3, 2021, Kejriwal tweeted: "A few days ago, when I had visited Shri Ramlala in Ayodhya, a thought came to my mind that I should bring all my elders of Delhi for a darshan of Lord Shri Ram. The first train of pilgrimage was flagged off from Delhi to Ayodhya today. These were very emotional moments for me. May everyone's journey be blessed. Long live Rama." If the poll surveys turn out correct and the AAP emerges taller, it will give much hope to those who believe in a third force with an alternative pro-development socio-economic agenda. However, an aspiring third political force needs to have a vision of development that supports both the industry and the poor and considers adapting to climate change. No other political party follows this path, but AAP has the resource to draw and propagate this alternative. But, if the AAP desires again capture the imagination of India's voters, it would need to rediscover the idealism of giving primacy to the fight against corruption and black money. The AAP has shown in the past that it can collect funds through fair means, which is a unique advantage in the Indian political space since there is enormous appeal among a large number of Indians for those who stand for honesty and probity. However, power corrupts. It cannot be easy for a party in power in the small but influential state of Delhi to launch a holy war against corruption. But the AAP has an opportunity in 2024 to repeat what the Left parties achieved two decades back. In 2004, the Left parties had 60 seats in the Lok Sabha and became a significant determinant of government policies. But if the AAP fails to revive or rediscover its ideological basis, it will stay a marginal force. (The writer is a journalist and author based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-future-beckons-aap-but-can-it-rediscover-its-idealism-1073742.html
23-01-2022||Opinion||2022 polls: BJP faces its Achilles' heel||The 2014 polls redefined India's electoral politics and catapulted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as its primary pole. The BJP became the first party since 1984 to win a majority on its own. It also won 31.1 per cent of the popular vote, becoming the first party to win more than 30 per cent of the national vote share since 1991. It managed to win an even bigger mandate in 2019 debunking all theories of its landslide 2014 victory being an aberration. In the last few years, the BJP has consolidated in its traditional strong zones - the Hindi-speaking states. It has also expanded to newer places like Assam, Manipur, Tripura and even Jammu & Kashmir. The party's knack for winning big has prompted some to call the party almost invincible. However, the BJP's electoral record is far from flawless. In assembly elections, the BJP seems unbeatable when it is the challenger but struggles to defend its incumbent government. In their book The Verdict: Decoding India's Elections, analysing India's elections over the years, Prannoy Roy and Dorab Sopariwala divided India's electoral history into three phases: the pro-incumbency era (1952-1977), the anti-incumbency era (1977-2002) and the fifty: fifty era (2002-present). During the first 25 years, 82 per cent of incumbent governments were voted back to power. The "optimism" of 1952-1977 transformed into "anger" in the subsequent 25 years (1977-2002). Consequently, 71 per cent of incumbent state governments were voted out of power during these years. Since 2002, in the "50:50 phase", in 75 assembly elections in medium and big-sized states, 50 per cent of governments were voted back, and a matching percentage voted out. Thus, there is no discernible bias towards either pro-incumbency or anti-incumbency. Voters started to differentiate between governments that performed and delivered on their promises and those that did not. Roy and Sopariwala argued that in the 50:50 phase, "perform or perish" is the new-voter driven reality. The BJP's performance in the 50:50 phase is far from impressive. During 2014-2021, only 40 per cent of the BJP, or National Democratic Alliance (NDA), governments were voted back to power. In 10 assembly elections in medium and big-sized states from 2014-2021, the BJP-led NDA lost power in six states. The BJP or its alliance was able to retain a majority in only three states - Gujarat (2017), Maharashtra (2019) and Assam (2021).  In the state of Bihar, BJP and its senior alliance partner, the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United), managed to win a wafer-thin majority after being bailed out by women voters in the state. The BJP had joined the ruling alliance in Bihar in 2017, and the anti-incumbency sentiment in the state was mainly directed at Nitish Kumar's JD(U). A closer look at the three instances where a BJP-led government retained a majority sheds more light on its vulnerability while defending its state governments. In Gujarat (2017), despite a high-decibel campaign and tall claims of crossing 150 seats, the BJP's tally in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home turf fell from 117 to 99. The Shiv Sena-BJP alliance won a majority in Maharashtra, but a more in-depth analysis tells a different story. The NDA alliance, especially the BJP, benefited from Prakash Ambedkar's Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA)'s decision not to join the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) alliance. If the VBA had joined them, it would have prevented a split in the anti-incumbency votes. In such a scenario, the Congress-NCP alliance would have won 25 more seats, and the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance would have fallen well short of the majority mark. The BJP's tally would have dropped to 85 from 105. A similar split in opposition caused by the alliance of the newly formed Raijor Dal (RD) and Asom Jatiya Parishad (AJP) helped the BJP-led NDA retain power in the 2021 Assam elections. In 14 seats across the state, the margin of victory for the NDA was lower than the votes polled by the AJP-RD candidates. Simply put, had the AJP-RD yielded to the Congress party's repeated demands of joining the grand-alliance, the Congress and its allies would have won a simple majority of 65 seats in the 126 member assembly. It is also interesting to note that almost 70 per cent of the BJP's electoral victories since 2014 have been when the party was in the opposition/ challenging the incumbent government. Only 30 per cent of its victories have been when the party or its alliance was in power, that is, defending its incumbent government. Thus, the seemingly invincible BJP has a chink in its armour - it struggles to win elections while defending its state governments. In 2022, the party will defend six states - Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur in the first half of the year and Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh in November-December. In an effort to counter anti-incumbency and improve its record while defending its state governments at the state level, the BJP's top brass has adopted a 'chop and change' approach, changing chief ministers in poll-bound states like Gujarat, Uttarakhand and even Karnataka (which goes to polls in April 2023). In five of the six states where the BJP will be fighting to defend its governments, the Congress will be the principal challenger to the saffron party. A good showing will boost the plummeting stock of the Congress and again make it the anchor of the opposition's anti-BJP front. A poor performance will bolster the argument that the Congress is a spent force that cannot take on the BJP. The year 2022 could give us a peek into the future shape of India's polity. (The writer is a freelance columnist based in Mumbai) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/2022-polls-bjp-faces-its-achilles-heel-1073754.html
23-01-2022||South||Ban on 100-year-old pre-Independence play 'Chintamani' in Andhra Pradesh raises questions||The Andhra Pradesh government's ban on Chintamani, a Telugu stage play that has been around since 1920, has raised the hackles of the art and culture fraternity in the state. The play, scripted by pre-Independence era social crusader Kallakuri Narayana Rao that deals with the evils of prostitution, had celebrated its 100th anniversary last year. In normal times, the play is staged regularly all year round at village and temple fairs, and other social events, across Andhra Pradesh. While the play revolves around the central character of Chintamani, a prostitute who attains salvation through repentance, it is the character of Subbi Setti, a merchant community member who descends to abject poverty, is at the centre of the current controversy. The state government's move to ban Chintamani had come following representations from the Arya Vysya community in Andhra Pradesh. The Telugu merchant community, known as 'Banias' in north India, has long been up in arms against the play in which the character of Subbi Setty is portrayed in an extremely poor light. The ban order was issued on January 17, following the latest attempt by the Arya Vysya community, in the form of a memorandum submitted to the state government about four months ago. According to observers, the fact that Endowments Department Minister Vellampalli Srinivas, who also belongs to the community, helped matters move at a fast pace. Predictably, the Arya Vysya community is rejoicing over the ban on the play. Community representatives have been expressing their gratitude to Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. "The depiction of Subbi Setti in the play, is very objectionable and humiliating. Showing him as ugly, and using charcoal as makeup to darken his complexion, and making him the butt of lewd jokes. It was intolerable to the Arya Vysyas," said Ambica Krishna, a leading member of the community, former legislator, and former chairman of the AP Film Development Corporation. The actual problem, however, does not lie with the playwright or the original script of Chintamani. "The play was written by Kallakuri Narayana Rao garu to highlight the evils of wrong company, in this case, a prostitute. The language used by the author in the original play has nothing objectionable. But over the years, local drama troupes began to modify the situations and language of the play, in a bid to appeal to mass sentiments. It is the fault of these actors and local drama troupes who keep manipulating the script and go overboard, penning ribald dialogues as per their whims and fancies to attract more people." said Golla Narayana, President of the Andhra Arts Academy, a cultural organisation that was set up to spread the fervour of independence in British India. The last few days have seen several art and culture organisations join hands to voice their protest against the ban on Chintamani. Their argument is that the play is a reflection of the social mores of the prevailing times when it was originally written. The government's decision to ban the play is being seen as too extreme a step. "If any part of the play is objectionable, or someone is making changes to it, you can warn such people. But a blanket ban is untenable, especially since the play gives us insights into the social ills of its time," said S Anil Kumar, Secretary, Jana Natya Mandali, Andhra Pradesh unit. He said that in 2002, when the community had sought a ban on the play, the high court had ruled in favour of the play after going through the original script However, the Arya Vysya community is firm that a blanket ban on staging the play is the only solution. "It is impossible to monitor the plays staged in villages, and even in bylanes of towns and cities. We never know when and where a play is being staged. It will need to be videographed and then followed up, which is impractical to implement. A ban is the ideal solution," said Ambica Krishna. Meanwhile, concerns are being raised over the possible precedents that the ban sets for muzzling all kinds of creative expression in the days to come. "Today the ban is because a community is finding it objectionable. Tomorrow another community might object to another play or it could be that a political party finds fault with a stage play. This decision to ban a play, leaves the door open for future trouble," said G Narayana. Considering that the play survived several attempts to get it banned over the years, the urgency with which the Jagan Mohan Reddy-led state government has banned the play by issuing it through the general administration department is raising eyebrows. Observers opine that the ban may be the ruling party's ploy to garner favours of the community, which, though relatively small in numbers, has financial clout. While clarifying that the Arya Vysyas are well within their rights to protest against the caricaturing of their community, culture champions are finding fault with the state government for arbitrarily disposing of a very important issue. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ban-on-100-year-old-pre-independence-play-chintamani-in-andhra-pradesh-raises-questions-1073719.html
23-01-2022||South||After Andhra, English medium in schools triggers debate in Telangana||The decision of the Telangana government to introduce English medium in all government schools in the state from 2022-23 academic year has triggered a debate on whether the move is practical and beneficial to students. While the decision of the cabinet has been welcomed by and large, all stakeholders are still waiting for the government to frame the guidelines to implement the decision. The state cabinet, in a meeting on January 18, decided to introduce English medium in all government schools. It constituted an 11-member sub-committee headed by education minister P Sabita Indra Reddy to prepare modalities for the same. Telangana has apparently taken a cue from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh which made English medium education from primary to high schools compulsory. The Andhra Pradesh High Court, however, struck down the order in April 2020 and the state government has challenged the order in the Supreme Court. Unlike in Andhra Pradesh, where the move to introduce English medium evoked strong reaction from opposition parties, with various groups dubbing it as an attempt to do away with Telugu language and culture, Telangana is less likely to see a similar situation. However, students, parents and academicians are all waiting for the guidelines in this regard. Some sections are questioning the move on the grounds of practicability, an apparent reference to a lack of adequate number of English teachers in government schools, especially in rural areas. Unlike its twin Telugu state, Telangana is not likely to replace Telugu medium schools with English medium ones. Sources in the education department hinted that the government schools may have both English and Telugu mediums. It will be up to the parents to decide which medium they want for their children. English medium schools in the government sector will not be something entirely new in Telangana as the state already has about 3,000 government schools with English as the medium of instruction. There are about 20 lakh students studying in 26,065 government schools in the state An official pointed out that the decision to introduce English medium in government schools gels with the state government's emphasis to create better employment opportunities in a knowledge-based economy. "There is a growing realisation that students who studied from Telugu medium schools are lagging in the skill sets required for new jobs in several sectors, especially those related to emerging technologies," he said. The state already runs the Telangana State Academy of Knowledge and Skills (TASK) in partnership with the corporate sector to impart necessary skills to students passing out of government-run educational institutions. Lack of communication in English is seen as a major impediment for these students to acquire new skills and be job-ready. Another factor that may have led to the decision is the increase in enrolment of students in English medium government schools, especially after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. The closure of several low-budget English schools due to the pandemic has increased the demand for government schools. The slump in the income of parents under the impact of the pandemic has also forced them to send their wards to government-run schools. "English is a language which is acclaimed in many countries of the world. The government of Telangana has indeed come out with a wonderful idea to impart education to students in English medium. We will definitely be creating more competitive Indians who will help Telangana and India on the global front," said Sunir Nagi, Principal, Pallavi Model School, Alwal and treasurer of Hyderabad schools sahodaya complex (CBSE). The National Backward Classes Welfare Association (NBCWA) has welcomed the government's move. NBCWA president R Krishnaiah is of the view that introducing English medium of instruction in 26,000 government schools would benefit about 15 lakh SC, ST, BC and minorities students, who otherwise, were not in a position to pursue English medium education in private schools. "It's the choice between the devil and the deep sea because a lot of research in young children's learning clearly shows that children are better off studying in their mother tongue, however, the initial benefits will sustain only if children continue to learn and work using the mother tongue as happens in Europe, China, Japan or any English speaking nation. Unfortunately in none of the Indian languages, including Hindi, we have developed a language to take care of higher education and work. We don't have the vocabulary to handle engineering or medical professions, among others. So when a student transitions to English language for these purposes, it takes away all the benefits of early education in the vernacular," said Ramakrishna Reddy, founder and head, Manthan International School. Many feel that a hybrid approach will be the best. "Research has shown that for children below 10 years it is very good if they learn in their mother tongue. However, I can understand the government's intention as parents are keen on English medium as many jobs are available only in English. So a hybrid approach is the best. Up to class 5 let the medium be Telugu with English as a second language and post-class 5, the medium of instruction can be English," said Dinesh Victor, MD of SIP Academy, India's biggest skill development organisation in children. SIP Academy director Sarala believes that rural school children would find it difficult to study through English medium and even finding a school teacher locally would be challenging. "This could be given as an additional option for children and parents to choose as this is more futuristic. Only fear that this should not lead to more school dropouts at primary level schooling. However teaching in English medium from higher secondary onwards would help in developing their confidence," she said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-andhra-english-medium-in-schools-triggers-debate-in-telangana-1073729.html
23-01-2022||South||Smaller parties hope to make it big in Tamil Nadu urban local body polls||The urban local body polls scheduled to be held in February 2022 after a gap of six years are an opportune time for the fringe political parties of Tamil Nadu to prove their mettle and acceptability among the general public. The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), the powerful political party of the Vanniyar community, has already announced that it would be contesting these polls on its own or rather without any proper political alliance. The party which was part of the NDA alliance in the 2021 elections did not have that alliance during the rural local body elections in nine districts of the state and had then announced that it did not have enough time to forge an alliance. The PMK won only 47 councillor seats in the elections in which the DMK won 974 seats out of the 1421 seats while the AIADMK got 212 seats. The Congress could get only 33 seats while the BJP got 8 seats only proving the poor representation that the national parties have in Tamil Nadu. PMK leaders S. Ramadoss and his son and former Union Minister, Anbumani Ramadoss have already announced that they would campaign extensively in the elections and would prove that they are a major force to reckon with in Tamil Nadu. The PMK which won 5 assembly seats out of the 23 assembly seats it contested as part of the alliance with the AIADMK however walked out of the alliance in the October elections for the rural local bodies. The PMK has also announced that it wants to lead an alliance in Tamil Nadu sans both the DMK and the AIADMK. Political analysts find the dream of the PMK out of sync with reality. C. Rajeev, Director, Centre for Policy and Development Studies, a thinktank based out of Chennai, told IANS, "The PMK is aiming too far too high. They have only a 3.8 percent vote share in the 2021 assembly elections and that too is in alliance with the AIADMK and riding the wave of a 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyars within the OBC reservation. The PMK fared poorly in rural local body polls and in the urban local body elections also it will not be different. The party seems to be far from reality and in politics, you have to have a decent assessment of yourself before aiming for the sky." Matinee idol turned politician, Kamal Haasan has announced the second list of candidates of his party Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) for these elections. The MNM fared poorly in the 2021 assembly elections and in the October 2021 rural body elections. The party failed even to get a single seat in the assembly or rural local body elections and several senior leaders have already quit the party. Kamal Haasan is however optimistic that the party would do wonders in the urban local body elections and it is contesting the polls on its own. The Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) of actor and director turned politician, Seeman has also to prove its worth as the party drew a blank in the rural local body elections as well as in the preceding assembly polls of 2021. Seeman with his ultra-Tamil nationalism and his pro-Tamil overtures is still not able to break the jinx of not getting elected and he has also announced that his party would contest alone. The two national parties, the Congress and the BJP are playing second fiddle to the Dravidian parties with the Congress in alliance with the DMK and the BJP with the AIADMK. Both the parties fared poorly in the assembly elections and subsequent rural local body elections but are aiming to make a dent in the urban local body elections and win quite a number of seats. With the DMK firmly in the saddle and Stalin becoming hugely popular with his pro-people programmes, and with the absence of a popular leader in the AIADMK leadership, it is almost a cakewalk for the ruling front in the urban local body elections also. However political observers said that the AIADMK as a political party has a rich legacy and that it cannot be considered as an easy pushover in the murky politics of Tamil Nadu where Tamil nationalism and Tamil culture rule the roost more than national or international issues. The Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) of Vaiko is another political party that is fading into oblivion if it does not rework itself. The party is facing difficulties due to the poor health of Vaiko and his son Durai Vaiyapurai having entered the mainstream of MDMK politics only recently, it will take time before the party can rejuvenate itself and push for a reckoning among the public. Actor turned politician Vijayakanth had made major strides in politics with his political party, Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) earlier in the 2011 assembly elections winning 29 seats. Vijayakant became the leader of the opposition in the assembly. However, after that, the party did not fare well and was strong only in certain pockets of the state. Vijayakanth is tormented by health issues and his wife Premalatha and brother-in-law L.K. Sudheesh are in control of the party now. In Kanniyakumari and Virudhunagar districts, the party still has a say in some pockets but without proper ideological backing and no proper political alliance, the DMDK is fast entering into political oblivion. Dr S. Uma Maheswari, a political analyst and retired professor of a private college in Chennai, told IANS, "The politics of Tamil Nadu revolve around Dravidian politics. The fringe parties will not have any role to play and the urban local body polls will in no way differ from the rural local body elections held in October 2021 and the DMK led front will cruise along. The AIADMK led front will give a fight but other than that no other front can challenge the two major Dravidian parties. There are no movie stars also on the horizon to raise a challenge to the two major Dravidian parties and the only person who can now have a grand entry in Tamil politics is superstar Vijay but the chances of him jumping into the political arena of Tamil Nadu are remote, at least for the time being." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/smaller-parties-hope-to-make-it-big-in-tamil-nadu-urban-local-body-polls-1073732.html
23-01-2022||South||Sunday lockdown in Kerala, only emergency services allowed||Kerala on Sunday had a deserted view with people complying with the state government's call for a stringent lockdown-like restriction in view of Covid-19 cases. Only essential services were allowed during the day. The government had decided to allow only essential services on two Sundays, which would be reviewed after next Sunday. The average Covid TPR in Kerala for the last seven days was 37.5 per cent and the state has over 2.5 lakh active Covid cases. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sunday-lockdown-in-kerala-only-emergency-services-allowed-1073750.html
23-01-2022||South||Will extend support to DMK govt on Hogenakkal project: AIADMK||AIADMK on Sunday criticized the Karnataka government for raising objections to the second phase of the Hogenakkal water project and extended its support to the ruling DMK in implementing the project that would provide drinking water to several villages of Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts.  In a statement, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam launched a scathing attack on the Karnataka government accusing it of “not releasing Cauvery water” on time and releasing only “surplus water” to Tamil Nadu after all reservoirs in Karnataka reach their maximum capacity.  “Karnataka has no moral right to oppose the project. Karnataka has a habit of opposing every project conceived by Tamil Nadu for the sake of opposing. The AIADMK strongly condemns the opposition to this project by the Karnataka government,” Panneerselvam said in the statement.  The former chief minister also told the DMK that the AIADMK, in its capacity as the principal Opposition party, will stand behind the Tamil Nadu government in executing the ambitious project.  Panneerselvam also said the Hogenakkal water scheme was first conceived by former chief minister M G Ramachandran in the 1980s and revived by J Jayalalithaa in the 1990s. However, the efforts to implement the project could not succeed due to funding issues.  He recalled that the AIADMK had protested against Karnataka’s opposition to the phase-I of the project in 2008. “It was Amma (Jayalalithaa) who inaugurated the project in 2013 via video conferencing from Chennai,” he said. The comments come after Karnataka raised objections to Tamil Nadu’s announcement on implementing the phase II of the Hogenakkal integrated drinking water project at a cost of Rs 4,600 crore. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-extend-support-to-dmk-govt-on-hogenakkal-project-aiadmk-1073815.html
23-01-2022||South||Grounds to file appeal against Bishop Franco in nun rape case being finalised||The prosecution and the police in the nun rape case against Jalandhar Bishop Franco Mulakkal have identified a series of grounds for filing appeal against the acquittal of Mulakkal. Mulakkal was acquitted by a sessions court in Kottayam district on January 14. The key ground for the acquittal was inconsistency and contradictions in the statement of the victim, who is a nun of a convent in Kottayam district. She was reportedly raped by the bishop 13 times during 2014-16. Sources told DH that in all the statements the victim maintained that she was sexually assaulted, but used different words. It could be due to the context and the persons to whom the statements were made. Not using the term penetrative sexual intercourse should not have been considered as omission. Moreover, the principle adopted by apex court in some cases was that minor changes in deposition were a sign of credibility while parrot like versions need to be doubted, said sources. Special prosecutor of the case Githesh J Babu was learnt to have given recommendations to the police for filing the appeal. The police would be forwarding it to the government. Sources also point out that the judgment itself confirms a fiduciary relationship as the nun was doing services like carrying the suitcase of the bishop and ironing his clothes. This itself justifies the reason for delay in complaining, which was another ground pointed out for acquittal. The presence of the bishop at the place of occurrence of the crime was also established with eye witness statements of other nuns. Another ground for acquitting Mulakkal was that the mobile phone used by the victim on which the accused sent vulgar messages was not produced. Sources in the investigation team said that the mobile phone was sold in scrap and hence it could not be recovered. Moreover, the mobile phones could have only revealed some messages that are offensive under IPC 509. Sources also pointed out that the victim's 'moral side' was discussed in the verdict, even as the character of the victim was inadmissible as per the Evidence Act. Meanwhile, the moral side of the accused was not being looked into. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/grounds-to-file-appeal-against-bishop-franco-in-nun-rape-case-being-finalised-1073830.html
23-01-2022||South||Don’t give religious colour to student’s suicide: Madurai Archbishop||With the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) maintaining that attempts towards a forced conversion led to the suicide of a 17-year-old girl student of a missionary school, the Archbishop of Madurai on Sunday rejected the claim and appealed to everyone not to give “religious colour” to the student’s death.  In a two-page statement, Rev Antony Pappusamy, Archbishop of Madurai, also said he was amused at Tamil Nadu BJP President K Annamalai taking the conversion cudgel in his hands instead of trying to ensure justice for the girl through legal means.  “We don’t consider the statements by Annamalai as that of his individual opinion. We take these statements as part of the false narrative being spread in the country by majoritarian communal forces,” Pappusamy said in the statement.  The archbishop’s statement comes as the BJP continues to blame attempts to convert the girl to Christianity as the reason for her suicide. The BJP, while protesting against the “inaction” in the case, has blamed the ruling DMK and Thanjavur district police for “trying to conceal the truth.” While BJP alleges “forced conversion” and points to the “dying declaration” of the girl, Thanjavur District Superintendent of Police (SP) C Ravali Priya Gandhapuneni said such an angle has not come out in the initial stages of the investigation.  The BJP has held protests in Thanjavur and Chennai demanding justice for the 17-year-old student who died on January 19, exactly 10 days after she attempted suicide by consuming pesticide. On Sunday, Annamalai demanded action against the school and appropriate compensation to the family of the student and a government job for one of the family members.   In a video that is said to have been recorded before her death, the girl said she was being “tortured” by her hostel warden ever since she shunned a proposal to “convert” to Christianity two years ago. Hostel warden Sagayamari (62) has been arrested on a complaint filed by the father of the girl and she has been booked under various sections of IPC and JJ Act.  In the statement, the archbishop rejected the accusation that the girl was under pressure to convert. “People know the services of the minority community in imparting education. In institutions run by us, everyone will appreciate the fact that the religious majority studies in large numbers. The institutions are never involved in the conversion and we don’t accept the charge of forcing to convert,” he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/don-t-give-religious-colour-to-student-s-suicide-madurai-archbishop-1073858.html
23-01-2022||South||Actor Dileep alleges 'blackmailing' bid behind fresh allegations||Actor Dileep, who is accused of hatching conspiracy to murder investigation officers of the actress assault case in Kerala, has alleged that the fresh allegations against him by a film director was part of a blackmailing bid. Dileep and four others accused in the conspiracy case were quizzed for hours by the Crime Branch team of Kerala police on Sunday. The Kerala High Court on Saturday restrained the police from arresting Dileep till January 27 and allowed the investigation team to question the accused. It was in his statements seeking the anticipatory bail that Dileep alleged that film director Balachandra Kumar, who made the revelations regarding the conspiracy hatched by Dileep to attack the investigation officers, was trying to blackmail him. Dileep said that Kumar demanded money from him claiming that he had used the influence of Bishop of Neyyatinkara in Thiruvananthapuram to get bail for Dileep after the latter was arrested in connection with the actress assault case in 2017. Kumar said that he was close to the Bishop and he used the Bishops's influence on prominent persons in the government and police to ensure that Dileep got bail. Dileep also said that Kumar had a grudge on him as he refused to act in his film. He also alleged that Kumar collected around Rs 10 lakh from him. Kumar as well as the Bishop's house denied the allegations. The Bishop's house said in a statement that Bishop Vincent Sameul had no connection with either the actor or the director. and the Bishop should not be dragged into such issues. Meanwhile, Dileep reportedly approached the Supreme Court opposing the investigation team's plea for further investigation into the actress assault case in the wake of the fresh revelations of Kumar. He alleged that Kumar was a witness being planted by the investigation team against him and the present moves were aimed at delaying the trial. Dileep is the eighth-accused in the actress assault case. A gang reportedly engaged by Dileep abducted and sexually assaulted a popular south Indian actress in February 2017 in Kochi for settling Dileep's personal rivalry with her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actor-dileep-alleges-blackmailing-bid-behind-fresh-allegations-1073873.html
23-01-2022||South||Chennai to get first woman SC mayor||For the first time, the Greater Chennai Corporation will be headed by a woman from the Scheduled Caste (SC) with the Tamil Nadu government reserving the Mayoral position of the civic body to women from the community.   A woman from SC will be elected as Mayor when elections to 200 wards of the GCC are held – the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (SEC) is planning to hold polls for the civic body in February after a gap of six years.  As per the legislation to reserve 50 per cent of seats for women, 100 of the 200 wards in GCC have been earmarked for them. The elected members will choose the mayor with the DMK government deciding to continue with the indirect poll method for the election to heads of civic bodies.  Besides GCC, the newly-created Tambaram Corporation has also been reserved for an SC woman, while the nearby Avadi Corporation is earmarked for SC (General) category. The reservation of the posts has ensured that all three municipal corporations in and around Chennai are helmed by those from the Scheduled Caste.   Of the 21 Corporations, two are reserved for SC (women), one for SC (general), and nine for General (women). The remaining nine are general category seats.  Though the Chennai Corporation has had two women mayors in the past – Tara Cherian (1957-1958), and Kamakshi Jayaraman (1971-1972) – this is the first time that a woman from SC will hold the key post.  Tara Krishnaswamy, founder of Political Shakti that bats for more women’s representation in public offices, told DH that the newly-elected women mayors should be allowed to function without any interference from family or other tiers of governance which would send a “powerful message” to aspiring women in politics.  “I think the assignment of Chennai Mayor to be headed by an SC woman is historic. It is very rare to find women MPs and MLAs in big cities, usually the reserve of male politicians. The real benefit will be reaped when there is meaningful representation with autonomous decision making by women. A vibrant and mega city like being represented by a woman from SC is a welcome step,” she added. Senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh said the decision to reserve all three mayor posts in and around Chennai to the SC community is a continuation of the DMK’s chequered history in pursuit of social justice.  “This position (Chennai Mayor) once occupied by none other than the current Chief Minister M K Stalin being reserved for a Dalit woman is yet another significant step forward even as social discrimination continues down the rural side while the administration, police and other tiers of governance stay insensitive,” Singh told DH. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-to-get-first-woman-sc-mayor-1073874.html
23-01-2022||South||Kerala opposes proposed amendments in deputation rules||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to drop the proposed amendments in the deputation rules of All India Services. In a letter sent to Modi, the Chief Minister has said that the proposed amendments will induce a fear psychosis and an attitude of hesitancy among the All India Service officers to implement policies of state governments that are ruled by political parties opposed to the party in power at the centre. Even the present deputation rules were in favour of the centre and making it further stringent would weaken the cooperative fedaralism, Vijayan said. The Department of Personnel and Training proposed amendments in the IAS (Cadre) Rules that would take away the powers of the states to override centre's requests for central deputation of officers. Many states were not sparing adequate number of IAS officers for central deputation. This was affecting the functioning of the central government. This was stated to be the reason for the proposed amendment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposes-proposed-amendments-in-deputation-rules-1073879.html
23-01-2022||South||Focus yet again on custodial death, torture in Tamil Nadu||Two recent incidents – the death of a 45-year-old differently-abled man after his arrest and the brutal attack on a 21-year-old law college student in the dead of the night by policemen – have brought the focus yet again on alleged brutality of the men in khaki on citizens in Tamil Nadu. These fresh incidents have brought back the horrific memories of the 2020 father-son duo custodial death in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district that sent shock waves across the country. Policemen accused in the Sathankulam case are still in jail with the Supreme Court refusing to grant bail to them.  45-year-old Prabhakaran, a physically challenged, died on January 12, a day after he was picked up by the Senthamangalam police in Namakkal district along with his wife Hamsala in connection with a robbery. Hamsala and her family members allege that Prabhakaran died due to injuries inflicted on him in police custody.  Even as the dust over the case settled, another alleged police excess was reported from the state capital Chennai. Abdul Rahim was arrested by police on the night of January 13 for allegedly assaulting policemen on duty during the night curfew imposed in the state after he objected to being fined for “roaming in the night.” Though the state government claims it took immediate action after the incidents were reported, activists say the suspension of police and transfer of probe by CB-CID are not enough as they won’t act as a deterrent. While the Namakkal case was transferred to CB-CID following an action against the men in khaki, two policemen have been suspended and over half-a-dozen policemen have been booked in the Chennai incident.  “I was brutally assaulted by seven to eight policemen for hours together. My only crime was to have asked them why I was being asked to pay a fine of Rs 500 despite me wearing a face mask on a fateful night. I was returning home in my cycle after delivering medicines as I work part-time in a chemist shop to fund my studies,” Rahim told DH from his hospital bed.  Currently receiving treatment at a government hospital here, Rahim alleged that the police booked him for no reason and seized his bicycle.  “They seized my bicycle and brought me to the police station. Despite my pleading with them, the policemen did not release my bicycle from custody. When I left the station, policemen dragged me by my shirt and my hand accidentally fell on him. All hell broke loose and they used pipes to hit me,” Rahim alleged.  Senior lawyer and activist Sudha Ramalingam attributes such incidents to the policemen’s attitude of considering themselves as a “ruling force” and viewing others as mere “subjects.”  “This colonial hangover has to end. Police should walk the talk on being friends of the common man. The general psychology of policemen is to wield the stick rather than hold hands. Police should realize that they are here to cater to the people and not to mind them,” Sudha Ramalingam said.   The rights activist added “knee-jerk” reactions after every such incident are just not enough to put an end to such attacks. “There should be a concerted effort from all sides to bring about a genuine change of mind and heart in policemen. Courses and other measures to sensitize them are fine, but what is more important is to permeate the change in everyone’s mind,” she said.  Narrating the ordeal, Hamsala said the policemen beat her and her husband mercilessly after they pleaded ignorance in a theft case which the wife says was “foisted on them.”  “I begged with them not to harm my husband as he was physically challenged. None of my pleas was heeded to by the police who continued to assault my husband in front of me. As I questioned them, they abused and assaulted me as well. If the police had been humane, my husband would have been alive today,” Hamsala said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/focus-yet-again-on-custodial-death-torture-in-tamil-nadu-1073898.html
23-01-2022||State||KCCI appeals CM Bommai not to increase power tariff for MSME sector||Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has appealed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Energy Minister Sunil Kumar not to increase the power tariff for the MSME sector. In an appeal, KCCI President Shashidhar Pai Maroor said, "The KCCI is shocked at the decision of Escoms proposing to increase Power tariff by Rs 2 per unit. The MSME sector in India is the second-largest employment generator after agriculture and acts as a breeding ground for entrepreneurs and innovators with considerable support in strengthening the business ecosystem. MSME sector contributed 29% to overall GDP,” he noted. With the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns impacting their cash cycles, MSMEs, who are the backbone of India’s inclusive growth story, have felt a significant impact and faced severe disruptions. As an important part of the domestic and global value chains, the plight of MSMEs is of deep concern, he said. “MSME sector will completely collapse if the power tariff is hiked. We appeal Escoms to reduce their distribution losses and overheads instead of putting an additional burden on the consumers. "The impact of the hike will be particularly disastrous for the MSMEs as they struggle to revive operations from the Covid pandemic and severe slowdown in the economy,” he said and urged the Chief Minister to instruct the Escoms to withdraw the proposal and save MSMEs from closure. Further, he said the announcement of countrywide lockdown dragged MSME owners, employers and external stakeholders in unexpected times, where no one had the experience to handle this kind of situation. Extended lockdown had a negative impact on the supply of finished goods, procurement of raw material and availability of employees to work in production and supply processes. "Post lockdown, MSME is facing challenges related to debt repayments, wages/salaries, statutory dues, etc. It is not only the MSME units that face challenges; even consumers are left with lower disposable income. "Many enterprises laid off their workers because of inability to pay salaries, vacated their offices due to incurring expenses and halted their production due to stopped demand,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kcci-appeals-cm-bommai-not-to-increase-power-tariff-for-msme-sector-1073741.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||49% of Karnataka's Covid samples in December-January had Delta||Forty-nine per cent of samples sequenced from Karnataka in December and January were found to have the more virulent Delta variant and its sub-lineages, according to data from the state government. Out of 2,791 samples sent from Karnataka and sequenced at INSACOG labs, 1,355 were found to have the Delta variant and its sub-lineages. The highly transmissible Omicron variant was found only in 27 per cent of the samples (766), other variants accounted for 24 per cent (670). The new data complicates the pandemic picture, as it is widely believed that Omicron is the variant that is fuelling the current surge. Crucially, this implies that a subset of Covid patients may still need the kind of oxygen assistance, medication/drugs, and critical care support that was needed by Delta patients in the devastating second wave. Till Friday, (January 21), out of 1,355 samples, 283 had the Delta variant, 70 had Delta sub-lineages, 330 had other variants of concern, and 679 had Omicron. In December, out of 1,436 samples, 545 had the Delta variant, 457 had Delta sub-lineages, 340 had other variants of concern and 87 had Omicron. Seven samples' variants were not revealed in each of these two months. State Health Commissioner D Randeep told DH that Omicron detections were low in December (detected in only 6.05 per cent of the samples sequenced). "However, it started becoming the dominant strain in January's samples when 679 out of 1,355 samples, which is 50 per cent, had Omicron. Most admissions in hospitals are January patients," he said. "We have still not started tracking genomic sequencing results of admitted patients to ascertain this (Omicron hospitalisations). But, oxygen consumption remains low and well below supply," he added. The comfortable position on oxygen requirement was echoed by TK Anil Kumar, Principal Secretary (Health), Department of Health and Family Welfare. "We're keeping track of hospitalisations, which is the only indicator of whether oxygen is required or not. In the last three weeks, the requirement has hovered around 180 to 200 metric tonnes. Largely, it has been for non-Covid patients," he said, adding there has "not been any spike". "At the peak of the second wave, we needed 800 to 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen. Once consumption crosses 300 metric tonnes, we need to be cautious. If the hospitalisation rate crosses the 6 per cent threshold, it will become worrisome." On the availability of Covid drugs, Randeep said the Karnataka State Medical Supplies Corporation Limited (KSMSCL) had stocked up on eight Centre-recommended drugs and 38 state-recommended drugs. Dr Vishal Rao, a member of the state genomic surveillance committee, said vaccination seems to be the "determining factor" with regard to hospitalisation rather than the variant currently. "The current vaccines seem to be effective against Delta and its sub-lineages to date. Having said that, the nature of this virus and its constant efforts for immune evasion is obvious," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/49-of-karnatakas-covid-samples-in-december-january-had-delta-1073681.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Netaji's statue to be relocated to front side of Vidhana Soudha: Karnataka CM Bommai||Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai announced that the statue of Netaji Subash Chandra Bose will be shifted to the front of Vidhana Soudha. Currently, the statue is located at the West Gate of Vidhana Soudha and will be shifted ahead of the next birth anniversary in 2023, he said. Speaking to reporters after paying floral tributes to Netaji on the occasion of his birth anniversary, Bommai said that it would be shifted to a suitable spot befitting the leader. “A decision will be taken soon. Netaji’s next birthday will be celebrated in front of Vidhana Soudha,” he said. Bommai said that the government has decided to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Bose in a meaningful manner. Programmes will be held throughout the year to pay tribute to the leader. “Children will be introduced to Netaji’s ideals by organising debates, exhibitions and other programmes in all schools and colleges. Books and articles on Netaji will be printed in Kannada and distributed to youth,” he said. Bommai said that the government would respond positively to the demands of various organisations which have been working to fulfil Netaji’s ideals, he said. Netaji’s statue was among those installed in front of Vidhana Soudha, along with that of Jawaharlal Nehru and Dr B R Ambedkar. The statues were shifted during Metro construction work taken up in front of the Secretariat Complex. The statue of Netaji was installed during the term of D B Kalmankar as the chairman of the Legislative Council during the early 90s. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/netajis-statue-to-be-relocated-to-front-side-of-vidhana-soudha-karnataka-cm-bommai-1073813.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||61.5% solid waste processed in Karnataka, CPCB tells NGT||Approximately 11,085 tonnes of solid waste is generated per day in Karnataka, of which 6,817 tonnes per day which accounts for 61.5% is being processed, the Central Pollution Control Board informed the Southern Zone of the NGT. Of the total solid waste generated in the state, total 1,250 tonnes per day (11.2%) is put in landfills, said the Board. The Southern Bench of the NGT, which is hearing a case related to pollution of Ulsoor lake in Bengaluru lake, also asked the CPCB to submit an independent report about the state government’s compliance report on the Green Bench's earlier direction about solid waste management in Karnataka. Of the total 316 urban local bodies, 284 local bodies have initiated door-to-door collection of waste, while the remaining ULBs were in the process of initiation. The state has 217 plastic waste recycling units which have a combined capacity of 310 tonnes per day. There are a total 216 composting units in the state with a combined capacity of 5,834 tonnes per day. The state doesn't have waste-to-energy facilities. However, a 600 tonne-per-day (11.5 MW) waste-to-energy plant is being built by BBMP and Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd (KPCL) at Bidadi and 200 tonne-per-day plant by NTPCL at Dharwad City Corporation, the affidavit said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/615-solid-waste-processed-in-karnataka-cpcb-tells-ngt-1073863.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Ancient Jain inscriptions discovered in Honnavar village||An ancient Jain pedestal inscription and three Nishadi (Jain memorial) inscriptions have been discovered at Kudrigi village in Honnavar taluk of the district. While the pedestal inscription is found on the pedestal of an idol, a Nishadi inscription is installed in memory of devoted Jains who give up their lives following the Sallekhana practice, which involves not eating food and devoting oneself fully to worship. Kudrigi is located about seven kilometres away from Gerusoppe. These inscriptions are believed to have been engraved during the 13th century. Gerusoppe, about 27 kilometres away from Honnavar town, was an ancient Jain heritage centre. Ruled by the Saluva kings, Gerusoppe was the capital city of the Nagire dynasty.   The inscriptions were discovered near ruins of a Didambar Jain temple in farmland during a field visit by Nitin HP (the founder and the executive director of jainheritagecentres.com), a Wipro staffer in Bengaluru.  “The 2.5 feet tall Teerthankara idol is in paryankasana (in Sanskrit, Paryanka means couch or bed and Asana posture) posture and has a pedestal. The head, the Chamadharis flanking the Teerthankara and the Mukkode (three umbrellas, a sign of emperorship) above the Teerthankara’s head are missing,” Nitin said.  He added, “Curly hair dropping from the head are seen on either side of the Teerthankara’s shoulders. It indicates that it could be an idol of the Teerthankara’s Adinath I, the first the Teerthankara of Jainism. The inscription states that the younger sister of the disciple of ‘Samayacharana Guru’ belonging to Sri Mulasangha Deshiya’ got the inscription engraved and built the ‘Narana Jina Chaityalaya’.”  The four inscriptions indicated that the Jainism flourished in the region in those days, he added. Ravikumar, an epigraphist from Harihar, supported by Bhojaraj Jain from Siddapur, has analysed the content. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ancient-jain-inscriptions-discovered-in-honnavar-village-1073933.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Former HC judge Justice K L Manjunath no more||Retired High Court judge K L Manjunath passed away at his residence on Sunday, due to a massive cardiac arrest. He was 68. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai condoled his demise and recalled his contribution during his tenure as judge of various courts, chairman of Karnataka River Waters and Border Dispute Authority and other bodies. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy hailed his contributions noting that he had penned several key judgments. "His demise is a great loss to the state," he said. Born on April 21, 1953, Justice Manjunath had enrolled as an advocate in September 1974 and practised in the High Court of Karnataka. he was appointed additional judge of Karnataka High Court in December 2000 and elevated as a permanent judge in October 2001. The final rites of Justice Manjunath were performed at his Kemplinganahalli farm off Kunigal Road in the afternoon. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-hc-judge-justice-k-l-manjunath-no-more-1073939.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Digitised evaluation in KSLU brings more efficiency, transparency||The new digitised and decentralised evaluation system of answer sheets of law students, introduced in the Karnataka State Law University (KSLU), Hubbali, has brought more efficiency and transparency in the evaluation process. Following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the University adopted this new system in August last year. Earlier, answer sheets of law students were evaluated manually on the KSLU campus at Navanagar here. Evaluators from Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mysuru, and other districts had to come to Hubballi for the evaluation. It had become difficult for them during the Covid pandemic. They were facing many hurdles, and manual evaluation was time-consuming too. Now, the digitised evaluation system has solved all these problems. Six centres in state Online evaluation centres have been set up in six law colleges affiliated with the University across the state. They are BMS Law College and Sheshadripuram Law College in Bengaluru, Vidyavikas Law College in Mysuru, SDM Law College in Mangaluru, KSLU in Hubballi, and Siddharth Law College in Kalaburagi. Speaking to DH, KSLU Vice-Chancellor Ishwar Bhat said the digitised and decentralised evaluation system has saved time and energy for the faculty, including evaluators, and it also gives quick and error-free results. The manual evaluation was time-consuming. During Covid pandemic time, the new system has facilitated evaluators to evaluate about one lakh answer sheets of law students in six evaluation centres in the state, he added. He said that the answer sheets of law students are scanned and sent to the respective evaluation centres online. The evaluators get the soft copies of answer sheets and evaluate them within the fixed time, he said. A total of 26,000 students across the state are studying in 106 Law Colleges that are affiliated with the State Law University. At present, the evaluation of answer sheets of law students that have begun from January 10, is expected to be over by January 29, he noted.  Speaking to DH, Tumakuru Sufiya Law College principal Ramesha S said the digitised evaluation system is faculty and student-friendly, and better than the previous system. It has saved manpower and reduced clerical work. It is more convenient for the evaluators as they can evaluate the answer sheets in their respective places and need not come to Hubballi. Besides, it has brought more efficacy and transparency, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/digitised-evaluation-in-kslu-brings-more-efficiency-transparency-1073940.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Supersede MANMUL: Dinesh Gooligowda urges CM Bommai||MLC Dinesh Gooligowda urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to supersede the Mandya Milk Union Limited (MANMUL) as milk adulteration with chemicals has come to the fore in Maddur. The MLC has written to the CM about the scam. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/supersede-manmul-dinesh-gooligowda-urges-cm-bommai-1073941.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Brain fog problem returns to haunt Covid-19 survivors||As the fast-moving third wave moves towards its peak, cases of a debilitating post-Covid complication, “brain fog,” are already being reported among survivors. The symptom, which was noted in the second wave, is being reported in rising frequency among Covid-19 survivors of the ongoing third wave. Dr N K Venkataramana, founder chairman and chief neurosurgeon, Brains Neuro Spine Hospital, specified that 25 to 30 per cent of Covid-recovered patients go on to develop brain fog. The complication is marked by confusion and an inability to concentrate or make decisions, such as seeking medical care, which could have implications for disease severity. “People are unable to focus, they feel lethargic and there is a sense of having lost their rhythm, which creates impediments to them getting back to work or taking action,” Dr Venkataramana said. According to one telemedicine consultant, incidents of people reporting symptoms resembling brain fog started to increase a week ago. “The problem appears to be manifesting earlier in the third wave because of the severe throat pain that many people experience which prevents hydration and food intake,” said Dr Haleema Yezdani of the official telemedicine consultancy collective, StepOne. This was corroborated by Dr Venkataramana who stated that one of the ways out of brain fog is hydration and deep rest. “One of the first cases that I came across was a 50-year-old man in the city who said that his entire family, including children and adults, had symptoms of the disease although none had been tested,” Dr Yezdani explained. “He kept asking the same questions over and over again - about whether he was infected. While it was conveyed to him that such a determination could not be made without a test, he had difficulty grasping this. The common factor among such cases is an inability to follow instruction, followed by rapid irritability,” she added. Fog during infection This was certainly the experience of one person who suffered a debilitating mental block during the period of her infection. Anjali, 50, (name changed) was infected with Covid-19 in the second week of January.  “It was a mild case of infection involving myalgia, fever and cough but on the second day of fever, my mind started to go blank. I had difficulty comprehending what people were telling me. I would quickly become irritable,” she said. Dr Netravathi M, additional professor, department of neurology, Nimhans, specified if people experience this condition during the period of infection, the brain is directly involved in the terms of hypoxia setting in creating a metabolic disturbance.  “This causes people to develop difficulty in processing information, impairment of memory - a mental block. If the condition takes place weeks after the person has recovered, an extreme immune response is likely responsible,” she said. While Nimhans had seen a large number of such cases last year, she specified that cases from the third wave had not yet been reported at the institute. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/brain-fog-problem-returns-to-haunt-covid-19-survivors-1073942.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||'Endorsement of Mekedatu project by engineers' body baffling'||The report endorsing the Mekedatu project by experts of Karnataka state Engineers’ Association in a seminar held in Mysuru is baffling as environment experts feel the other way. One of the objections raised is the project falling under the Cauvery river basin and in addition its disastrous impact on the environment. It is mentioned the government of Karnataka in lieu has sanctioned 7000-plus hectares of land to the forest department at Dandeli to develop a forest. This appears to be a stupid argument. In that case, why declare the Western Ghats as an eco-sensitive zone and protect it when the local community is against it? Develop a forest in the barren lands of Karnataka and give a free hand to the people who are living in the area for decades. In spite of being victims of recent worst environmental disasters, we refuse to learn lessons. Trying to change the ecology will result in further disasters.  Considering the cost it is not surprising the politicians, bureaucrats and few vested interests are hell-bent on projects like Mekedatu and Yettinahole no matter even if it has a catastrophic impact on the environment.  The purpose of this project is to provide drinking water to Bengaluru for the next 50 years and to generate electricity. With global warming and climate change, how can one predict the future? The recent rains submerged all major cities and Bengaluru was no exception. This only tells us that we have to judiciously harvest rainwater to meet our needs. Is there a plan in place for the future development of Bengaluru? Has anyone thought of decongesting Bengaluru for good? Probably this can be achieved with a lesser cost which in turn benefits otherparts of the state. On one hand, billions of dollars are spent to set right the effects of climate change and on the other hand, billions are spent on its destruction. It is amusing to read an attempt being made to dim the sun rays reaching the earth in order to cool the planet surface. The first global lockdown showed us how we can clean up the environment. Why not practice global lockdown on one specific day every month which can be the first step to improve the climate.  The government should consult the experts and weigh the merits and demerits before implementing the project without any prejudices. This should not be an issue of prestige between political parties and governments.  (The writer is a doctor and retired head, Medicine Department, JSS Medical College, Mysuru) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/endorsement-of-mekedatu-project-by-engineers-body-baffling-1073944.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Rise in Omicron cases stretches government-run labs in Karnataka||Two private labs carried out genome sequencing of 72 per cent of Covid samples in the state from July to December 5, 2021. However, since then two government labs - the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) and National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), both part of the INSACOG network - have shouldered the responsibility of sequencing.  This is owing to the government diktat on December 1, 2021, that only INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs can participate in genomic sequencing of Covid samples. Ever since the third wave started, Karnataka has detected over 900 Omicron cases. As per the health department, 1,436 samples were sequenced in December, while 1,355 were sequenced in the first 21 days of January. In contrast, in September and August, 2,065 and 1,440 samples were sequenced, when private labs were involved.   Health Commissioner D Randeep said, “We could have sent more samples if more INSACOG-recognised labs were available. No other additional labs have gotten permission in KarnaEver since the third wave started, Karnataka has detected over 900 Omicron cases. Karnataka to sequence Covid samples for the government, we have stopped sending samples to private labs since December." "We sent 5 per cent of the total cases per day for sequencing in December, in January that was not possible due to the huge spike in cases.”  Though new sequencing labs have been set up, one each in Mysuru, Belagavi and Kalaburagi, they are yet to be functional. The preparations are also on to set up one lab each in Hubballi and Ballari. NCBS Director Dr Satyajit Mayor told DH, “The numbers were low in December because the cases were low at that time.” A vital tool Explaining the importance of sequencing, in the capacity of an independent expert, Dr Vishal Rao, member of the state genomic surveillance committee said, the new variant will continuously multiply to change its own form and also mutate to possibly give rise to a newer variant or give rise to its own form which can have more immune evasion.  “Globally, countries continue to sequence because there is a continued race between the vaccines and the variants. The UK, which aggressively sequences, is looking at the patterns of changing flu as well as emerging variants. Delta itself has 118 sub-lineages. This means Delta continues to transform itself in trying to be more virulent. The virus continues to be active in terms of mutational burdens being seen. So there is a sequencing necessity in order to monitor,” he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rise-in-omicron-cases-stretches-government-run-labs-in-karnataka-1073945.html
23-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka achieves 100% first dose coverage: Minister||After a year since the launch of the Covid vaccination, Karnataka on Sunday achieved 100 per cent first dose Covid vaccine coverage. According to Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, on Sunday evening, the state has administered 4,89,29,819 first doses to a target population of 4,89,16,000 people aged 18 and above. On Sunday, the state-administered 76,147 first doses up to 3 pm to push the numbers over the milestone. “It took us exactly one year and seven days to achieve (the coverage),” Sudhakar tweeted. He further added that Karnataka is the first state in the country with a population of above four crores to achieve this feat.  The data shows that though 12 districts have not yet reached 100 per cent first dose coverage others have exceeded 100 per cent in coverage. This law of averages equates to 100.4 per cent coverage. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-achieves-100-first-dose-coverage-minister-1073946.html
23-01-2022||West||Mumbai high-rise fire: Cops register 6 accidental death reports||Mumbai police have registered six accidental death reports (ADRs) in connection with the fire that broke out in a residential building in Tardeo area of central Mumbai, which claimed six lives and left 23 others injured, an official said on Sunday. The blaze had erupted on Saturday around 7.30 am at Sachinam Heights, a ground-plus-20-storey building located opposite Bhatia Hospital at Gowalia Tank. "As the fire claimed the lives of six persons, separate accidental death reports were registered at the Gamdevi police station on Saturday night," the police official said. The police are waiting for a report by the fire department as well as the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport's (BEST) electricity wing to know the exact cause of fire, although preliminary investigation has revealed that it broke out due to a power short circuit, he said. Officials had said that the fire was extinguished nearly five hours after it broke out. Deputy Commissioner of Police Sourabh Tripathi had said that primary information indicated that the fire started on the 15th floor and spread upward to the 19th floor, which was affected the most. Following the incident, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) set up an inquiry committee.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-high-rise-fire-cops-register-6-accidental-death-reports-1073744.html
23-01-2022||West||Goa Congress candidates 'swear' not to shift parties after election win||Ahead of the next month's Goa Assembly elections, the Congress, which was hit hardest by defections in the BJP-ruled state in the past five years, made its candidates take a pledge before the Almighty that they will not switch parties if they get elected. The Congress on Saturday took all its 34 candidates in a special bus to a temple, a church as well as a dargah in the state and made them take the 'anti-defection' pledge. Since the last election, the Congress has seen most of its legislators quitting the party. The grand old party, which had emerged as the single largest force by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House after the 2017 Assembly elections, now has only two MLAs in the House. In 2019, 10 Congress legislators had joined the ruling BJP, whose current strength in the Assembly stands at 27. "In order to build trust in the minds of people, the exercise of getting candidates swear before the God was undertaken," Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) President Girish Chodankar said. The candidates were taken to the Mahalaxmi temple in Panaji, a church at Bambolim and at a dargah in Betim village near the capital city. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram, who is the party’s Goa election observer, accompanied the candidates to the religious places. But the Congress is not the first party in the state to undertake this kind of exercise. On January 31 last year, the Goa Forward Party (GFP) had taken its three MLAs and office-bearers to Dev Bodgeshwar temple at Mapusa and made them take a pledge that they will not support the BJP in the 2022 state elections. The GFP had extended its support to the Manohar Parrikar-led BJP government in 2017. The GFP MLAs were made ministers at that time. However, after the 10 Congress MLAs joined the BJP in 2019, the GFP ministers were dropped from the cabinet by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who took over the state’s reins following Parrikar's death. The Vijai Sardesai-led GFP had to face a backlash for supporting the BJP to form the government. Despite taking the oath at the Mapusa temple, one GFP legislator – Jayesh Salgaonkar – later shifted to the ruling BJP. He is currently the BJP's candidate from Saligao Assembly constituency. Recently, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is also contesting the Goa Assembly elections, had announced that its candidates will have to sign legal affidavits mentioning that they will not quit the party to join another one if they get elected. The Arvind Kejriwal-led party took the decision to stem defections as it feels that the coastal state is "notorious" for politicians jumping to other parties. As per a report by the Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR), as many as 24 legislators in Goa, which is 60 per cent of the total strength of the state Assembly, have switched parties in the past five years. The organisation said in its report that with these defections, Goa has set a unique record, which is "unparalleled" in the history of Indian democracy. "In the five-year tenure of the current Assembly (2017-2022), as many as 24 MLAs have changed their parties, which is 60 per cent of the total strength of the House. It has never happened anywhere else in India. It is a clear reflection of utter disrespect to the mandate of voters. A callous approach to ethics and discipline overborne by uncontrolled greed at its worst," the report said. Goa is going to polls on February 14. The electoral battle in the state has become multi-cornered with the entry of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the AAP. So far, poll tie-ups have been forged between the regional MGP and the TMC, and between the Congress and the GFP. The Shiv Sena and the NCP are also contesting the elections together. In the 2017 polls, despite winning 17 seats, the Congress could not come to power as the BJP, which had bagged 13 seats, allied with some independents and regional parties to form the government. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-congress-candidates-swear-not-to-shift-parties-after-election-win-1073771.html
23-01-2022||West||Goa polls: After quitting BJP, ex-CM Laxmikant Parsekar says he will contest as independent||Former Goa chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, who has resigned from the BJP after being denied ticket for the next month's state Assembly polls, on Sunday said he will contest the election from Mandrem constituency as an independent. Parsekar, a veteran leader, said he has tendered his resignation on Saturday and left all the posts in the party. At the time of his resignation, Parsekar was the head of the ruling party's manifesto committee for the February 14 Assembly polls. He said that after his resignation, several political parties have approached him, but he would prefer to contest the election as an independent candidate. "I will soon file my nomination," he added. The 65-year-old politician was upset after the party denied him ticket from Mandrem Assembly segment. The BJP has fielded sitting MLA Dayanand Sopte from the constituency, which Parsekar had represented between 2002 and 2017. Sopte had defeated Parsekar in the 2017 polls as a Congress candidate, but joined the ruling party in 2019 along with nine other leaders. Parsekar was the chief minister of Goa between 2014 and 2017. He was selected to head the state after the then chief minister Manohar Parrikar was inducted into the Union cabinet as the Defence Minister.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-polls-after-quitting-bjp-ex-cm-laxmikant-parsekar-says-he-will-contest-as-independent-1073867.html
23-01-2022||West||I still believe Shiv Sena wasted 25 years in alliance with BJP: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said his party will try to expand its footprint outside the state and aim for a national role even as he accused BJP of using Hindutva as per a political convenience. He also said that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by BJP has shrunken as old constituents like Akali Dal and Shiv Sena have already walked out of the bloc. Addressing Shiv Sainiks virtually on the 96th birth anniversary of the party founder and his father Bal Thackeray, Uddhav said the Sena had aligned with BJP for taking forward the agenda of Hindutva through power. "Shiv Sena had aligned with BJP as it wanted power for Hindutva. Sena never used Hindutva for the sake of power," he said. The Sena has left the BJP and not Hindutva. I believe that BJP's opportunistic Hindutva is only for power, he said. Thackeray also said that the 25 years the Sena spent with BJP as an ally were "rotted". The Sena fell out with BJP after the 2019 Maharashtra polls and tied up with NCP and Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. "We supported the BJP wholeheartedly to enable them to fulfill their national ambitions. The understanding was they will go national while we will lead in Maharashtra. But we were betrayed and attempts were made to destroy us in our home. So we had to hit back, " Thackeray said justifying his decision to align with Congress and Nationalist Congress Party after the 2019 elections. He alleged that BJP uses and dumps its allies as per its political convenience. Responding to BJP's jibes that Sena had abandoned Hindutva for power, Thackeray said his party had left BJP and not the ideology of Hindutva. "BJP doesn't mean Hindutva. I stand by my comment that Shiv Sena had wasted 25 years in alliance with BJP," he said. Referring to recent Nagar Panchayat elections where Sena fared poorly and secured the fourth position, Thackeray said leaders of Sena, including himself, didn't take local body polls seriously and campaign accordingly. "On the contrary, our new allies Congress and NCP have built institutions at the grassroots. We too have to work in that direction. In the last two years, we lost two Legislative Council seats held by us in the biennial elections. I think we lost due to the neglect and not due to sabotage in our ranks," he said. He said this setback notwithstanding, Sena should aim at consolidating its presence at the national level and resolve to capture power in Delhi. Thackeray asked Sena workers and leaders to focus on building institutions in the cooperative and banking sector in rural areas. "There is no point talking about contesting elections independently if our hands are not strong," he said. Thackeray said the Sena should also expand beyond Maharashtra and aim to "capture" Delhi. He appealed to Shiv sainiks to work with zeal and build the party organisation at the grassroots as the party is in power in Maharashtra. Thackeray, who recuperated after undergoing spine surgery, hit out at Maharashtra BJP leaders for attacking him over his health. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-still-believe-shiv-sena-wasted-25-years-in-alliance-with-bjp-uddhav-thackeray-1073899.html
