24-01-2022||Comment||A sinister pattern||The recent attack in Texas by a British citizen in which four people were held hostage at a synagogue seems to reflect an uncanny similarity to past patterns of violent extremism. The authorities identified the man as Malik Faisal Akram, a British national, who had held captive the rabbi and three other members of the synagogue. Forty-four-year-old Akram had reportedly demanded to see a woman who is currently in US federal custody. Though he did not directly mention the person, she is apparently Aafia Siddiqui, a Pakistani neuroscientist, who was reportedly convicted in 2010 for trying to kill American military officers while she was in custody in Afghanistan. Commonalities emerge with some of the previous attacks that thread some of the recent attackers to a common passport, ancestral origin and pathways of ideological radicalisation. Around 2014-15, when the Islamic State was controlling vast swathes of territory in the Middle East, there were a considerable number of citizens from the UK, France and Belgium operating as Foreign Terrorist Fighters (FTFs). However, within the global north’s context, particularly the UK, there are some striking commonalities. British citizen Akram has an ancestral origin from Pothwari-speaking Jhelum area, a particular pocket of Pakistani Punjab that adjoins linguistically and socio-economically akin to Pakistan-administered Jammu and Kashmir (PAJK). PAJK has often been in international headlines for the wrong reasons. In his interrogation, Ajmal Amir Kasab, one of the 10 terrorists on a shooting spree in Mumbai in November 2008, had reportedly said that he was trained in Muzaffarabad, the capital of PAJK. Muzaffarabad is adjacent to Abbottabad, where Osama Bin Laden was killed by US Navy Seals on May 2, 2011. The attackers of the London Tube on July 7, 2005, had trained in the region. In the 2005 string of suicide attacks on London tube, 56 lives were lost. Mohammad Sidique Khan, a 30-year-old married man, was the head of the plot. Khan’s parents migrated to the UK from the Pothwari-speaking area of Rawalpindi which again adjoins PAJK. He had travelled to a camp in PAJK of Harkat-ul-Mujahideen, a Kashmir-centric militant group. A year after the London bombings, a terrorist plot to blow up 10 United States-bound flights from Heathrow with the help of liquid explosives was revealed on August 10, 2006. The foiled attack was the brainchild of 1981-born Rashid Rauf. His father Abdul Rauf had immigrated to Britain from the Pothwari-speaking Mirpur town of PAJK, also known as Little England. Rashid grew up in Birmingham city, UK. After claims and counter-claims, the family of Rauf admitted that he was killed in a US drone attack in November 2008. Not too different is the background of a man who carried out the knife attack at London Bridge on November 29, 2019. Identified as 28-year-old Usman Khan, he was born to parents who hailed from PAJK. He, along with another Nazam Hussain, also born to immigrant parents from PAJK, had plans to establish and recruit for a militant training facility under the cover of a madrasa (religious school) on land owned by his family in PAJK. ‘Pakistani descent’ In this connection, a lesser discussed fact about Britain’s ‘Pakistani descent’ population becomes paramount. Over 70% have a direct or indirect connection with the Pothwari-speaking PAJK, particularly the southern belt, or the adjoining linguistically akin areas like Rawalpindi, Jhelum or Gujrat areas of Pakistani Punjab. After the 1960s, large-scale migration to the UK from Mirpur and neighbouring areas took place and by 1980s, over 50% of Pakistan’s foreign exchange earnings reportedly came from this diaspora living in Birmingham followed by Bradford and other British cities. While ancestral roots of these British citizens are similar, the social milieu of these attackers requires a granular study. The radicalisation process of many young men is never linear as several trigger points embed consciously or subconsciously into their minds. Pothwari-speaking diaspora is a cohesive group as compared to other sections of South Asian ethnic diasporas. One of the possible explanations is the homogeneity in the caste origins of the diasporic population, which provides scope for the continuation of social bonding. Intra-caste and family marriages are quite common among the diaspora, thus further cementing the bonds. The collective political and social power can be determined by the fact that they influence the electoral results of many British parliamentary constituencies and their influence on British foreign policy. They influence 20 to 30 British constituencies, besides electing hundreds of councillors every year. In the early 1990s, a section among the community settled in the UK was outspoken about the situation in J&K. This was in an environment where the host country saw the situation from a particular foreign policy lens and hence its security agencies largely ignored some of the actions that allegedly supported directly or indirectly acts of violent extremism abroad. But for some members of the second and third generation, born and raised in the UK, young men facing an identity crisis and manifold contestations or schisms such as familial traditions and western culture, results have proved to be different. A decade later, these young men, born and raised in the UK, started looking at broader and universal Islamic causes such as the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan to define their identity. A section of the youth internalised the simplistic, polemical or binary interpretations from various sources without contextual nuance and the recent case of Akram seems to be a mere manifestation of this pattern. With a British passport, entry to the US is relatively easy and hardly requires excessive vetting, as is the case for young Muslims from elsewhere. Thus such radicalised men pose a danger to not only the UK but also the US. Addressing this strand of radicalisation that keeps manifesting on both sides of the Atlantic requires a granular inter-disciplinary knowledge and multi-dimensional response that is shorn of Islamophobia and sweeping generalisation that vilifies any particular ethnic community. (The writer has researched issues linked to violent extremism)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-sinister-pattern-1073897.html
24-01-2022||Comment||Off the record: Casinos, cops and snakes||Goa model in Andhra Pradesh The opposition TDP, which is ever critical of YSRCP, is now crediting the ruling side for bringing “Goa model development” to Gudivada. The town in Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh is at the centre of the latest conflagration between the two parties. TDP leaders say that a grand scale casino-like event was organised in a convention hall belonging to civil supplies minister Kodali Nani during Sankranti. The entry fee was reportedly Rs 10,000 with an unlimited supply of food, booze and entertainment like dances. Opposition parties are rallying accusing the Jaganmohan Reddy regime of ignoring actual development but “encouraging the casinos, gambling culture to pillage public money.” The minister reacted aggressively stating he would quit politics, and self immolate after dousing with petrol, if his involvement was proved. Elections are in Goa but the political heat and petrol fumes are emanating from Andhra. Meanwhile, film director Ram Gopal Varma, known for his controversial statements, tweeted appreciating Kodali saying that “his initiative to modernize Gudivada would place the town on the same level as Paris, London, Las Vegas.” “People talking against the casino are regressive and should be ignored,” Varma tweeted. YSRCP leaders are stupefied, undecided on how to react. Prasad Nichenamtla, Hyderabad ‘Foul language not new to cops’ A Malayalam film, Churuli has been facing criticism for the extensive use of foul language. But a three-member panel of police officers that reviewed the film as per a High Court order over public interest litigation justified the film considering various factors like the story involved. This triggered a reaction on social media where users argued that the police often use so much vulgar language against the common people and get used to it, and that is why the police did not find anything wrong in the language used in the film. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananhapuram Snake in the judge’s chamber The Bombay High Court had an unexpected visitor last week. A snake was found and rescued from the chamber of a judge. The 4.5 to 5-feet long, non-venomous snake was found by the court staff at around 9.30 am on Friday when Justice N R Borkar was not present in his chamber, which is on the ground floor of the three-storey. Immediately, the staff altered the police who summoned a snake-catcher and the snake was subsequently rescued. It would be released in the forest area. The high court is currently holding online hearings.  Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai  Using Hindi as a tool to protest When DMK’s Kanimozhi Karunanidhi posted a video on freedom fighter V O Chidambaranar in English with Hindi subtitles on her verified Twitter page, the move evoked several reactions. The video was posted after the Centre rejected Tamil Nadu’s tableau featuring VOC and others. Many welcomed the Hindi subtitles in a video officially released by a party that has all along opposed the language as the “best way” to impart lessons to those in the northern part of the country who do not know about freedom fighters from the south. Some questioned how can DMK which opposes “Hindi imposition” use the language for its “own propaganda.” The answer, DMK said, is in the video itself which begins with a disclaimer that the sole intention of the video was to highlight the “significance” of Tamil leaders in English with Hindi subtitles for “broader reach and better understanding.” ETB Sivapriyan, Chennai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/off-the-record-casinos-cops-and-snakes-1073895.html
24-01-2022||Comment||The danger of democratic backsliding||On January 26, India will celebrate its 73rd Republic Day. This, at a time when democracies around the world are at risk from the rise of populist and authoritarian regimes. India has been no exception, especially since 2014. The deviation from the ethical, philosophical and social foundations of constitutional governance values has endangered democracy in the hands of political elites who have risen with their extremist political ideology. This has aggravated social divisions and deepened the ‘majority-minority’ construct. This binary classification is seriously problematic for a heterogeneous, multi-cultural, multi-lingual and multi-party country like India, and for that matter for any democratic nation in the world. In this context, democratic decline is a global phenomenon, including in the advanced democracies such as the US, UK and European Union countries. “The Global State of Democracy, 2021: Building Resilience in a Pandemic Era” report, produced by Sweden’s International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance observes that countries are suffering from (i) democratic erosion, and (ii) democratic backsliding. Democratic erosion refers to a decline in the democratic quality. The report noted that what Brazil, India and the US are undergoing is democratic backsliding – meaning, a “more severe and a deliberate kind of democratic erosion.” This claim finds merit in the observation made by the Chief Justice of India N V Ramana last year, i.e., “…there is a lack of quality debate in Parliament while enacting laws.” Many parliamentarians expressed concern over these remarks, not to reflect on them but to charge that the CJI’s remarks were beyond the scope of the judiciary and encroached upon the policy arena. This may look true when one looks at it from the viewpoint of Parliament’s prerogative over law-making. However, it misses the context in which the remarks were made. The CJI’s remarks need to be understood from the perspective of the increasing burden on the judiciary to interpret the law, as seen from the increase in cases involving fundamental questions that are pending before the Supreme Court. The lack of quality debate and discussions in Parliament is the real indicator of democratic functioning of the legislative organ created by the Constitution. The repeal of the farm laws of 2020 is an illustrative example and the reason why, despite any good intentions behind the laws, the law-makers were forced to repeal them, as much as the democratic spirit of the farmers who resisted these undebated laws. Such exercises in law-making always exert pressure on the judiciary, as can be seen from the pending cases before the constitutional benches – the abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35A, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the issue of Electoral Bonds, the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and Sedition law (Section 124A of IPC). These cases have been pending for two-three years and are yet to be listed for hearing. These cases assume significance from the democracy point of view and citizen’s fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. The ordinance route to proclamation of laws, followed in such cases as the farm laws, is meant to be used only in emergency situations or in times of failure of the constitutional machinery. The farmers’ protests, fortunately, were indicative of democratic resistance to uphold constitutional governance in the country. In the recently concluded winter session, Parliament passed more than 60% of the bills introduced without legislative scrutiny. A crucial bill such as the one to link Aadhaar with Voter ID was passed after only 26 minutes of discussion. A closer look at the number of bills passed in the 17th Lok Sabha without referring to the parliamentary or departmental Standing Committees substantiates the democratic decline. Till the seventh session of the 17th Lok Sabha, only 13% of bills have been subjected to legislative scrutiny. It was than in the 16th Lok Sabha (25%), 15th (71%) and 14th (60%) Lok Sabha respectively. There was also, of course, the issue of the inordinate delay (more than two and a half years) in filling the post of Deputy Speaker of the Lok Sabha, in violation of Article 93 of the Constitution. These brief facts and figures suffice to say that the quality of debate discussions in Parliament to enact laws has substantially declined over a period of time. Prime Minister Narendra Modi once said that “debates, disputes and dialogue are the soul of Parliament.” However, in our experience so far, he has failed to ensure the same during parliamentary sessions. It is to be understood that Parliament has suffered a considerable decline in terms of institutional capacity. Parliamentary paralysis has seriously eroded democratic ethos and traditions, resulting in inappropriate socio-economic policies, laws and governance. In addition to the decline of Parliament as a law-making institution, some of the individual liberal values of democracy that are facing severe block-out by the current ruling dispensation are the right to freedom of expression, religion, choice of food, right to worship, right to economic freedom, and the right to dissent. The heavy handedness on civil society organisations, the media, human rights activists, researchers and progressive thinkers has diminished the long cherished democratic traditions and culture and eroded people’s constitutional rights. The robust civil society and institutions, including a free press and independency of the judiciary, are not really helping to improve the quality of debate and discussion in Parliament. Perhaps there is a need for a law to make it mandatory to gauge legislators’ performance, both in Parliament and in their constituencies. The voters of every constituency must play a vigilant role in holding accountable their elected representatives and officials through media and civil society. Such an appraisal of legislators periodically is critical to realise the constitutional vision of development with social justice. (The writer is a PhD Fellow, Centre for Political Institutions, Governance and Development, Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC), Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-danger-of-democratic-backsliding-1074262.html
24-01-2022||First Edit||Time states heed to SC directive||The Supreme Court’s steps to ensure the disbursal of compensation to the families of those who died of Covid-19 are in continuation of the initiative it took in the past to get the very idea of such compensation accepted by the government. The court had to direct the government to frame a compensation scheme and had to issue the guidelines for that. The ex-gratia amount is only a token of Rs 50,000 for the death of one person, and the court now had to pull up state governments for laxity in payment of the amount. The court went through the payments made by a number of states and found that there were many deficiencies, including delayed payments, rejection of payments in genuine claims and discrepancies in the number of claims. The court has again issued directions to the governments to ensure that they discharge their humanitarian responsibility to support those left behind by the victims.  It was in September last year that the decision to make the compensation payments was made. The court had then directed that payments must be made within 30 days of the date of application. It has now been found that large numbers of families have not been paid at all. The pace of disbursal is slow and there are many discrepancies. The numbers from several states like Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Bihar and Kerala have raised many questions. In Gujarat, the official death toll is 10,094 but 89,633 claims were made and the state has made payments in 58,840 cases. In Punjab, 6,667 payments have been made against 8,786 claims, though the official death count is 16,557. In Kerala also the number of claims made is less than the number of deaths. The court told the Andhra Pradesh government that it was callous and negligent and rejected the number of deaths presented by Bihar because it thought it was too low.   Apart from the discrepancy in numbers and the delay in payments there were other issues like non-disclosure of the reason for rejection of claim applications. The court has said that applicants should be told of the reasons for rejection and given an opportunity to rectify errors. It has also directed that officials should go to the families which may have been left out if the claims are lower than the official figures. It has entrusted the legal services authority in each state to ensure that all genuine claims are accepted and payments made. The court made a special reference to 10,000 children who lost both their parents and directed the states to reach out to them. The court’s continuing pursuit of the matter will hopefully ensure that no eligible family will be denied its due.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/time-states-heed-to-sc-directive-1073891.html
24-01-2022||First Edit||‘Correcting’ history to suit one’s own politics||The run-up to the Republic Day has seen a flurry of “corrections” of history, and additions and deletions, in the form of images, statues and even music. There are also public declarations of the need and intent to “correct the mistakes” of historical narratives about events and personalities. A hologram of Subhas Chandra Bose has come up at India Gate, to be replaced by a granite statue in due course. The iconic Amar Jawan Jyoti there has been put out and shifted to the National War Memorial. Gandhiji’s favourite hymn ‘Abide with me’ has been dropped from the Beating the Retreat ceremony. Every one of these actions has a separate explanation that seeks to rationalise it but does not convince. They sound more like excuses in service of partisan politics than actions that promote any right and national cause. Separately and collectively, they actually seek to misrepresent and misinterpret the past. The nation has always considered Bose an eminent freedom fighter alongside Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel and others. His INA campaign has always been proudly considered a part of the country’s freedom struggle. But the Sangh Parivar, which chose not to play any role in the freedom struggle, has tried to create a new narrative about it and co-opt leaders like Patel and Bose at the expense of others. It has not only promoted some parts of the freedom struggle and some leaders but tried to understate and denigrate others like Nehru. The installation of the Bose statue is a part of that campaign. Nehru is demonised because he articulated an idea of India that the Sangh Parivar rejects and because his descendants are still associated with the Congress. Gandhi is being handled with greater caution because he is at a higher pedestal in the nation’s mind. But he is attacked by the fringe without serious objections from the mainstream, and his legacy is being chipped away. The dropping of a hymn dear to him from an important ceremony is a sign. The problem with the Amar Jawan Jyoti may have been that it was set up on the initiative of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to commemorate those who laid down their lives in 1971 in the war with Pakistan for the liberation of Bangladesh. The arguments that its being placed at the India Gate reminded the country of its colonial past, that all official functions to honour the nation’s soldiers are held at the National War Memorial, or that the flame has only been shifted are only lame arguments. The truth is that another memorial of history has been erased. The Prime Minister has said that his government is correcting mistakes, but those are corrections that suit his politics and interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/correcting-history-to-suit-one-s-own-politics-1074265.html
24-01-2022||In Perspective||Why rights can't be equated with duties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was reported to have said recently, "In the last 75 years, we only kept talking about rights, fighting for rights and wasting time. The talk of rights, to some extent, for some time, may be right in a particular circumstance, but forgetting one's duties completely has played a huge role in keeping India weak." This is part of an increased, newfound liking among certain sections to equate fundamental rights with fundamental duties. Invariably, this attempt often wrongly draws their inspiration and attempts to draw legitimacy from the last paragraph of Mahatma Gandhi’s address to the 'Kathiawad Conference' on January 8, 1925 (subsequently reproduced in Young India: 1924-26; Publisher: Triplicane, Madras, 1927, p.479) under the section titled 'My Field of Labour' wherein the relevant paragraph reads: "Such being my ideal there is room for the Indian States as conceived by me and there is full protection guaranteed to the subjects for their rights. The true source of rights is duty. If we all discharge our duties, rights will not be far to seek. If leaving duties unperformed we run after rights, they will escape us like a will of the wisp. The more we pursue them the farther will they fly…." Ironic as it may seem, Gandhiji in the previous paragraph, while referring to the rulers of the Princely States in the pre-independence era, stresses: "My duty lies in discovering and employing means by which the nation may evolve the strength to enforce its will. When once the nation is conscious of its strength it will find its own way to make it. That prince is acceptable to me who becomes a prince among his people’s servants. The subjects are the real master. But what is the servant to do if the master goes to sleep? Everything, therefore, is included in trying for true awakening." Hence, the context was actually the need for the ruler to accept suzerainty of the people and against the ruling princes of the Indian States who while being despots were stooges of the British. Without any prejudice to the concept of nation, nationalism and nationalists, the approach to equate fundamental rights with fundamental duties and then further postulate the acceptance of the two in the same category as necessary and even reflective of the person’s love for the country needs to be analysed in the larger context of how the concept of fundamental duties crept into the Constitution of India. Constitution and duties Fundamental duties were not part of our Constitution that came into effect in 1950. Instead, they crept in during the Emergency as part of the recommendation of a 12-member committee which was appointed after a resolution of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) on May 29, 1976. They owe their origins to the discussion of part of the Sardar Swaran Singh Committee Report which called for “certain fundamental duties and obligations which every citizen owes to the nation, inter-alia, to function in such a manner as to sustain and strengthen the integrity and unity of the nation...." and incorporated into the Constitution along with many other changes as part of the 42nd Amendment — the same amendment which modified the preamble, introduced directive principles and also changed the words "unity of the nation" to "unity and integrity of the nation". The then chairman of the Law Commission and former Chief Justice of India, in a letter to the Prime Minister, noted about the changes while some of the changes were necessary, "ad hocism is undesirable and adoption of extremist doctrinaire positions is irrelevant and inadvisable". The attempt to equate fundamental duties with rights is worrying for various reasons, especially when justified by using Gandhiji’s remarks out of context. It is imperative to note that historically, every authoritarian regime and dictatorship — Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini to present-day North Korea — talk about duties to "fatherland" or "motherland" and rights being subservient to duties. Interestingly, the concept of fundamental duties as introduced during the Emergency was inspired by the then USSR — another authoritarian regime. However, such a comparison of duties and rights is not permissible under our Constitution as its core principles are fundamental rights of the individual and their enjoyment by citizens subject to reasonable restrictions. Subsequent apex court rulings have made it clear that fundamental rights are not absolute. Hence, the question we should be asking ourselves is, why this increased frequency of grouping them together at this juncture, especially in the context of reduced space for individual rights, and whether the attempt to equate the two, which is constitutionally not permissible, just another passing cloud or the canary in the coal mine with larger implications. (The writer is an independent researcher and advocate)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/why-rights-cant-be-equated-with-duties-1073890.html
24-01-2022||In Perspective||The making of the Constitution needs a critical reading||The Constitution of India came into effect 72 years ago envisaging a liberal democracy in India, and has stood the test of time. The enactment of the Constitution was a culmination of three years of deliberations in the Constituent Assembly. These deliberations were recorded in 12 volumes and are referred by constitutional courts to navigate the murky waters of interpretation as well as studied by constitutional law scholars. While the Constituent Assembly (CA) debates succinctly represent the idea of India and the path that the founding mothers (though only 15 in number) and fathers decided for this country, they are not meant to be read uncritically. The Assembly has been criticised for its elite composition and lack of representative character in terms of indirect election of the members. Yet, we bestow upon the CA sanctity and a presumption that it drafted the Constitution with absolute moral correctness. These deliberations are meant to be read along with documents that highlight the political landscape of that time. The idea is to highlight that the Assembly was not oblivious to the context and engaged in political compromises. For instance, Article 48 of the Constitution that calls for the State to endeavour to bring in prohibition of cow slaughter was proposed by Pandit Thakur Dass Bhargava and Seth Govind Das to be included in the fundamental rights chapter. Interestingly, the arguments for it were based more on agrarian and economic reasoning as opposed to religious/cultural. Opposing this proposal, Syed Muhamad Saadulla remarked that the economic argument was a mere veil to mask religious viewpoints. The inclusion of a prohibition on cow slaughter, therefore, as a directive principle is often referred to as back-door entry. Similarly, Article 344, deferring the question of national language for 15 years, was another compromise that reflects the limitations of the Assembly. In a country as divided as India at the time of Independence, ensuring consensus was a distant idea. India had fundamental disagreements over religious, national and linguistic identities. After the 1945 Shimla Conference, Jinnah famously stated that the Congress stood for a united India whereas his Muslim League stood for Pakistan only. Constitution-making is also influenced by pre-constitutional negotiations like the Nehru Report, 1928, which mirrors the parliamentary system, fundamental rights and directive principles ultimately adopted by the CA. The Muslim League rejected the Nehru Report. If India had not gone through Partition and the Muslim League had had a significant voice in the CA, the possibility of adoption of the Nehru Report and inclusion of Article 48 would have been bleak. Thus, every decision of the CA is layered with multiple facets of consensus-building and political compromises. The resolution on Fundamental Rights and Economic Changes that was adopted during the 1931 Karachi Session of the Congress was also an influential pre-constitutional negotiation. It was a result of a compromise between Gandhian and Nehruvian outlooks. Such political compromises are not unique to India. The US Constitution originally protected the African slave trade as a compromise to ensure the participation of Georgia and South Carolina. There are other aspects that ought to be looked at, such as the dominance of certain members in Constitution-making. It is widely believed that the Preamble to the Constitution is primarily based on ‘The Objectives Resolution, 1946’, introduced by Jawaharlal Nehru in the first session of the Assembly. But Aakash Singh Rathore’s recent work, Ambedkar’s Preamble, builds a concrete case and bestows the credit for the Preamble on Babasaheb Ambedkar solely. Rathore argues that Ambedkar exercised massive discretion in the Drafting Committee, and the Preamble is Ambedkarite, both procedurally and substantively. Even the first amendment made by the CA (continuing as provisional Parliament) was pushed through because of an external agreement, the Nehru-Liaquat Pact. Under the pact, India and Pakistan agreed to curtail speech that may affect friendly relations with foreign states. This manifested in Article 19(2) vide the first amendment of the Constitution. While post-adoption law-making and Constitution-making are undoubtedly different, the fundamental principle of reading documents influencing Constitution-making and amendments by the same body call for a critical reading rather than granting the founders immunity. At the same, India must give due reverence to the Constituent Assembly for the formidable achievement. For it is this balance of forbearance and freedom on which it stands.  (The writer is a student of law at the National Law University, Jodhpur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-making-of-the-constitution-needs-a-critical-reading-1074260.html
24-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Three cars, bus gutted in fire in Shivamogga ||Three cars, a bus, and a transformer were gutted in a fire mishap at an auto complex in Shivamogga on Sunday night. According to local people, carelessly discarded cigarette stubs on the dry waste near the vehicles parked in the complex might be the reason for the fire mishap. They alerted fire and emergency services department staff who rushed to the spot and doused the flame. The vehicles had been parked for repair works. Vinobnagar police have registered a case.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-cars-bus-gutted-in-fire-in-shivamogga-1073994.html
24-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Two injured during protest against appointment of Urs Trust president in Kolar||Two people were injured on Monday after the police resorted to lathi-charge when the agitating relatives of late Union minister R L Jalappa and their supporters tried to besiege the Devaraj Urs Educational Trust office here, questioning the appointment of G H Nagaraj as the president. Nagaraj, who was secretary of the Trust, was appointed as its president after the death of Jalappa. This did not go down well with Jalappa's family members and supporters, who launched a flash protest in front of the R L Jalappa Hospital and Research Centre (RLJHRC). When the protesters tried to lay siege to the Trust office on the premises of RLJHRC, police tried to prevent them. Soon a verbal duel ensued between the protesters and the police, resulting in pushing and shoving. One of the protesters sustained bleeding injuries when the police wielded lathi to disperse the mob. A few protesters attacked Sub-urban SI Annaiah, who suffered minor injuries in his right leg, brought down banners and flexes and defaced the Trust president's nameplate with black ink. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-injured-during-protest-against-appointment-of-urs-trust-president-in-kolar-1074249.html
24-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Enough of old faces, expand Karnataka Cabinet: Renukacharya to Bommai||As the mounting pressure on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai for Cabinet expansion became more evident, MLA & chief minister’s political secretary M P Renukacharya stated that only old faces become ministers whenever the BJP comes to power in Karnataka. “Why not new faces? Are we not eligible to become ministers?” he questioned. Speaking to mediapersons at his residence here on Monday, he said, “MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and I struggled to bring the BJP to power in Karnataka after dethroning the Congress-JD(S) government. Nobody knows our struggle. “Even ministers don’t receive our phone calls when we call them to explain the problems of the constituency. Their personal assistants respond to the queries. This is the state of the MLAs,” he rued. He said those who have become ministers many times must step down from their positions and allow young legislators to become ministers. The State Cabinet must be expanded now rather than in March. “If necessary, I will meet BJP’s Central leaders in Delhi,” he added. He also made it clear that MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and he have come together to ensure that new faces would get ministerial berths this time without fail. “Our stand is not against the party or leadership,” he clarified. On ministerial berth for state BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra, he said, it is the discretionary power of the party’s Central leadership to accord ministerial berth to him. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/enough-of-old-faces-expand-karnataka-cabinet-renukacharya-to-bommai-1074258.html
24-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Woman accuses husband of forcing her to convert religion||A woman has lodged a complaint at Shikaripur rural police station alleging that her husband is forcing her to embrace Christianity. Nirmala Bai, a resident of Maadralli in Shikaripur taluk, has alleged that her husband Suresh Naik has been forcing her to embrace Christianity for the past several months. He has been assaulting her everyday to give up Hinduism, and embrace Christianity, she said. Due to harassment from her husband, and due to his preaching on Christianity at night, she said, the children were unable to concentrate on their studies. When she objected to it, he assaulted her and asked her to go to her native place, she said in the complaint. She also stated that her husband had been residing in his uncle’s house for the past one and half months. She is not keen to shun Hinduism. Her husband Suresh Naik, and his paternal uncle Durga Naik quarrel with her in this regard on a regular basis, she added. Check out latest Dh videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-accuses-husband-of-forcing-her-to-convert-religion-1074267.html
24-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Lobbying for ministerial berths common: Eshwarappa||Defending BJP legislators lobbying to become part of the state cabinet led by Basavaraj Bommai, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said that the having a high number of aspirants for the four vacant ministerial berths is quite common. But the party's central leadership will take a call on this. Speaking to the media on Monday he said that the Assembly polls are likely to be held after 15 months which is why so many MLAs and MLCs are keen to become ministers, which is quite common in politics. On the change of leadership in BJP, he said the state BJP leadership post is not vacant. "Besides, the party has performed well in various polls including Assembly by-polls, gram panchayat and urban local body. So there is no need to replace Nalin Kumar Kateel," he said. On the closure of schools, he said that schools have been given the responsibility of declaring holiday depending on the Covid situation in their schools. However, school authorities need to obtain permission from the district administration before declaring holidays. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/lobbying-for-ministerial-berths-common-eshwarappa-1074097.html
24-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Some ministers’ return tickets to Congress booked: Patil||At least two Karnataka ministers denied Monday that they will return to the Congress even as senior BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal said there will be defections closer to the 2023 Assembly elections. Yatnal was referring to over a dozen ministers who came to the BJP from the Congress and JD(S) in 2019. “We want the Cabinet to be rejigged soon. Otherwise don’t do it at all. Let the current ministers continue. Some of them are going to quit anyway before the next election, just like (Swami Prasad Maurya) did in UP,” Yatnal said. Yatnal even claimed that some BJP ministers are in touch with Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. “Many have already booked their (return) tickets. Will the BJP survive by keeping such ministers? The central leadership, even the PM, knows who will leave and who won’t,” Yatnal said. “See for yourself: In the morning the Election Commission will announce the election and the same afternoon the ministers will quit.” Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar and Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj, who were earlier with the Congress and loyal to Siddaramaiah, said they won’t quit the BJP. Somashekhar said he is happy with the BJP and there is no question of him quitting the party. “The party has given me all the freedom. I wouldn’t embarrass the party.” Basavaraj said he is not aware of people wanting to go back to the Congress. “Even if I am dropped from the Cabinet - I hope they won’t - I will work as a loyal party worker.” Meanwhile, Shivakumar neither confirmed nor denied Yatnal’s claim. “We can’t discuss these things openly. It’s politics. I can’t disclose things. Also, the BJP will know more than more when it comes to matters concerning their party,” he said. "Ask the ministers. Why should we disclose anything?" Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/some-ministers-return-tickets-to-congress-booked-patil-1074196.html
24-01-2022||National||DH Deciphers | Why is the Centre amending rules for IAS, IPS and IFoS officers?||The union government's proposal to amend the All India Service rules hasn't gone down well with about a dozen states, mostly those ruled by non-NDA parties. The biggest bone of contention is the power that the Centre wants to give itself to get an officer on central deputation without taking consent from the individual or the respective state. Here's a closer look at this controversy:  How are All India Service officers recruited? Where do they serve?  AIS officers fall under the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), the Indian Police Service (IPS), the Indian Foreign Service (IFS), the Indian Forest Service (IFoS), the Indian Revenue Service (IRS) and about 30 other services. They are recruited by the Centre and placed under state cadres. IAS, IPS and IFoS officers serve both at the central and state levels. The Centre can get a maximum of 40% of officers from a state cadre. For this, it asks states for a list of officers willing to go on central deputation and then selects officers from it after getting a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the state concerned. If there's any disagreement, the matter is decided by the Centre and the state has to implement it.  What has the Centre proposed?  The Centre wants more powers to decide the deputation of AIS officers. If a state delays sending an officer on central deputation or does not implement the Centre’s decision within the specified time, the officer shall stand relieved from the cadre from the date and time specified by the Centre. The Centre also wants the power to decide the number of officers to be deputed from a particular state in consultation with that state, and the latter should give a list. If there is a dispute, the Centre’s decision will be final and the state will have to enforce it within the specified time. The Centre also wants to call an officer on deputation in the public interest and the state should implement the decision within the specified time.  Why does it want to do that?  The Centre says it's not getting an adequate number of officers because states aren't relieving enough of them. Then many officers are themselves wary of serving at the Centre. Official data shows that the number of IAS officers on central deputation at the joint secretary level has come down to 223 from 309 in 2011. The current number of deputy secretaries is 114, down from 117 in 2011.  The Centre wants to amend the AIS rules so that it gets enough bureaucrats without having to haggle with the states or the officers.  Why don't states send enough officers to central deputation?  States say they, too, are short of hands. Sending many officers to central deputation would go against their interests because many of them are in charge of implementing central schemes at the state level.  Why don't many officers want to serve at the Centre?  Since 2014, many officers are said to be avoiding serving in the central government because they feel they might fall afoul of the current dispensation.  Which states are opposing the proposal and why?  Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal — all ruled by the Opposition — have opposed the proposal. There are also reports that NDA-ruled states like Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya and Bihar, too, have reservations about the amendments. More states could join the bandwagon.  Opponents say the proposal is draconian and goes against the concept of cooperative federalism. They also say the move will lead to over-centralisation, create a fear psychosis among officers and affect their morale. Officers may not be able to give candid opinions in sensitive matters involving Centre-state disputes.  What next?  The Department of Personnel and Training has asked the states to give their opinions about the proposal by January 25. If they do not do so, it may send a reminder. If states still do not respond, the Centre may go ahead and notify the amendments. It is to be seen whether the Centre incorporates the states' objections or takes a unilateral decision. It is also to be seen what states do if the official notification ignores their concerns. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-why-is-the-centre-amending-rules-for-ias-ips-and-ifos-officers-1073969.html
24-01-2022||National||India logs 3.06 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 439 deaths||India logged 3,06,064 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,95,43,328, while the active cases climbed to 22,49,335, the highest in 241 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll has climbed to 4,89,848 with 439 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The active cases comprise 5.69 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate decreased to 93.07 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 62,130 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 20.75 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 17.03 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,68,04,145, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.24 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 162.26 crore.  The 439 new fatalities include 77 from Kerala and 44 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,89,848 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,42,115 from Maharashtra, 51,816  from Kerala,38,582 from Karnataka, 37,218 from Tamil  Nadu, 25,620 from Delhi, 23,056 from Uttar Pradesh and 20,338 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Seven out of top 24 states with more than 10,000 active cases including Maharashtra, Delhi and West Bengal have an R value - a mark of the epidemic's ability to spread - of less than one on Sunday. For an epidemic to subside, the value of R has to drop below one. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-306-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-439-deaths-1073995.html
24-01-2022||National||SC dismisses plea for clarification on judgement on Shaheen Bagh protests||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea seeking clarification of its judgement of October 7, 2020, which declared that public roads can't be blocked indefinitely passed with regard to the Shaheen Bagh protests organised against the Citizenship Amendment Act. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh refused to entertain the application, saying the judgement speaks for itself and no clarification is necessary. During the hearing, as Advocate on Record Mansoor Ali sought a short adjournment on the ground that the arguing counsel was unwell, the bench said the judgement had already been passed and the application filed was not maintainable. "The issue is over, why is it listed? What's the clarification sought I don't understand. There's no clarification required. The whole issue is over. Sorry. No clarification of a judgement. The judgement speaks for itself. Dismissed," the bench said. Acting on the petition by advocate Amit Sahni, the top court, in its judgement, had held that public roads and spaces can't be occupied in an indefinite manner for protests, causing inconvenience to the people, and such demonstrations must be organised at designated places only. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-for-clarification-on-judgement-on-shaheen-bagh-protests-1074045.html
24-01-2022||National||Rajasthan girl selected for UNESCO's World Teen Parliament||Annapurna Krishnavat, 17, a resident of Lunda village in Udaipur, has been selected as an Influencer MP in UNESCO's World Teen Parliament. Applications for this parliament were floated in July last year. The theme was - how the world can be improved. Teenagers were asked to upload videos after which about 72,000 teenagers from all over the world came forward, out of which first 300 children were selected. After this, the top 200 were selected through zonal line voting which also included Annapurna. Now 100 MPs and 100 influencer MPs will put forth their suggestions in the Teen Parliament. They will debate on issues around the world like a parliament and discuss their solutions. Annapurna, included in these 200 participants, suggested promoting digital working and paperless work in a 59 second video. In her video, Annapurna said, "Digital meetings of ministers and leaders will save money and time spent on lodging and commuting in hotels. This money can be used for the right cause." Annapurna also questioned the manner in which ministers were selected in the cabinet. She said that the knowledge of the department should be the basis of selection of a cabinet minister. Annapurna believes that the person who holds the post of minister should have complete knowledge about his department. Just like the education minister should be better educated, the health minister should be from the medical profession. If a person does not have the qualifications related to the department and does not have any background, then how will he handle the department, she asked. Annapurna also talked about changing the education policy. She argued, "Today's education policy says -- study and get a degree. Start doing some work and earn money. But education should not mean earning money, but earning knowledge." She also said, "Every person should have a place to live. Citizens should feel safe in the country." Annapurna's father is a farmer and mother is a housewife. The UNESCO team, which made the selection, shortlisted Annapurna's name on the basis of her views on education and Indian politics. In the first Parliamentary Session of the World Teen Parliament in which the World's 1st 100 Teen Members of Parliament were shortlisted, Master Class was run by C.P. Joshi, Speaker, Rajasthan Legislative Assembly who spoke on topic - Parliamentary Ethics for Teen MPs. Dhuwarakha Sriram, chief of Generation Unlimited (YuWaah - UNICEF), Youth Development and Partnerships spoke on the topic --How can Teens influence Global Policies, while Purushottam Kaushik, Head of the Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution Network (INDIA), World Economic Forum, spoke on Economics of Democracy for Teens. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-girl-selected-for-unescos-world-teen-parliament-1074057.html
24-01-2022||National||2 Hindu bodies seek to intervene as parties in SC in PIL alleging hate speeches against Muslims||Two Hindu organisations, ‘Hindu Sena’ and Hindu Front for Justice, have moved the Supreme Court seeking to intervene as parties in a pending plea in which notices have been issued to the Centre and others on allegations of hate speeches made against Muslim communities at Haridwar and New Delhi. One intervention application filed by Vishnu Gupta, National President of NGO ‘Hindu Sena’, through lawyer Barun Kumar Sinha, has sought directions to the sate governments to register FIRs against AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi and others including Tauqeer Raza, Sajid Rashidi, Amanatullah Khan, Waris Pathan for allegedly making hate speeches against Hindu community and its God and Godesses. “The applicants herein through the present application are praying to this court to direct an SIT to investigate the hate speeches given against the members of the Hindu community, their gods and goddesses,” Gupta said in the plea. Referring to Article 25 (freedom of religion to all persons in India) of the Constitution, it said, “It is crystal clear that every citizen of this country has freedom of conscience, practice and propagation of religion. Therefore, the Holding Dharma Sansad by Hindu is protected by Article 19(a)(b) and Article 25 of the Constitution.” It referred to the religion of one of petitioners of the main PIL, Qurban Ali, and said he “belongs to Muslim Community” and the follower of Islam is not “supposed to raise objection against the affairs or activities related to Hindu Dharm Sansad. In fact by way of aforesaid petition, an effort is being made to scandalize the spiritual leaders of Hindus”. Organizing ‘Dharm Sansad’ by Hindu spiritual leaders cannot be treated as against any other religion, it said. The other organisation, Hindu Front for Justice, has field the intervention application through lawyer Vishnu Shankar Jain and gave internet links of alleged hate speeches made by various Muslim leaders. Earlier, the apex court while issuing notices on the PIL alleging hate speeches against Muslims had granted liberty to the petitioners, Anjana Prakash and Qurban Ali, to make a representation to the concerned local authorities regarding proposed future ‘Dharam Sansad’. The plea, which specifically referred to the "hate speeches" delivered between the "17th and 19th of December 2021 at Haridwar and Delhi", had also sought compliance of apex court's guidelines to deal with such speeches. One event was organised in Haridwar by Yati Narsinghanand and the other in Delhi by 'Hindu Yuva Vahini' allegedly "calling for genocide of members" of a community, it said. The Uttarakhand Police had filed an FIR on December 23 last year under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code against some persons including Sant Dharamdas Maharaj, Sadhvi Annapoorna alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, Yati Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj. A similar complaint was filed with the Delhi Police for the second event organized in the national capital. The plea said that no effective steps have been taken by Uttarakhand and Delhi police. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-hindu-bodies-seek-to-intervene-as-parties-in-sc-in-pil-alleging-hate-speeches-against-muslims-1074062.html
24-01-2022||National||58 lakh copies of Gandhi’s autobiography sold so far ||More than 58 lakh copies of Mahatma Gandhi’s autobiography - The Story of My Experiments with Truth - has been sold so far making it one the the best and biggest best-sellers.  The autobiography of Mahatma Gandhi (October 2, 1869-January 30, 1948), the Father of the Nation, is available across the globe and read widely. By conservative estimates - The Stories of My Experiments with Truth, popularly known as My Experiments with Truth or just 'Gandhiji's Autobiography’, 58 lakh  copies have been sold.  These are published by Navajivan Trust, a publishing house that Gandhi ji established in Ahmedabad.  “Up to now, more than 58 lakh copies of Gandhi Autobiography in sixteen Indian languages are being sold by Navajivan Trust,” said T R K Somaiya, the chief of Bombay Sarvodaya Mandal and an eminent Gandhian.  The Mumbai Sarvodaya Mandal, Gandhi Book Center and Gandhi Research Foundation are over the years propagating Gandhian thought. “After reading Gandhi books, many people have decided to follow the path of truth and  non-violence and are striving to sustain morality by practising peaceful conflict resolution. Today, the world is facing unprecedented problems of communism, fascism, violence and terrorism and in such a situation the only hope for humanity seems in the ways of Mahatma Gandhi,” added Somaiya. Mumbai-based peace activist Jatin Desai, who is a Gandhian, journalist and writer, said that the popularity of the autobiography is amazing.  “One of the reasons for its popularity is that people from different ideologies, philosophy and thought process read it. In today’s world when there is violence, conflict and bloodshed, religious and linguistic differences, the book assumes more importance. Most of the world leaders have acknowledged the Gandhian faith and principles,” Desai said. To commemorate the 74th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on 30 January, 200 books on and by Gandhi, Vinoba and Sarvodaya in English, Marathi, Hindi and Gujarati will be displayed and sold at 50% discount from 27 January to 3 February, 2022 , except for Sundays, at a specially erected Mandap at Hutatma Chowk, and at Gandhi Book Centre at Nana Chowk by Sarvodaya Manda,l and Gandhi Book Centre with the financial assistance from Babulnath Mandir Charities. Top-selling books, An Autobiography of Mahatma Gandhi of 486 pages will be available at Rs 40 only, a set of five important books, Selected Works of Mahatma Gandhi of 1,872 pages (treasury of thoughts on 81 subjects) will be available at Rs. 300  and Talks on the Gita by Vinoba Bhave will be available at Rs. 50 only at the exhibition. About 200 books on Gita, Prayer, Politics, Religion, Economics, Education, Constructive Work, Non-violence, Peace, Conflict Resolution and Social Change are available in English, Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/58-lakh-copies-of-gandhi-s-autobiography-sold-so-far-1074064.html
24-01-2022||National||Crime Branch interrogates actor Dileep, others for second day||The interrogation of actor Dileep and others continued at the Crime Branch office here for the second consecutive day on Monday in a case registered against them for allegedly threatening officials probing the sexual assault of an actress in 2017. The actor and four others--his brother, brother-in-law, driver and a friend, appeared before the crime branch officials at 9 am for interrogation as directed by the Kerala High Court. The accused were questioned for 11 hours on Sunday by five separate teams, the statements were recorded and the interrogation was monitored by ADGP S Sreejith and IG Gopesh Agarwal. Meanwhile, Crime Branch sources said the agency was close to making someone an approver in the case. It is also learnt that the investigating team will be interrogating the accused with regard to certain contradictions in their yesterday's statements. The High Court, while considering the anticipatory bail plea, on Saturday granted interim protection to Dileep from arrest but directed him and other accused to appear before the investigating officers on January 23, 24 and 25 for interrogation. Crime Branch sources had earlier said that the interrogation of the accused will be recorded as they suspect that the actor and others might approach the court alleging harassment during questioning. Justice Gopinath P had directed the accused to fully cooperate with the investigation and directed them to be available for interrogation from 9 am to 8 pm on the three days. The court had also warned the accused that in case of non-cooperation, the interim protection from arrest will be lifted and custody will be granted to the Crime Branch. The court had directed the public prosecutor to submit a report on the interrogation and material evidence collected in a sealed cover on January 27, when the matter would be heard again. Besides Dileep, his younger brother P Sivakumar and brother-in-law TN Suraj, driver Appu and a friend Baiju Chengamanadu were asked to present themselves for interrogation. The Crime Branch had, on January 9, registered the case on a complaint filed by an investigating officer based on a purported audio clip of Dileep, which was released by a TV channel in which the actor was allegedly heard conspiring to attack the official. The actor and five others were booked under various provisions of the IPC, including Sections 116 (abetment), 118 (concealing design to commit offence), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (criminal act done by several people). Dileep has claimed that this apprehension was borne out of the past conduct of the complainant officer who has been trying to falsely implicate him in the sexual assault case. The actress who has worked in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam films was abducted and allegedly molested in her car for two hours by some of the accused, who had forced their way into the vehicle on the night of February 17, 2017 and later escaped in a busy area. The entire act was filmed by some of the accused to blackmail the actress. There are 10 accused in the case and initially, police arrested seven people. Dileep was arrested subsequently and released on bail later.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crime-branch-interrogates-actor-dileep-others-for-second-day-1074067.html
24-01-2022||National||UP has set benchmark of development in every field in last 5 years: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said Uttar Pradesh has set a benchmark of development in every field in the last five years and asserted that the multi-dimensional development of the state will continue to play a leading role in 'new India'. Tagging Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's message to the people of the state on the occasion of Uttar Pradesh's 73rd foundation day, Modi also said new opportunities have been created in the state.   "Uttar Pradesh has set a benchmark of development in every field in the last five years. Due to this, while life of the people of the state has been made easier, new opportunities have also been created," Modi said in a tweet in Hindi. "I am sure that the multi-dimensional development of Uttar Pradesh will continue to play a leading role in new India" he said.  Polling for the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Assembly is scheduled to be held in seven phases from February 10 to March 7 and the counting of votes will be taken up on March 10. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-has-set-benchmark-of-development-in-every-field-in-last-5-years-pm-modi-1074069.html
24-01-2022||National||Unvaccinated people, children below 15 yrs not allowed at R-Day parade||People attending the Republic Day parade must be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and children below 15 years of age will not be allowed to attend the event, a set of guidelines issued by the Delhi Police stated. Police also said that people will have to adhere to all Covid-protocols, such as wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing, at the programme on Rajpath on January 26. "It is necessary to have both doses of anti-coronavirus vaccine. Visitors are requested to bring their vaccination certificate," the Delhi Police tweeted. It said that children below 15 years of age are not allowed in the function. The national Covid vaccination programme, which initially started with health care and frontline workers on January 16 last year, was gradually extended for all those above 18 years of age. From this month, children in the age group of 15-18 years started getting vaccinated, and healthcare and frontline workers and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities are being given 'precaution' doses, amid a spike in cases due to the Omicron variant. Listing the guidelines, the Delhi Police tweeted that the seating blocks will open for visitors at 7 am and requested them to arrive accordingly.   Since parking is limited, visitors have been advised to use carpool or taxi. They are also requested to carry a valid identity card and cooperate during security check, it said. "There will be a provision for depositing remote-controlled car lock keys in each parking area," police tweeted. On Sunday, Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana had said over 27,000 police personnel have been deployed for security duties in the national capital and anti-terror measures intensified in view of Republic Day. These personnel, include deputy commissioners of police, assistant commissioners of police and inspectors, sub-inspectors. Police personnel, commandos, officers and jawans of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) have also been deployed, he had said. On Republic Day security arrangements, Asthana had said 27,723 Delhi Police personnel including 71 DCPs, 213 ACPs and 753 inspectors have been deployed in the capital for the parade. They are being assisted by 65 companies of CAPFs. He had mentioned that the anti-terror measures taken include blockades (nakka bandi) at various places, checking of vehicles, hotels, lodges and dharamshalas and various verification drives like that of tenants, servants, labourers. In the last two months, the anti-terror measures have been intensified, the commissioner has said. Counter drone technology is being used for air space security. The security in and around the area where the Republic Day celebrations will take place has also been secured with the help of the Delhi Police and other agencies, Asthana had said. To create awareness, he had said that through social media, police are also putting out facts and important information so that no anti-social element runs a misinformation campaign. About traffic arrangements, Asthana had said an advisory has already been issued stating specific restrictions on routes so that no inconvenience is caused to general public. According to a recent order, operation of sub-conventional aerial platforms, including UAVs, paragliders and hot air balloons, over the national capital has been prohibited in view of the Republic Day celebrations. The order came into effect on January 20 and would remain in force till February 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unvaccinated-people-children-below-15-yrs-not-allowed-at-r-day-parade-1074076.html
24-01-2022||National||Netaji should be recognised as India’s first PM, says TMC leader Kunal Ghosh||Senior TMC leader Kunal Ghosh on Monday said the Centre should recognise Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as the first prime minister of the country, as he headed the Provisional Government of Free India formed in October 1943. Ghosh also urged the West Bengal Education Department to include events related to the proclamation of the Azad Hind government by Netaji in the school curriculum. “Installing a statue is not a real tribute; that would be to declassify all files related to Netaji, DNA test of the Renkoji ashes and recognising him as the first PM,” the Trinamool Congress state general secretary told PTI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that a grand statue of the legendary freedom fighter will be installed at India Gate in New Delhi as a symbol of the country's "indebtedness" to him. Till the granite statue is completed, a hologram statue would be put up at the same place. Ghosh said Netaji was also in charge of the Ministry of War and Foreign Affairs, and the Azad Hind government was recognised by nine countries, which had diplomatic relations with it. “Whether to accept this demand on recognising Netaji as the first PM is for the Union government to decide. But, I would like to urge the state education department that as the first step towards it, the episodes of the proclamation of the independent government, the distribution of responsibilities, and its international recognition should be included in detail in the curriculum. The syllabus committee should look into it,” he said. The nation on Sunday paid homage to Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary, with leaders hailing his "monumental" contribution to India's freedom struggle and Modi unveiling a hologram statue at the India Gate. The day was observed as 'Parakram Diwas', announced by the government to mark the Azad Hind Fauj founder's birthday, and a number of events were organised across the states and abroad where floral tributes were offered at the statues and portraits of the iconic freedom fighter. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/netaji-should-be-recognised-as-india-s-first-pm-says-tmc-leader-kunal-ghosh-1074101.html
24-01-2022||National||India requires 18 GW capacity addition to meet hydro purchase obligation norms by 2030: Icra||Around 18 GW hydro capacity addition is required to meet the hydro purchase obligation (HPO) norms by 2030 in the country, according to rating agency Icra. To further the growth of hydro energy segment, the Centre has outlined policy measures over the last two-year period to promote the investments in the segment through notification of HPO norms, long term trajectory for HPOs as well as tariff rationalization measures. “Based on the notified hydro purchase obligation norms & trajectory available till 2030, incremental hydro power capacity requirement is estimated to remain significant i.e. at about 18 GW, which corresponds to about 39 per cent increase over the existing installed hydro power capacity in the country," said Girishkumar Kadam, Senior Vice President & Co-Group Head - Corporate ratings, Icra. The HPO norms have been subsequently notified by SERCs (state electricity regulatory commission) in few states only, in line with policy targets as of now, he noted. Hence, he stated that timeliness as well as consistency in the notification of HPO norms by SERCs in other states as well as subsequent implementation of the same by the obligated entities too remain a key monitorable. According to an Icra statement, the hydro energy segment faces many other challenges like elongated construction schedule, significant resettlement, rehabilitation and land acquisition issues, delays in clearances and geological/ topological risks which have led to significant time and cost over-run for hydro projects. This is also reflected from the fact that average project cost for the commissioned hydro project capacity by CPSUs ( central public sector undertakings) during FY 2017-2021 remained at about Rs 13-14 crore /MW. Given the high level of capital intensity for hydro projects, tariff competitiveness of hydro energy too remains modest from the ultimate off-takers’ perspective. On the contrary, tariff competitiveness for solar and wind energy has significantly improved with the bid tariffs remaining well below Rs 3/unit for last 3 to 4 years as against the average power purchase cost for majority of the state discoms remaining Rs 4-5/unit, depending on the mix of sources in power purchased, it noted. Icra says hydro capacity addition in India has remained sluggish historically, with the significant execution challenges as also seen in the incremental capacity addition of about 22 GW between 2000 and 2021, representing CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of mere 3 per cent in the hydro segment. Further, it says that share of hydro in the overall power generation capacity has declined considerably over the period, with a significant rise in thermal capacity addition seen in 2005 till 2015 and thereafter in the renewable energy segment. With improved tariff competitiveness of solar & wind energy and strong policy focus by the Centre, share of renewables (solar & wind segment) is estimated to grow considerably in the energy generation mix, going forward, it pointed out. However, it stated that the hydro energy segment also remains systemically important from the grid perspective so as to meet the flexibility requirements / peaking power supply. In this context and to further the growth of hydro energy segment, the Centre has outlined policy measures over the last two-year period to promote the investments in hydro segment through notification of HPO norms, long term trajectory for HPO as well as tariff rationalization measures, it noted. The HPO is set at 0.18 per cent for FY2022 which in turn is set to increase up to 2.82 per cent by FY2030 at national level, as notified by Ministry of Power, it stated. “Tariff rationalization measures such as backloading of tariff with 2 per cent escalation and provision for budgetary support at Rs 1 crore /MW for hydro projects of > 200 MW capacity, is expected to alleviate the concern on tariff competitiveness considerably, in the initial years," Siddhartha Kaushik, Assistant Vice President - Corporate Ratings, Icra, said. While tariff rationalisation measures were outlined by Ministry of Power in March 2019, the same are yet to be incorporated by Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) in its tariff regulations applicable for hydro projects. Further, the policy clarity in terms of support measures especially for pumped hydro storage capacity remains a key monitorable too, it stated.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-requires-18-gw-capacity-addition-to-meet-hydro-purchase-obligation-norms-by-2030-icra-1074108.html
24-01-2022||National||Israel-India cooperation will grow further: Israeli envoy||The 30th anniversary of India-Israel diplomatic ties is a good opportunity to look ahead and shape the next 30 years of relations, the Israeli envoy here said on Monday and exuded confidence that the close cooperation between the two countries in different fields will only grow further in the coming years. Israel envoy to India Naor Gilon made the remarks at an event to launch a commemorative logo to mark the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries. The logo features the Star of David and the Ashoka Chakra -- the two symbols that adorn the national flags of both countries -- and forms the numeral 30 depicting the 30th anniversary of bilateral relations This special logo symbolises the strong friendship, love and admiration that exists between the people of Israel and the people of India, a statement issued by the Israel Embassy here said. It also depicts the growing strategic partnership between the two sides. On this special occasion, Ambassador Gilon said, “We are very happy to launch a special logo to celebrate the 30 years of the close friendship between the people of our two ancient civilizations. This is an important occasion to reflect on our mutual successes as well as a good opportunity to look ahead and shape the next 30 years of our relations." "I am sure that our close existing cooperation in different fields will only continue to grow and flourish in the coming years," he said. India's Ambassador to Israel Sanjeev Singla said, “We are proud to mark the 30th anniversary of our bilateral relations and look forward to using the special logo throughout the year to celebrate this special milestone." India and Israel are two ancient people, proud of their cultural heritage, and two vibrant democracies, eager to grasp the future, he said. "Together we can shape a better future for India, Israel, and the world," Singla said. To create the 30th-anniversary logo, both countries launched a logo design contest last year for students of prominent design colleges in Israel and India. Entries were invited from Holon Institute of Technology, Israel and National Institute of Design, India. Many Israeli and Indian students participated in this contest. The winning design created by an Indian student, Nikhil Kumar Rai, was chosen through a joint decision of the Embassies and Consulates from both countries. It has been selected as the official logo for the 30th anniversary of Israel-India diplomatic relations. Israel and India established diplomatic relations on January 29, 1992. Since then, the bilateral relations between both countries have developed into a multifaceted strategic partnership. Israel and India share an intimately close and special relationship, which encompasses virtually every field of human endeavour -- health and innovation, agriculture and water, trade and economic activities, science and technology, research and development, defence and homeland security, art and culture, tourism and space, the statement said. The 30th anniversary of relations between Israel and India will be marked throughout the year with an elaborate array of cultural events, it said. PTI ASK RCJ RCJ Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/israel-india-cooperation-will-grow-further-israeli-envoy-1074128.html
24-01-2022||National||TN fishermen threaten to give up citizenship if Lankan captives not freed||Fishermen from Ramanathapuram in Tamil Nadu have threatened to relinquish all documents relating to Indian citizenship by February 2 if the union government fails to bring back the fishermen who are languishing in Sri Lankan jails for crossing International Marine Boundary Line (IMBL). The fishermen also demanded the Central government to stop the Sri Lankan fisheries department from auctioning the fishing boats of Tamil Nadu fishermen that were seized by the Lankan Navy between 2015 and 2018. A meeting held by All Mechanised Boats Fishermen associations on Monday condemned the move of the Sri Lankan authorities to auction the fishing boats of Indian fishermen seized by the Lankans for crossing the IMBL. P Sesuraja, secretary of the organization told IANS, "We will have to take extreme steps like relinquishing our Indian citizenship as we have been driven to the wall, not one, two or three times but many times. Our brethren are languishing in Sri Lankan jails and we want the Government of India to immediately bring them back. The fishing boats that are our livelihood are also being auctioned by the Sri Lankan authorities. The Government of India must intervene and prevent this also." The fishermen also demanded that the Government of India provide compensation to the boats that are under custody of Sri Lankan authorities. The fishermen association leaders said that the Tamil Nadu government has already announced compensation and the Union government must follow suit. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-fishermen-threaten-to-give-up-citizenship-if-lankan-captives-not-freed-1074157.html
24-01-2022||National||2 secret tunnels by Pakistan detected, 6 intruders killed in 2021: BSF||The Border Security Force (BSF) troops neutralised six intruders and apprehended three while trying to infiltrate through the India-Pakistan border last year, officials said on Monday. It also seized 17 weapons, over 900 rounds of ammunition, 30 explosive devices and over 38 kg of narcotics in 2021, they said. The BSF has relentlessly carried out anti-tunnel drives along the International Border, during which it detected two tunnels and made a huge dent in the infiltration attempts of militants from Pakistan, they said. As much as 38.160 kg of narcotics, four AK-47 rifles, seven AK-47 magazines, 339 rounds of AK ammunition, 13 pistols, 32 pistol magazines, 371 pistol ammunition, 13 grenades, 233 other ammunition, 16 metres of cordtex wire (a kind of detonating wire), a wireless set, six mobile sets, a radio receiver, 13 detonators, 15 detonator fuses and four sticky mobs were among the recoveries made by the BSF along the International Border, the officials said. The troops also neutralised a Pakistani man who was trying to smuggle a consignment of narcotics from Kathua border. About 27.25 kg of drugs was seized from his possession, they said. The BSF troops also seized about 10.93 kg of narcotics from Akhnoor along with fake Indian currency with a face value of Rs 2,75,000, they said. BSF Inspector General D K Boora said last year has been 'achievement oriented' with detection of tunnels and seizure of huge cache of arms, ammunition and narcotics. "The aim of the anti-national elements to spread disharmony by carrying out nefarious activities stands thwarted. The BSF is fully prepared and has augmented its resources to rise up to the challenges in 2022," he said. Despite deployment in hostile areas as well as in sensitive and hyper-sensitive scenarios, the BSF has always stood up to the challenges with aplomb, Boora said. Frontier headquarters of BSF Jammu mans about 192 km of the International Border with Pakistan. Its troops have also been deployed on the Line of Control along with the Indian Army in Naushera, Rajouri and Poonch sectors. "As a result of robust domination and surveillance on the International Border, the Jammu International Border remained peaceful," the BSF stated. At the beginning of 2022, the troops scuttled a major militancy bid by recovering 4.950 kg of narcotics and a consignment of arms and ammunition in Arnia sector, the officials said. The consignments comprised three AK rifles, five magazines, four pistols, seven pistol magazines and 21 rounds of ammunition, they said. The BSF Jammu Frontier has also been at the forefront in assisting border population through various initiatives, they said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-secret-tunnels-by-pakistan-detected-6-intruders-killed-in-2021-bsf-1074177.html
24-01-2022||National||29 children conferred Bal Puraskar award||A 13-year-old boy from Bihar who made a mobile app to warn people of the dangers of Covid, a 15-year-old girl from Maharashtra who made a wearable device that reduces tremors in people with Parkinson’s, and a 13-year-old from Rajasthan who has mastered 100 styles of calligraphy are among the 29 children in six categories who were awarded this year’s Rashtriya Bal Puraskar by PM Modi today.  From Karnataka, the awardees include 17-year old Bharatanatyam dancer Remona Evette Pereira and 14-year old pianist Syed Fateen Ahmed. Both were conferred the award in the field of culture. Some of the awardees include 13 year old Pal Sakshi who was awarded under the category of social service. He developed an app to warn people about the effects Covid-19, and raised Rs 10,000 for the PM Cares Fund. Maharashtra-based Jui Abhijit Keshkar built a glove that helps people soothe tremors and helps neurologists understand the tremor profile. 13-year-old Gauri Maheshwari from Rajasthan was awarded for mastering 100 styles of calligraphy.  PM Narendra Modi gave the awards in a digital ceremony. In all, 61 awardees of the year 2022 and 2021 were felicitated and the PM gave them digital certificates using a block chain technology developed by IIT Kanpur.   “The digital certificates are stored on digital wallets installed on the mobile devices of the recipients. The digital certificates issued using the blockchain driven technology are unforgeable, globally verifiable, selectively disclosable and sensitive to user content. Block Chain Technology is being used for the first time for giving certificates to the awardees,” a government release said. In addition, a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh was given to the awardees.  In all, 15 boys and 14 girls from 21 states and UTs were conferred the awards in the categories of innovation (7), social service (4), scholastic (1), sports (8), art and culture (6) and bravery (3).  The PM interacted with some of the awardees. To Karnataka dancer Pereira, he spoke about her passion for dance and inquired about the difficulties she faced in pursuing it. He also told her that her art is a way of expressing the strength of the great country. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/29-children-conferred-bal-puraskar-award-1074198.html
24-01-2022||National||Cattle smuggling case: SC grants bail to prime accused||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed bail to Mohd Enamul Haque, a prime accused in an multi-crore cattle smuggling case at India-Bangladesh border, saying that his custody was not warranted. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Dinesh Maheshwari said: "We are of the opinion that continued detention of appellant in custody is not warranted".  Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, representing the CBI, asked the court to not grant him bail in the matter as the investigation in the matter was in progress.  The bench, however, said that the investigation in the matter cannot remain open-ended.  "We direct the appellant to be released on bail subject to terms and conditions set by the Special CBI judge, Asansol," the bench said. Senior Advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Haque, submitted before the bench that his client has been in custody for a long time and all the other accused, including the BSF commandant, have been granted bail. He also pointed at the issue of CBI's jurisdiction to investigate a case, when the state government has withdrawn its consent. The bench said that in the backdrop of offences involved and the custody undergone by the petitioner, his further custody was not required.  Haque challenged the Calcutta High Court order, passed in November 2021, which dismissed his bail petition citing serious accusations against him. It was alleged that a BSF commandant in Roshanbagh, West Bengal, had accepted illegal gratification to allow cattle smugglers near the India-Bangladesh border go scot-free. The BSF commandant was later arrested at a railway station in Kerala, Rs 43 lakh was recovered from him. It was alleged that Haque had played a key role in the deal with the commandant. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cattle-smuggling-case-sc-grants-bail-to-prime-accused-1074200.html
24-01-2022||National||Amazon faces flak on social media for allegedly insulting Indian flag||Amazon on Monday faced the ire of a section of Indian social media users over merchandising some products, including apparel and food items, that feature images of the Indian flag, with some saying that using the tricolour in such a way was an insult and a violation of the country's flag code. In a late evening statement, Amazon said it remains committed to take necessary action against sellers who may have listed any non-compliant products. Netizens shared pictures of items like apparel, cups, keychains and chocolates that feature images or imprint of the tricolour on Amazon.in website, and sought a ban on these items. Hashtags like #AmazonInsultsNationalFlag were trending on Twitter. When contacted, Amazon said Amazon.in is an online marketplace where third-party sellers offer products for sale directly to customers, and as such are responsible for ensuring compliances associated with the sale of these products. "We require all products offered on the marketplace to comply with applicable laws and constantly take appropriate action on non-compliance. Amazon remains committed to take necessary action against sellers who may have listed any non-compliant products," the company said. Some social media users noted that using the tricolour on products is against the Flag Code Of India, 2002. A section of the social media users said such usage is an insult to the national flag while others pointed out that it was a cheap method of increasing sales and that this will not increase the patriotism of Indian citizens. "The flag shall not be used as a portion of costume or uniform of any description. It shall not be embroidered or printed upon cushions, handkerchiefs, napkins or boxes," as per the Code. This is not the first time that Amazon is facing such a backlash. In 2017, Amazon was forced to remove doormats depicting Indian flag that were listed on its Canadian website after a strong protest by India. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amazon-faces-flak-on-social-media-for-allegedly-insulting-indian-flag-1074207.html
24-01-2022||National||Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha to sit in shifts during first leg of Budget Session||Parliament will return to the shift system during the first phase of Budget Session owing to the third wave of Covid-19, with Rajya Sabha conducting proceedings during the morning hours and Lok Sabha during evening hours. The first day of Budget Session on January 31 will start with the address of President Ram Nath Kovind to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs. For the first time, the MPs will be listening to the President not just from Central Hall as the social distancing norms have prompted the authorities to make arrangements to attend the customary address from the chambers and galleries of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. On the first day, the Lok Sabha convenes half an hour after the conclusion of the President’s address to table the Economic Survey. Rajya Sabha will sit at 2:30 pm to table the President's speech. On February 1, Lok Sabha will sit at 11 am for the presentation of the Budget. Rajya Sabha will sit after the Lok Sabha session to table the Budget. From February 2, Rajya Sabha will sit between 10 am and 3 PM while Lok Sabha will sit from 4 pm to 9 pm. During sittings, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha Chambers and their galleries will be used for sitting of MPs. Officials said this arrangement has been decided only for the first leg while a decision on the second leg starting from March 14 will be taken later after considering the situation then. The Budget Session is conducted at a time when the country is in the grip of a third wave of Covid-19.  According to data available till January 20, 875 officers and staff in Parliament House, including allied services, have tested positive for Covid-19 this month alone. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has also tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and presently under home quarantine in Hyderabad. With the third wave rising, the Parliament House complex had reimposed restrictions on attendance of officials and staff.  The 2020 Monsoon Session was the first session held under Covid-19 protocol with Rajya sabha meeting in the first half of the day and Lok Sabha during second half. This was followed for the first part of the Budget Session 2021 while Parliament returned to normal sitting hours from the second leg of Budget Session last year.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-rajya-sabha-to-sit-in-shifts-during-first-leg-of-budget-session-1074214.html
24-01-2022||National||Tripura govt's stand totally unbecoming, reflected whataboutery: PIL petitioners to SC||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petitioners to file a rejoinder to the Tripura government’s contention to dismiss the plea filed by them for probe into recent violence in the state. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for advocate Ehtesham Hashmi, contended the Tripura government’s affidavit asking why public-spirited citizens who filed PIL on it were silent on West Bengal violence, was “totally unbecoming” of a state government to indulge in “whataboutery”. The bench, however, asked Hashmi and others who filed the plea, to give their rejoinder. The court fixed the matter for consideration on January 31. The state government had earlier claimed the PIL was based on “self-serving report”, “planted and pre-planned articles” and filed by individuals, who were selectively outraged with it, though they remained silent on large scale pre and post-poll violence in West Bengal. The affidavit was filed in response to the plea by Hashmi who contended that he had personally visited riot-affected areas of the state along with other Delhi based advocates and published a fact-finding report ‘Humanity Under Attack in Tripura’ on their visit. On November 29, 2021, the SC issued notice to the Centre and Tripura government on the plea for an independent SIT probe into the alleged hate crimes and incidents of violence against Muslims in the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tripura-govts-stand-totally-unbecoming-reflected-whataboutery-pil-petitioners-to-sc-1074216.html
24-01-2022||National||Pakistan hands over 20 Indian fishermen to India||Twenty Indian fishermen arrested by Pakistan for allegedly entering into the country's territorial waters were handed over to India through the Wagah border crossing on Monday. The fishermen, kept in Karachi's Landhi Jail, were released on Sunday after completing their jail term. A spokesperson of the Edhi Foundation, a non-profit Pakistani social welfare organisation, said that the fishermen were handed over to India's Border Security Force (BSF) in the evening after meeting the legal formalities. "The 20 fishermen who were released from the District Prison and Correctional Facility, Malir, on Sunday and brought to Wagah on Monday were handed over to the BSF in the evening after meeting the legal formalities,” Muhammad Younis, a spokesperson of the Edhi Foundation, told PTI. They entered India on the basis of 'Emergency Travel Certificate' issued by the Indian High commission at Islamabad. The moment the fishermen crossed over to India, they knelt and kissed the ground. All were medically examined, including for Covid-19, said the officials in India. The fishermen will stay for a night in Amritsar, they said, adding that the fishermen will proceed back home to their native place in Gujarat on Tuesday. Earlier, the released fishermen, arrested for illegally entering into the Pakistani waters and fishing without permission, were escorted to Lahore by road by the Edhi Foundation. The Edhi Foundation also paid Pakistani Rs 5,000 to each fisherman as a goodwill gesture. The fishermen were in jail for the duration of three to five years for illegally crossing into Pakistan. They said they had no idea that their fishing boats had drifted off towards Pakistan waters. "It was dark and we thought that we were still in India when we were appro­ac­hed by the Pakistani coast guards in a big white boat. They arrested us for crossing over and seized our boat,” said Suneel Lal, the longest-serving prisoner among the 20, who was arrested five years ago. Lal further said that he was looking forward to meeting his family now, especially his two daughters. "My daughters are 20 and 17 years old now. They must have really grown up in these five years,” he was quoted as saying by Dawn newspaper. Bhavesh Bhika, who has served four years in the prison, said that the boat he was on had drifted towards the Pakistani waters at night. "There is no boundary in the sea. We had no way of knowing that we had violated your border,” he said. Malir jail official Azeem Thebo said that with the release of these 20 Indian fishermen as a goodwill gesture on the part of the Pakistan government, there are 568 Indian fishermen still left in his jail. Pakistan and India regularly arrest rival fishermen for violating the maritime boundary which is poorly marked at some points. According to the lists of prisoners exchanged by India and Pakistan at the start of this year, at least 628 Indian prisoners were held in Pakistan, including 51 civilians and 577 fishermen. The Indian Government also shared the list of 355 Pakistani prisoners in India, including 282 civilians and 73 fishermen. Fishermen from Pakistan and India usually end up in jails after they are arrested for fishing illegally in each other’s territorial waters. The Pakistan Fishermen Forum NGO said that due to the absence of a clear demarcation line in the coastal area of the Arabian Sea between the two countries, fishermen who do not possess the modern-day navigation equipment mistakenly cross the red lines and end up in jails. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-hands-over-20-indian-fishermen-to-india-1074238.html
24-01-2022||National Politics||Devendra Fadnavis slams Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on Hindutva||A day after Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray said that BJP does not mean Hindutva and his party has wasted 25 years with the saffron party, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis lashed out at his political friend-turned-foe saying that his party has walked the talk. Fadnavis also accused the Shiv Sena and its leaders of having “selective memory”. “It is we faced lathis and bullets while you were only giving speeches during the demolition of Babri masjid. Now the grand Ram Mandir at Ayodhya is being built…the Kashi Vishwanath…(prime minister) Narendra Modi has done it,” Fadnavis told reporters in Mumbai. “Allahabad has been renamed Prayagraj, whereas you have failed in renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar and Osmanabad as Dharashiv,” Fadnavis said. “You have said Shiv Sena has wasted 25 years with is. Now you have allied with Congress and NCP. Did (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi post even one tweet on Balasaheb Thackeray (96th anniversary)?,” he said. Criticising Maha Vikas Aghadi, the former chief minister said: “This is powerlessness. When you garland their photos and they feel ashamed to tweet about the birth anniversary of Balasaheb Thackeray, you still sit with them for the sake of power". On Shiv Sena’s plans to contest elections outside Maharashtra, Fadnavis, reeled out facts and figures. “In the 1993 polls (after demolition of Babri masjid), the Shiv Sena had fielded 180 candidates in Uttar Pradesh when their wave was prevalent. Out of which, 179 lost their deposits. In 1996, they fielded 24 candidates out of which 23 lost their deposits. In 2002, 49 candidates were fielded and all of them lost their deposits. So, you did fight the polls but people rejected you. Because people knew that karsevaks and RSS took part in the Ram Janmabhoomi campaign." “O want to remind them that their party (Shiv Sena) was not even born when BJP already had a corporator in Mumbai. Till the time they were with us, they used to be the number 1 or No. 2 party but now they are at number 4,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/devendra-fadnavis-slams-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-on-hindutva-1074112.html
24-01-2022||National Politics||Sidhu sheltered Congress MLAs involved in illegal sand mining, says Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday ridiculed Navjot Singh Sidhu's claims of fighting the sand mining mafia, saying the state Congress president had himself led the rebellion against him with the MLAs who were allegedly involved in the activity. This clearly exposed “his own interest in sheltering them,” the former CM said according to a statement. Amarinder Singh was removed as the Punjab chief minister in September last year following a bitter power tussle with Sidhu. Later, the former CM Amarinder floated the Punjab Lok Congress and now contesting the Assembly polls in alliance with the BJP. The former Punjab CM said considering that many Congress MLAs whom Sidhu had led in rebellion against him had “direct or indirect interest or share in the state's sand mafia”, the ex-cricketer’ president's credentials in the matter are “patently dubious”. “This, coupled with the fact that the PPCC president enjoyed “hobnobbing with anti-nationals elements, including his close friends in the Pakistan leadership, which had even lobbied for his induction to the state cabinet, had exposed Sidhu's self-interest and his complete apathy to Punjab's interests,” Amarinder Singh said. Rejecting Sidhu's allegation that he had failed to take action against the sand mafia during his tenure as the chief minister, the former CM said not only had he taken all possible administrative steps, he had specifically asked the Congress president for directives for acting against the Congress leaders. Why he was not given the necessary direction to take such action, asked Amarinder Singh. The former CM claimed that the Punjab Congress MLAs, about whose ties with the sand mafia he had reported to the Congress president, were in “direct touch with the party leadership in the run-up to his removal from chief ministership”. What had shocked him was that instead of taking action against these MLAs, who had the support of Sidhu, the Congress high command had chosen to sack him, said the former chief minister. Singh said Sidhu's “persistent and unsubstantiated attacks” against him even after his departure from the Congress showed how “insecure” the Punjab Congress chief was. In his desperation to undermine his political clout and importance in Punjab, Sidhu had even forgotten his own party unit, which was in a state of “total disarray with blatant and open infighting”, claimed Singh, adding that Sidhu and CM Charanjit Singh Channi are leaving no stone unturned to ensure the “wipe-out” of the Congress in Punjab. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sidhu-sheltered-congress-mlas-involved-in-illegal-sand-mining-says-amarinder-singh-1074206.html
24-01-2022||North and Central||17-year-old dies after alleged police torture in UP||A 17-year-old boy, who was allegedly beaten mercilessly by his uncle and three cops inside a police outpost on suspicion of mobile theft, died at a hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. Three policemen, including an office in charge of the outpost, have been suspended. The boy's family alleged that cops were "directly involved in the assault". Lakhimpur Kheri SSP Sanjeev Suman said: "We are investigating the complaint against the policemen and no one will be spared if found guilty." A video, now viral on social media, has the boy's family showing external injuries on his body to a senior policeman. Palia Circle Officer (CO), Sanjay Nath Tiwari said: "The post-mortem will be conducted on Monday and the report will help us to ascertain the reason of death. "The boy's family has filed two complaints and we have registered an FIR under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC against his uncle Ram Bahadur and neighbour Rajveer Singh. The second complaint is against a sub-inspector and two constables. We are probing the case in detail and will take action against the cops in question, accordingly." The boy's elder sister alleged that her brother, a day before his death, told her that he was thrashed by cops for a "confession". Narrating the sequence of events, she said: "The cops came to our house for my brother. My mother accompanied him to a nearby police outpost and she was sent back home. After a few hours, we received a call to take my brother. But when my parents reached there, they found him badly beaten and crying in pain. He said he was beaten mercilessly by cops and my uncle. They brought him home and when his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to a hospital in Palia town where he succumbed during treatment." The boy was the only son of farmer Laxmi Ram and youngest amongst four siblings. On January 17, the mobile phone of his cousin went "missing" and his uncle Ram Bahadur lodged a police complaint and the cops reached the house on January 19 and took him to Khajuriya police outpost where the incident took place. The incident comes three months after another alleged custodial death in Kasganj where Mohammad Altaf, 22, who was held by police for "kidnapping" a minor Hindu girl, was later found "hanging" from a tap inside a washroom in the lockup. The missing girl turned out to be an adult and later told police that she was never kidnapped. In another such incident, a sanitation worker, Arun Valmiki, who was held by police for allegedly stealing Rs 25 lakh from the strong room of Jagdishpura police station, had died in police custody. His family had alleged that he died in police custody due to "torture". Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-dies-after-alleged-police-torture-in-up-1073989.html
24-01-2022||North and Central||Ahead of Republic Day, multi-layer security in Jammu and Kashmir to keep militants at bay||Ahead of Republic Day and in view of emerging militant threats, multi-layer security arrangements coupled with ground and aerial surveys have been put in place across Kashmir to foil any possible attacks to disrupt the ceremonies. Besides Srinagar city, reports said, security forces have also intensified frisking operations in other areas of Kashmir, especially on various points on Srinagar-Jammu and Srinagar-Baramulla national highway. Armed personnel and cops in civvies have been deployed around the Republic Day ceremony venue to keep an eye on any suspicious persons. In Jammu, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will preside over the main Republic Day event to be held at M A Stadium while the DDC chairpersons will be the chief guests at the events in their respective districts. “There is ground surveillance and there will be aerial surveillance. So both human and technical means will be used to ensure an incident free Republic-Day. Militancy is there but we'll thwart all their plans aimed at disrupting R-Day functions,” a senior security official said, adding that the area from where the chief guest will address the gathering has been sanitised. Besides, he said, all high-rise buildings around the main venue of the Republic Day event in Srinagar have been occupied by sharpshooters of the police and paramilitary CRPF to prevent any untoward incident. Commuters travelling on roads and highways in and around Srinagar were being thoroughly frisked and their identities checked. In city center Lal Chowk and some areas of Srinagar, police on Sunday carried out security drills by surprise checks. The pedestrians and vehicles were also being searched thoroughly in Srinagar. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-republic-day-multi-layer-security-in-jammu-and-kashmir-to-keep-militants-at-bay-1074006.html
24-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi HC lists for April 20 PIL on issue of Prime Minister's security||The Delhi High Court on Monday listed for April 30 a public interest litigation (PIL) concerning the safety and security of the Prime Minister, considering the pendency of overlapping issues before the Supreme Court. A bench headed by Chief Justice D N Patel initially said that it would ask the Centre to consider as representation the PIL which seeks a declaration that all authorities, civil or military, shall act under the supervision of the Special Protection Group (SPG) in matters of security of the Prime Minister and his immediate family members. Lawyer V Govinda Ramanan, representing the petitioner Ashish Kumar, said that the plea was on a “limited point of law” that the SPG should have the power of superintendence in respect of the PM's safety and that he has already made a representation to the Ministry of Home Affairs. The petitioner has claimed that he filed the PIL in view of media reports on a security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent visit to Punjab. Central government counsel Amit Mahajan informed the court that the Supreme Court is already seized of overlapping issues. The bench, also comprising Justice Jyoti Singh, adjourned the hearing on the PIL and noted that the apex court has passed directions and is awaiting the report of the committee already appointed by it. On January 5, the prime minister's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally. On January 12, the Supreme Court had, on a petition seeking a thorough investigation into the matter, appointed a five-member committee headed by former apex court judge Justice Indu Malhotra to probe the security breach. In the PIL before the high court, the petitioner has argued that the security of the Prime Minister “cannot be left to the discretion” of the states and the absolute superintendence in matters of his safety should be exercised by the SPG. He has submitted that the SPG was created with the sole purpose of ensuring the safety and security of the prime minister and all authorities are therefore duty-bound to aid their functions. The petitioner has alleged that recently, “the Govt. of Punjab, including the Police officials of the state instead of coming to the aid of" SPG  in terms of Section 14 of the SPG Act, 1988 was "creating obstacles to the proximate security of the Hon'ble Prime Minister”. “It came to the knowledge of the petitioner via media reports that there has been a breach in the security of the Hon'ble Prime Minister during his recent visit to the border state of Punjab on 05.01.2022, which, inter-alia, is further evidence from the fact that his convoy was stuck and was made to wait on a flyover for more than 20 minutes, thereby, exposing and putting his life at risk to a terrorist attack,” the petition said. In a country that has witnessed the assassination of two PMs, such security lapses pose a great threat to national security and also put the life of the common citizens at risk, the petitioner has argued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-lists-for-april-20-pil-on-issue-of-prime-ministers-security-1074075.html
24-01-2022||North and Central||Supreme Court declines UP MLA Vijay Mishra's bail plea||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a bail plea by strongman Uttar Pradesh MLA Vijay Mishra, just ahead of Assembly polls in the state. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, after hearing the parties, said this is not a case for bail. Mishra, who faced multiple criminal cases, including rape, is currently lodged in Agra Central jail. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Mishra, said efforts were on to prevent him from contesting the upcoming Assembly polls. Senior advocate Neeraj Kumar Jain, representing the state government, submitted that the cases against him could not proceed due to his influence. The bench said, "We are not inclined to entertain the bail. However, he would be at liberty to file the bail after recording of evidence in the matter." Mishra, MLA from Gyanpur has been four time legislator from Uttar Pradesh. He faced over dozens of cases including those related to land grabbing and extortion. The MLA claimed those cases were all political motivated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-declines-up-mla-vijay-mishras-bail-plea-1074079.html
24-01-2022||North and Central||About 135 militants waiting across border to infiltrate into Kashmir: IG BSF||About 135 militants are present at launch pads across the border and are waiting to infiltrate into India, BSF Inspector General, Kashmir, Raja Babu Singh said on Monday. However, he asserted that the overall situation at the Line of Control (LoC) is "peaceful" and said the number of infiltration bids was lesser in 2021 in comparison to previous years. "The overall scenario along the LoC is peaceful. Since the signing of the ceasefire agreement, there has been a general peace all along the LoC in the Kashmir frontier," the Border Security Force (BSF) officer said while speaking to reporters here. Giving details on infiltration bids, he said in 2021, 58 attempts were made, in which five terrorists were killed, 21 returned and one surrendered. "There have been reports that 31 infiltrated in 2021, 130 in 2019, and 36 in 2020," the inspector general (IG) said. During 2021, the BSF successfully recovered or seized three AK-47 rifles, six nine-mm pistols, 1,071 ammunitions, 20 hand grenades, two IEDs and 17.3 kg of heroin -- worth Rs 88 crore -- in different operational incidents, he said. The IG BSF said there are reports that "104 to 135 terrorists" are present at different launch pads across the LoC and waiting to infiltrate. "There are also reports that some guides have gone from here and crossed the LoC to that side. So, we need to monitor them as and when they return. Their families need to be monitored,” he said. Singh said there is a lot of synergy between the army and the BSF. "The more we conduct area dominations, keep watch and surveillance, the more difficult it will be for them to infiltrate. We are putting in all-out efforts so that no infiltration is allowed, that zero infiltration happens," he said. "As and when anyone is spotted crossing the LoC, he is challenged and if firing is used, he is killed like the recent killing of a terrorist on January 2,” the IG BSF added. Asked about the Taliban threat, he said Taliban, "there is nothing like that till now, but we are keeping an eye on the developments". "Nothing concrete has come into notice so far, but we are keeping an eye on it. We are keeping a strict vigil," he said while responding to another question about the apprehensions of weapons from Afghanistan making their way into Kashmir. On the issue of drones, the IG BSF, said the drone threat is "very real". "Last year also, drones were noticed, but no one ventured inside our territory. This year, we are taking enough measures, anti-drone techniques, we are also getting a few drones, and we will tackle it very effectively," he said. He said the other challenge before the security forces on the LoC is narcotics. "There have been attempts to push narcotics from the other side. We have seized it. We have a zero-tolerance policy against narcotics," Singh said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/about-135-militants-waiting-across-border-to-infiltrate-into-kashmir-ig-bsf-1074088.html
24-01-2022||North and Central||Cold day, cold wave conditions to grip Northwest India this week: IMD||The minimum temperatures in northwest and central India are likely to drop by three to five degrees Celsius over the next five days, leading to cold day conditions in Delhi and a cold wave in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Cold day to severe cold day conditions are very likely over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat over the next two to three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Cold wave to severe cold wave is very likely in isolated pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Gujarat over the next five days. Dense to very dense fog is predicted in parts of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Sikkim, Meghalaya and Tripura over the next two to three days, it said. According to the IMD, a "cold day" is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal. A "severe" cold day is when the maximum temperature is at least 6.5 notches below normal. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to 2 degrees Celsius or the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. When visibility due to fog is reduced to the range of 0 to 50 metres is categorised as "very dense" fog, between 51 and 200 metres, it is "dense" fog, between 201 and 500 metres "moderate", and it is categorised as "shallow" if the visibility is between 501 and 1,000 metres. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-day-cold-wave-conditions-to-grip-northwest-india-this-week-imd-1074120.html
24-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi slashes number of dry days to 3, down from 21 earlier||The Delhi government on Monday reduced the number of dry days to just three from the existing 21, a move that drew praise from the hospitality industry but invited criticism from opposition BJP and Congress. Under the new excise policy, liquor shops and opium vends in the national capital will now remain closed only on three national holidays – Republic Day (January 26), Independence Day (August 15) and Gandhi Jayanti on October 2. The excise department, however, said the restriction on sale of liquor on dry days will not apply to the service of alcohol to occupants in case of hotels having L-15 license. L-15 license allows hotels to serve liquor to guests in their rooms. "In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 52 of Delhi Excise Rules, 2010, it is hereby ordered that the following dates shall be observed as "Dry Day" in the National Capital Territory of Delhi by all the licensees of the Excise department and opium vends located in Delhi for the year 2022," the department's order stated, listing the three national holidays as the days when the sale of alcohol will not be permitted. Earlier, the dry days numbered 21 including on birth anniversary of great leaders and religious festivals. The business premises of a licensee will be kept closed on dry day. In 2021, the dry days had been observed on Holi, Diwali, Janmashtami, Muharram, Id-ul-Zuha (Bakrid), Good Friday, Ram Navami, Mahavir Jayanti, Buddha Purnima, Maharishi Valmiki' s Birthday, Guru Nanak's Birthday, Dussehra and other occasions. The order issued on Monday said that apart from the three dry days, the government may declare any other day in the year as 'Dry Day' from time to time. The licensees will not be entitled to any compensation on account of any changes related to number of 'dry days'. All the licensees will exhibit the 'dry day' order at some conspicuous place of their licensed premises, it said. The decision to reduce 'dry days' was welcomed by the hospitality industry in Delhi. "We welcome this move as it will benefit both consumers as well as traders. It will save us from losses that earlier occurred due to more dry days that meant closure of shops and restaurants and business despite paying full licence fee for the year," said Kabir Suri, president of National Restaurants Association of India. The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) also welcomed the government's decision, saying that "anachronistic anomaly" has been removed. "This is indeed a very welcome step, befitting a modern city of international nature that Delhi is. Such high number of dry days in Delhi made little sense, especially as the neighbouring states have no such limitations. We applaud the Delhi Government for rectifying this anachronistic anomaly. "People of Delhi are matured, know how to enjoy their drink responsibly and reducing number of dry days will only make things easier for them without any adverse fallout on social behaviour," he told PTI. However, both the BJP and the Congress slammed the Arvind Kejriwal government, alleging that the move is aimed at promoting liquor in the national capital. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that with cutting down of alcohol dry days in Delhi from 21 to just three days, the Arvind Kejriwal government stands "exposed as promoter of intoxication in society, especially amongst the youth". "Till today, the sale or service of liquor in Delhi was prohibited on major festivals of all religions as a mark of respect for religious sentiments. But, with the decision to forego all dry days, Arvind Kejriwal government has shown it has no respect for any religions sanctity," Kapoor alleged in a statement. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee vice president Mudit Agrawal also criticised the move. "By decreasing the number of dry days, the government wants to maximise the sale of liquor in Delhi without realising the social consequences of it. We will oppose this move," Agrawal told PTI. He said the Congress will surely oppose and protest the move and will not let the government do things arbitrarily. The new excise policy of Delhi was implemented from November 17 with the private liquor vends opening across the city. So far, nearly 550 private liquor vends out of 849 licences issued by the department have started functioning in the city. The limiting of dry days to three days is one component of the new policy. The government is yet to take a call on bringing down legal drinking age from present 25 years to 21 years, which is also part of the policy. The department has also yet to pave way for opening of five super premium vends mandated by the new policy by issuing tenders for it. An excise department officer said the new policy replaces the previous one overhauling liquor trade completely. The provisions of the new policy are to be implemented keeping interest of all stakeholders including consumers in view. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-slashes-number-of-dry-days-to-3-down-from-21-earlier-1074186.html
24-01-2022||North and Central||Can't immediately respond to marital rape, issue can't be looked from microscopic angle: SC to Delhi HC||The issue of criminalisation of marital rape involves “family issues” as well as the dignity of a woman and cannot be looked at from a “microscopic angle”, the Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court as it said that it was not possible for it to immediately respond with its stand. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, stated that he would be doing an "injustice to the citizens" if the government's case is put in a “half-hearted way” and urged the court to allow a “reasonable time” to place their position after consultation with the stakeholders, especially when there is no imminent threat to anyone in the meantime. “Your lordships are not just deciding the statutory or constitutional validity of a provision. It may not be looked at from that microscopic angle… Here, the dignity of a woman is at stake. There are family issues. There would be several considerations which would weigh with the government to take a position to assist your lordship,” he told the court. “It would not be possible for Centre to respond immediately, particularly when there is no imminent threat that something is going to happen to someone. I would reiterate my request that we would need a reasonable,” he stated. Maintaining that the Centre has to be “very conscious”, the solicitor general asserted that in view of the petitioners' submissions and a similar stand taken by the amicus curiae appointed by the court, it would “not be appropriate” for the central government to not tell the court to have a “wider view of the matter”. “I don't feel it would be appropriate for the central government either not to tell your lordships to have a wider view of the matter by inviting other stakeholders or…we will have to consider it in a holistic manner,” he submitted.   Justice Rajiv Shakdher, who is heading the bench dealing with the petitions challenging the marital law exception in rape law, said that the matter cannot be kept hanging and the court would like to conclude the hearings. “I'm not saying no. Let her (amicus) finish. I'll give you another week- ten days but beyond that, it becomes difficult for me to say we will hear, we will hear... Come back to me in 10 days,” the judge said. “For some people and here, there is a live case (of one of the petitioners), every day matters for a simple reason that some say this abuse is happening, maybe not reported but this is happening. Now it can't be our answer that listens it has been there for 100 years now what is the urgency. Now that we've started we'd like to conclude,” said Justice Shakdher who added that given the importance of the issue, whoever is aggrieved party would “carry it to the next court”. The solicitor general said that "lives were at stake" and reiterated that time was needed to place the Centre's “formulated stand” before the court after consultation.  The bench, also comprising Justice C Hari Shankar, is hearing PILs filed by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women's Association, a man and a woman seeking striking down of the exception granted to husbands under the Indian rape law. The Centre, on January 13, had told the high court that it was considering a “constructive approach” to the issue and has sought suggestions from several stakeholders and authorities on comprehensive amendments to the criminal law. Central government standing counsel Monika Arora had told the bench that the Centre was undertaking a comprehensive task of amending the criminal law which includes section 375 (rape) of the IPC. On January 17, the court had asked the Centre to clarify its in-principle position on the issue of criminalising marital rape after the government sought time to formulate and place its “considered stand”. The central government, in its earlier affidavit filed in the case, has said that marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing the husbands.  The Delhi government has told the court that marital rape was already covered as a "crime of cruelty" under the IPC.         The petitioners have challenged the constitutionality of the marital rape exception under section 375 IPC (rape) on the ground that it discriminated against married women who are sexually assaulted by their husbands.  The hearing in the case will continue on January 25 Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-immediately-respond-to-marital-rape-issue-cant-be-looked-from-microscopic-angle-sc-to-delhi-hc-1074217.html
24-01-2022||Oasis||Bloom where you are planted!||Writing from the experience of this adage, one can lead a life fulfilling and fruitful, using abilities and talents, even though sometimes reduced due to age or illness, but despite daily ups and downs of individual circumstances. It’s largely up to us to ‘bloom where we are planted’. Instead of bemoaning our plight and difficulties, let’s sow a seed to assuage that of others through a friendly word, a smile, a visit to a lonely, aged friend, by offering a helping hand. Using all we’re endowed with as best as possible will transform into a harvest of blooms that flow in return; no doubt in this regard! My newspaper vendor, a fellow septuagenarian, sat down alongside me one evening, to write out my monthly bill. "Madam, I feel very tired sometimes, and it’s so nice of you to offer me a seat, so I can also chat with you." This was mutually beneficial as we enhanced our acquaintance. It was the ‘fasting’ time before Ramzan and I enquired whether he observed the traditional fast. "No, I can’t anymore, with my indifferent health, but instead give alms to the poor in the neighbourhood towards something to refresh them during this period." I added a little something to his outreach, as I paid my bill. He was so touched and insisted he would bring me biryani on Ramzan. He proclaimed proudly, "My wife makes the best biryani" and true to his word, he brought the biryani etc. which perfectly suited my palate! Come Christmastide I was able to present him a plum cake, regrettably though not my own creation. I queried why he still delivers newspapers in the cold each morning. "I can’t waste away my life," he replied. "This way I breathe in the early morning fresh air, am of assistance to customers, and greet awhile those I meet on my beat!" Online outreach is my neighbour’s forte within the Senior Community where we live. A few of us identify requirements, for which she looks up the best offers online, and orders them, all without stepping out of her home due to restricted mobility. Thus, she keeps busy, mentally alert and frequently receives visitors in appreciation of her generous gesture as they collect their purchases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/bloom-where-you-are-planted-1073896.html
24-01-2022||Oasis||Living in the moment||How does one manage to live without getting trapped in the net of boredom or misery? Transcending time and space the Ishopanishad dating back to 1000 BCE addresses this issue with amazing insight. It first postulates that life is transitory and there is nothing at all which belongs to anyone in perpetuity. A lifespan is but a mere speck relative to the infinitude of the cosmos. Impermanence can make all endeavours meaningless or absurd. Yet one must live. This realisation itself can make every moment irretrievable and perhaps the only thing valuable. The desire to acquire or hoard would seem futile when life is lived one moment at a time. Every new moment has a new meaning. There is freedom and liberation which comes from this kind of detachment. For the less evolved who find this path difficult, the ancient text has another way. If one seeks to live a hundred years, it can be only by constant action or karma. There is no other way. A complex take, as it means that the inaction of renunciation is actually superior action. When worldly action is the hallmark of existence it must be made to give joy and be rejuvenating. Routine action which is taken for granted becomes boring. Doing it with awareness brings out the wonder hiding within. On rising and standing up, if some thought is given to the marvel of balance, the act is no longer mundane. The act of breathing in and out is as profound as it is essential. Is there anything more democratic than the fact that all living creatures breathe the same air? When one observes the sound of a word and gets the link to what it means, language becomes beautiful and is used with reverence.  Actions that are not routine can sometimes become feats or achievements. These moments are special and worthy of celebration. This celebration is part of the gratitude for possessing such an ability. The real takeaway from the text is more sophisticated. If there is a superior force that pervades everything and allows us the generous use of all that it commands, it is inherently altruistic. If we do derive everything from this force there is altruism in our nature too. If this roused there is no more boredom or misery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/living-in-the-moment-1074263.html
24-01-2022||Opinion||Why sodium is Ambani’s big battery bet in the EV race||By Andy Mukherjee From smartphones to Tesla Inc. cars, lithium-ion batteries are everywhere. But when Asia’s richest man went shopping in England with 100 million pounds ($136 million), he came back with humble sodium. Sodium-ion is not a bad choice for Mukesh Ambani to kick off his power-storage gigafactory. For one thing, the earth’s crust has 300 times more sodium than lithium. For another, the global adoption rate of electric vehicles is currently so high that not just lithium, but high-grade nickel, cobalt and practically everything else that goes into an EV battery, is getting scarce. BloombergNEF is predicting a five-fold jump in the hunger for metals used to make lithium-ion cells by 2030. For the first time in many years, battery packs may get more expensive in 2022. Ambani’s flagship Reliance Industries Ltd. is in the middle of an ambitious $76 billion clean-energy push. So, it makes sense for him to back a technology that’s as cheap as traditional lead-acid batteries, and requires ingredients that are easy to source. His price-sensitive customers in India and other emerging markets won’t mind having sodium ions running around between the anode and the cathode, as long as they don’t have to forgo too much of lithium’s performance in the bargain. But will they? When it comes to energy density — the amount of electrical power that can be stored per unit of weight — Ambani is hoping the gap with lithium-ion will narrow, and that his money will play a role in bridging it. He’s not just putting down 100 million pounds for Sheffield- and Oxford-based Faradion Ltd.; he is plowing an additional 25 million pounds to accelerate commercial roll-out by the company which employs 16 people full time and holds 31 patents. The technology will be used in Reliance’s battery gigafactory in Jamnagar, Gujarat.  “If lithium is the only mainstream play, there simply isn’t enough of it — cobalt is even rarer,” says Ashwin Kumaraswamy, a venture capitalist at the U.K-based Mercia asset management Plc and a co-founder of Faradion. “In sodium, we’ve barely scratched the surface.” The startup, which has been working exclusively on sodium-ion for a decade, claims to be already delivering 160-170 watt-hours per kilogram commercially, and expects to hit 200 watt-hours a kilo soon. That’s more or less the density offered by the lithium-iron-phosphate cells in Tesla’s made-in-China Model 3 Standard Range. To put those numbers in perspective, when China’s Contemporary Amperex Technology Co. Ltd. unveiled its sodium-ion cells last summer, the world’s largest EV battery maker said its first-generation products would deliver 160 watt-hours per kilogram, and that a basic industrial supply chain would be ready by 2023. In other words, Ambani is not entering a game where the Chinese have already won the match. Nor are there any other serious players waiting at home — at least not yet. Battery gigafactories are mushrooming from Nevada to New York, Shanghai to Xian and Berlin to Budapest. But the second-most-populous nation has seen very little investment in the technology. Toshiba Corp., Suzuki Motor Corp. and Denso Corp. have joined hands to set up a $180 million lithium battery plant in Gujarat to supply Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., the country’s biggest car manufacturer. In general, however, Indian automakers “do not seem to have any plans to produce batteries and will probably look to outsource” to independent manufacturers, according to a report by Kotak Institutional Equities, a Mumbai-based brokerage. “They seem to be following the same ‘assembler’ strategy that has worked for them in the internal combustion engine vehicle space.” That’s good news for Ambani. At $300 million, the current EV storage market in the country may be tiny, but it won’t always be so. When it comes to scooters, a popular mode of middle-class personal transport, government subsidies have already made electric vehicles more affordable than gasoline guzzlers. In 20 years, all two-wheeler and more than 70 per cent of car sales will be EVs, and by 2052 battery demand will explode to $585 billion a year, in Kotak’s estimates. The firm estimates the potential stock-market wealth creation from batteries in India at $1 trillion. By starting to invest when others aren’t looking, Ambani can grab a big chunk of it.  It’s almost a given that government policy would be supportive of Make in India storage. After all, if India ends up not producing its own batteries, the annual hard-currency savings from lowering its dependence on Middle East oil — 3 per cent-to-4 per cent of gross domestic product — could prove illusory. The country might just “go to importing batteries from importing crude oil,” Kotak’s analysts write.  And this is just autos. At the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government vowed to meet 50 per cent of the country’s energy needs from non-fossil-fuel sources by 2030. To reach that goal, wind and solar power will also require storage. What’s more, those batteries will need to be carried to remote places. Unlike lithium-ion, which is a known fire hazard, sodium-ion cells can be discharged to zero volts — making them less likely to explode in transit. Faradion’s patent for this may give Reliance an advantage. Another of the Indian conglomerate’s recent battery deals, a $50 million investment in Marlborough, Massachusetts-based Ambri Inc., may have a similar aim of developing expertise for safe, economical storage of large-scale renewable power by using calcium and antimony electrodes.  From New Delhi’s national-security perspective, it will be crucial to sidestep China’s control of lithium-ion, a result of the bigger economy’s lock on raw materials, refining capacity, manufacturing and domestic demand. “​The oil-producing nations' cartel held the world to ransom in the 1970s. In EVs, China is getting to the same point where it’s developing market dominance,” says Faradion’s Kumaraswamy. Sodium, the salt of the earth, is unlikely to be the end of Ambani’s ambition in batteries. But as a starting point, the technology has much to recommend it, both to him and India. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-sodium-is-ambani-s-big-battery-bet-in-the-ev-race-1073984.html
24-01-2022||Opinion||The Udupi girls and other dangerous Muslim women||Talking to me over sips of hot sugary tea, the school teacher told me: "I have found Miyah (Muslims of Bengal origin) girls to be somewhat different from the rest of the girls, I mean from 'our' Assamese girls." According to her, the most visible difference is that they cover their head. "This can be seen as a kind of difference. It appears as if they have to show their religious identity publicly also. Hindu girls, too, are religious, but they do not publicly show it," she said. The teacher added that covering the head also violated the school uniform. "Attire like that is not a part of 'our' culture. Personally, I don't have a problem with what the girls wear or not, but other students, parents, and teachers may take offence to that," she maintained. Various versions of this basic 'us' (Assamese and Hindu) vs 'them' (Bengali and Muslim) imagery came up throughout my fieldwork in the schools. But all those versions shared this common critical gaze towards veiling as a Muslim cultural practice. One of the teachers in another government school amusingly reported how some of the Muslim girls in his ninth-grade distracted their classmates when they put their dupattas (scarves) on their heads on hearing the afternoon azaan (call for prayers) from the nearby mosques. In all the cases where Muslim girls' clothing practices were problematised, teachers failed to offer an educational or academic explanation for their problem. Instead, there was just one key concern the public display of Muslimness/Muslim identity that was seen to be disruptive of the perceived secular public space of the school. In other words, it challenges the banal Hindu majoritarian nationalism inscribed in India's schools through the imageries of Bharat Mata (Mother India) and the need to protect her from outsiders, including outsiders within such as Muslims. It must be noted that this deep-rooted Islamophobia towards Muslim women is not unique to schooling contexts or to India. Even in my diasporic friend circles, many 'liberal' Hindus in the UK casually refer to burqa-clad Muslim women as 'chhatri' (umbrella). Viewed in this way, the ongoing exclusion of the eight Muslim girls in Udupi from their classroom on account of their hijab is about portraying Muslims as a community fracturing a universal identity - whether Kannadiga or Assamese. These girls have been denied entry into the classroom since the beginning of the year when face to face learning resumed for the first time this year. As reported in the media, the girls had been attending lectures online until that point. It is interesting to note that preservation of school uniform masquerading as a 'uniform identity' is given greater priority over the girls' educational needs leading to the violation of their religious and educational rights. There are many inclusive uniform examples that the college authorities in Udupi could learn from to enable the girls to access their educational and religious rights. This includes hijabi female Muslim officers and turbans for Sikh officers in the UK, New Zeeland, etc. However, the Udupi impasse is not merely about preserving a 'uniform' identity. It is also about preserving Hindu supremacist imagination held together by the figure of the 'Muslim woman' as a victim of her menfolk or a victim of her religion. This trope has been a staple of the Hindu-majoritarian imagination and its rationale for Muslim inferiority. Scholars of nationalism call this femonationalist rhetoric wherein a majority community frame women from a minority group as solely the victims of their community's internal patriarchal structures and in need of saving by the majority community. This trope has also enabled saffron demographic assertions around Muslim women's mythical fertility, researched by Roger and Patricia Jaffrey in the early 2000s. However, this imagination does not know how to deal with Muslim girls in education or those fighting for an education. In the same way, it didn't know how to deal with the vocal, visible, articulate young Muslim women like Safoora Zargar protesting the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in 2019. If the trope of the victimised Muslim women does not hold, then the entire edifice of Hindu supremacy falls, which makes visible and vocal Muslim women and girls so dangerous. As we saw with the recent Bulli Bai controversy, Muslim identifying women with a semblance of public profile and a voice were targeted for intimidation by an online army of Hindutva's foot soldiers. In short, the message to Muslim women is loud and clear - you are not included in educational spaces. Despite that, if you somehow become a visible, vocal person speaking truth to power, we will intimidate you using Bullibai and Sulli deals app. (Dr. Saba Hussain is an Assistant Professor of Education Studies at the University of Birmingham, UK and author of "Contemporary Muslim Girlhoods in India: A Study of Social Justice, Identity and Agency in Assam") Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-udupi-girls-and-other-dangerous-muslim-women-1073996.html
24-01-2022||Opinion||Foreign guests at Republic Day: PM Modi, change this tradition||The third time isn't always lucky. On Wednesday, India will celebrate its 73rd Republic Day, and despite a surge in Covid-19 cases, many of the standard trappings of the day's celebration will be in place: Tableaux from multiple different states will roll down Rajpath, and the country's military will showcase its strength. It's the third year in a row that the Indian government has had to scramble at the last minute to find a fix for a publicly embarrassing situation: its desired chief guests being unable to show up. In 2020, New Delhi had invited then US President Donald Trump to be its guest of honour on Republic Day. But Trump could only find space in his busy schedule — between tweeting, playing golf and watching TV, he had little time on his hands — for a visit to India in February that year. So the MEA raced to find an alternative, and secured the presence of Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro as chief guest. Last year, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had confirmed that he would attend the January 26 ceremony but bailed three weeks before the date. India marked Republic Day without a chief guest — just as it will this year. Officially, the pandemic has presented itself as a convenient justification for these absences from Rajpath's main dais on the day when India celebrates its Constitution. At the moment, India is battling a spike in cases, likely driven by the Omicron variant of the virus. In 2021, Johnson had announced a nationwide lockdown in January to curb a rise in cases in Britain. But in reality, India has been stood up not so much because of the virus as because of domestic political challenges that invited leaders have faced. The US Congress was in the middle of impeachment proceedings against Trump in January 2020, and he didn't want to be away from home. Johnson and his government have lurched from controversy to controversy. At the start of 2021, he faced accusations from some that he had acted too late against Covid-19, while others were opposing strict measures to stop the spread of the virus. It's one thing to sneak out behind your nation's back for a garden party during lockdown — another thing entirely to fly 6,600 km to attend another country's pageant.  And independent of the current wave of the pandemic, New Delhi's efforts to host Central Asian leaders suffered a body blow when Kazakhstan erupted in its largest public protests since the collapse of the Soviet Union three decades ago. Kazakhstan called in Russian troops to quell street agitations. It's hard to imagine how Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev could have left this country at this time. Without the leader of Central Asia's wealthiest nation, a physical summit between Modi and the region's other presidents would have made little sense. All of which leads to a question that India must ponder: Do we really need a foreign head of state on January 26? As a newly independent nation trying to find its geopolitical footing amid the Cold War, the presence of global leaders at Republic Day once served as a vindication of the Indian experiment while allowing New Delhi to build crucial partnerships. Presidents and prime ministers didn't meet each other multiple times every year as they do now, on the margins of countless summits.  Today, dozens of foreign leaders visit India every year, and there's very little that's special about the guests invited for January 26. Can anyone argue that Bolsonaro is more valued by India than, say, Russian President Vladimir Putin? New Delhi wanted progress on a trade deal with Trump, but those calculations weren't really affected by when America's leader at the time visited. India wants to secure a strong economic relationship with post-Brexit Britain, but again, Johnson isn't going to offer Modi any additional concessions if he gets to see an Indian tank roll down Rajpath. And with or without Republic Day, India needs to engage robustly with Central Asian nations at a time when they share many of New Delhi's concerns about a Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. The Modi government has shown it doesn't hesitate to end traditions, even when they are worth retaining. Unlike the recent, controversial decision to snuff out the "eternal flame" at Amar Jawan Jyoti, ending the practice of inviting world leaders to Republic Day would be a welcome break from the past. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/foreign-guests-at-republic-day-pm-modi-change-this-tradition-1074004.html
24-01-2022||Panorama||Centre’s monetisation plan and the need to safeguard states’ interests||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) intends to raise Rs 2 lakh crore in the next three years. A few days ago, the Union government announced that 5,500 km of highways will be up for monetisation in 2022-23, 7,300 km in 2023-24 and 8,900 km in 2024-25. Earlier, six properties of MTNL and BSNL were offered for bidding on the Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Limited (MSTC) portal as monetisation of the assets through auction has commenced. Realising that the government owns a huge mass of public assets that lie idle, under-utilised and are a drain on the public exchequer, attention has now turned to converting this adversity into an opportunity. Accordingly, the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) intends to lease out public assets worth Rs 6 lakh crore. Targeted at the core public assets in which the Union government has a majority stake, the scheme also nudges states to privatise, corporatise and monetise their public assets. To this end, NMP incentivises them with the offer of matching grants to the extent of 100%, 50% and 33%, respectively, for disinvestment, stock market listing and monetisation of their public enterprises and assets. Is it sufficient to persuade the state governments to partake in the scheme? Taking states on board seems necessary as their public assets are quite substantial (three times the number of central public sector units), with an analogous quantum of investments that operate in an assortment of sectors ranging from films, medical services, police housing, panchayat raj to welfare corporations for scheduled castes, backward classes, ex-servicemen and women. Besides, they also exist in domains concerning vegetables, fruits, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, textiles, beverages, fishery, piggery, poultry, livestock, seed and sugarcane. Sadly, a fourth of them are dysfunctional. State highways, urban transport, bus depots, energy distribution infrastructure, gas pipelines (in several states), sewerage, water supply and sports stadiums etc are potential assets for monetisation by the states. It may be understood by the fact that the total length of state highways is over 1.75 lakh km. The 54 state road transport undertakings have a fleet of 1.50 lakh buses. They also own 2.3 lakh circuit km of power transmission lines, which all come under the ambit of monetisation. The NMP proposes that the resources raised by the government will be utilised for creating new and for completing ongoing capital projects, thus recycling the idle assets for re-investment in new infrastructure. Policy myopia warrants a robust mechanism to ensure that the reinvestments are not sunk in creating similar redundant capital projects as the nation is presently saddled with. The public sector was created not only for the economic good but also to serve a series of social purposes like being ideal employers, ensuring social equity, mitigating regional imbalances, and to take care of the priority sector in the larger national interest. Considering the criticality of these purposes, they were endowed with vast resources for their future expansion. Alas, that was not to be. But efficiency, in the case of the public sector, must not signify economic efficiency alone. CPUs presently employ over a million people while in SPSUs the numbers could be as high as 1.5 million. Critically, the public sector is the one that promotes equity and quality of jobs and employment opportunities. New jobs The NMP, too, would create employment opportunities as recycling of public assets would trigger economically productive and profitable activities. The moot question is about the quality of the new jobs and the time lag that entails. Roger L Martin, the author of several articles and a book on efficiency, writes in a Harvard Business Review (HBR) article that “obsession with efficiency is not good because highly efficient businesses often generate social mayhem”. This is so because the profits cropping up through efficiency keep on rising for a few efficient companies leading to enormously perilous consequences. The lofty profits go to a limited number of companies causing concentration of businesses in a few hands. The NMP will enable the government to raise resources for much-needed infrastructure providing long-term returns to the nation. But that to happen it must ensure that the biases in decision-making are minimised so that under no circumstances and compulsions funds raised are utilised to recompense the fiscal deficit as it would tantamount to ‘pawning the family silver to pay the butler’. Therefore, would it not be wise to support and back the NMP with a law so that all the decisions with regard to leasing, and reinvestment are based on financial consideration guided by enduring economic and social gains in the best public interest? Devoid of regulatory shrewdness, the scheme might just facilitate the relocation of public assets into the hands of a few tycoons.  Through effectual legislation, the productive recycling of the assets can be ensured, and apprehension of likely job losses and other social issues could also be addressed. The lucidity will not only ensure public interest but also nudge various state governments to partake in the programme. (Qamar, a professor at Jamia Millia Islamia, is former Vice-Chancellor, the Central University of Himachal Pradesh and University of Rajasthan; Siddiqui is an Assistant Professor, finance, Jamia Millia Islamia)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/centre-s-monetisation-plan-and-the-need-to-safeguard-states-interests-1073894.html
24-01-2022||Right in the Middle||The insider-outsider debate||A few years ago, I visited the Vaishno Devi shrine with my friend who was posted as the Deputy Inspector General of Jammu. The next day I went to Nagrota to pay homage to a friend who had been martyred in the Nagrota attacks. Thereafter, I lunched at the house of a family friend who was a celebrated bureaucrat. From breakfast to lunch I had spent time with the police, the army, and the bureaucracy — the common thread of ‘nation before self’ running through each one of them. I belong to a family where generations have served the nation, as freedom fighters, army generals and IAS officers. The so-called ‘desh-bhakti’ runs in my DNA and I am always high on it! I must tell you that a casual comment from a prospective groom, saying that the army chaps always seem to be drunk on ‘desh-bhakti’ and are always high on it ensured the possibilities of alliance reached a dead end.  Speaking of DNA, I am often asked as to which part of the country I belong to. I was born in Bengaluru, I have Dogra and Punjabi genes. My grandmother had roots in Afghanistan and my parents were born in undivided India (now Pakistan). My day doesn’t begin without freshly brewed filter coffee, and I prefer coconut water over lassi. It isn’t just the food choices. It encompasses my entire being. Similarly, my mother (an army child), originally from Jammu and Kashmir, had spent most of her childhood in Kolkata, making her a Bengali by culture. I’m brought up in Bengaluru on a diet of Rabindra Sangeet, Kashmiri gucchi (mushrooms) and masala dosa. I have a Punjabi surname, but have always thought of myself as a Kannadiga. I feel we should keep the ‘insider-outsider’ debate limited to outside the territory of India. While within the country we will always be an insider. Irrespective of who or what tries to divide us, to ignite hatred or spread malice, we as people, know better, much better than to fall for that farce. And the common thread of ‘desh-bhakti’ runs in all our DNAs. This isn’t limited to just our armed forces or police or those in government service. It runs in each one of us. The idea of India is supreme and will remain so.  Till my blood is warm, I will continue to enjoy my masala dosa, my Kashmiri gucchi, my Punjabi surname, my Bengali Rabindra Sangeet and my Kannadiga identity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-insider-outsider-debate-1073893.html
24-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Balancing the accounts of life||This happened in the early 80s. My father was known for his friendliness, benevolence and hospitality. His very close friend’s sister-in-law once came down to Bangalore from Delhi to find a match for her daughter. When his friend’s driver fell ill, my dad offered to take them to Mysore in our car with my brother at the wheel, to meet some of the suitors there. They set off despite the grumbles of the rest of the family members. As if that was not enough, on their return, he announced that he had invited the same family from Delhi that he had recently acquainted with, and his friend, for dinner over the weekend. We all prepared to play the good hosts rather grudgingly, giving in to his over-indulgence and making plans for a grand meal. During our dinner talks, my father was pleasantly surprised to discover that his friend’s sister-in-law was the daughter of the owner of the grocery store of his neighbourhood during his childhood. He remembered that they used to buy things for the house and settle bills at the end of the month. However, the last account was left unsettled when they had to suddenly flee from their hometown Shikarpur in Sind Province in current Pakistan during the Partition. This inability to pay for the groceries bought for half the month then used to bother my grandmother’s conscience. She would often regret and lament about it. It was impossible to try and locate or trace people who had scattered all over the country and the globe, after migration. My dad had tears of relief as he felt he had cleared the debt of his late parents by paying back in some form finally, nearly 40 years later. That day he taught us a very important lesson: Never gloat over acts of so-called generosity or feel superior when ‘giving’ something to anybody. Only that which we rightfully owe to someone just passes through us to them; we cannot take credit for being the source of anything, even if it is supposedly self-created. Karma and life have their own record and tally of accounts that the universe maintains and balances!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/balancing-the-accounts-of-life-1074264.html
24-01-2022||Second Edit||CM’s security ring, a safe haven||The arrest of two police constables on security duty at Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s residence for dealing drugs should be summarily dismissed for their gross misconduct. But they may in all probability walk free in a few months after being exonerated of all charges, given the shoddy manner in which police conduct investigations. As it is, the much-publicised drug case of last year is crumbling like nine pins with one accused after another being granted relief by the court, with the police failing to prove their case. Thus, it is not surprising that the two cops have already managed to obtain bail though they were caught red-handed with 10 kg of ganja. The Investigating Officer (IO) not only booked them under a lighter section of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance Act (NDPS) by falsely stating that they possessed drugs lesser than commercial quantities, but also failed to oppose the bail application. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has now suspended the IO and his assistant. But this is not enough. While stringent disciplinary action should be initiated against the IO so that it serves as an example to other deviant officers like him, the police should immediately move the court to get the bail cancelled. Apparently, the accused procured drugs from pedlars and supplied them to customers through delivery platforms, confident that they would never be apprehended considering they were operating from a safe haven of the Chief Minister’s residence. However, luck ran out a few days ago when they caught the attention of their superior officers while they were engaged in a noisy brawl with two pedlars over financial issues.  The incident also draws attention to the cavalier manner in which the police top brass deal with the Chief Minister’s security by posting personnel without verifying their antecedents. If drug pushers can infiltrate into the Chief Minister’s security detail and carry on their illegal activities unhindered, terrorists and potential assassins could not be far behind. The Commissioner should fix responsibility for this very serious lapse. Such transgressions by police are not new. Last year, three police officials were suspended after they forced a youth to smoke ganja and then booked him under a false drugs case after he failed to pay a bribe. Also, an ACP and two inspectors were suspended after they were accused of collecting bribes of over Rs 25 lakh from cigarette distributors during the lockdown. What has DGP Praveen Sood done during his long term at the helm, to discipline the police force and salvage its lost reputation? It is high time he sets the house in order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/cm-s-security-ring-a-safe-haven-1073892.html
24-01-2022||Second Edit||IAS cadre rules: Work with the states||The amendments proposed by the Centre to the IAS cadre rules have caused concern among state governments as they consider them to be yet another attempt to cut down their powers. The apprehensions are shared by BJP-ruled states also. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written two letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi objecting to the proposed move and terming it a violation of the “basic structure of the country’s constitutional scheme’’. States like Maharashtra, Kerala and Orissa have opposed the proposed amendments and even BJP/NDA states like Madhya Pradesh and Bihar are not happy with them. The Centre has proposed four amendments to the cadre rules and these concern the deputation of officers to the Centre. It sent an initial draft last month and an amended version this month, and the states have felt that the Centre is in a hurry to give effect to them. The Centre’s reason for tweaking the rules is that there is a shortage of officers on deputation at the Centre. The officers, who are recruited by the Centre and appointed in the states, are deputed to the Centre to work in central departments. At present, this is based on consultations and consent involving the Centre, the states and the officers. But the amendments will make it mandatory for states to make available a certain number of officers to the Centre every year. The Centre’s view will prevail in case there is a difference of opinion between it and the states. The amendments are framed in such a way that they are liable to interpretations that suit the Centre. As a result, the states may lose their most efficient officers to the Centre. There is also the chance of the process being politicised. Unwilling officers may be forced to relocate to the Centre and this may affect their morale. Many officers prefer to work at the state level where they have more freedom to work and opportunities to excel. It is true that there is a shortage of officers at the Centre and this needs to be addressed. The number of officers on central deputation has been declining over the years. According to reports, the number of IAS officers on central deputation reserve has gone down from 309 in 2011 to 223 now. According to other reports, only 10% of mid-level IAS officers were posted with the central government in 2021 as against 19% in 2014. But the problem cannot be solved by unilaterally imposing the Centre’s will on the states. The Centre needs to discuss the issue with the states and find a solution that is acceptable to both.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ias-cadre-rules-work-with-the-states-1074266.html
24-01-2022||South||Pick Tamil to name your children, CM Stalin tells newlywed||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday urged young men and women to name their children by choosing names from the Tamil language. Presiding over the self-respect marriage of a couple here, Stalin, in his wishes said that they should pick Tamil names for their children. He shared his wishes to them on his Twitter handle and urged others as well, the young population, to choose names for their babies from the Tamil language. Stalin presided over the marriage of the daughter of a party headquarters secretary, Poochi S Murugan. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pick-tamil-to-name-your-children-cm-stalin-tells-newlywed-1073970.html
24-01-2022||South||Forced conversion angle not figured in suicide probe, says Tamil Nadu minister||A probe conducted by the education department has made it clear that “forced conversion” as being alleged by BJP is not the reason for the suicide of a 17-year-old student, Tamil Nadu School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Monday, promising “impartial action” against those responsible for the minor girl’s death. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, the Minister said police has informed him that the girl in her dying declaration recorded before government authorities did not speak anything on forced conversion (to Christianity) by the warden of a hostel managed by a Christian missionary in Thanjavur. Appealing to political parties like BJP not to “politicise the issue”, Poyyamozhi promised an “unbiased probe” and “impartial action” against those responsible for the girl’s suicide. The minister also took objection to the release of portions of a video that was shot before the girl’s death, saying the student was asked “provocative questions” by the interviewer who had “no right” to record such declarations. A 17-year-old girl from Ariyalur who was studying in a Christian school and staying in the hostel attempted suicide on January 9 allegedly due to “torture” by her hostel warden who made her clean the hostel and do other chores. However, the BJP alleged that the girl was forced to convert to Christianity by the warden and that was the reason for her extreme step. Poyyamozhi said the 62-year-old warden, who is now under arrest, had paid the school fees for the girl “several times” as her parents were unable to pay. “But she has been arrested as it is alleged that she (the warden) was responsible for the girl’s stress. The issue is being investigated. Whoever is responsible for the suicide will be punished. There shall be no doubt about this,” the minister said. He also added that the Chief Education Officer (CEO) of Thanjavur district spoke to school students and alumni regarding the issue and forced conversion did not come up during the investigation by the department. “The police have recorded the statement of the girl which will be submitted before the court,” Poyyamozhi said, adding that teachers should not ask children to do any work other than those related to studies and asserted that discrimination on religious or caste lines will not be allowed in schools. BJP rejected the minister’s remarks, saying the education department would have coerced the students to rule out the forced conversion angle. “The minister would have threatened the students to say that religious conversion was not behind the student’s suicide. The BJP will not accept the statement of the minister,” senior BJP leader H Raja said. The BJP, which has been maintaining that religious conversion was the reason behind the girl’s suicide, has held protests in Thanjavur and Chennai demanding action against the school. Party’s state unit chief K Annamalai had on Sunday demanded appropriate compensation to the family of the student and implementation of the anti-conversion law in Tamil Nadu. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/forced-conversion-angle-not-figured-in-suicide-probe-says-tamil-nadu-minister-1074134.html
24-01-2022||South||Kerala launches high level probe into transgender activist's death after sex reassignment surgery||Amidst allegations of transgender persons being fleeced by private hospitals over sex reassignment surgeries, the Kerala health department has launched a probe into the unnatural death of a transgender woman who had undergone sex reassignment surgery at a private hospital in Kochi. Anannyah Kumari Alex, 28, was found hanging in her flat at Kochi on July 20. Two days later her partner Jiju was also found hanging in a friend's flat. Alex's family and friends had alleged that she had been suffering from serious health issues subsequent to the surgery and the medical negligence led to her death. Alex's father Alexander alleged that the hospital authorities even assaulted her after she complained of medical negligence. In view of the controversy, a panel of doctors conducted the post-mortem examination and found unhealed wounds on her private parts. The health department has now initiated an inquiry by an additional director into the on Alex, considering the demand of her family and friends. Transgender activists had earlier staged a protest over the incident and demanded action against the hospital and doctors who performed the surgery. They also alleged that many private hospitals were fleecing transgender persons for sex reassignment surgery especially owing to the lack of treatment protocol. Alex had undergone sex reassignment surgery in 2020. Since then, she had been complaining that she was not able to walk after the surgery and alleged medical negligence. Alex, who was a radio jockey and rights activist, had even made many social media posts on the issue. Though the state government offers assistance of Rs 2.5 lakh for transgender women and Rs 5 lakh for transgender men for sex reassignment surgery, it was offered as reimbursement and hence many were not able to avail it. Following Alex's death, the state government formed a three member panel of health expert, transgender community representative and an activist working in the field to give suggestions for framing the sex reassignment treatment protocol and rates. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-launches-high-level-probe-into-transgender-activists-death-after-sex-reassignment-surgery-1074148.html
24-01-2022||South||SC declines Kerala govt's plea for more time for trial against actor Dileep||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a plea by the Kerala government to extend the time to complete the trial in the rape case wherein Malayalam actor Dileep was accused of being the chief conspirator. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar said such a demand can be made only by the trial judge and the judge can also submit a report before the top court seeking extension if it is felt necessary. Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, representing the Kerala government, sought additional six months' time, as the existing deadline to complete the trial was coming to end on February 16. The bench made it clear that it will not grant the extension, at the instance of the Kerala government. Senior Advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Dileep, opposed the Kerala government plea and submitted that the state government is trying to delay the trial. He vehemently argued that the time to complete the trial had already been extended several times. Rohatgi argued that after the examination of 200 witnesses, another man came with a fresh set of allegations when the trial in the matter is about to complete.   The bench said that it would not pass an order at the instance of the state government and disposed of the application. Rohatgi also accused the state government of conducting a media trial against his client. Dileep is alleged to have hatched the criminal conspiracy for abduction and the sexual assault of the victim, in a moving vehicle in the outskirts of Cochin city in February 2017. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-declines-kerala-govts-plea-for-more-time-for-trial-against-actor-dileep-1074149.html
24-01-2022||South||Stalin writes to Gadkari, assures full cooperation to NHAI on highway projects ||Responding to Union Road Transport & Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari’s statement on the NHAI facing “major problems” in the state, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Monday wrote to him expressing surprise over his comments despite him being aware of the government’s steps to support road projects and help resolve many long pending issues.  At the same breadth, Stalin assured Gadkari his government’s “full cooperation” to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to expedite all the pending highway projects and works in Tamil Nadu. In a detailed letter to Gadkari, Stalin listed the steps taken by his government after assuming office in May last year to clear the bottlenecks faced by NHAI in the state.  In an event on Friday, Gadkari had spoken about the NHAI “facing major problems” in Tamil Nadu and issues regarding getting access to different types of aggregate [material] for construction. The video was widely shared on social media with many seeking to know the Tamil Nadu government’s stand on Gadkari’s complaint.  Stalin, in the letter, said NHAI projects have been given “very high importance” in his administration due to the realisation over significance of road connectivity for an industrialized state like Tamil Nadu.  “Hence I have given specific instructions to all departments to give top priority to NHAI projects. Many of the current issues causing project delays are legacy issues of the past decade and my teams of officers under the Chief Secretary are putting their best efforts to sort them out at the earliest,” Stalin told Gadkari. As a follow up to CM’s review meetings, Public Works Minister E V Velu has so far conducted four meetings with all the stakeholder departments to resolve various issues in NHAI projects, Stalin said, added that the Chief Secretary and the Principal Secretary, Highways and Minor Ports Department have conducted 13 different meetings in the same direction. T “Thus, there has been a high-level meeting for NHAI projects every fortnight during the last six months. Project specific issues have been discussed with the district collectors and line Departments along with NHAI officials to solve the issues,” he said.  Stalin also reminded Gadkari about Velu’s meeting with him in New Delhi on October 12 to brief him about actions being taken for the fast implementation of NHAI projects in Tamil Nadu. Further to this, Stalin said Velu convened a joint meeting on December 16, 2021, which saw the participation of district collectors, officials and contractors from NHAI and other officials concerned.  “All the issues and action taken on them were discussed during this full-day meeting and it was noted that about 80 per cent of the NHAI issues have been resolved. Further, the issues relating to specific projects, whenever highlighted by NHAI have been resolved with specific interventions of the Hon’ble Minister for PWD and Chief Secretary. The above position may also kindly be verified with the NHAI team in Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said.  Regarding borrow earth permissions in government lands, Stalin said they are currently being given for three months since Tamil Nadu has two spells of monsoon and generally tanks/ponds are under water for six months.  “However, considering the request given by NHAI, action is being taken to amend the Mining Rules to give permits for longer periods in Government lands also. For private lands, the permission already is being given for nine months or more,” the Chief Minister added.  He also brought to Gadkari’s notice that some corrective measures have to be taken by NHAI too, on some issues which result in project delays like streamlining the system of approval of land valuation for land acquisition under the National Highways Act and grant of permission for borrow earth without the requisite documents.  “Considering the efforts taken by the State Government and the resultant progress in the field, your statement made during the above-mentioned event has been a bit surprising to me. Nevertheless, I, once again, would like to assure you that my Government would provide its full cooperation to NHAI to expedite all the works,” Stalin concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-writes-to-gadkari-assures-full-cooperation-to-nhai-on-highway-projects-1074152.html
24-01-2022||South||Church vandalised in Coimbatore; hunt on for two persons||Amid row over forced conversion, a church located within the premises of a reputed educational institution in Coimbatore has come under attack from miscreants who have vandalised a statue of Saint Sebastian.  The incident took place after 11 pm on Sunday at the Trinity Church in Ramanathapuram locality in Coimbatore city, police said, adding that an FIR has been registered against two unknown persons under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.  Police said two unidentified men came on a motorcycle to the church premises on Sunday night and entered the church forcibly. “One of them climbed on the door and entered inside the church and damaged Saint Sebastian statue. Both of them escaped in their motorcycle,” police said.  Police said efforts are on to nab the culprits and that action has been initiated based on a complaint filed by Fr. Bastin Joseph, who works as Assistant Church Father. The attack on the church comes amid a row over forced conversion in Tamil Nadu.  BJP and a few other right-wing outfits in the state have blamed “forced conversion” as the reason for the suicide of a 17-year-old girl student who was studying in a Christian school and staying in a hostel run by a Christian missionary.  Though police have ruled out religious conversion angle, BJP insists that the girl took the extreme step of taking her own life due to pressure from the warden on her to convert to Christianity.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/church-vandalised-in-coimbatore-hunt-on-for-two-persons-1074161.html
24-01-2022||South||Kerala health minister rules out concerns over hospital bed availability||With the increasing Covid cases in Kerala triggering concerns over hospital bed availability, Kerala health minister Veena George said that majority of the ICU beds and ventilators in the government hospitals were still vacant. Of the 3,107 ICU beds in government hospitals in the state only 43.3 per cent were occupied now. Of the ventilators available, only 13 per cent were occupied so far. Hence there was no need for concern as of now, the minister said. At present, the total Covid active cases reported in the state in 2.64 per cent, of which only a small percentage required hospitalisation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-health-minister-rules-out-concerns-over-hospital-bed-availability-1074202.html
24-01-2022||South||Now, Telangana CM urges PM Modi to drop proposed amendments to AIS cadre rules||After his counterparts in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and other states, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing his “strong protest” against the proposed changes to the All India Services (Cadres) rules 1954. Rao stated that the proposed amendments “militate against the federal structure of our constitution, both in letter and spirit". “Considering the criticality of the functions discharged by AIS officers in the states, the present rule position and practice provides for concurrence of state governments in matters of deputation of officers to the central government. The proposed amendments seek to unilaterally disturb the above position, with the central government assuming the power to take officers on deputation without the concurrence of the officers or the state government concerned,” Rao said in his letter to Modi on Monday. If the proposals are effected, the state governments would be reduced to insignificant entities, Rao said. Chief ministers of West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand had also earlier urged Modi to drop the proposals, “which run contrary to the country's federal structure". Rao further said that the proposal is “clearly a move to exercise indirect control by the Centre on officers working in the states". “It amounts to interfering in the functioning of state governments, targeted harassment of officers and their demoralization, besides impacting accountability of officers of state governments. It would also render state governments as helpless entities in the matters of AIS officers.” Parliament of India had enacted the All India Services Act, 1951 under the provisions of Article 312 of the Constitution and the AIS rules were formulated under the act. Rao called the rule amendments “coloured exercise of powers vested with the central government to the detriment of state's interests and watering down the federal polity of the country". “Instead of such backdoor methods,” Rao asked Modi “to muster the courage to amend the provisions by Parliament". “The proposals show scant regard to the states' administrative exigencies, requirements, threaten the spirit of mutual adjustment and accommodation between Centre and state governments in the matter of AIS and will further strain the centre-state relationship.” Observing that the present AIS cadre rule provisions are adequate to ensure harmonious, balanced deployment of officers, Rao in his missive has demanded PM Modi to “cease and desist from the proposed amendments in the interest of administrative fairness and federal polity of the constitution". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/now-telangana-cm-urges-pm-modi-to-drop-proposed-amendments-to-ais-cadre-rules-1074215.html
24-01-2022||South||TN govt asks bankers to ensure usage of Tamil in ATMs, banks||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday urged bankers to ensure that Tamil Language is used in all public interfaces including ATMs. This was conveyed by state Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan at a Special State Level Bankers' Committee meeting convened by him, where incidentally, "for the first time," consultation was held and suggestions sought from bankers for the upcoming state budget, an official release here said. The minister "urged all bankers to ensure that Tamil Language is used in all public interfaces such as ATMs, bank forms,etc. He stressed the need for bank officials who are deployed in frontline desks and helpline desks in banks to be conversant in Tamil," the release said. "For the first time, consultation was held and suggestions sought from bankers for the upcoming budget FY 2022-23 of the Government of Tamil Nadu," the release added. The minister also reviewed the progress made in the implementation of various Government schemes and urged the banks to expedite the implementation of all priority sector lending schemes and particularly, to extend education loans to the students from the poorer sections of the society, it said. He also urged the banks to ensure banking solutions in unbanked remote areas, particularly forested and tribal habitations. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-govt-asks-bankers-to-ensure-usage-of-tamil-in-atms-banks-1074221.html
24-01-2022||State||All smart city works in Karnataka to be completed by March 2023: Minister||All smart city projects, taken up in seven cities of the state, will be completed by March 2023, Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj said Monday. Though the Centre has issued directions to complete the projects before July next year, they will be completed earlier, he said. Karnataka has received Rs 3,600 crore for the implementation of various projects under the scheme. “Till date, Karnataka has spent Rs 2,646 crore for the projects,” he said. Basavaraj was speaking to reporters following a review meeting on the progress of Smart City projects in the state. Though Karnataka could have completed the projects earlier, it was delayed due to the Covid pandemic, floods and other reasons. The projects will now be given priority to ensure completion at the earliest, he said. The state has also requested the Centre to include four more cities under the project. They are Mysuru, Ballari, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura, he said. Smart City projects are currently taken up at Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Davanagere, Hubballi-Dharwad and Belagavi. According to data, 269 projects are complete in these cities, while 169 projects, worth Rs 1,554 crore, are currently under various stages of implementation. The tender process was complete for 99 per cent of the projects, while work orders were issued in 89 per cent of the works. Commenting on the challenges in the implementation of the project, he said the road projects require more time due to ‘utility shifting’ from Bescom, BSNL and BWSSB. Coordination committees are working to speed up the projects, according to the minister. The state government has also imposed fines on contractors in case projects were deliberately delayed. As many as 76 instances of delays were observed and a Rs 3.38 crore fine was imposed on contractors responsible, Basavaraj said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-smart-city-works-in-karnataka-to-be-completed-by-march-2023-minister-1074256.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Jakkur flying school may soon train commercial pilots||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that the government will extend all support to make the Government Flying Training School (GFTS) at Jakkur in North Bengaluru a hub of aviation activities. Additional land will be acquired for the expansion of the runway to facilitate commercial pilot training, besides takeoff and landing of chartered aircraft and helicopters.  Inaugurating the modernised GFTS at the Jakkur aerodrome on the eve of the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Bommai said, “Jakkur aerodrome, started by the erstwhile Royal Family of Mysore, is a pride of Bengaluru and has contributed immensely to the civil aviation history of the country. The government will ensure that the GFTS gets additional land for a safe runway to facilitate full-fledged operations.”  Byatarayanapura MLA and former minister Krishna Byre Gowda, who presided over the event, said due to the short runway, only microlight planes can operate out of Jakkur at present. The NHAI’s existing elevated expressway to Kempegowda international airport, along with the elevated Metrorail project which is getting ready, will make flight takeoffs from here difficult, Byre Gowda said.    “The government should increase the runway length to help train commercial pilots,” the MLA said. Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K C Narayana Gowda said, “Within a fortnight, we will start operations of four-seater aircraft from here. Once the extended runway and another runway are commissioned, we will have a night- landing facility,” Gowda said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jakkur-flying-school-may-soon-train-commercial-pilots-1073963.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||At 50,210, Karnataka hits single-day Covid high||Karnataka hit a new pandemic record with 50,210 fresh cases on Sunday. This breaks the previous single-day record of 50,112 cases which was set on May 5, 2021, during the peak of the second wave. With 2.2 lakh tests having been conducted, the state’s test positivity rate was 22.78 per cent as of Sunday. Its seven-day test positivity rate average is 19.06 per cent. During the previous record, the state had conducted 1,55,224 tests, with a positivity rate of 32.28 per cent. The largest chunk of the new cases was from Bengaluru Urban, which accounted for 26,299 of the new infections (or 52 per cent of the statewide total). The next highest cases were 4,359 in Mysuru district, 1,963 cases in Tumakuru, 1,922 cases in Hassan district and 1,139 cases in Kodagu.  The state also recorded 19 new fatalities, including a 3-year-old girl in Mysuru on January 21. This follows the death of a six-year-old girl in Bagalkot, which happened on January 20. Child cases The state recorded 8,656 cases of pre-teens (0-9) being infected with Covid-19, between January 16 and 22, plus 47,791 cases among teenagers (10-19). This is more than the 4,821 pre-teen and 22,921 teen cases recorded a fortnight ago.  However, putting these numbers into perspective with the overall cases, the percentage of pre-teen cases declined from an average of 3.5 a fortnight ago to 3.1 a week ago. Among teens, however, it rose from 16 per cent two weeks ago to an average of 17 per cent last week. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-50210-karnataka-hits-single-day-covid-high-1073964.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet expansion: Bommai points to BJP high command||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the expansion of his Cabinet will happen after the BJP central leadership takes it up for discussion, even as he admitted that ministerial aspirants are mounting pressure. The Cabinet expansion is said to be unlikely until after the Uttar Pradesh polls in March, but a section of BJP MLAs wants it earlier. “There are four vacant berths. Naturally, there are ministerial aspirants,” Bommai told reporters. “When and how it should be done...the party leadership is aware. I will also talk to them. When they call me for talks, I will give them all the details,” he said. Bommai also said fresh appointments to boards and corporations are on the cards. “It depends on the party. There’s no proposal in front of me, but the party is looking at it. They will give me a report based on which a decision will be taken,” he said. Ahead of his maiden budget in March, Bommai said preparations are underway. “In December, I held a meeting with the finance department. I also met revenue-generating departments and I reviewed targets. I’m holding another meeting with the finance department on January 25 in the wake of the fresh Covid-19 surge. After that, I will discuss department-wise demands and civil society,” he said. ‘No review of guidelines’ Bommai specified that the government will not review the Covid-19 guidelines for now. He was responding to a question in postponing the night curfew by one hour (from 10 pm to 11 pm). “We’ve already taken some decisions like removing the weekend curfew. We will see how the Covid-19 behaves. Any further revision will happen only after a proper study of the situation,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-bommai-points-to-bjp-high-command-1074050.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt school incurs ire of parents, alumni and Hindu outfits for allowing Friday Namaz||The administration of a government school at Mulbagal town in the district is incurring the ire of parents, alumni and Hindu outfits for allegedly allowing Muslim students to offer Friday Namaaz on the school premises. The Hindu organisations led the parents of other students and alumni of the school in staging a protest inside the Balechangappa Government Karnataka Model Secondary School at Someshwarapalya for setting a 'new precedence' of allowing Friday prayers. According to a video which has gone viral on social media, the Muslim students, a few of them wearing skull caps, offered Friday prayer inside a classroom in the afternoon. One of the alumni, who staged the protest on Saturday, sought the intervention of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the Kolar MP S Muniswamy and Education department officials. He said the school never had a history of allowing Friday prayers and this would set a wrong precedent, appealing to the Education department officials not to let such events take place again. Another parent alleged that this had been going on every week with the consent of the school administration. A school teacher refuted the charge that every week such prayers were happening. She told reporters that it happened only last Friday when she and other teachers were away from the school during the lunch. She said she received a call from the Block Education Officer asking her why the Friday prayers were allowed inside the school premises. When she rushed to the school, she noticed the Muslim boys offering Namaz. As tension prevailed due to the protest on Saturday, police reached the spot and calmed the angry parents, alumni and some Hindu activists. However, no police complaint has been lodged, police sources said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-school-incurs-ire-of-parents-alumni-and-hindu-outfits-for-allowing-friday-namaz-1074095.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||No link between Mekedatu padayatra & Covid spike: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Monday clarified that Mekedatu padayatra led by Congress had no link with the spike in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka. "They are saying something just to say something politically. Did Basavaraj Bommai, R Ashoka, and others get Covid due to our padayatra?" he asked. Siddaramaiah also said the weekend curfew to curb the Covid-19 spread was not needed since night curfew was already in place, adding that it looks like the weekend curfew was aimed at stopping Mekedatu padayatra. Weekend curfew troubles poor people, daily wagers, unorganised sector workers, among others. Siddaramaiah also said he has not yet received the notice about the all-party meeting called by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai over water disputes The party has proposals to take padayatra on issues like Mahadayi, Article 371(j) for the Kalyana Karnataka region, and Upper Krishna Project (UKP), Siddaramaiah said. Many such proposals are before the party. Let the Mekedatu issue end first, we would discuss and take decisions about other issues, he noted. The Congress leader also said: In Hubballi, former chief minister B S Yediyurappa had displayed erstwhile Goa chief minister's letter and said Mahadayi water would be brought in a month, he said he would give it in writing in blood. BJP never does what it says, Siddaramaiah said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-link-between-mekedatu-padayatra-covid-spike-siddaramaiah-1074162.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Bommai appoints district in-charge Ministers, keeps Bengaluru urban to himself||Almost six months into his government coming to office, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday allocated districts among the Ministers of his Cabinet, of which they will be in-charge, while keeping the key Bengaluru urban district with himself. Effecting a complete change to the previous BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government, the Chief Minister has not assigned any minister their home districts under which their Assembly constituency comes. While at least two senior ministers- Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister JC Madhuswamy have not been assigned any districts; three Ministers- BC Patil, K Gopalaiah and Shankar B Patil Munenakoppa have been allocated two districts each. This is the first time after the Bommai government coming to power, each district has got an in-charge Minister as earlier Ministers were assigned districts only for Covid-19 management and for flag-hoisting at headquarters on Independence Day. As indicated recently, the Chief Minister, who will complete six months in office on January 28, will continue to remain Minister in-charge for Bengaluru development. This even as senior Minister V Somanna, currently holding the Housing portfolio, had openly expressed his desire to be made in-charge of Bengaluru amid reports that some city legislators and Ministers were expressing their reservation internally about a move to give the post to Revenue Minister R Ashoka, considered close to Bommai. With the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike elections due to take place, it was earlier widely expected that the responsibility of Bengaluru development would be allocated to a senior Minister from the city, but the Chief Minister has retained it like his predecessor BS Yediyurappa did, keeping in view the number of aspirants for it. Interestingly, B Sriramulu who represents Molakalmooru Assembly segment in Chitradurga has got his home district of Ballari; while CN Ashwath Narayana continues as Ramanagra district in-charge, where he seems to be in a turf war with Congress' "D K brothers" (KPCC chief D K Shivakumar and Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh), Ministers and districts allocated to them are- Govind Karjol (Belagavi), KS Eshwarappa (Chikkamagaluru), V Somanna (Chamarajnagara), Umesh Katti (Vijayapura), S Angara (Udupi), Araga Jnanendra (Tumakuru), C C Patil (Bagalkote), Anand Singh (Koppal), Kota Shrinivas Poojari (Uttara Kannada), Prabhu Chauhan (Yadgir), Murugesh Nirani (Kalaburagi). Also, Shivaram Hebbar (Haveri), S T Somashekar (Mysuru), B C Patil (Chitradurga and Gadag), B A Basavaraj (Davangere), K Sudhakar (Bengaluru Rural), K Gopalaiah (Hassan and Mandya), Shashikala Jolle (Vijayanagara), MTB Nagaraj (Chikkaballapura), K C Narayana Gowda (Shivamogga), B C Nagesh (Kodagu), Sunil Kumar (Dakshina Kannada), Halappa Achar (Dharwad), Shankar B Patil Munenakoppa (Raichur and Bidar), and Munirathna (Kolar). According to party sources, despite demand from several Ministers to be made in-charge of their home districts, the Chief Minister has decided against it while making appointments. Interestingly, the appointment of district in-charge Ministers has come at a time when Bommai is under pressure from party legislators to expand or rejig his Cabinet. However, there are talks in party circles that the expansion or reshuffle of the Cabinet is likely, only after the Assembly elections in five States. There are currently 30 Ministers in the State Cabinet, including the Chief Minister, against the sanctioned strength of 34. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bommai-appoints-district-in-charge-ministers-keeps-bengaluru-urban-to-himself-1074169.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Dip in new cases in Karnataka at 46,426; 41,703 discharges||Karnataka on Monday reported 46,426 new Covid cases and 32 deaths taking the active caseload in the state to 3,62,487, and toll to 38,614. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted, "Active cases stabilise as discharges increase significantly." The state discharged 41,703 patients on Monday. While the recovery rate in the past 24 hours has been 88.74 per cent, over the last week, it has been 91.21 per cent. As many as 5,230 Covid patients are admitted to various government and private health facilities across the state. Bengaluru reported 21,569 new cases and has an active case load of 2,26,385. While the state capital accounted for nine deaths, the rest of the deaths were reported from Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru and Udupi (three deaths each). Haveri and Kalaburagi reported two deaths each and ten other districts reported one death each. Haveri reported the death of a 10-year-old girl who was an ILI (influenza-like illness) patient suffering from fever. She had no comorbidities. She was admitted on January 19 and passed away two days later on January 21. The positivity rate in the state stood at 32.95 per cent and case fatality rate at 0.06 per cent. As many as 1,40,884 tests were conducted on the day. After Bengaluru, the next highest cases were reported in Mysuru (4,105), Tumakuru (2,960), Mandya (1,837), Bangalore Rural (1,607), and Dharwad (1,407). As many as 2,44,348 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Monday, taking the total vaccination doses given so far to 9,36,40,713. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dip-in-new-cases-in-karnataka-at-46426-41703-discharges-1074219.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Go to Max Mueller Bhavan, see why we need to study Sanskrit: Ashwath Narayan to pro-Kannada activists||Hitting out strongly against those who are opposing the Sanskrit University in Karnataka, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Monday clarified that the government would not step back from providing a new campus to the university. The minister said the protestors did not even bother to welcome the decision of the government to make Kannada mandatory at the undergraduate level. Speaking to media persons here after launching two digital platforms to streamline the higher education process, Narayan said, “The university has been functioning for 13 years now. But till today, it does not have a proper campus. Our government is providing a proper campus.” When asked about the campaign by pro-Kannada organisations, the minister said, “Those who are protesting must go to Max Mueller Bhavan and get enlightened on why we need to study Sanskrit.” Continuing his tirade, the Ashwath Narayan said, “No government in the past had given as much importance to Kannada as we are giving. Pro-Kannada activists, even for courtesy sake, did not welcome our decision to make Kannada a mandatory subject at the undergraduate level. But now, the High Court has ordered a stay on it.” Referring to the Kannada University at Hampi running short of grants, the minister explained, “Due to Covid pandemic, the publication wing has stopped functioning and affected the revenue to the tune of Rs 4 crore. We never said we will not give funds to Kannada University. Also, we need to keep in mind the financial situation of the state and decide accordingly.” Allaying fears over the closure of Akkamahadevi Women’s University, the minister said, “There is no such proposal before the government. In fact, we have been thinking of expanding the university. There is an urgent need to carry out research on challenges to women in various fields in the contemporary world and we have been discussing expanding the university to cater to modern needs. It is unfortunate that a few are making a controversy out of nothing.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/go-to-max-mueller-bhavan-see-why-we-need-to-study-sanskrit-ashwath-narayan-to-pro-kannada-activists-1074248.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt launches two new digital platforms to streamline exams, document verification||The higher education department launched two digital platforms here on Monday, one to authenticate the digital academic records and another to help paperless evaluation and examination process at the state-run universities. The 'e-Sahamati' initiative will ensure the authenticity of the electronic academic documents. And the third module of the Unified University College Management System (UUCMS), which was launched, will assist universities in examination and evaluation related software. Both the initiatives aim towards a paperless system. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, while launching the initiatives, said, "UUCMS examination activity software will benefit lakhs of students enrolled for higher education at various government and private universities in the state." As explained by the minister, this software, developed by the e-governance department, will save at least Rs 60 crore for the universities which are spending on outsourcing examination related works. To handle these platforms, two persons from every university have been provided hands-on training. “Apart from reducing the examination expenses, this software facilitates digital evaluation, online examination, issuing hall tickets, paying exam fees and getting marks cards online. This also curbs malpractices such as issuing fake marks cards. The universities can set specifications as per their requirements,” the minister said. The UUCMS software has been prepared by considering the provisions of National Education Policy (NEP-2020) like 'Multi Entry Multi Exit' option and awarding relevant certificates for those who discontinue courses for various reasons. The 'e-Sahamati’ initiative enables the incorporation of all examination-related data of students into the National Academic Depository (NAD), including the credits secured in each semester. All the data will be in the latest standardized encrypted form ensuring the utmost safety of the documents. Marks cards of each semester will be transferred to the ‘NAD Digilocker’. As data is updated regularly, students can upload related documents easily and employers can also get data directly from NAD Digilocker for verification. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-launches-two-new-digital-platforms-to-streamline-exams-document-verification-1074250.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC enhances award from Rs 3.73 lakh to Rs 17.6 lakh to an accident victim||The Dharwad bench of the high court said that the power of the Tribunal or the Court to award just and fair compensation to a victim is not taken away because of prayer for a lesser amount. A division bench comprising Justice S G Pandit and Justice Anant Ramanath Hegde made this observation while granting compensation higher than what was claimed by an accident victim. The victim, who suffered 40 per cent permanent disability around his pelvic region, had claimed compensation of Rs 11.75 lakh. The tribunal awarded a compensation of Rs 3.73 lakh, while the high court enhanced it to Rs 17.68 lakh. “This court is conscious of the fact that it is difficult to assess the compensation under the non-pecuniary heads as the compensation under the heads of pain and suffering, loss of amenities in life and loss of expectation of life would not come with a price label. It has to be adjudicated in each case taking into consideration several factors,” the court said. The accident had occurred on September 18, 2011, in Ranebennur. The victim was 14 years old then and was a student as well working as a supplier in a hotel. The doctor who treated the claimant assessed permanent disability at 40 per cent. According to the doctor, the condition of the patient was irreversible. The counsel for the claimant submitted that the marriage prospect of the petitioner is severely jeopardized and he cannot marry and have a family. The court said the very object of awarding compensation under non-pecuniary heads in a case relating to death or permanent disability is to restore, as far as possible, the position of the victim, to the situation that existed before the accident. The court also said that there should be some logical and rational nexus between the compensation awarded and the pain suffered by the claimant.  The high court modified the judgment and award passed by the Principal Senior Civil Judge, Ranebennur, by fixing the compensation at Rs 17.68 lakh along with interest at the rate of 6 per cent per annum from the date of the petition till the date of actual payment awarded, except for the compensation under the head of loss of future prospects and loss of amenities in life. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-enhances-award-from-rs-373-lakh-to-rs-176-lakh-to-an-accident-victim-1074251.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government's heli-tourism project takes off from upgraded Jakkur aerodrome||The tourism department’s much-awaited heli-tourism project kicked off recently at the Jakkur aerodrome as four people took flight in two separate helicopters. The department is expecting to attract more international as well as domestic travellers through this project. The Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) has signed a memorandum with private operators Thumby Aviation Pvt Ltd and Chipsan Aviation Pvt Ltd for the project. Interested travellers have to shell out Rs 5,000 per seat (approximately) to travel from Jakkur aerodrome to popular tourist destinations like Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu and Kabini backwaters in Mysuru district. Currently, the operators are taking bookings per charter and not per seat. In due course, the bookings will change to seats. “After the Covid situation comes under control, the bookings will pick up. The agency will tie up with hotels and resorts at these tourism places to pick up and drop passengers from the nearest helipad,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, secretary to the department of tourism. The KSTDC will help the agencies with various government approvals and permits, while also getting permission to use the helipads owned by the government. It will also take care of the promotion of heli-tourism. The agencies, in turn, are expected to provide a minimum of 50 trips per year for the first 2 years and 100 trips per year for the next 3 years as the contract period is 5 years. The foundation stone has been laid for building a helipad and a VIP lounge at the aerodrome for the project. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-governments-heli-tourism-project-takes-off-from-upgraded-jakkur-aerodrome-1074253.html
24-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Tech glitches hit disbursal of loans to farmers in Karnataka||With technological challenges coming in the way of making use of the 'Farmer Registration & Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS)' software for agriculture loan disbursal, the cooperation department has temporarily suspended its usage. The department has sought to stick to the traditional method of farmers registering themselves in the sub-registrars' offices for loans at least until March as a lot more training is required before the software can be used effectively, Cooperation minister S T Somashekar said on Monday. FRUITS, a database of over seven million farmers, was to make submission of documents easier for farmers. Instead of submitting the same set of documents multiple times in multiple departments, the software was supposed to provide a one-stop solution for documents.  There were several complaints raised about the loan process being delayed on account of the software, by both farmers and officials in the sub-registrar offices. As a result, the issue was raised in the Cabinet meeting and it was decided to suspend its use until everyone was trained, the minister told reporters here. Many Primary Agriculture Credit co-operative Societies (PACS) had not yet taken the 'digital key' necessary for operation of the software, according to officials in the department. The government will also take forward a project to develop a common software for all the PACSs, DCC banks and for Apex Bank. A meeting involving the heads of these banks will be held on January 27, to decide the contribution share of each of the entities. The software implementation will cost Rs 4.3 lakh per PACS, for which 60 per cent of the funds will be given by the Centre, while the rest will be shared among the Apex Bank, DCC banks and the state government, the minister added. The Centre has given three years' time for its implementation. Loan target The state has achieved 78.18 per cent progress in its target for disbursal of farmers' loans for the current fiscal. While the target was to distribute Rs 20,810 crore in loans to 30.86 lakh farmers, so far the department has distributed Rs 14,188 crore in agriculture loans covering 19.58 lakh farmers, the minister said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tech-glitches-hit-disbursal-of-loans-to-farmers-in-karnataka-1074255.html
24-01-2022||West||Fire breaks out at chemical factory in Maharashtra's Kolhapur||A massive fire broke out at a chemical plant in Kolhapur district of western Maharashtra on Monday morning, but there was no report of any casualty, fire brigade officials said. The blaze erupted in the unit located in a textile industrial estate on the outskirts of Ichalkaranji city in Kolhapur district, about 250 km from Pune . "Four fire tankers were rushed to the spot by 7.30 am and the blaze was doused by 11 am," an official from Ichalkaranji fire station said. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-factory-in-maharashtras-kolhapur-1074030.html
24-01-2022||West||NCP chief Sharad Pawar tests positive for Covid-19||NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar, one of the seniormost politicians in India, has tested positive for Covid-19 infection. 81-year-old Pawar, who is currently in Mumbai, took to social media to inform that he has tested positive. “I have tested Covid positive but there is no cause for concern. I am following the treatment suggested by my doctor,” he said. “I request all those who have been in contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested and take all necessary precautions,” said Pawar, a three-time union minister and four-time Maharashtra chief minister.  I have tested Covid positive but there is no cause for concern. I am following the treatment as suggested by my doctor.I request all those who have been in contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested and take all necessary precautions. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1074042.html
24-01-2022||West||NCP welcomes Thackeray to fight BJP at national level||A day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that Shiv Sena has wasted 25 years with BJP, the NCP, which is an alliance partner in the state, has welcomed him to the national secular front and said he would be helpful in fighting the BJP. "If Maharashtra CM believes 'Hindutva' as a way of life where there is no religious discrimination and does not agree with what Dharam sansad proclaims, he would be welcome in secular confederation to fight BJP at national level," NCP leader Majeed Memon said. The MVA, which runs the government in Maharashtra has been critical to the BJP, and party leader Nawab Malik too echoed the sentiment and alleged that the BJP wants to finish parties which allies with it. 'It's good to have pride in their own religion but should not have hatred towards others," he said. The MVA has Shiv Sena, Congress and the NCP in the government but the alliance could not be repeated in Goa despite efforts from Sena and NCP as Congress did not agree with the alliance call. However, NCP's acknowledgement of Shiv Sena outside Maharashtra could be a bigger political move to hit BJP on hindutva. But the Congress will have to rethink its strategy as it may be difficult for the grand old party to clarify Shiv Sena's past work and ideology. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said he would step out and go across the state and showcase the power of his party. He said that Sena nurtured the BJP for 25 years but in turn the saffron party it tried to finish it. He also said that the Shiv Sena has not left Hindutva and that the BJP's idea of Hindutva is hollow. He also said that BJP was opposed to the emergency but is now creating a very similar situation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-welcomes-thackeray-to-fight-bjp-at-national-level-1074044.html
24-01-2022||West||Fight every election to win: Uddhav's message to Shiv Sena cadres||With a series of elections lined up, Shiv Sena President and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has come out with a very clear, crisp and strong message for party workers: fight every election to win and spread wings.  Thackeray heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra which comprises Shiv Sena, Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress besides smaller parties and groups - a political formation after the 2019 Maharashtra Legislative Assembly elections that has kept BJP out of power.  The Shiv Sena would also be contesting elections in other states regularly.  “We have to fight every elections with the same zeal like we fight Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha polls….we have to fight the Gram Panchayat, Panchayat Samitis, Nagar Panchayats and banks, cooperative bodies,” Thackeray said on Sunday night, coinciding with the 96th birth anniversary celebrations of Shiv Sena founder late Balasaheb Thackeray.  Notably, the Shiv Sena has come in No. 4 position in the recently-concluded Nagar Panchayat polls and also lost two seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council.  “It appears that we are not fighting elections as hard as we are contesting Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha polls. We are not fighting like other parties are fighting every single election. I am also responsible for this…. We should avoid this from now on,” Thackeray said, sharing the blame for outcomes.  The message was very clear: consolidate at the Maharashtra level and also make a presence at the national level.  “We have fielded candidates in Goa and Uttar Pradesh, and will also fight polls in other states in future too. One day, Shiv Sena will be victorious in other states too and make a presence in New Delhi,” Thackeray said on the party's pan-India agenda.  "My only disappointment is that once upon a time, they were our friends. We nurtured them. As I said earlier, our 25 years in alliance with the BJP were wasted," Thackeray said speaking about the BJP. More than a dozen big Municipal Corporations of Maharashtra including Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati are set to go for polls - which would be mini-Assembly polls of sorts. Besides, several other local bodies including Municipal Councils, Zilla Parishads, Gram Panchayats and Panchayat Samitis would go for polls in the next few years.  Last year, the Shiv Sena’s Kalaben Delkar won the by-elections to Dadra and Nagar Haveli seat - the first seat the party won outside Maharashtra. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fight-every-election-to-win-uddhavs-message-to-shiv-sena-cadres-1074059.html
24-01-2022||West||Mumbai high-rise blaze: One more person dies; toll rises to 7||One more person on Monday succumbed to injuries suffered in a fire that broke out in a multi-storey residential building at Tardeo in Mumbai, raising the death toll in the incident to seven, a civic official said. The 38-year-old male patient, who was undergoing treatment at the BYL Nair Hospital, was declared dead at 7 am, the official said as per information received from doctors. Out of the 12 other injured people undergoing treatment in Bhatia Hospital, six were critical and the remaining were stable, he said, adding that another injured person being treated at Masina Hospital in Byculla area was also critical. Earlier, six people had died and 24 others were injured in the blaze that erupted on Saturday at Sachinam Heights, a ground-plus-20-storey building located opposite the Bhatia Hospital at Gowalia Tank. With the death of one more victim, the toll has gone up to seven and the number of injured people stands at 23, of whom seven have already been discharged while the others are undergoing treatment in different hospitals, the official said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-high-rise-blaze-one-more-person-dies-toll-rises-to-7-1074077.html
24-01-2022||West||Congress asks Maha CM to stop release of movie 'Why I killed Gandhi'||The Congress on Monday appealed to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to stop the upcoming telecast of the movie Why I killed Gandhi on January 30, saying it will strengthen racist tendencies. NCP MP and actor Amol Kolhe is playing the lead role of Mahatma's assassin Nathuram Godse in this movie, to be released on January 30, the death anniversary of the Father of the Nation. In a letter to CM Thackeray, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that the movie Why I killed Gandhi will be released in theatres and OTT platforms on January 30, the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, which is observed as the National Unity Day, for (upholding) communal harmony world over. “On one hand, Gandhiji's death anniversary is observed for non-violence and peace. On the other hand, Why I killed Gandhi is being released. This will give strength to racist tendencies. “The Indian culture has always opposed inhuman acts. This is why this movie should not be released in state's theatres and OTT platforms,” Patole stated in his letter. The Congress is one of the constituents of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government apart from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Recently, NCP MP and actor Amol Kolhe received flak for portraying Nathuram Godse in Why I Killed Gandhi. However, NCP chief Sharad Pawar had supported Kolhe, saying the latter's decision to act in that movie should be seen as an artist's choice. "If he played that role, it doesn't mean he subscribes to Godse's ideology or views," Pawar had told reporters on Friday. Patole also hit out at the BJP-led Central government for dropping Mahatma Gandhi's favourite hymn Abide With Me from this year's Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29. Abide With Me, written by Scottish Anglican poet and hymnologist Henry Francis Lyte in 1847, has been part of the Beating Retreat ceremony since 1950. For this year's ceremony, the hymn has been replaced by the popular patriotic song Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon, which was written by Kavi Pradeep to commemorate the supreme sacrifice made by Indian soldiers during the 1962 Indo-China war.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-asks-maha-cm-to-stop-release-of-movie-why-i-killed-gandhi-1074138.html
24-01-2022||West||Anna Hazare alleges scam in sale of Maharashtra co-op sugar mills, writes to Amit Shah for probe||Social activist Anna Hazare has written to Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah demanding a probe by a retired Supreme Court judge into the alleged Rs 25,000 crore "scam" in the selling of cooperative sugar mills in Maharashtra and their purchase at "throwaway prices". In his letter to Shah, Hazare requested that a high-power committee be set up under a retired judge of the Supreme Court to probe the alleged scam. "We have been agitating against the sale of sugar mills in connivance with politicians at the negligible value since 2009 and against irregularities in cooperative financial institutions. In 2017, we had filed a complaint in Mumbai, and one DIG-rank officer was appointed to investigate the complaint," Hazare wrote. He added that after two years, a closure report was submitted saying no irregularities were detected. "If the Maharashtra government is not ready to act against a scam worth Rs 25,000 crore, then who will take the action ?" the veteran anti-corruption activist questioned. He said the Centre had set up the ministry of cooperation for the welfare of farmers and to improve the cooperative sector. "We are of the view that it would be a good example if the Centre probes the sale of sugar mills in Maharashtra by setting up a high-level committee," he said. Hazare didn't mention the names of any cooperative sugar mills in his letter. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anna-hazare-alleges-scam-in-sale-of-maharashtra-co-op-sugar-mills-writes-to-amit-shah-for-probe-1074188.html
24-01-2022||West||Mumbai sees highest residential registrations at about 242,000 units||In what reflects an encouraging trend, 2021 saw the highest residential registrations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region in recent times at about 242,000 units. This is a 53% increase from 2020 and a 20% increase even over 2019 - and comes at a time when the country is reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic.  These statistics are part of the ‘MMR Housing Uptick aided by Support’ research report, conducted jointly by CREDAI MCHI, Colliers and CRE Matrix and released on Monday. The government in September 2020, reduced stamp duty charges from 5% to 2% for all residential transactions for the period September to December 2020 and 3% for the subsequent quarter of January - March 2021.  Other factors such reduced home loan rates, largely stable prices, pent-up demand and a higher inclination to own home too contributed to a spurt in sales during the year. Boman Irani, Incoming President of CREDAI-MCHI said: “A series of positive actions and continuous encouragement by the Maharashtra government ensured that the real estate sector and the overall economy gets a boost. Premium reductions led to 5x collections as compared to an average year. Further, the reduction in stamp duty helped in doubling the number of flats sold.” Notably, almost Rs 1.30 lakh crore worth of residential flats were sold in the period of October, 2020 to March, 2021. All of these led to an indirect collection of GST wherein the state received 9% of the construction costs as GST and further 2.5% GST on value of apartments sold. “It is a win-win situation for everybody as rationalisation of charges and taxes is leading to overall growth. We are confident that the overall services and employment industry will also benefit from this spillover effect,” he said.  Central Mumbai (Dadar, Lower Parel, Worli, Sewri, Mahim, Matunga, Parel, Wadala) saw the maximum revival in sales in 2021. Registrations here rose 93% from 2019 and 71% from 2020. Thane accounted for the highest number of registrations with 42% share, and highest stamp duty collection. “If the demand persists in a similar trend led by huge propensity to purchase, the market will see better demand-supply equilibrium in 2022. There could also be a 2-5% increase in prices in the latter half of the year. Overall, aspects like easier conversion of land-use, single-window clearances and sops to migrant workers are important for equitable growth,” said Ramesh Nair, CEO, India and Managing Director, Market Development, Asia, Colliers. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-sees-highest-residential-registrations-at-about-242000-units-1074192.html
24-01-2022||West||Murder-accused Indrani Mukerjea submits application before Mumbai court claiming Sheena Bora is alive||Former media baron Indrani Mukerjea on Monday submitted a hand-written application before a special court here claiming her daughter Sheena Bora, whom she is accused of killing, is alive. Mukerjea, in the 8-page application submitted through her lawyer Sana Raees Khan, sought the court to direct the CBI, the prosecution, to file an affidavit in response to her claims. Mukerjea has sought to know if the Central Bureau of Investigation has taken any steps to ascertain her claims that Sheena Bora was alive. As per the application, in November 2021, a woman introduced herself as Asha Korke, a former police inspector who was arrested in an extortion case also involving former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, inside the Byculla women's prison. Korke allegedly told Mukerjea that in June 2021, she was in Srinagar where she met a woman who looked like Sheena Bora. When Korke approached the woman and asked if she was Sheena Bora, the woman replied in the affirmative, the application said. "The lady is said to have asked Korke 'how do you know me' and 'who are you'. Korke claims she revealed that she was a police inspector with the Maharashtra government, to which Sheena replied 'have you come to put me behind bars'," the application added. It further claimed Korke then tried to reason with Sheena to come forward and reveal the truth so that her incarcerated parents are set free. Her application claimed that Sheena refused, saying she had started a new life and did not wish to return to her old life. Indrani Mukerjea was arrested in 2015 along with her then husband Peter Mukerjea and her former husband Sanjeev Khanna in connection with the killing of her daughter Sheena Bora. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/murder-accused-indrani-mukerjea-submits-application-before-mumbai-court-claiming-sheena-bora-is-alive-1074268.html
