25-01-2022||Comment||Indian democracy needs an upgrade in 2022||In 2022, we commemorate important events that led to the creation of modern India, and also events that threatened its very foundations: 100 years since the Non-Cooperation Movement, 90 years since the Poona Pact, 80 years since the launch of the Quit India Movement, 75 years of Independence, the 70th anniversary of India’s first general election, and by extension, India’s first Parliament, and more. To commemorate these events, it is worth examining the limitations and flaws in our democracy. India must move power away from its centralised executive and devolve fiscal and political powers to states, local governments, and various independent institutions, in order to live up to the legacy of these events and struggles. Throughout the freedom struggle, the Indian National Congress (INC), which led it, argued that independent India should have a strong central government to quell secessionist tendencies in the fragmented British Raj. At Independence, Partition, religious and linguistic polarisation and the integration of the princely states underscored the need for provisions to allow the Union to take on emergency powers. However, the perils of a centralised State became clear during Indira Gandhi’s reign. She imposed President’s Rule 50 times during her reign, constrained judicial independence, and finally assumed dictatorial powers by imposing Emergency in 1975. After the Emergency was lifted, aspects of the Indian Constitution that allowed for centralisation were curtailed. For example, the threshold for declaring an Emergency was raised by the 43rd and 44th amendments to the Constitution (1978), while the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments (1992-93) formally recognised local government bodies (LGBs) as a third-tier of government. The coalition era (1989-2014) resulted in natural constraints on the Union government in imposing its rule unilaterally. In turn, conventions and practices emerged to protect states’ rights; nonetheless, centralising provisions were not removed, such as the Governor’s office, the influence of central agencies, and the abuse of the Concurrent List. In order to strengthen India’s democracy, these vestiges of the Raj must be reformed. First, the Union should empower states and LGBs to take on more responsibilities to govern through further political and fiscal decentralisation. Evidence shows that successes in managing Covid-19 outbreaks were a result of decentralised governance, as seen in Kerala and in Mumbai. Globally, local governments such as in Tokyo, Manchester and New York City have shown their mettle in responding to crises while relying on higher levels of government for coordination and funding, and in some cases, disregarding central directives in favour of more effective measures. Public health measures must be discussed extensively with stakeholders, from LGBs to Parliament. For example, the UK Parliament voted on the imposition of Covid-19 restrictions in England but could not legislate on public health measures in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. On the other hand, when India first entered lockdown in March 2020, announced with a four-hour notice, the Union government justified it under the Disaster Management Act (2006) and Epidemic Diseases Act (1897), without consulting the states, ministries, or Parliament, even though health is a state subject. These laws provide, in effect, for centralised authority over the country without using emergency powers. Fiscal decentralisation must be accelerated to empower LGBs and states to be more effective in governing. The deployment of GST revenues to states has been repeatedly delayed, even as states have increased spending to support citizens during the pandemic, despite Union control. The asymmetry between the Union’s powers and governance expectations at a local level undermines federalism and, in turn, harms development outcomes. Second, colonial vestiges of the State, such as the office of Governor, must be reformed or even eliminated, to protect states’ rights. The office of the Governor was retained after Independence to allow competent individuals to provide guidance to fledgling governments and respond to insurgencies. However, the office has become a useful outpost for party loyalists, who frequently target Opposition governments. Over time, Governors have abused pocket vetoes to stall the implementation of legislation and have aired their grievances against elected governments that they are meant to support. Reducing the discretionary powers of the Governor, while strengthening qualifications to become one, and imposing a fixed timeline under which s/he can review legislation, are important steps to curb the excesses of this office. Third, Parliament’s role in drafting and debating legislation must be strengthened. A combination of the US and UK’s approaches may help. For starters, legislation could be created in Parliament itself, rather than having the government introduce bills and then having the discretion whether or not to send them to committees for scrutiny, which allows the Executive to determine the legislative agenda and schedule. Rather, these committees should be the first place for legislation to be conceptualised and evaluated, before going to Parliament. To strengthen trust between the government and Opposition, leading posts in Parliament could be given to Opposition members, such as the role of the Lok Sabha Speaker and Deputy Speaker, and Deputy Chairperson of the Rajya Sabha. Parliament should also be in session more often, with gaps of no longer than two months at a stretch. Ordinances should only be in effect for a short time as a response to emergencies, and not be used as an alternative to legislation by Parliament. Indian independence was achieved by a commitment to the ideals of democracy and secularism, while the modern Indian State was created to respond to a range of crises, from communalism and poverty to secessionist tendencies and movements. The State’s ability and tendency to centralise power is undermining the country’s democracy and, in turn, undermining the very ideals it was built on. If India is to celebrate the enduring legacy of the freedom struggle and its democratic ideals in 2022, it must diffuse power across the government, laterally and to lower levels of government. (The writer studied History and Anthropology at Stanford University) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/indian-democracy-needs-an-upgrade-in-2022-1074626.html
25-01-2022||In Perspective||Protect the Constitution, it’ll protect the nation||We are, undoubtedly, a great nation. We are recognised the world over as a nation of consequence despite being a developing country. This is on account of our several achievements and distinctions, normally considered benchmarks of a developed country. We are also a nation of many diversities and contradictions. Yet, we are a strong nation. We are home to most religions of the world. We have hundreds of languages and dialects, something inconceivable for most countries. We are a miniature world by ourselves. An oyster holding a hundred resplendent pearls! There is no country like India, with such variety in its people, geography, nature, culture and food habits. But do we realise how rare and precious this is?  How these diversities complement each other, making the fine tapestry that is India! We ought to preserve this rich and elegant diversity by cultivating an inclusive culture of tolerance and mutual respect, irrespective of our faith, language or region. This, in fact, is the very soul of our nationhood. Peaceful co-existence is a necessity for our country’s onward march to progress and prosperity. If ever we disregard this and start distorting the secular, inclusive fabric of our nation, we will be embarking on a perilous course of backwardness and self-annihilation. We cannot reach the status of a developed nation without ensuring the unity and integrity of our country. Unfortunately, we hear shrill discordant noises here and there, weakening our credentials. This tendency has been gaining ground for some time. Gandhiji had repeatedly expressed his angst about our reluctance to be united in body and spirit. Jawaharlal Nehru repeatedly expressed his absolute faith in our ‘unity in diversity’. All our freedom fighters had one single dream -- of a country where all Indians stand united, strong and patriotic. This was the clarion call of our hard-won independence. Every one of us has to experience this inner urge to be a full-blooded Indian. Once independent, we decided to be a Republic – a parliamentary democracy in which supreme power is held by the people and their elected representatives. We, the people, gave ourselves a Constitution that is often hailed as one of the best in the world. Babasaheb Ambedkar, acclaimed as the architect of this very comprehensive document, envisaged it as the very soul of our nationhood. One that assures the establishment of a truly egalitarian nation.   No matter which party come to power, or what ideology it professes, our nationhood and the fundamental rights of every citizen shall remain inviolable. That’s the assurance of our Constitution. No government shall try to alter the basic tenets of the Constitution for whatever reason. If they do, it will be a perversion and a betrayal of the very spirit of this sacred document which is based on truth, peace, justice, equality and fraternity. Any attempt to alter the quintessential character of the Constitution or violate its spirit will be a gross misadventure and a massive betrayal. If ever such an attempt is made, it is incumbent upon the judiciary to thwart it. Part III of our Constitution, which is our magna carta, should remain undiluted for posterity to value and cherish. If we cannot protect the fundamental rights of all our citizens, irrespective of their religion, we cease to be a republic, because that’s the mandate of our Constitution. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel said, “What we need is the heart’s unity. That unity can come only when the majority takes courage in both hands and is prepared to change places with the minority. That would be the highest wisdom”. He was advocating empathy. In fact, no conflict will prevail if there is a spirit of empathy, be it in family or community or nation. An independent judiciary is the final guarantor of a republic. The judiciary must be independent, incorruptible, and impartial. It is the bulwark of a true democracy. A judiciary that is subservient to the executive or legislature, or beholden to them for any reason, and swayed by extraneous considerations, will be a curse, an unmitigated disaster. The common man’s last bastion of hope is the judiciary, even as all others fail.  A great nation is not created overnight. Modern India was built over the last 75 years. Warts and all, we have made remarkable strides. We must not fritter away our gains by creating ‘narrow domestic walls’ and by being a house divided against itself. Our elected leaders have to display statesmanship in taking decisions. They are entrusted with the responsibility to preserve, protect and practice the values enshrined in the Constitution. It is incumbent upon them to nurture these noble goals unflinchingly, with totally selfless commitment.  Nationhood transcends everything, and it has to be preserved and celebrated. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Institutions, Brahmavar, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/protect-the-constitution-it-ll-protect-the-nation-1074624.html
25-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Davangere: Elderly couple found murdered in home||Unidentified persons allegedly murdered an elderly couple at Elebetur village in the taluk on Monday night.  Gurusiddaiah (80) and Sarojamma (75), who have three daughters, all married, were alone in the house when thieves entered on Monday night and murdered them. The incident came to light when neighbours entered the house on Tuesday morning to talk to the couple. The reason behind the murder is yet to be ascertained.  Forensic experts and a police sniffer dog visited the spot to get evidence. Davangere Rural Police has registered a case.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-elderly-couple-found-murdered-in-home-1074427.html
25-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||MCC team to visit apartments to collect property taxes||Mangaluru City Corporation has initiated a drive to collect property tax under self assessment scheme (SAS) by visiting the apartments through the resident welfare association of the apartment, said Mayor Premananda Shetty. The visit has helped to update the data of the flat owners and other minute details in the system of the MCC. The officials are visiting the apartments with laptops, so that data can be updated and the property tax can be collected via online mode of payment. In case if the residents are unable to pay online, a challan is generated to help the residents to pay it in the bank branches, said the Mayor to reporters. There are around 5000 apartments in the MCC limits. There are over 2 lakh properties in Mangaluru City Corporation limits. After the online system of property tax payment was introduced on November 1, 2021, as many as 23,000 property taxes have been paid using the online application. A sum of Rs 7.04 crore property tax has been collected since November. Stating that the data base of the available property owners are incomplete, the Mayor said that the previous year's property tax paid details are not uploaded properly. Even changes in khata are also not reflected in the system with the new owner's name. Those who are facing such issues while paying property tax online have to visit the concerned officer to get it updated in the system to pay the property tax. The Mangaluru City Corporation will deploy additional data entry operators in the MCC office, to ensure that citizens are not inconvenienced while paying property tax. The Mayor said that owing to lack of available information on the properties, the MCC could not carry out verification of the properties under Self Assessment Scheme since 2008. Now, with the online payment system, the MCC will get all the details in the next one year, which will help the urban local body to carry out verification of the properties in the future. In fact, with the property owners failing to furnish accurate information on the properties, especially the plinth area of the property, the MCC was losing the tax amount. Once the property owners start paying the property tax online, then the MCC will send SMS to the registered phone numbers with the link to pay the tax along with the amount of tax to be paid. To pay the tax online, citizens have to open the link www.mccpropertytax.in/public and enter a 10-digit mobile phone number to generate an OTP. The citizens should also verify whether building number, khata number, property ID, address of property holder is in order and furnish the required details as sought. In case if property is given on rent, then the name of the tenant along with their details should be submitted. The details like the road in which the property is situated, and kind of property—commercial, residential and non- residential should be clearly furnished. After furnishing the plinth area of property along with other details sought, tax amount for payment will be generated, which can be paid through netbanking using debit card, GooglePay, PhonePe, or through bank transfer. MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that teams have been constituted to verify the tax payment details by visiting the houses, business establishments. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-team-to-visit-apartments-to-collect-property-taxes-1074448.html
25-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||HIMS Associate Prof suspended for sexually abusing resident doctor||An Associate Professor of Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) has ben suspended for reportedly sexually abusing a house surgeon. Dr H C Lokesh, Associate Professor in the Department of General Medicine, was reported to have misbehaved with the house surgeon in front of students. He also kissed her forcefully in the lift on January 12. Later, Lokesh threatened the victim with dire consequences if she complained against him. However, the house surgeon took the matter to Dr M R Suresh, Head of Department of General Medicine on January 13. Suresh forwarded the same to the HIMS Director Dr B C Ravi Kumar, who reported the complaint to the Department of Medical Education. Secretary to Medical Education Naveen Raj Singh ordered for the suspension of Lokesh. A departmental inquiry has been ordered in the case. Additional Deputy Commissioner Kavita Rajaram and HIMS Administrative Officer Girish Nandan will conduct the inquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hims-associate-prof-suspended-for-sexually-abusing-resident-doctor-1074505.html
25-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Man kills father after told to quit crime in Chitradurga||In a horrifying incident, a 28-year old man allegedly killed his father when the latter prevented the former from indulging in thievery at Valluruhalli Bharamasagar Kapile in Challakere taluk of the district on Monday night. Gudlu Mallaiah (70) is the deceased while Lokesh (28) is the accused.  Lokesh had been part of many theft cases for the past many days and even cases were registered against him in Nayakanahatti, Talaku police stations. The cases had tarnished the family's image in society. So family members had asked Lokesh to give up thievery and do some other job to earn respect. But he had continued his crime. This led to a verbal duel between the father and son on Monday night. In order to prevent him from going out, the father tried to tie his son's hands and legs with a rope. Lokesh hit his father with his foot. Mallaiah's head sustained injuries and he succumbed on the spot. Panicked by this, family members tied Lokesh to a tree and handed over him to the police on Tuesday.  Additional Superintendent of Police Kumaraswamy, Circle Police Inspector Ramakanth, police sub inspector Mahesh Lakshmana Hosapete, Assistant sub inspector Nagaraj visited the house. Nayakanahatti police registered a case.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-kills-father-after-told-to-quit-crime-in-chitradurga-1074514.html
25-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Mahindra top brass vows remedial action for Tumakuru showroom ruckus||Top brass of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd on Tuesday promised urgent remedial action a day after it emerged that a farmer, who came to buy a pick-up truck of the company, was allegedly insulted by a sales staff at a showroom in Tumakuru, Karnataka. A video of the incident that went viral wherein the farmer claimed that he had been told that he probably didn’t even have “Rs 10 in his pocket” by a sales staff when he went to buy a Bolero pick-up truck, which “costs Rs 10 lakh”. Reacting to social media posts, M&M Chairman Anand Mahindra said in a tweet, “The Core Purpose of @MahindraRise is to enable our communities & all stakeholders to Rise. And a key Core Value is to uphold the Dignity of the Individual. Any aberration from this philosophy will be addressed with great urgency.” “We are investigating the incident and will take appropriate action, in the case of any transgression, including counselling & training of frontline staff,” M&M Ltd CEO Automotive Division Veejay Nakra tweeted. In the video, the farmer and his friends claimed he was dismissed by the sales person on the basis of his appearance. After an argument broke out, the farmer dared the salesperson to arrange for same-day delivery of vehicle if he came back with the money within an hour. When he returned with cash, the salesperson could not manage instant delivery due to long waiting period. The farmer and his friends then demanded apology from the salesperson as heated arguments followed and the police had to intervene. While the sale staff apologised, the farmer left saying he didn’t want to buy from the showroom. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mahindra-top-brass-vows-remedial-action-for-tumakuru-showroom-ruckus-1074608.html
25-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Pride in heart for tricolour-makers and no prejudice for low wages||Pride fills the air at the country’s only authorised (BIS-recognised) national flag production centre in Hubballi.  Flags that flutter atop buildings, ranging from the GP office to the Rashtrapati Bhavan, are made at this very unit.      Of the 21 workers here, 20 are women and their deft hands stitch the flags with a sense of pride in their hearts, the ‘not-so-encouraging’ wages they get notwithstanding.    Most of the workers at the Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha’s flag production centre at Bengeri are working ever since the centre’s inception. Demand for the flags soars ahead of Independence Day and Republic Day each year. But the times have been testing for this institution in the last two years, owing to the Covid pandemic. The workers here are not so satisfied with the wages they get for the piece work, but they aren’t giving up their jobs, thanks to the honour that comes with the job.  No high wages Among the 21 workers, 14 persons get wages as per their piece work like colouring, curing, stitching and toggling, while the rest get a salary. Everything has to be done as per strict norms of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and the flag code, the staff say. “I do piece-work of stitching, and I usually earn up to Rs 300 for a full day’s work. Not all days are the same, though,” says Vanishri Pawar, who is working here for the last 16 years.  “But, we do get facilities like PF and ESI,” says Ramdas, the only male worker at the centre. Annapurna Koti, the manager, admits that the workers get less than Rs 300 per day. They earn extra for overtime duty before national festivals. “We look at this work as national service. Production has picked up now, compared to the last two years,” she said. “The union government’s cost-chart committee revises the prices occasionally,” says Sangha secretary Shivanand Mathapati.  The Sangha sold flags worth Rs 90 lakh from April to December in 2020, and the sales in the corresponding period in 2021 reached Rs 1.8 crore. “We used to cross the business target in the pre-Covid times. The demand for new flags plummeted during the Covid period,” he says. The Sangha had sold flags worth Rs 15.12 lakh in 2005-06, and the figure reached Rs 2.8 crore in 2018-19. “We may not be able to reach the Rs 3.5-crore target for 2021-22. We already have flags worth around Rs 50 lakh in stock, but have not stopped production. We have a capacity is to produce flags worth Rs four crore per year,” Mathapati added. The maximum demand is for flags measuring 2X3 feet and 2x3.45 feet. Only a few flags with the maximum size of 21X14 feet are sold, he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pride-in-heart-for-tricolour-makers-and-no-prejudice-for-low-wages-1074642.html
25-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||No one is leaving BJP, asserts Bommai||Amid a flurry of claims and counter-claims, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said no BJP leader will be joining Congress. "This shows that Congress is feeling insecure," Bommai told reporters, responding to claims made by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar that some BJP leaders are in touch with them. Bommai said such statements by Congress leaders are due to the differences within their own party. "No one is leaving the BJP. Many have joined us saying that they did not want to be part of Congress," he said. "I won't analyze the ongoing political developments. But, wait for a few days and you'll see how the BJP will be strengthened in the state." Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel dismissed claims that BJP leaders will join the Congress. Kateel said that Congress leaders were day-dreaming. He also said that Congress leaders are afraid of the defeat in the next general Assembly elections and are issuing such statements after learning that BJP is winning. "They are making such statements to create confusion and to divert people's attention," he said. "I want to clarify as BJP president that none from BJP are in touch with the Congress." Meanwhile, former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said several Congress MLAs are ready to join the BJP. Ramesh was widely seen as the architect of the defections from the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019 that helped the BJP come to power. According to Ramesh, there were 36 MLAs who were supposed to join the BJP. "Only 17 people joined and the rest did not come due to technical reasons," he said. "Of the remaining 19, three are from the JD(S) and won't be touched as I have a good relationship with JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy." Asked if he will bring the 16 MLAs to the BJP if the party high command approves, Ramesh said: "Let's see." Speaking in Tumakuru, former deputy chief minister of the Congress G Parameshwara said many BJP legislators may join the Congress in the coming days. "Soon after the Cabinet expansion or reshuffle such a development can be expected, as many disgruntled BJP MLAs will approach us," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-one-is-leaving-bjp-asserts-bommai-1074534.html
25-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||M B Patil named KPCC campaign panel chief||The Congress on Tuesday appointed senior leader M B Patil as the party's Karnataka campaign committee chairperson, a key organisational role ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls. AICC General Secretary KC Venugopal, in a release, said that Patil’s appointment was approved by AICC president Sonia Gandhi. With this elevation, Patil will be at the helm of affairs in drawing up a strategy and setting the tone for the party’s election campaign. That Patil will be made chairperson of the campaign committee was doing the rounds for several months. Patil, a former minister for water resources and home, is seen as the Congress’ emerging Lingayat face in north Karnataka. He even came out in support of BJP veteran B S Yediyurappa, also a Lingayat, at the time of his replacement as chief minister. This was seen as a strategy to score brownie points with the Lingayat community that is seen as the BJP’s support base. Also, Patil was a prominent face of the movement that demanded ‘separate religious status’ for the Lingayat faith. It is said that Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah supported Patil’s elevation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/m-b-patil-named-kpcc-campaign-panel-chief-1074542.html
25-01-2022||Mysuru||Headmaster sexually abuses minor student||A school headmaster reportedly sexually abused a high school student in H D Kote taluk in the district. The headmaster abused the girl in the classroom. However, the students recored a video of the incident. The parents of the children lodged a complaint against the headmaster with the Block Education Officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/headmaster-sexually-abuses-minor-student-1074469.html
25-01-2022||National||Neglected infectious diseases may be tomorrow's pandemic, warns Bharat Biotech chief Krishna Ella||Bharat Biotech International Limited Chairman Dr Krishna Ella on Monday said today's neglected infectious diseases could be tomorrow's global pandemic and stressed the need to have a coherent strategy to fight them. He said this during an event organised as part of the 38 foundation day celebrations by CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is credited to be India's first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine to be approved and administered to a sizeable population across the globe. Delivering this year's foundation day lecture virtually on “Innovation and Leadership in Pandemic”, Ella highlighted how today's neglected infectious diseases could be tomorrow's global pandemic and stressed the need to have a coherent strategy to fight infectious diseases, according to an CSIR-IMTECH statement. During his lecture, Dr Ella highlighted how innovative technology in vaccine development is essential to solve public healthcare problems caused by infectious diseases. He said Indian pharmaceutical companies need to innovate beyond generic vaccines to be a global player in the vaccine market. He stressed the need for scientists to examine the unknowns that could be the future cause of pandemic through zoonotic and unknown viruses. A serial entrepreneur with a passion for innovative ideas, Bharat Biotech has also ventured into veterinary vaccines, food processing, and developing biotechnology infrastructure in the country. Dr Ella is also involved in shaping India's science education and policy through his association with several committees, said the statement. Dr Shekhar C Mande, Secretary, Department of Scientific and Industrial Research & Director General CSIR, asked scientists to focus on microbiome therapies, which could be future game changer for treating diseases. Dr Sanjeev Khosla, Director, CSIR-IMTECH, lauded efforts of scientists and researchers for the work carried out to fight the pandemic during the challenging times of Covid-19. The CSIR-IMTECH is a national centre for excellence in microbial sciences and was established in 1984. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neglected-infectious-diseases-may-be-tomorrows-pandemic-warns-bharat-biotech-chief-krishna-ella-1074276.html
25-01-2022||National||Telecom Department will not interfere in mobile manufacturing: Vaishnaw||Communications and IT Minister Ashwani Vaishnaw on Monday said the telecom department will not interfere in matters related to mobile phone manufacturing. His comments came amid the industry's apprehensions that there could be heavy regulations if the Department of Telecom decides to control the mobile manufacturing activities. "The telecom department is not going to enter mobile manufacturing at all. That regime is not going to change," Vaishnaw said after the release of a vision document on electronics manufacturing. At present, the Ministry of Electronics and IT is the nodal organisation to manage matters related to mobile manufacturing. Vaishnaw also said that the government is also working on fine-tuning the labour laws to support hiring a large number of workforce by big companies and allowing residential facilities within the campuses of firms. He said that housing within the campus is not allowed but asked mobile phone makers to give a location where the government can work and find out the laws that need to be fine-tuned to meet the industry requirements. "PLI is a very successful method that has helped electronics manufacturing. Second way is to develop large format industrial zones. These are not SEZs. These are places where industry will be able to get plug and play kind of set-up. That is what we are working with the industry," Vaishnaw said. He said that the industry has demanded to enable provisions for setting up large factories which can hire 40,000 to 1 lakh workers. "This requires a lot of change in the labour regulations. The labour minister is very positive on this. He feels that it is a very high doable thing. This is not something which requires major change in the legal framework. It is very much possible with administrative action," the minister said. He was addressing mobile manufacturers during the release of a vision document which states that electronics manufacturing can reach $300 billion by 2026 with pro-active support from the government. The National Policy on Electronics (NPE) 2019 had set a target of achieving a turnover of $400 billion by 2025.       However, the industry will be unable to achieve the target set by NPE 2019, due to the adverse impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the sector, the report said, adding that "the Covid-19 pandemic brought with it unforeseen and unprecedented challenges". India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) Chairman Pankaj Mohindroo while sharing the details of the report said that the reduced target still aims for a 400 per cent increase from the current level, which will require significant and persistent policy initiatives and efforts to create a conducive electronics manufacturing ecosystem. He said that the government should not make any changes in the tax tariff without consultation with the industry.       Mohindroo said that there is a need to encourage domestic champions.       The report estimates demand for electronic products in India may stand at approximately $180 billion by 2025-26. "If India is able to achieve the manufacturing target of $300 billion for electronics, the domestic market demand may be met in full by such manufacturing. This necessitates that $120 billion worth of electronic products would be required to be exported to the global market," the report said. Mohindroo said that mobile phones are expected to contribute around $60 billion in the export target.   Ministry of Electronics and IT secretary Ajay Sawhney said that it is time to enter into new product segments like robotics, automation etc, to achieve the targets. "Getting into a new product segment is very essential. It is a new segment that can take us to where we want to be. We should be planning for the globe," Sawhney said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telecom-department-will-not-interfere-in-mobile-manufacturing-vaishnaw-1074282.html
25-01-2022||National||President Kovind to address nation today on eve of 73rd Republic Day||President Ram Nath Kovind will address the nation on Tuesday on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day, a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique issued on Monday night said. The address will be broadcast from 7 pm on the entire national network of All India Radio (AIR) and telecast over all channels of Doordarshan in Hindi followed by the English version, it said. Broadcast of the address in Hindi and English on Doordarshan will be followed by broadcast in regional languages by regional channels of Doordarshan, the communique said. AIR will broadcast regional language versions from 9.30 pm onwards on its respective regional networks, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-to-address-nation-today-on-eve-of-73rd-republic-day-1074306.html
25-01-2022||National||Youth at centre of policies being framed by government: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged youngsters to support the 'Vocal for Local' campaign just as they had taken forward the cleanliness campaign in the country and asserted that the youth are at the centre of all policies being framed by his government. During an online interaction with the recipients of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, Modi also talked about the unveiling of the hologram statue of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose at the India Gate and said the "biggest inspiration we get from Netaji is - duty and nation first". "Taking inspiration from Netaji, you have to proceed on your path of duty for the country," the prime minister said. Twenty-nine children, including 14 girls, were awarded in six fields - innovation, scholastic achievements, sports, arts and culture, social service and bravery. The Bal Puraskar recipients were awarded certificates digitally using blockchain technology. Each child was also given a medal and a cash prize of Rs 1,00,000. The youth are at the centre of all policies being framed by his government, the prime minister said and added that the country feels proud to see that CEOs of all the big companies of the world are young Indians. Calling for support to the 'Vocal for Local' campaign, Modi said children had played a major role in the success of the Swachh Bharat campaign and asked them to encourage people around them to use Indian goods. “Just like you came forward for the cleanliness campaign, you should also come forward for the Vocal for Local campaign. You count at home, make a list of the products that are not made in India, and urge the people of the house that when a similar product is bought in the future, it should be made in India” the prime minister said. Noting that women are doing wonders in areas where they were not even allowed earlier, he said this is the new India that does not hold back from innovating and is known for courage and resilience. "Today we feel proud when we see that the youth of India are innovating and taking the country forward." "Today we feel proud when we see that the CEOs of all the big companies of the world are young Indians and when we see the youth of India achieve laurels in the world of startups," Modi said. Speaking to many of the children who received the awards, the prime minister praised their grit, determination and passion to make a difference in their chosen fields. He also lauded the children for their participation in the COVID-19 vaccination programme, saying they have shown their modern and scientific thinking. "More than 40 million children got coronavirus vaccine till now since January 3," he said. Interacting with Master Meedhansh Kumar Gupta from Punjab, the prime minister enquired about his achievement of creating an app on COVID issues. Modi said that in children like Meedhansh he feels that the government's efforts to promote entrepreneurship are bearing fruit and a tendency to become job providers instead of being job seekers is becoming more pronounced. Prime Minister Modi enquired from Kumari Tarushi Gaur from Chandigarh about her opinion on the balance between sports and studies. The prime minister asked why Tarushi idolises Boxer Mary Kom. She replied that she likes her because of her commitment to excellence and the balance that she strikes as a sportsperson and as a mother. Modi said that the government is committed to providing all the facilities to sportspersons and creating a mindset of winning at every level. He also described these children as an inspiration for the whole society. "You all must work keeping in mind how your work can help the country," the prime minister said while interacting with the Rashtriya Bal Puraskar recipients. He also said that these awards become all the more significant in the light of the fact that they have been conferred during the important period when the country is celebrating Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to mark the 75th year of independence. He said this is the time to draw energy from the past and dedicate oneself to achieving great results in the coming 25 years of the Amrit Kaal. The prime minister also recalled the contribution of the freedom fighters - Birbala Kanaklata Barua, Khudiram Bose and Rani Gaidinilu. “These fighters had made the country's freedom the mission of their lives at a very young age and had dedicated themselves for it,” Modi noted. "'Another example is the bravery and sacrifice of the sons of Guru Gobind Singhji... Their sacrifice for India's civilisation, culture, faith and religion is incomparable," Modi said. The prime minister also greeted everyone on the occasion of National Girl Child Day. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-at-centre-of-policies-being-framed-by-government-pm-modi-1074314.html
25-01-2022||National||Air India to conduct pre-flight checks of cabin crew's grooming, BMI; staff term order 'dehumanising'||Air India has decided to check grooming and measure the body mass index (BMI) of cabin crew members at the airports just before their flights, according to an official order. The carrier's two unions — Air India Employees' Union (AIEU) and All India Cabin Crew Association (AICCA) — on Monday wrote a letter to Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) Vikram Dev Dutt opposing the order on the grounds that it is dehumanising and in violation of rules prescribed by aviation regulator DGCA. "BMI is a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in metres. A high BMI can indicate high body fatness," stated the website of US' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The order dated January 20, 2022, has come days before Air India's hand over to the Tata group, which acquired the carrier in a competitive bidding process last year. Cabin crew, who are well dressed and well-groomed according to uniform standards and regulations, present a positive and professional image of the airline, the order stated. "It is therefore emphasized that, all cabin crew adhere to uniform regulations communicated by the circular dated November 18, 2019," the order noted. The January 20 order was sent by Vasudha Chandana, Executive Director – In-flight Services, Air India, to all cabin crew members in the carrier. "Grooming associates have been assigned the task of recording observations on the BMI management/grooming/uniform turnout of cabin crew when they report for a flight or standby duty at CCMCO (Cabin Crew Movement Control Office)," she noted.  These observations must be compiled and sent to her office, she stated.  Each cabin crew shall be observed or assessed once on quarterly basis, she noted. However, it will be the responsibility of the cabin supervisor of the flight to ensure that her or his set of crew are well turned out and follow complete uniform regulations, she mentioned. All cabin supervisors must lead by example and ensure compliance by cabin crew at all times, she stated. Any non-compliance by a crew member must be noted in the report of the cabin supervisor, she noted. In a letter to the CMD, the aforementioned two unions said that as per DGCA's rules, the BMI checks can be done only by medical practitioners. The unions said that such BMI checks at airports by non-medical “grooming associates” violates not only DGCA rules but also "settled service conditions and court orders". "We must stipulate that we are not objecting to BMI checks, which crew have undergone for more than 15 years now, however, the same must be conducted by medical doctors, in the privacy of the Air India clinic, as has been the case until now," the unions noted. This process of weighing scale checks at airports "dehumanises and denigrates" Air India's cabin crew, apart from violating working conditions, they stated. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-to-conduct-pre-flight-checks-of-cabin-crews-grooming-bmi-staff-term-order-dehumanising-1074336.html
25-01-2022||National||59 cameras, 160+ personnel – DD readies for Republic Day coverage||Fifty-nine cameras spread over a distance of around 2 km from Rashtrapati Bhavan on the Raisina Hills to the National War Memorial near India Gate will capture the Republic Day parade for Doordarshan on Wednesday. Around 160 personnel, including video journalists, are being deployed for the live coverage that attracts millions of viewers. Officials said special arrangements have also been made in association with the Indian Air Force to showcase the new elements of the fly-past of a large fleet of aircraft — 75 in number to celebrate 75 years of independence. Of the 59 cameras, 33 cameras are deployed on the Rajpath, 16 at National War Memorial, India Gate and National Stadium and 10 at Rashtrapati Bhawan.  Two 360-degree cameras will provide a panoramic view of the parade, one on the Rajpath and the other on the top of India Gate. Visuals from both these cameras will be continuously live-streamed through two separate streams on DD National YouTube channel.  Other arrangements include a camera installed on a 120 feet hydraulic crane in between the National War Memorial and India Gate, which officials said would provide “breath-taking shots” of the Rajpath. Special remotely controlled PTZ (Pan, Tilt, Zoom) cameras have been installed in Presidential Enclosure and on Rajpath.  Doordarshan is also using five Jimmy Jibs, a combination of 100X and 86XTally lenses, more than 15 wide-angle lenses and Abacus lenses are also being used for a new experience of viewing, officials said. With the preparations for the coverage of the national celebrations starting in November last year, a makeshift Production Control Room has been set up on Rajpath. All major spots have been connected through dark fibre optical connectivity, satellite connectivity and backpack connectivity.  The high definition visuals will be made more engaging through animated graphics and commentators will be elaborating upon every detail as the event unfolds. There will be sign language interpretation of the commentary. The coverage will start on all Doordarshan channels across the country from 9:15 am till the end of events at Rajpath. Live coverage will also be available on DD National, DD News YouTube channels and on NewsOnAir App and websites. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/59-cameras-160-personnel-dd-readies-for-republic-day-coverage-1074337.html
25-01-2022||National||With 2.55 lakh new infections, India's daily Covid-19 cases dip below 3 lakh||India's daily Covid-19 cases dipped below the 3-lakh mark on Tuesday as the nation logged 2,55,874 new infections, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country recorded 614 fatalities over the past 24 hours. The ministry said that active cases have decreased to 22,36,842 and comprise 5.62 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 93.15 per cent. Meanwhile, the head of the World Health Organization on Monday urged countries to work together to bring the acute phase of the pandemic to an end, saying that they now have all the tools available to do so. A reduction of 12,493 cases has been recorded in active cases in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 15.52 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was 17.17 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease increased to 3,70,71, 898, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.23 per cent, it said. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far is over 162.92 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19, 2020. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23 last year. The 614 new fatalities include 171 from Kerala, 46 from Tamil Nadu and 45 from Punjab, the data stated. A total of 4,90,462 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,42,151 from Maharashtra, 51,987 from Kerala, 38,614 from Karnataka, 37,264 from Tamil Nadu, 25,650 from Delhi, 23,073 from Uttar Pradesh and 20,375 from West Bengal. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. (With PTI inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-255-lakh-new-infections-indias-daily-covid-19-cases-dip-below-3-lakh-1074347.html
25-01-2022||National||'Off to Canada': India's jobs crisis exasperates its youth||Srijan Upadhyay supplied fried snacks to small eateries and roadside stalls in the poor state of Bihar before Covid-19 lockdowns forced most of his customers to close down, many without paying what they owed him. With his business crippled, the 31-year-old IT undergraduate this month travelled to Rajpura town in Punjab to meet with consultants who promised him a work visa for Canada. He brought along his neighbour who also wants a Canadian visa because his commerce degree has not helped him get a job. "There are not enough jobs for us here, and whenever government vacancies come up, we hear of cheating, leaking of test papers," Upadhyay said, waiting in the lounge of Blue Line consultants. "I am sure we will get a job in Canada, whatever it is initially." India's unemployment is estimated to have exceeded the global rate in five of the last six years, data from Mumbai-based the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) and International Labour Organization show, due to an economic slowdown that was exacerbated by the pandemic. Having peaked at 23.5 per cent in April 2020, India's joblessness rate dropped to 7.9 per cent last month, according to CMIE. The rate in Canada fell to a multi-month-low of 5.9 per cent in December, while the OECD group of mostly rich countries reported a sixth straight month of decline in October, with countries including the United States suffering labour shortages as economic activity picks up. What's worse for India, its economic growth is producing fewer jobs than it used to, and as disheartened jobseekers instead take menial roles or look to move overseas, the country's already low rate of workforce participation - those aged 15 and above in work or looking for it - is falling. "The situation is worse than what the unemployment rate shows," CMIE Managing Director Mahesh Vyas told Reuters. "The unemployment rate only measures the proportion who do not find jobs of those who are actively seeking jobs. The problem is the proportion seeking jobs itself is shrinking." Vocal for local Critics say such hopelessness among India's youth is one of the biggest failures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who first came to power in 2014 with his as yet unfulfilled promise of creating millions of jobs. It also risks India wasting its demographic advantage of having more than two-thirds of its 1.35 billion people of working age. The ministries of labour and finance did not respond to requests for comment. The labour ministry's career website had more than 13 million active jobseekers as of last month, with only 220,000 vacancies. The ministry told parliament in December that "employment generation coupled with improving employability is the priority of the government", highlighting its focus on small businesses. Modi's rivals are now trying to tap into the crisis ahead of elections in five states, including Punjab and most populous Uttar Pradesh, in February and March. "Because of a lack of employment opportunities here, every kid looks at Canada. Parents hope to somehow send their kids to Canada," Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, whose Aam Admi Party is a front-runner in Punjab elections, told a recent public function there. "I assure you, within five years they will start returning because we will create so many opportunities for them here." He did not explain, but party workers said their policies would attract job-creating businesses. Punjab's neighbour Haryana, home to local offices of many global IT companies and an automobiles hub, has already ordered that most jobs there be reserved for locals. A political party in Punjab has promised something similar if voted to power. "To an extent, if a particular sector is doing well, then some arrangements can be made to ensure that local youth get opportunities," said Amit Basole, head of the Centre for Sustainable Employment in Azim Premji University in Bengaluru. "But if overall job creation is weak, then such policies do not solve the underlying problem. And they may also make things worse by reducing investment." CMIE's Vyas said India needs more investment in labour-intensive industries and should bring more women into the labour force, like Bangladesh has done through its garments factories. "No one delivers" Between 2018 and 2021, India suffered its longest period of slowdown since 1991, with unemployment averaging 7.2 per cent, CMIE data shows. Global unemployment averaged around 5.7 per cent in that period. The jobs shortage is particularly problematic for a country like India where annually 12 million people reach employment age. The economy has not grown fast enough to absorb so many people, economists say. Also, the increase in workforce for every per cent rise in gross domestic product has shrunk: the economy will have to grow at 10 per cent to raise employment by 1 per cent, said Basole of Azim Premji University. In the 1970s and 1980s, when GDP growth was 3 per cent to 4 per cent, employment grew around 2 per cent, Basole has found. Back in Punjab, Blue Line counsellor Lovepreet said business was booming, with his agency handling some 40 clients a day. "I have been doing this for four years," said the 27-year-old, who gave only one name. "I am off to Canada myself, this year or next year. Politicians keep promising us government jobs, but no one delivers." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/off-to-canada-indias-jobs-crisis-exasperates-its-youth-1074383.html
25-01-2022||National||Supreme Court seeks Centre, EC response on plea against freebies by political parties before polls||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre and the Election Commission on a PIL for declaring that promise or distribution of irrational freebies from public fund before election unduly influenced the voters, shaking the roots of free and fair election. The plea filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay contended such decisions by the political parties disturbed level playing field and vitiated the purity of election process, besides being violative of Articles 14, 162, 266(3) and 282 of the Constitution. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana agreed that the matter was serious and sought a reply from the Union government and the poll panel within four weeks, after hearing senior advocate Vikas Singh on behalf of Upadhyay. The bench decided to examine the matter, referring to its previous judgement of 2013 wherein the top court had asked the Centre and the EC to regulate freebies offered by the political parties during the elections. "How could this be controlled? We can't legislate. Yes, (but) it is a serious issue," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli said. The bench further noted that the freebie budget was going beyond the regular budget and sometimes, freebies ensured, it is not a level playing field.  "Within the limited scope, what we have done is we (earlier) directed EC to frame guidelines. Subsequently, I think all they did is they called one meeting of the political parties, don't know what happened in that," the CJI said. The top court's bench of Justices P Sathasivam and Ranjan Gogoi (both since retired) had directed the EC to frame guidelines on regulating freebies offered through manifestoes by the political parties. Upadhyay's plea filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey sought a direction to Election Commission to seize election symbol and deregister political parties, which promised to distribute irrational freebies from public funds. It claimed political parties arbitrarily promises or irrational freebies for wrongful gain and to lure voters in their favour, which is analogous to bribery and undue influences. The injury to the citizens is extremely large because Punjab needs Rs 12,000 crore per month to fulfil the political promises if AAP comes in power; Rs 25,000 crore per month if SAD comes in power and Rs 30,000 crore if Congress comes in power, though GST collection is 1400 crore only, it pointed out.  "In fact, after debt repayment, Punjab Government is not able pay even salaries-pensions, then how will it provide freebies? The bitter truth is that Punjab’s debt is increasing every subsequent year. State’s outstanding debt has increased to Rs 77,000 crore, with Rs 30,000 crore accumulating in present financial year itself," it claimed. The petitioner said that the time is not too far away when one party will say that “We will cook food for you in your residence” and other will say that “We will not only cook, but also feed you” as each party tried to undo each other in terms of populist promises. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-seeks-centre-ec-response-on-plea-against-freebies-by-political-parties-before-polls-1074386.html
25-01-2022||National||Don't want people's livelihood to be affected, Covid curbs to be eased as soon as possible: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that his government does not want livelihood of people to be affected and Covid restrictions will be eased as soon as possible. Restrictions were put in place in view of people's health, Kejriwal said after hoisting the national flag at the Delhi government's Republic Day function. "Delhiites have suffered the most due to Covid. We don't want that your livelihood is affected but your health is important, so we had to put restrictions," he said. Recently, the Delhi government's proposal to lift weekend curfew and odd-even scheme of opening shops in view of the improving Covid situation here was turned down by the Lieutenant Governor (L-G). "Last week some traders had come and they said they are facing lots of problems due to the odd-even scheme and weekend curfew. The L-G agreed to some proposals and on some, he differed. We will remove these restrictions as soon as possible," Kejriwal said. During his speech at the function, the chief minister said he is most inspired by Baba Saheb Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh who charted different courses for the same dreams and goals. Kejriwal pledged to fulfil Ambedkar's dream of quality education for all children, rich or poor. He also announced that in every office of the Delhi government pictures of Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh will be put up. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-want-peoples-livelihood-to-be-affected-covid-curbs-to-be-eased-as-soon-as-possible-kejriwal-1074405.html
25-01-2022||National||Villages overtake cities in reporting Covid cases amid third wave: Report||Amid the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, India's villages have overtaken cities in reporting new cases. The 7-day moving average of daily infections was 3,09,244 for the week ended January 23, while it was 2,39,100 a week ago, the report said, adding that at its peak, the weekly growth rate had touched 528 per cent in the week ended January 8. To check whether growth in cases were driven by villages, HT used the 2011 census to classify districts under urban, rural and mixed. Districts with less than 20 per cent population living in rural areas were classified as entirely urban, those with more than 80 per cent population living in rural areas were classified as entirely rural, with the largely urban, mixed, and largely rural districts falling at similar 20 per cent intervals in between. This classification showed that in the entirely urban districts, the 7-day average decreased in the past week. from 74,651 on January 15 to 70,142 on January 21. For these districts combined, the decline so far was less consistent, while the average decreased on nearly all days between January 16 and 21. In all other kinds of districts, the cases are still growing, the report showed, but said that the growth is higher in districts that are more rural. The growth rate of the 7-day average on January 21 was 4.5 per cent in largely urban districts, 4.4 per cent in mixed districts, 6.7 per cent in largely rural districts, and 6.9 per cent in entirely rural districts. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/villages-overtake-cities-in-reporting-covid-cases-amid-third-wave-report-1074406.html
25-01-2022||National||UN yet to agree on common definition of terrorism, craft coherent policy: India||UN member states have failed themselves by continuing to procrastinate on concluding a comprehensive convention against international terrorism, India has said, voicing concern that the global body has neither agreed on a common definition of terrorism nor crafted a well-coordinated policy to tackle the global scourge and dismantle its enabling networks. Speaking in the UNGA meeting to consider the Report of Secretary-General on the work of the Organisation, Second Secretary in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Dinesh Setia on Monday said: “Our inability to seriously address terrorism, the most dangerous of scourges faced by states and societies since the World War II, casts doubt on the relevance of the organisation for the very people whom the Charter of the United Nations obliges us to protect”. “The United Nations has yet to agree on a common definition, let alone craft a coherent well-coordinated policy to tackle terrorism and dismantle its enabling networks. We have failed ourselves by continuing to procrastinate on concluding a comprehensive convention against international terrorism,” he said. India proposed a draft document on the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT) at the UN in 1986 but it has not been implemented yet as there is no unanimity on the definition of terrorism among the member states. The Indian diplomat further said that the effectiveness, relevance and longevity of any institution lie in its dynamic character and ability to adapt itself to the changing times. “As long as the key organs of the organisation remain anchored in a governance structure frozen in the past, the crisis of legitimacy and performance will persist,” Setia said. Lamenting that four decades have gone by since the inscription of the item on the reform of the Security Council on the agenda of the General Assembly, he called on member states to strive to ensure that this year is the one that finally delivers some concrete progress with regard to a Security Council and a United Nations that reflect the realities of the contemporary world. Setia said India shares UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’ conviction that a vibrant, credible and effective United Nations is a critical defence against the pressures being faced by the global order. India welcomed the Secretary-General’s continuing initiative to modernise and reform the Secretariat and make the United Nations fit for purpose, including streamlining the peace and security architecture, achieving gender parity and addressing the financial sustainability of the organisation. “India will continue to support the Secretary-General in the implementation of these initiatives, including through voluntary contributions, as appropriate,” he said. India also lauded Secretary-General’s stewardship of the United Nations response to the Covid-19 pandemic, noting that the catastrophic pandemic is threatening to reverse the gains made in poverty reduction and designing effective strategies to eradicate poverty will continue to remain a persistent challenge for humankind in the decade of action. Setia said that in the last one year, India has joined the global efforts to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for ‘One Earth One Health’ approach underlines the country’s continuing commitment, already evident in the supply of medicines to over 150 countries; and vaccines to many nations in the developing world, he said. “India is gearing up to produce more vaccines for the world and we have pledged to make our production and delivery capacity available for the greater good of humanity,” he said, adding that the world cannot afford a vaccine-divide.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-yet-to-agree-on-common-definition-of-terrorism-craft-coherent-policy-india-1074415.html
25-01-2022||National||86% Indians want voting to be made compulsory, shows survey||An overwhelming 86 per cent people want voting to be made mandatory in the country, according to a survey released on Tuesday on the occasion of the 12th National Voters' Day. The pan-India survey, conducted with a sample size of over four lakh people by location-based social network platform Public App, also found that over 80 per cent of respondents trust the current voting process in the country. Since 2011, National Voters' Day has been celebrated on January 25 and marks the foundation day of the Election Commission in 1950. It aims to encourage enrolment of new and young voters. The theme of this National Voters' Day is: "Making elections inclusive, accessible, and participative". "Voting as a civic duty is a crucial contribution to social development by the citizens of the nation. As many as 86 per cent of respondents were in agreement when asked if voting should be made mandatory in the country," the survey stated. The findings come ahead of next month's assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur, results of which will be declared on March 10. The survey, in which 60 per cent of respondents were under the age of 30, said 81 per cent of people trust the transparency of the current voting process. On the top deciding factors for voters, it said for 34 per cent respondents, it was the performance of polling candidates in their last term, and for 31 per cent, it was detailed research of all candidates in the fray. The survey said overall popularity mattered for 4.96 per cent respondents and for 11.92 per cent, the political party of the contesting candidate. On why people miss out on voting, 30.04 per cent of its respondents chose "being in another city" as their reason to have missed on casting their vote. However, 56.3 per cent claimed they have never missed out on exercising their franchise, the survey said. "Did not have information about elections (5.22 per cent), did not support any party (7.19 per cent), and got lazy/did not care (1.27 per cent) were among other reasons given by respondents for them not voting in the past," it said. Of the surveyed people, 79.5 per cent have claimed to cast a vote "at least once" in their lifetime.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/86-indians-want-voting-to-be-made-compulsory-shows-survey-1074426.html
25-01-2022||National||MP Home Minister asks DGP to file FIR against Amazon officials, owner||Amid a row, the Madhya Pradesh government has directed the police to register an FIR against officials of ecommerce giant Amazon and its owner for allegedly selling products, including shoes, with the image of the Indian national flag, Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Tuesday. Amazon faced the ire of a section of Indian social media users over merchandising some products, including apparel and food items, that feature images of the Indian flag, with some saying that using the tricolour in such a way was an insult and a violation of the country's flag code. “It has come to my notice that our national flag is used on products being sold by the online ecommerce platform Amazon. It is intolerable that even it (the national flag) has been used on shoes,” Mishra, who is the state government spokesman, told reporters here. Prima facie, it is a violation of the National Flag Code, he said. “I have directed Director General of Police (DGP) to file an FIR against Amazon's officials and owner,” Mishra added. This is not the first time that the MP's home minister has directed the police to file an FIR against Amazon. Last November, Mishra had ordered the filing of an FIR against officials of Amazon over the suicide of a youth from MP who allegedly obtained poisonous sulphas (used as an agricultural fumigant and is poisonous) tablets through the ecommerce site. The police in the Bhind district had registered an FIR against unnamed officials of Amazon India after busting a gang that allegedly supplied ganja under the guise of selling stevia (a natural sweetener) through the ecommerce portal. Amazon had on Monday said it remains committed to take necessary action against sellers who may have listed any non-compliant products. Amazon.in is an online marketplace where third-party sellers offer products for sale directly to customers, and as such is responsible for ensuring compliances associated with the sale of these products, it said. "We require all products offered on the marketplace to comply with applicable laws and constantly take appropriate action on non-compliance. Amazon remains committed to taking necessary action against sellers who may have listed any non-compliant products," the company said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-home-minister-asks-dgp-to-file-fir-against-amazon-officials-owner-1074456.html
25-01-2022||National||Indian households wrestle with inflation as incomes dip||India's households are grappling with rising living costs at a time when jobs and incomes have taken a hit amid the pandemic, but economists are not hopeful the government's annual budget due next week will provide much relief. Tea, edible oil, pulses, meat, cooking gas and services have gone up by 20 per cent-40 per cent since the Covid-19 pandemic began in early 2020 - hurting consumers while their incomes have fallen below levels seen before the health crisis. Retail prices have risen nearly 10 per cent in the last two years compared with 8 per cent in the previous five-and-half years after Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014, an analysis of inflation data compiled by the Ministry of Statistics showed. Modi, who remains popular among voters, plans to raise import tax on more items to support local manufacturing and increase spending on long-term projects. Economists blame higher taxes, a widening fiscal deficit, Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) easy monetary policy and supply constraints during the pandemic for a sharp rise in prices. The government has offered little aid to households except free foodgrains for the poor. According to official estimates, average per capita income stands at Rs 93,973 ($1,258) for the current fiscal year ending March, lower than Rs 94,566 before the pandemic. The unemployment rate was at 7.9 per cent in December, with nearly 35 million people looking for work, a report by Mumbai-based think tank Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) said. Meanwhile, the economy is projected to grow 9.2 per cent in 2021/22 after a 7.3 per cent contraction the previous year. The increase in import tariffs on hundreds of goods in the last two years, climbing global crude oil and commodity prices have added to the burden on households. Cooking gas prices rose 43.36 per cent in two years ending December 2021, compared with a 30.68 per cent rise in the previous five-and-half years, data showed. However, domestic electricity and education costs rose at a slower pace reflecting a fall in economic activity and the closure of educational institutions during the pandemic. Inflation is expected to push even higher as manufacturers pass on rising input costs while the central bank delays monetary tightening in efforts to support the economic recovery. Retail inflation accelerated to a five-month high of 5.59 per cent in December from a year earlier, while wholesale price-based inflation, a proxy for producer prices, marginally eased to 13.56 per cent, but remained in double-digits for nine straight months. "The Covid period has been a nightmare for Indian workers," said K.R. Shyam Sundar, a labour economist at XLRI, Jamshedpur, and the author of "Impact of Covid-19, reforms and governance on labour rights". He added that households suffered job losses, fall in incomes and a sharp rise in prices during the pandemic. "RBI and the government, which have excessively focused on supporting industry and boosting growth, should now take steps to rein in inflation and provide a relief to households." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-households-wrestle-with-inflation-as-incomes-dip-1074462.html
25-01-2022||National||Government imposes curbs on export of human hair||The government on Tuesday imposed restrictions on the export of human hair, a move, according to the hair industry, would help in checking alleged smuggling of the product from India. Hair exports were earlier allowed without any restriction. But now an exporter would have to seek permission or licence from the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) under the Commerce Ministry. "The export policy of human hair, unworked, whether or not washed or scoured; waste of human hair or any other form of raw human hair...has been put under restricted category, with immediate effect," Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) Santosh Kumar Sarangi said in a notification. Welcoming the move, members of the Human Hair and Hair Products Manufacturers and Exporters Association of India Sunil Eamani said that it was their long-pending demand. Time and again, he has alleged that this labour-intensive industry was facing a peculiar challenge of smuggling of raw human hair to countries like Myanmar and China, which is hurting local industries and exports. "Now with this restriction, only genuine exporters will be able to export the product," he said. In India, West Bengal is the major hub for the industry besides Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. Major competitors of India are China, Cambodia, Vietnam and Myanmar. Raw human hair is mainly collected from households and temples of these states and these primarily cater to the beauty market globally. Two types of hair are collected in India - remy and non-remy hair. Remy hair, the best grade, is collected from temples where pilgrims donate their hair as part of a religious vow. This quality is mainly used to make hairpieces and wigs. Non-Remy hair is a household waste collected by small groups of people in villages and cities. They segregate that and sell to dealers. During April-November this fiscal, hair exports stood at $144.26 million, while it was only $15.28 million in 2020-21.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-imposes-curbs-on-export-of-human-hair-1074490.html
25-01-2022||National||SC declines plea for extension of 6,000 NGO licences under FCRA||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to consider a plea to allow the continuation of FCRA licences of nearly 6,000 NGOs, which were only valid till September end last year, as the Centre questioned keenness of Houston based association for it. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar, said: “If those 6,000 NGOs have not applied under the present regime, they have chosen not to continue in the current regime”. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, representing the US-based NGO Global Peace Initiative, submitted that there are thousands of NGOs, which are doing good work for the society. To the plea, a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, if he has got instructions in the matter. Mehta, for his part, submitted nearly 11,000 NGOs got the relief as they applied for Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) licences renewal within the cut-off date. He said the government was well aware of the situation and sought to know the purpose behind the PIL. "Why is a Houston-based person so interested in Chhattisgarh. We are here for them,” he said. On this, Hedge said that nearly 6,000 NGOs have not applied. The bench, however, said that the petitioner can move a representation before the authorities concerned, which may consider the suggestions. “In the light of this stand taken by the authorities, we don't intend to pass any interim order as prayed. If the petitioners have any other suggestion, they may file a representation before the authorities which may be considered on its own merits by the authorities,” the bench said. The petition, filed by the NGO and others, challenged the central government's decision to refuse renewal of FCRA licences of close to 6,000 NGOs. The plea claimed the work done by the NGOs helped millions of Indians. "The sudden and arbitrary cancellation of FCRA registration of thousands of these NGOs violates the rights of the organisations, their workers as well as the millions of Indians who they serve. This is especially relevant at a time when the country is facing the third wave of the Covid-19 virus," it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-plea-for-extension-of-6000-ngo-licences-under-fcra-1074491.html
25-01-2022||National||29 CBI sleuths get President's police medals||CBI officers probing post poll violence cases in West Bengal besides the one who busted big bribery cases in Railways are among 29 agency sleuths awarded police medals on the occasion of Republic Day, officials said. Joint Director Ramnish Geer, who led the probe in cases like housing scam allegedly involving the then Union minister Sheila Kaul, Naval war room leak case, kidnapping of an NRI businessman and his release besides other high profile anti-corruption cases, received the coveted President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service. He was among the four CBI joint directors rushed from Delhi to West Bengal to oversee post poll violence cases reported in the state last year.  Others awarded the medal include Additional SPs Satish Kumar Rathi, Anil Kumar Yadav, Deputy SP Nat Ram Meena, ASI Bansidhar Bijarnia, and Head Constable Mehboob Hasan. Police Medals for Meritorious Service went to 23 officers of the agency including DIG Akhilesh Kumar Singh, who is also in-charge of several cases of post poll violence in West Bengal. Another DIG Nitin Deep Blaggan who probed several high profile graft cases including Rs one crore bribery case involving a senior Northeast Frontier Railways Engineer has also been awarded the Police Medal for Meritorious Service.  Others who received the medal include Additional SP Arvind Kumar Upadhyay, Deputy SPs Ananda Krishnan T.P., Sanjay Kumar Gautam, Vikash Kumar Pathak, Alok Kumar Shahi and Subramanyam Devendran, Inspectors Nakul Singh Yadav, Amit Kumar, Rakesh Ranjan and Mahesh Vijay Parkar, Sub-inspector Anil Kumar, ASI Dharminder Singh, Head Constables Chander Pal, Loganathan Rengasamy, K.V.Jagannath Reddy, Harbhan Singh and Mahesh Madhavrao Gajarlwar, Constables R.Jaisankar and Kaushliya Devi, Office Superintendent Om Prakash Naithani and Crime Assistant Satyabrata Saha.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/29-cbi-sleuths-get-presidents-police-medals-1074517.html
25-01-2022||National||As Covid home isolation cases surge, Mandaviya directs states, UTs to bolster teleconsultations||In view of a substantial number of Covid-19 patients recuperating in home isolation, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday asked states to focus on expanding the reach of teleconsultation services to provide timely healthcare. He interacted with health ministers, senior bureaucrats and administrators of nine states and union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Delhi, Ladakh and Uttar Pradesh, according to a statement from the health ministry. Mandaviya urged them to adopt the hub and spoke model and open additional teleconsultation centres. This will enable beneficiaries to access advice from experts stationed at district hubs, it said. He said the government’s eSanjeevani telemedicine system has provided services to more than 2.6 crore beneficiaries where people can seek medical advice from the confines of their homes. “This will prove to be a game-changer and will be of immense value and importance for the hard-to-reach and far-flung areas, and especially in the northern regions in the current winter season,” he highlighted. “States and union territories need to ensure that these centres work 24X7 and ensure convenience for both the common public and health experts. To ensure minimum hassle and travelling, such expert advice can be provided at the block levels, secondary or primary health centre levels too,” the official communique stated quoting Mandaviya. He advised the states and union territories to ensure that those in home isolation are efficiently monitored in line with the national guidelines. This will ensure that the vulnerable categories of active cases in home isolation get the required medical help in a timely manner, the statement said. The virtual meeting was held to review public health preparedness for containment and management of Covid-19 and the progress of the national Covid-19 vaccination campaign. State health ministers who joined the high-level review meeting included Anil Vij from Haryana and Uttarakhand’s Dhan Singh Rawat. Reiterating that the Centre is dedicated to supporting states and union territories in containment and management of Covid-19, Mandaviya requested the attendees to review and expedite implementation of activities under the Covid Response Plans-II (ECRP-II) package for strengthening the health infrastructure. He urged the health ministers and state authorities to plug the existing gaps by efficiently utilising the amount sanctioned for various infra projects, the statement said. “With strengthened health infrastructure, we can meet any health emergency and public health crisis with better preparedness,” he said. States were advised to ensure regular updation of availability, occupancy and use of infrastructure such as hospital beds, pressure swing adsorption plants and oxygen equipment on the Covid-19 portal. This update will help in obtaining a bigger picture and taking data-driven decisions at several levels for efficient public health response, it was noted. The Union health minister re-emphasised the need for ramping up testing. Those states and union territories showing a lower share of RT-PCR testing were requested to expedite tests, the statement said. They were also reminded to keep a close watch on emerging clusters and hotspots, and monitor the trend of hospitalised cases, along with the deaths in the state. “Vaccination remains a potent tool to fight Covid-19. Vaccinated people are less prone to severity and hospitalisation as seen in India and globally. Higher hospitalisation is being seen in unvaccinated people and hence it becomes crucial to vaccinate the unvaccinated,” Mandaviya said. He also requested states to promote vaccination among adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years and ensure full coverage in the districts that have shown a lower coverage of the first and second doses. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-home-isolation-cases-surge-mandaviya-directs-states-uts-to-bolster-teleconsultations-1074518.html
25-01-2022||National||Actor Vijay’s fans to contest in TN local body polls as independents||Buoyed by the “success” in rural local body polls last year, fans of popular Tamil actor Vijay will contest the ensuing elections to urban civic bodies in Tamil Nadu as independent candidates, in what is seen as a prelude to the film star’s much talked about political plunge. The fans have sought the actor’s permission to use the flag and name of Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam (TVMI), the fan’s club association, during the campaign. The move by fans of actor Vijay comes as political parties in Tamil Nadu are bracing to face the elections to urban local bodies which are likely to be held in February.   In the elections held to rural local bodies in nine districts in October last year, as many as 169 members of TVMI contested the polls for various posts, and 115 were elected. The performance of actor Vijay’s fan were significant as their victory came even as parties like Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) of actor Kamal Haasan and Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) failed to make any headway in the polls.  “Several fans have approached the association expressing interest to contest in urban local body elections. The 2021 model of entering the fray as independent candidates will be followed this time as well. Interested persons will file nomination papers in their respective areas,” Bussy Anand, general secretary of TVMI told Deccan Herald.  He said the association has sought the actor’s permission for the proposal by fans. “He will certainly give his go-ahead like last time. Once he gives his nod, candidates will use the picture of Vijay, the association’s flag, and the name during the campaign. People voted for him (Vijay) then and they will vote for him now,” Anand added.  Fans entering the fray as independent candidates are being viewed as “baby steps” by the actor who seems interested in taking a plunge into politics. Vijay is one of the popular actors of Tamil cinema, which has deep connections with the political landscape of the state.  At least three Chief Ministers – M Karunanidhi, M G Ramachandran, and J Jayalalithaa – had an innate connection with the Tamil cinema before they ruled the state. Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH that the actor was testing the political waters through his fans.   “Vijay and his father (director S A Chandrashekar) are quite ambitious though they speak in different voices. Vijay is certainly testing the political waters in a gradual manner. Though he may not be directly involved, the whole business is done in his name. As a result, he has to face both direct and indirect challenges,” Prof Manivannan told DH.  The decision by the actor’s fans to jump into electoral politics in October last year surprised many with Vijay resisting temptations from his supporters to float a party. His fans had demanded that Vijay enter politics and contest the 2021 elections, but the actor never paid heed to their request.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-vijay-s-fans-to-contest-in-tn-local-body-polls-as-independents-1074521.html
25-01-2022||National||Sri Lanka court orders release of 56 Indian fishermen||A Sri Lankan court on Tuesday ordered the release of 56 Indian fishermen who were detained for allegedly fishing in the island nation's territorial waters. The court in the northern Jaffna peninsula ordered the release of the fishermen who were detained by the Sri Lankan Navy in mid-December in the seas south of Mannar. “Happy to learn that a Court has ordered the release of 56 #Indian fishermen,” Indian High Commission in Colombo said in a tweet. “Commend the work of High Commissioner Gopal Baglay and his team in securing the release,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet. Both Sri Lankan officials and the Indian diplomatic sources confirmed the release and noted that with Tuesday’s release there are no more Indian fishermen in the island nation’s custody. The court order for the release of fishermen came as the Indian authorities urged Sri Lanka to release them on humanitarian grounds in the backdrop of economic assistance talks that were going on at the time.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-court-orders-release-of-56-indian-fishermen-1074522.html
25-01-2022||National||Republic Day events: Where to watch, schedule, special mentions||India is gearing up to celebrate the 73rd Republic Day celebrations in the national capital, observed grandly this year as part of the Modi government's 'Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav', on account of the country's 75th year of independence. While Covid-19 continues to cause interruptions, special rules are laid out to prevent the spread of the virus. The Ministry of Defence has also scheduled a new set of events that will be staged during the parade at Rajpath and also the 'Beating Retreat' ceremony at Vijay Chowk on January 29. Where to watch Republic Day celebrations live Fifty-nine cameras spread over a distance of around 2 km from Rashtrapati Bhavan on the Raisina Hills to the National War Memorial near India Gate will capture the Republic Day parade for Doordarshan on Wednesday. Around 160 personnel, including video journalists, are being deployed for the live coverage that attracts millions of viewers. The coverage will start on all Doordarshan channels across the country from 9:15 am till the end of events at Rajpath. Live coverage will also be available on DD National, DD News YouTube channels and on NewsOnAir App and websites. The parade at Rajpath will start at 10:30 am, instead of the earlier 10:00 am.  Schedule and other key events  The government has decided to make the Republic Day celebrations a week-long affair, beginning on January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, and culminating on January 30, the Martyrs' Day. The parade at Rajpath will start at 10:30 am, instead of the earlier timing to provide better visibility to the parade and flypast. Ahead of the Day's parade, PM Narendra Modi will visit the National War Memorial and pay tributes to the fallen heroes of the nation. Traditionally, the prime minister and key dignitaries will head to the National Flag hoisting followed by the reciting of the National Anthem with a 21-gun salute. Following this, the parade begins. Many unique initiatives Among several new events, a grand fly-past of 75 aircraft of the Indian Air Force, cultural performances by 480 dancers selected through competitive process, display of 10 scrolls each of 75 metres length and installation of 10 large LED screens will be happening for the first time at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday, the Ministry of Defence has said. As many as 1,000 indigenously developed drones will take part in the drone show at the 'Beating Retreat' ceremony. 25 tableaux part of parade The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will have two tableaux at the Republic Day parade this year displaying indigenously developed sensors, weapons and electronic warfare systems for light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas and air independent propulsion (AIP) systems for Indian submarines. Twenty-five tableaux of different states, departments and armed forces will be part of the parade on January 26. Covid-19 restrictions to be followed People attending the Republic Day parade must be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and children below 15 years of age will not be allowed to attend the event, a set of guidelines issued by the Delhi Police stated. The number of people allowed to attend the Republic Day parade this year would be curtailed by 70-80 per cent to approximately 5,000-8,000 due to the ongoing wave of Covid-19, senior officials of the Defence Ministry said. Approximately 25,000 people were allowed to attend the last year's parade. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-events-where-to-watch-schedule-special-mentions-1074538.html
25-01-2022||National||Padma Awards 2022 triggers row as Ghulam Nabi Azad, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee get Padma Bhushan||The Padma Awards ran into a controversy on Wednesday soon after Communist veteran Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee declined Padma Bhushan, while the choice of senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad for the same recognition raised eyebrows in political circles. The Narendra Modi government made public the choices for the awards on the eve of Republic Day, which included former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh, former Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Gita Press founder Radheyshyam Khemka, all posthumously for the country’s second highest civilian award Padma Vibhushan. While the Padma Vibhushan awardees were chosen apparently with an eye on Uttar Pradesh elections as at least two Hindutva votaries were in the list, the Padma Bhushan list has 17 people with the choice of Azad and Bhattacharjee creating a flutter in political circles.  The choice of Bhattacharjee, still revered by Bengalis despite CPI(M)’s electoral defeat, was seen as an attempt to woo people in Bengal where the BJP is attempting to make inroads. Choosing Azad, who has risen in rebellion against party leadership, is also seen as a political move. Within hours after the announcement of awards, Bhattacharjee issued a statement, “I don't know anything about Padma Bhushan Award, nobody told me anything about this. If I have been awarded Padma Bhushan then I am rejecting it.”   Former Party PB member & WB CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya had this to say on the Padma Bhushan award announcement.“I don't know anything about Padman Bhusan award,none has said anything about it. If I have been given Padma Bhushan I refuse to accept it.” There was no official response from the government on Bhattacharjee’s statement but PTI reported quoting sources that a top MHA official made a call at ailing Bhattacharjee's house, his wife received the call and was informed of Padma Bhushan award to him. Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh tweeted taking a dig at his party colleague, “Right thing to do. He (Bhattacharjee) wants to be Azad (independent) not Ghulam (slave).”    Prabha Atre (90), who hails from Maharashtra and a vocalist from the Kirana gharana, is the fourth winner of Padma Vibhushan. The Padma Bhushan list also included Covid-19 vaccine makers Krishna Ella and Suchitra Ella of Bharat Biotech that manufactured Covaxin and Cyrus Poonawalla of Serum Institute of India that produced Covishield. Honouring Indian techie giants, Satya Narayana Nadella of Microsoft and Sundararajan Pichai of Google are also chosen for the Padma Bhushan award. Tata Sons Chairperson N Chandrashekhar, former Comptroller and Auditor General Rajiv Mehrishi, Bengali actor Victor Banerjee, late Punjabi folk singer Gurmeet Bawa, late Indian-Mexican scientist Sanjay Rajaram who found 480 wheat varieties, paralympic gold winner Devendra Jhajharia and Oriya writer Pratibha Ray are among the Padma Bhushan winners. There are 107 Padma Shri award winners, which included Olympic gold winner Neeraj Chopra, scientist Sosamma Iype who took measures to save the indigienous Vechur cows of Kerala, and dancing sisters Kamalini Asthana and Nalini Asthana. Editor in Chief of Chardhikala, a Punjabi publication, Jagjit Singh Dardi is also among the recipients of Padma Shri. Thirty-four of the awardees are women, while 10 are from the category of Foreigners/NRI/PIO/OCI and 13 posthumous awardees. Interestingly, the list of 128 did not have any big names from the Bollywood or world of cricket. Thirteen people from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh were chosen for Padma awards, while four each from Punjab and Uttarakhand, three from Manipur and two from Goa were also chosen. Five of the Padma Shri awardees are from Karnataka. Home Minister Amit Shah chose to refer to the choice of Kalyan Singh and Gen Rawat in his tweets, soon after the awards were announced. “Kalyan Singh-ji devoted his entire life in the interest of the country. While being the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, he gave a fear free and public welfare government to the people. Conferring him with Padma Vibhushan by Narendra Modi-ji today is a true tribute to the great life of Babuji dedicated to the nation,” he tweeted. Singh was Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister when Babri Masjid was demolished in Ayodhya, and Khemka, who also hailed from the poll-bound state, had founded the publishing house that sells Hindu religious texts. Former CDS Rawat, who died in a chopper crash last month, was also chosen for the second highest civilian award. Below is the full list of recipients:    Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-awards-2022-triggers-row-as-ghulam-nabi-azad-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-get-padma-bhushan-1074552.html
25-01-2022||National||Navy's Khukri to be handed over to Diu administration||Khukri, the lead ship of the Indian Navy’s Khukri class corvettes and an indigenous surface-to-surface missile fitted vessel that had the distinction of being part of both, the Western and Eastern Fleets, will be handed over to the Diu Administration on Republic Day. The decommissioned warship is set to be transformed into a full-scale museum.  Built by Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders, the ship was commissioned on August 23, 1989 in Mumbai by Krishna Chandra Pant, the then Defence Minister and Sudha Mulla, wife of late Capt Mahendra Nath Mulla, MVC. After more than 32 glorious years of service to the nation and having participated in all forms of naval operations, the ship was decommissioned in a solemn ceremony on December 23, 2021, when the national flag, naval ensign and decommissioning pennant were lowered at sunset in the presence of Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command. A ship never dies, it is said. She is reborn in a new avatar.  Notably, the decommissioned vessel is the second ship of the Navy to carry the name INS Khukri, the first having been lost during the 1971 Indo-Pak War off the coast of Diu.  The valiant crew of that ship, led by late Captain Mahendra Nath Mulla, has been immortalised in the Khukri Memorial at Diu where a scaled-down model of their old ship is displayed in solemn splendour. As part of developing and revitalising the Khukri Memorial, the Diu Administration had approached the Ministry of Defence in 2019 for gifting to it, for public display, a decommissioned naval vessel.  As it turned out, it was time for the second Khukri to be paid off. This is the vessel that will be handed over officially to the Diu Administration. The ship commenced her last journey under tow by Indian Navy ships from Visakhapatnam and arrived at Diu on January 14, 2022. As the nation celebrates its 73rd Republic Day, she will be handed over to Diu Administration in a ceremonial event to be held at the Khukri Memorial. The ship is planned to be developed as a full-scale museum. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navys-khukri-to-be-handed-over-to-diu-administration-1074556.html
25-01-2022||National||India has shown unmatched resolve during Covid-19 pandemic, says President Ram Nath Kovind||Asking people to celebrate “Indian-ness” this Republic Day, President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday said the country has shown an unmatched resolve in the face of the extraordinary challenge to humankind posed by the coronavirus pandemic and that a strong and sensitive India is now emerging. In his address to the nation on the eve of 73rd Republic Day, President Kovind noted that democracy, justice, liberty, equality and fraternity form the bedrock of India and stressed that the observance of Fundamental Duties mentioned in the Constitution creates the proper environment for the enjoyment of Fundamental Rights. "The diversity and vibrancy of our democracy is appreciated worldwide. It is this spirit of unity and of being one nation which is celebrated every year as Republic Day," he said. This year’s celebrations may be muted due to the pandemic, but the spirit is as strong as ever, Kovind said. The President said the pandemic management was bound to be more difficult in India due to its high population and other factors. "'But it is only in such difficult times that the resilience of a nation shines forth. I am proud to say that we have shown an unmatched resolve against the coronavirus,” Kovind said. Doctors, nurses and paramedics have risen to the challenge, working long hours in difficult conditions even at the risk of their lives to attend to patients. Others have kept the nation moving, managing supply chains and utilities, he said. Hailing the timely interventions by the leadership, policy-makers, administrators and others at the central and state levels during coronavirus pandemic, Kovind said it is a testimony to India's spirit in the face of adversity that the economy is on the move again and is projected to grow at an impressive rate in this fiscal, after going through contraction last year. “The impressive economic performance is made possible due to improvement in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors. I am happy to note that our farmers, especially young farmers with small holdings, are enthusiastically adopting natural farming,” the President said. As the supreme commander of the Armed Forces, Kovind said he was glad to note that it has been a watershed year for women empowerment in the armed forces. “Our daughters have broken a glass ceiling, and the permanent commission has now been allowed for women officers in new areas,” he said, adding that “consequently, our armed forces will benefit from better gender balance”. Also, the talent pipeline for the forces will be strengthened with women coming through Sainik Schools and the prestigious National Defence Academy, the President said. He said the diversity and vibrancy of the country’s democracy is appreciated worldwide and it is this spirit of unity and of being one nation which is celebrated every year as Republic Day. "India is an ancient civilisation but a young republic. For us, nation-building is a constant endeavour," the President said. “I am confident that India is better placed today to meet the challenges of the future,” Kovind said, adding that new opportunities await the next generation. Invoking Mahatma Gandhi, President Kovind said he would have liked us to celebrate Republic Day by striving to become better human beings and contributing towards the making of a better India and a better world. “My heartiest greetings to all of you, in India and abroad, on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day! It is an occasion to celebrate what is common to us all, our Indian-ness,” he said. "Two days ago, on 23rd January, all of us observed the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, who had adopted the energising salutation of ‘Jai-Hind’. His quest for independence and his ambition to make India proud inspire all of us," the President said. Kovind said, while the text of the Constitution, dealing with the details of the workings of the State, is quite long, the preamble sums up its guiding principles – democracy, justice, liberty, equality and fraternity. “They form the bedrock on which our Republic stands. These are the values that form our collective inheritance,” he said. These values have been accorded primacy in our Constitution in the form of fundamental rights and fundamental duties of the citizens, the President said. By fulfilling the fundamental duty of rendering national service when called upon to do so, crores of our people have transformed the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and the Covid vaccination drive into mass movements, he said. “A great deal of credit for the success of such campaigns goes to our dutiful citizens. I am sure that our people will continue to strengthen the campaigns of national interest with their active participation and will demonstrate the same dedication,” Kovind said. Referring to a visit to his village in Kanpur, he also urged the people to remember their roots and work for the development of their native village, city and country. "... A new India is emerging – a strong India and a sensitive India - Sashakt Bharat, Samvedan-sheel Bharat," he said. Kovind thanked the constant vigil of the armed forces securing the borders and the police personnel maintaining internal security within the country that let their fellow citizens enjoy a peaceful life. He said it is our soldiers and security personnel who carry on the legacy of national pride. “In the unbearable cold of the Himalayas and in the excruciating heat of the desert, far away from their families, they continue to guard the motherland. It is thanks to the constant vigil of the armed forces securing our borders and the police personnel maintaining internal security within the country that their fellow citizens enjoy a peaceful life,” the President said. He said when a brave soldier dies on duty, the entire country feels sad. “Last month, in an unfortunate accident, we lost one of the bravest commanders of the country - General Bipin Rawat - his wife and many brave soldiers. The entire country was deeply saddened by the tragic loss,” Kovind said. The President said patriotism strengthens the sense of duty among citizens. “Whether you are a doctor or a lawyer, a shopkeeper or office-worker, a sanitation employee or a labourer, doing one’s duty well and efficiently is the first and foremost contribution you make to the nation,” he said. Kovind said the world has never been in so much need of help as now. “It has been over two years now and humankind is still battling with the coronavirus. Hundreds of thousands of lives have been lost, and the world economy has been reeling under the impact. “The world has suffered from unprecedented misery, and surge after surge of new variants have been posing new crises. It has been an extraordinary challenge to humankind,” the President said. Citing difficulties in pandemic management, he said "we have high population density, and as a developing economy we did not have the level of resources and infrastructure needed to battle this invisible enemy". He said there have been setbacks, unfortunately, as the virus makes a comeback with new mutations. “Countless families have gone through a harrowing time. There are no words to express our collective trauma. The only saving grace is that many lives could be saved. As the pandemic is still widespread, we must remain alert and not let our guard down. The precautions we have taken till now have to be continued,” Kovind suggested. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing have been essential parts of Covid-appropriate behaviour, he said. In the fight against the Covid pandemic, it has now become a sacred national duty of every citizen to follow the precautions suggested by our scientists and experts, Kovind said, adding that “we have to discharge this duty till the crisis is behind us”. The President said the 21st century is turning out to be the age of climate change, and India has taken a leadership position on the world stage in showing the way, especially with its bold and ambitious push for renewable energy. “I am sure that with this energy, confidence and entrepreneurship, our country will continue to march ahead on the path of progress and will definitely secure its rightful place, befitting its potential, in the global community,” the President added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-shown-unmatched-resolve-during-covid-19-pandemic-says-president-ram-nath-kovind-1074563.html
25-01-2022||National||SC tells BCI to restrict entry to maintain quality of lawyers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday told the Bar Council of India, regulating body for advocates, to restrict entry of people in the profession, in order to maintain the quality of lawyers. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said that the system can be improved at the entry level and it is the responsibility of the BCI to hold proper exams for it. The court stressed at stringent checks on law schools as well. The top court was hearing a plea by Bar Council of India (BCI) challenging the Gujarat High Court judgment, which allowed persons with other employment, either full-time or part-time, to enrol as advocates without leaving their jobs. Senior advocate K V Vishwanathan, appearing as amicus curiae in the matter, suggested working out a mechanism, where people coming from employment are not enrolled and given the certificate at the outset, rather they are put up on a register qualifying them to write the examination and based on the result, the enrolment would follow. He said that the person might be permitted to enrol with the Bar, after they qualify the written examination followed by a rigorous viva. The court, however, said it might not be proper to permit enrolment of a person, who continued with an existing employment. It also pointed out that when a professional enrolled with the Bar leaves the legal profession, he or she does not surrender the enrolment certificate, which is something BCI should also regulate. Senior advocate S N Bhat represented the BCI before the bench. The top court told the BCI counsel that the rigour of its exam must test knowledge and pointed out there are ample instances where people get law degrees without attending classes and cited cases where law courses are taking place in cowsheds. The bench told the BCI counsel to control entry to determine quality of people entering the profession. The court put the matter for further hearing on February 22. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-tells-bci-to-restrict-entry-to-maintain-quality-of-lawyers-1074573.html
25-01-2022||National||India's Covid cases down, but positivity rate remains high in 555 districts||After five consecutive days, India’s daily Covid-19 count dropped below 3 lakh on Tuesday, but the signs of a spreading epidemic are seen in more than 550 districts where the weekly test positivity rate stands at more than 5 per cent. At a review meeting with nine northern states including poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya asked them to ramp up tests in those areas where it went down and share the testing and vaccination data with the Centre in time. On Monday, just about 2.55 lakh new cases – the lowest since January 18 0 were recorded. But the number of tests also dropped to 16.49 lakh, similar to what was seen a week ago. But a district-wise analysis by the ministry shows as many as 409 districts have a positivity of more than 10 per cent whereas 146 districts have a positivity between 5-10 per cent. Taken together, there are 555 districts where the epidemic is visible. Emphasing the need to ramp up, the minister said that the states with a lower share of RT-PCR testing were requested to increase the number of such while others were reminded to keep a close watch on emerging clusters and hotspots and monitor the trend of hospitalised cases along with deaths. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-cases-down-but-positivity-rate-remains-high-in-555-districts-1074575.html
25-01-2022||National||Our shoulders broad to take criticism, says SC as it pulls up a vaccine doubter||The Supreme Court on Tuesday pulled up a counsel, who claimed that the top court is only hearing those who are pro-vaccine, and not those who expose the "vaccine syndicate". As a bench headed by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and comprising Justice Sanjiv Khanna was hearing a plea by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights in connection with research, awareness, and priority for vaccination of pregnant women and lactating mothers, advocate Nilesh Ojha, who was an intervenor in the matter, objected that his suggestions have not been included in the order. While the bench was pronouncing the order, Ojha said: "Why are my suggestions not part of the order?" He added that he knows a doctor, who died after taking Covishield and insisted on informed consent. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, opposing these submissions, said: "What is he saying? What is the fact for the basis of such a statement?" Justice Chandrachud told Ojha: "You are an intervenor, you have to assist the court." However, Ojha repeated that none of his suggestions have been recorded by the court. He said: "I am also a citizen of India." Justice Chandrachud shot back: "You have a right as a citizen but as an intervenor, your right is very limited.. as an intervenor, you can only throw light on the petition, but cannot claim independent relief." At this juncture, Ojha said in a scenario where parties are misleading the court, he is providing a suggestion. "But why is this court not considering my suggestion," he said. The bench said: "We don't want a certificate from you..." As Justice Khanna told Ojha that the court will examine his suggestion in the other matter, Ojha asked why the top court never hears those who expose the "vaccine syndicate" and cited the impression, which it is creating on the common man. Justice Chandrachud told Ojha that the court's shoulders are very broad to take the criticism, which includes his criticism. "We are doing our duty to the best of our ability. We are here to abide by our oath under the Constitution," said the bench. Concluding the hearing in the matter, the top court left it open for the Centre to consider suggestions for making software adjustment to the CoWIN portal allowing identification of pregnant women and lactating mothers. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/our-shoulders-broad-to-take-criticism-says-sc-as-it-pulls-up-a-vaccine-doubter-1074577.html
25-01-2022||National||53 BSF personnel get police medals including for gallantry||Fifty-three personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) have been decorated with various police service medals including gallantry decorations on the eve of the Republic Day. A notification issued by the Union home ministry on Tuesday stated that 2 personnel have been decorated with the police medal for gallantry (PMG), 5 with the president's police medal for distinguished service and 46 with the police medal for meritorious service. Constables Anand Oraon and Sunder Singh have been awarded the PMG for thwarting smuggling bids by armed smugglers along the India-Bangladesh international border in West Bengal. Oran, in August, 2019, ensured that a Bangladeshi cattle smuggler was caught even as he suffered grievous injuries, while Singh "challenged 5-6 smugglers alone" and caught a Bangladeshi narcotics smugglers in January last year along the same front. Among the meritorious service medal awardees is second-in-command rank officer Varunendra Pratap Singh who joined the BSF as an officer in 1997. He has served along all the sensitive and important border formations along Pakistan in Jammu, Punjab and Gujarat apart from the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir. Singh, presently posted with the G branch or intelligence wing of the BSF at its headquarters here, has also served in the counter-insurgency theatre, along the India-Bangladesh border and UN peace keeping mission in Haiti during 2014-15. A recipient of various commendations and the internal security medal instituted by the Union home ministry, Singh is a second generation paramilitary officer as his father has served in the CRPF. The about 2.65 lakh personnel BSF is the country's largest border guarding force, ITBP, SSB and Assam Rifles being the others, and it is primarily tasked to guard Indian borders with Pakistan on the west and Bangladesh on the east apart from rendering a variety of duties in the internal security domain of the country including conduct of anti-Naxal operations.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/53-bsf-personnel-get-police-medals-including-for-gallantry-1074578.html
25-01-2022||National||Covid delayed Gaganyaan's timeline, says ISRO chief||Newly-appointed ISRO chairman S Somanath on Tuesday said that there had been a delay in the timeline of space mission Gaganyaan because of the Covid and other constraints but now, things have again fallen back on track and all the systems needed for the first unmanned mission are getting realised. He was updating Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh during a meeting discussing the status of 'Gaganyaan' as well as other space missions lined up for the near future. Following the first unmanned mission, the second unmanned mission "Vyommitra" will carry a robot and this will then be followed by the human mission, he told the minister. The minister was also informed that the Indian astronauts have successfully undergone generic space flight training in Russia. A dedicated ad-hoc astronaut training centre has also been established at Bengaluru for Gaganyaan specific training. The preparations for the human mission, said the ISRO Chief, involve in-flight demonstration of Crew Escape System functioning in the lower atmosphere (less than 10 km). The exercise recovery of the crew module after impacting in sea is also being worked out. In 2022, ISRO will also have the distinction of launching GSAT-21, the first fully funded satellite of NSIL (New Space India Ltd), and will be owned as well as operated by NSIL. This communication satellite will meet the DTH (Direct to Home) application needs. The ISRO Chairman presented at brief about the forthcoming missions during the next three months. He mentioned a RICAT-1A PSLV C5-2 scheduled for February, OCEANSAT-3, INS 2B ANAND PSLV C-53 to be launched in March, and SSLV-D1 Micro SAT in April. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-delayed-gaganyaans-timeline-says-isro-chief-1074588.html
25-01-2022||National||Intercourse in marriage can't be labelled rape, wife cannot seek specific punishment to satisfy ego: Delhi HC told||Sexual intercourse between husband and wife cannot be labelled rape and at worst such an act of wrongdoing can be called sexual abuse, and a wife cannot compel the prescription of a particular punishment against her husband to satisfy her ego, an intervenor said in the Delhi High Court on Tuesday. Counsel for the intervenor NGO, Hriday, told the court, which is hearing a batch of petitions to criminalise marital rape, that in the marital sphere, sexual wrongdoing amounted to “sexual abuse” which was included under the definition of “cruelty” under section 3 of the Domestic Violence Act and indicated “any conduct of a sexual nature that abuses, humiliates, degrades or otherwise violates the dignity of woman”. Counsel R K Kapoor, representing Hriday, emphasized that the marital rape exception aimed to “protect the institution of marriage” and was not arbitrary or in violation of Articles 14, 15 or 21 of the Constitution. “Parliament does not say that such an act is not sexual abuse (any conduct of a sexual nature) but has taken it on a different plane to save the institution of marriage. "Wife cannot compel the Parliament to prescribe a particular punishment against the husband to satisfy her ego. The only difference in Section 376 IPC and Domestic Violence Act is the quantum of punishment, though the act of sexual abuse in both the cases has been deprecated,” the lawyer stated. “Sexual intercourse between husband and wife in marital relationship cannot be a labelled as rape and at the worst it can be called a sexual abuse only, which would be clear from the definition of cruelty as defined under Domestic Violence Act 2005,” he submitted. The bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar is hearing PILs filed by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women's Association, a man and a woman seeking striking down of the exception granted to husbands under the Indian rape law. The petitioners have challenged the Constitutionality of the marital rape exception under section 375 IPC (rape) on the ground that it discriminated against married women who are sexually assaulted by their husbands. In an earlier hearing, the court had questioned that when the rape law granted no exemption in case of forced intercourse with a sex worker who chooses to withdraw consent at a belated stage, why a wife should be “less empowered”. Kapoor submitted that any comparison between the two was an “insult to the institution of marriage” and there cannot be any comparison between them as there is no emotional relationship in the case of a sex worker. “A perpetrator cannot claim restitution of conjugal rights against sex worker and correspondingly sex worker cannot claim regular maintenance from a perpetrator. There is no emotional relationship between sex worker and the stranger. The relationship between husband and wife is a package of a large number of mutual rights and obligations which are social, physiological, religious, economic etc. It cannot be limited to just one event of consent for sexual relationship,” he said. He further said that the offences concerning marriage stand on a different footing and the wisdom of the Parliament in retaining the marital rape exception should not be doubted when there are other sufficient provisions in the IPC and other statutes to redress the grievances of a woman. The lawyer also claimed that the legislature has classified several types of sexual offences under the IPC on the basis of a “number of incidental and collateral circumstances, the relationship between the parties and the age of the woman”, and the retention of the marital rape exception which is based on a “reasonable classification” cannot be found fault with. He also said that there are limitations on the powers of the court in matters of judicial review and when legislation has given protection to the citizen in the form of the marital rape exception, the court cannot take it away and enact a new offence. The court can only make a recommendation to the Parliament if some changes are required, he said. Senior advocates Rebecca John and Rajshekhar Rao, who were earlier appointed as amicus curiae, have contended that the marital rape exception is unconstitutional and ought to be struck down. The Delhi government has told the court that marital rape was already covered as a "crime of cruelty" under the IPC. The Centre has informed that it was considering a “constructive approach” to the issue and holding consultations with the stakeholders. The central government, in its earlier affidavit filed in the case, has said that marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing the husbands. The hearing in the case will continue on January 27. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intercourse-in-marriage-cant-be-labelled-rape-wife-cannot-seek-specific-punishment-to-satisfy-ego-delhi-hc-told-1074589.html
25-01-2022||National||Suspended West Bengal BJP leaders' insights on party' functioning exposes cracks||Two Bengal BJP leaders who were served temporary suspension by the party have raised serious allegations against the party’s local leadership. The move puts more pressure on the BJP Bengal unit that’s already facing dissent from the party MLAs representing Mathua community, who are angry at not having their adequate representation in the party's state affairs. Jay Prakash Majumdar and Ritesh Tiwari, two former state vice presidents jointly addressed a press conference in Kolkata on Tuesday to share insights. Majumdar, also a spokesperson for state BJP till he was suspended, alleged that after the 2019 election results, some leaders from the Centre and the state in the party were not keen on trusting the-then leadership. It was felt that people who brought 18 seats for BJP, short of halfway mark, could no longer be trusted. By 2021, this thought found wider ground. It was perceived that the BJP could cross over this chasm by having people from outside the state, and from other parties. Majumdar said that after he joined the party (in 2014) he was also given the charge of ‘political analysis and feedback’, a department in state BJP, and to brief the central leadership on a regular basis. He pointed out that with this responsibility he had pointed out that such an approach is not an appropriate way and the party's structure should be trusted, but it was ignored and weakened. Outsiders - from other parties in state, and from other BJP state units were of no use, he felt. The veteran leader also claimed that in a party meet a central organisational leader, a few months prior to state elections had claimed that BJP can win the state without involving leaders who were at the helm of state affairs. None among the state leaders dared to interact with the press on the day results were declared, and on the day when senior BJP leader Mukul Roy returned to his old party, the Trinamool Congress. Majumdar claimed that Bengal’s politics is about fighting out the situation the on ground like Mamata does. Despite having lost seats, there was no discussion in the party, and in virtual meetings leaders willing to raise the issue were not allowed to speak, or their microphones were turned off by those handling the meeting. Instead of diagnosis, attempts were made to put everything under wraps, he claimed. In a state with around 30 per cent Muslims, the state unit has failed to find even one face for any of the posts. The state’s minority morcha too has been assigned to a Christian candidate from minorities, whereas nationally, the party is conscious of this inclusiveness. He added that the top two leadership roles in the state unit are with people who have a cumulative political experience of less than five years, and with this the intent is to fight with Mamata, who is considered a strategist and experienced, though she is an opponent. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspended-west-bengal-bjp-leaders-insights-on-party-functioning-exposes-cracks-1074593.html
25-01-2022||National||From 'Plaque of Gratitude' to evolution of army uniforms: The many firsts at parade of Republic Day 2022||From offering a “Plaque of Gratitude” to the relatives of 5,000 fallen war heroes at the same time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be paying homage to the bravehearts at the National War Memorial to the Indian Army displaying the evolution of its uniform and weapons over the last seven decades – there would be many firsts in the Republic Day parade in the 75th year of independence. But the few thousands present at the Rajpath would have to brave an intense cold wave prevailing in Delhi-NCR to witness the parade with the India Meteorological Department forecasting “cloudy sky, shallow fog and cold wave conditions” on Wednesday – a day after the national capital experienced its coldest day since 2013. Six marching contingents from the Indian Army will showcase the evolution of the uniform and weapons carried by one of the world’s largest armies. Soldiers from the Rajput regiment will wear 1947 uniform and carry the 0.303 rifles while Assam regiment troops will wear 1962 uniform and 0.303s. A contingent from Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry will don the 1971 uniform while holding 7.62 mm self loading rifles. The present-day uniform would be showcased by troops from Sikh Light Infantry and Army Ordnance Corps along with the homegrown 5.56 mm INSAS rifles. Finally, soldiers from a Parachute regiment will march on the central boulevard wearing the new uniform – unveiled on the Army Day on January 15 – and carrying 5.56 mm x 45 mm Tavor assault rifles. Members of the National Cadet Corps on Wednesday will reach the houses of 5,000 valiant soldiers who laid down their lives for the country to offer a “Plaque of Gratitude” on behalf of the nation for their supreme sacrifice. The plaque will be offered at the same time when the Prime Minister would be paying his homage to the martyrs at the National War Memorial. The NCC will continue with the programme till August 15 during which it will felicitate the next-of-kin to all the 26,466 fallen heroes whose names were etched at the National War Memorial, said an official. The 73rd Republic Day parade will also have several other firsts ranging from a fly past with 75 aircraft and giant hand-painted scrolls on both sides of the Rajpath and big LED screens to facilitate better viewing for the spectators. To avoid the chances of the R-day parade turning into a Covid-19 super-spreader, the Defence Ministry has decided to cut down the guest list to 5,000-8,000 invitees. Only those who are doubly vaccinated would be given entry. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-plaque-of-gratitude-to-evolution-of-army-uniforms-the-many-firsts-at-parade-of-republic-day-2022-1074596.html
25-01-2022||National||No mandamus by courts to provide quota to any class: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declared that a court cannot issue directions to a state government to provide for reservation for any class of citizens, while quashing an order to reserve three per cent seats under sports quota in government medical and dental colleges in Punjab. “No mandamus can be issued by the court directing the state government to provide for reservation. Power lies with the State to make a provision but, at the same time, courts cannot issue any mandamus to the State to necessarily make such a provision,” a bench of Justices M R Shah and B V Nagarathna said. The top court relied upon four past judgements wherein it was held that it was the State to take a call on providing for reservation for different classes based on various factors and that there cannot be any direction by a court to order quota benefits for any particular class of citizens.  The top court set aside the August, 2019 order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which had directed the state government to provide for a sports quota of three per cent in government medical and dental colleges instead of one per cent. "We are of the opinion that the High Court has committed a grave error in issuing a writ of mandamus and directing the state government to provide for three per cent reservation for sports persons,” the bench said.   The High Court has exceeded its jurisdiction while issuing a writ of mandamus directing the state to provide a particular percentage of reservation for sports persons, the top court added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-mandamus-by-courts-to-provide-quota-to-any-class-sc-1074600.html
25-01-2022||National||Roadmap prepared to improve coal stocks: Railways||The Ministry of Railways has said that it has prepared a roadmap in consultation with the power and coal ministries, for providing coal rakes to power plants located far away from mines to ensure sufficient fuel stocks. "Many of the long-distance thermal power plants (TPS) have regulated coal supply during April-June 21-22 to save on the inventory cost. A large number of railway rakes got stabled on account of the regulation of coal supply by these long-distance TPS. With power demand picking up its existing stock got liquidated," the Ministry of Railways said in a statement. The railways issued clarification following reports that power generation stations located far from mines are suffering due to discrimination in allotment of rakes mainly by South East Central zone of the railways (SECR). Dismissing these reports, the Ministry of Railways said in the SERC there are a large number of thermal power plants which are having less coal stock as per new coal stocking norms. Many of these shorter distance plants have both mechanized unloading flexibility namely ‘Tippler unloading system’ which uses Open wagon with side door (BOXN type) and ‘Hopper unloading System’ which uses hopper wagon with a bottom opening (BOBRN type). The unloading time of hopper rake is much less i:e 3 hours per rake, therefore, has a better turn around. As a result rake supply to these shorter distance plants dealing with the faster circuit, Hopper rake naturally improves. "There has been an upsurge in demand resulting in a global shortage of wagons. However, SECR has made all-round efforts to increase its loading despite the constraint of wagon shortage," the statement said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/roadmap-prepared-to-improve-coal-stocks-railways-1074628.html
25-01-2022||National||Centre to unveil comics on women freedom fighters||The Union Ministry of Culture will soon release graphic novels on the lives of freedom fighters Aruna Asaf Ali, Rani Gaindileu, Sucheta Kripalani and 17 more women as part of the celebration of the lives of 75 unsung heroes of the Indian freedom struggle. Other steps include podcasts and a travelling exhibition of the paintings in a 750-metre scroll put up at Rajpath for the Republic Day celebrations. The comics, produced by Amar Chitra Katha, are based on the lives of all the 75 unsung heroes. But the first batch will be on the lives of 20 women freedom fighters. Minister of State Meenakshi Lekhi will unveil the graphic novels in the coming week. This includes Rani Abbakka, Velu Nachiyar, Jhalkari Bai, Matangini Hazra, Gulab Kaur, Chakali Ilamma, Padmaja Naidu, Tileshwari Barua, Bishni Dev Shah, Subhadra Kumari, Durgawati Devi, Accamma Cherian, Durgabai Deshmukh, Usha Mehta, Parbati Giri, Tarkeshwari Sinha, and Snehlata Varma. “The idea was to do something different for this year’s Republic Day celebrations since this is the 75th year,” said culture secretary Govind Mohan. Podcasts on the lives of 40 freedom fighters, too, have been made. In addition, paintings from the 750-metre-long scroll on display at the Rajpath will be taken around the country. “Indigenous art like Patua and Madhubani by 600 artistes from across the country have made the art, and we want them to be showcased,” said NGMA director Adwaita Gadanayak, who is behind the efforts. The NGMA collaborated with Kalinga Institute of Technology, Silicon Institute of Technology and Chitkara University to build the scroll. “Inspiration has also been drawn from the creative illustrations in the Constitution of India wherein the artistic elements painted by Nandalal Bose and his team have imparted a distinctive appeal from the indigenous arts of India,” read a release by the culture ministry. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-unveil-comics-on-women-freedom-fighters-1074632.html
25-01-2022||National||Wagah-Attari like beating retreat ceremony to start at 3 border posts in Rajasthan: BSF||Tourists visiting the Indo-Pak border districts Jaisalmer and Bikaner in Rajasthan will soon be able to watch the Wagha-Attari border like beating retreat without the participation of Pakistani soldiers. The initiative will commence in the form of Beating the Retreat ceremony at BSF's IB post at Babliyan from next month and would then be extended to Bikaner's Sanchu and Khajuwala border posts, BSF IG (Rajasthan Frontier) Pankaj Goomar said on Tuesday. He said every citizen of the country wishes to visit the international border and keeping this in mind, the BSF has been working on a model to develop tourism at the border posts. “For this, a stadium with a seating capacity of 2,000 visitors has already been built at Babliyan post. In the beginning, we would start holding Beating the Retreat event like Atari border here from next month,” he said. Pakistan, however, will not have any participation in the event like the Wagah-Attari border for now as the Pakistani post is two km away from the border in Jaisalmer. The BSF has taken this initiative in association with the state government. While fulfilling the wishes of the citizens to have a glimpse like the Wagah-Attari Indo-Pak border, this initiative is also aimed at instilling a sense of patriotism in the visitors.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wagah-attari-like-beating-retreat-ceremony-to-start-at-3-border-posts-in-rajasthan-bsf-1074633.html
25-01-2022||National||India announces $200,000 relief assistance to tsunami-hit Tonga||India has extended an immediate relief assistance of $200,000 for relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts in tsunami-hit Tonga, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Tuesday. On January 15, 2022, a tsunami hit the Kingdom of Tonga impacting large sections of the country's population and causing significant infrastructural damage. India extends deep sympathy to the government and the people of the Kingdom of Tonga for the damage and destruction caused by this unprecedented disaster, the MEA said in a statement. "As a close friend and partner under the Forum for India-Pacific Islands Cooperation (FIPIC) and as a gesture of solidarity with the friendly people of Tonga, Government of India extends an immediate relief assistance of $200,000 to support relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts in the Kingdom of Tonga," the MEA said. India has firmly stood by Tonga during times of crisis and devastation caused by natural disasters, as during Cyclone Gita in 2018. Disaster Risk Reduction and Management is an important pillar of India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans’ Initiative (IPOI) announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November 2019, it said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-announces-200000-relief-assistance-to-tsunami-hit-tonga-1074644.html
25-01-2022||National||Gandhian, doctor among unsung heroes honoured with Padma Shri||Age or adversities did not deter them and now the country has honoured them with Padma Shri. A 102-year-old Gandhian activist from Assam, a 92-year-old traditional martial art exponent from Kerala, a late 89-year-old doctor who developed treatment protocols for victims of Bhopal Gas Tragedy and a late bureaucrat who carried out his assigned charge of ensuring oxygen availability during Covid-19 even from his hospital bed are among 107 Padma Shri awards announced on Wednesday on the eve of Republic Day. Shakuntala Choudhary (102), who hails from Kamprup, is a Gandhian Social Worker from Kamrup and popularly known as 'Shakuntala Baideo' while Sankaranarayana Menon Chundayil (92) is a veteran 'guru' of Kalaripayattu in Kerala's Thrissur for over six decades. One of Madhya Pradesh's senior-most doctors, late Narendra Prasad Misra was chosen for Padma Shri for developing treatment protocols for victims of Bhopal Gas Tragedy as well as Covid-19. Guruprasad Mohapatra (60), an IAS officer, was chosen for the national honour posthumously for carrying out his assigned charge of ensuring oxygen availability, especially during the second wave of Covid-19, even from his hospital bed. Dilip Shahani (71), an engineer, academician and technocrat who played an instrumental role in India's Electronic Voting Machine technology platform, is also in the list. An author from Nagaland, 76-year-old T Senka Ao, a teacher and journalist, was honoured for preserving Nagaland's Ao language through his writings over decades.  Another writer who was chosen for preserving a language was Akhone Asgar Ali from Kargil for preserving and promoting Balti language and culture. Globally acclaimed for his treatment and research on scorpion and snake bites, Himmatrao Bawaskar (71) finds his name in the list for serving the needy in Maharashtra's Raigad. S Ballesh Bhajantri (63) who composed Shehnai music for over 50,000 songs across five decades and 88-year-old Sulochana Chavan, a legendary Lavani singer from Kolhapur who made immeasurable contribution in the past 75 years are other veterans in the list. Khandu Wangchuk Bhutia (62), an eminent Tangkha Painter who specialises in traditional Buddhist paintings on cotton and silk, is the lone choice from Sikkim. An 84-year-old Polish national Christopher Byrski, a Sanskrit scholar and Koodiyattam enthusiast who authored over 100 publications on Indian theatre,  was chosen for her contribution to the literary, art and culture field.  Another choice was Basanti Devi from Uttarakhand who inspired women and for her contribution towards revitalising the Kosi River. Aditya Prasad Dash (70), a distinguished Biologist specialising in vector-borne tropical diseases like Dengue, Malaria, Kala-azar and Chikungunya and Lata Desai (75), who was providing healthcare services among rural and tribal communities in Gujarat for over five decades were among the doctors who were selected for Padma Shri. Lourembam Bino Devi (77) made the cut for the national honours for her service in preserving the Leeba textile art of Manipur over five decades. Another winner Muktamani Devi (49), also from Manipur, has been an inspirational woman entrepreneur exporting and popularising handcrafted woollen shoes.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gandhian-doctor-among-unsung-heroes-honoured-with-padma-shri-1074661.html
25-01-2022||National Politics||DH Toon | 'Netaji's statue incomplete without miniature Nehru next to it!'||A hologram monument of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on Sunday was illuminated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who without naming Congress blamed the principal opposition party for making attempts to “erase the contribution of many great people after independence” during their four decades long stay at power in the central government. “It was unfortunate that after independence, along with the culture of the country, work was done to erase the contribution of many great personalities. Freedom struggle involved the penance of lakhs of countrymen, but efforts were made to limit their history as well,” Modi said at a function here on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-netajis-statue-incomplete-without-miniature-nehru-next-to-it-1074316.html
25-01-2022||National Politics||ECI to send EPIC to newly enrolled voters by post||The Election Commission of India has decided to send illustrated Elector Photo Identity Cards (EPIC) to newly enrolled voters via post, a senior official said on Tuesday. The service will be launched on January 25 which is celebrated as National Voters' Day, the official said. "We will start sending the voter cards directly to the recipients by post. The service will be officially launched on National Voters' Day," he said. Talking more about it, the official said that the Commission will also send a kit along with the identity cards of the new voters. The packet will contain all the information including EVM, voting method, he said. "The National Voters' Day will be observed across the country on Tuesday as an initiative of the Election Commission to raise the awareness of the voters. The theme of this year's Voters' Day is 'Empowering, Vigilant, Protecting and Informing Our Voters'," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/eci-to-send-epic-to-newly-enrolled-voters-by-post-1074362.html
25-01-2022||National Politics||'Picnic politics' of rebel leaders keeping West Bengal BJP on tenterhooks||On Sunday, when Jay Prakash Majumdar and Ritesh Tiwari were handed over the show cause letter for anti-party activities, the two rebel BJP leaders were in a picnic with Union Minister of state for Shipping Santanu Thakur at Gobardanga in North 24 Parganas. Not only Tiwari or Majumdar but several other disgruntled leaders, both at the state level and the district level, gathered at the garden bungalow of Gobardanga BJP 'Mondal' President Ashis Bandopadhyay sending a strong indication that the discontent of a larger section of the lower and middle level leaders can't be thwarted with a show cause or a suspension. The things went so far that Thakur just after the show cause notice to the rebel leaders said, "I cannot say whom the party will send a show cause notice. I shall hold a meeting with anyone who comes to me. I shall speak with the agitated leaders of the state. Will the party expel all of them? Is it possible?" This aggravated the situation further. Thakur who is considered to be the face of the movement immediately announced, "Being an MP and a minister it is my responsibility to speak to the people who are unhappy with the situation. I will speak to everyone who comes to me. There will be picnics in the Bongaon Parliamentary constituency. There will be picnics throughout the state. This is an effort to enthuse the BJP workers". Fuelling the controversy, Thakur even said, "I shall not say anything more. Whatever I had to say, I had said it before. Now I shall act and everyone will see it". Thakur's open challenge to the state leadership is not mere verbose but it is something more. There are indications that both Ritesh and Jay Prakash and some other leaders were scheduled to attend a similar picnic organised by another dissident leader Manoj Mahato, in Purulia. The suspension had hardly any impact. In Purulia where BJP won all three Lok Sabha seats and six out of nine Assembly seats in last year's elections, five MLAs, including Narahari Mahato, Sudip Mukherjee and Kamala Kanta Hansda have written to the party's central leadership expressing displeasure over the appointment of Vivek Ranga as the new district unit president. In Bankura where BJP won both Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections and seven out of the 12 Assembly seats in the 2021 polls, four party MLAs Nirmal Dhara, Niladri Sekhar Dana, Amarnath Shakha and Dibakar Gharami, have written to the party top brass in Delhi seeking immediate removal of Sonamukhi organisational district unit president Bileshwar Singha and Bankura unit organisational president Sunil Rudra Mondal. In Birbhum Sheik Shamad, the party's minority cell leader, has resigned. A Yuva Morcha youth leader in Paschim Medinipur has resigned and joined the Trinamool Congress last week along with several Morcha members. In Baruipur in South 24 Parganas, several lower rung leaders have switched over to Trinamool Congress. Though the party leaders are not ready to say anything openly, several leaders who spoke to IANS on condition of anonymity said that the state unit is facing a serious organisational turmoil and if it is not controlled immediately it might create a negative impact of the party in the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/picnic-politics-of-rebel-leaders-keeping-west-bengal-bjp-on-tenterhooks-1074421.html
25-01-2022||National Politics||Congress leader RPN Singh joins BJP, may contest against Swami Prasad Maurya||A day after being declared as one of the star campaigners for the party in the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, senior Congress leader and former union minister RPN Singh on Tuesday resigned from the grand old party and joined the BJP. Singh, who joined the saffron party in the presence of state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh and union ministers Dahrmendra Pradah and Anurag Thakur, said that it was a "new beginning" for him. "I am eager to make my contribution for the development of the country under the able leadership and guidance of prime minister Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and J P Nadda," Singh said in a post. Singh, who hails from Kushinagar district and was a minister in the Manmohan Singh cabinet, was included in the list of the star campaigners of the Congress for the state on Monday. According to sources, Singh could be nominated by the BJP from Padaruan assembly seat from where former UP minister Swami Prasad Maurya, who recently resigned from the BJP and joined the Samajwadi Party (SP), was likely to contest the polls. Both Singh and Maurya hailed from the same region and had also contested against each other in the past. Singh had defeated Maurya in the 2009 Lok Sabha polls from Kushinagar. Maurya was then in the BSP. Maurya, however, defeated Singh's mother Mohini Devi from Padarauna assembly seat from where he was the MLA and vacated after being elected to Lok Sabha. Singh lost two successive Lok Sabha polls from the seat in 2014 and 2019. Maurya had in the meantime joined the BJP and had become a minister in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet.  Sources said that Singh had been trying to join the BJP for the past few months but Maurya had opposed his entry into the saffron party. "Maurya's resignation from the BJP paved the way for his entry," said a state BJP leader here. Reacting to Singh's induction in the BJP and the possibility of his contesting from Padarauna against him, Maurya said that even an ordinary SP worker could defeat Singh. "BJP will not gain anything from Singh's entry. He does not have any support base in the area," he added. Sources in the BJP, however, said that Singh's entry into the party might not go down well with the Brahmin leaders in Kushinagar as he could emerge as a challenger to them in local politics. Singh had been defeated by BJP's Rajesh Pandey in the 2019 LS polls. The politics in Kushinagar, which was part of the Gorakhpur division, revolved around Brahmin-Thakur and the OBCs. Several prominent Brahmin leaders from Gorakhpur division, including sitting BJP MLAs, have joined the SP in the run-up to the polls and they are likely to enter the electoral fray as the candidate of the party. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-rpn-singh-joins-bjp-may-contest-against-swami-prasad-maurya-1074440.html
25-01-2022||National Politics||PM Modi calls for higher polling, discussion on 'one nation, one election'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed concern over low voting percentage, especially in urban areas considered educated and prosperous, and said this should change in a vibrant democracy like India. In an interaction with BJP workers from across the country, Modi also raised the issues of "one nation, one election" and "one nation, one voters' list", saying that continuous cycle of elections result in politics being seen in everything while development works suffer. His address coincided with the National Voters' Day on Tuesday. While noting that the voting percentage rose from 45 per cent in the first Lok Sabha polls in 1951-52 to 67 per cent in 2019, he said the rise in woman voters participation was a good thing, but added that everyone from citizens to members of different political parties should think over low polling. It is seen that urban areas, which are considered educated and prosperous, have low polling, he said, lamenting that their residents discuss elections on social media but don't go to vote. Modi asked the BJP's "panna pramukhs" and other ground workers to work to ensure 75 per cent polling in every election. Polling is the most sacred donation to strengthen democracy, the prime minister said, lauding the Election Commission for its several initiatives to increase polling. Referring to the recently passed legislation which seeks voters to link their Aadhaar number and voter ID, he said it will boost transparency. Pushing for discussion on "one nation, one election" and "one nation, one voters' list", he said let different point of views emerge. Even this interaction with BJP "panna pramukhs", those in charge of one page of voters list of a booth is linked to elections, he said, adding that he had been planning such an interaction for some time. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur will be held in seven phases beginning next month. The audio interaction was earlier meant only for Gujarat BJP workers but was later expanded to include party members from different parts of the country. Modi has often pushed for holding elections, from that of Lok Sabha, to state assemblies and local bodies, simultaneously, saying frequent polls hamper development works and make people impute political motives every step of a government. On the National Voters' Day, held to mark the Election Commission's foundation in 1950, Modi praised the poll watchdog and noted it enjoys wide support from different political parties and institution. The EC also enjoys powers like issuing notices and transferring officers, that its counterparts in other democracies do not, he said, noting that the makers of the Constitution knew that a lively democracy was possible only when there is a strong and unbiased electoral process. In his address, Modi also urged BJP workers to run campaign with people's participation against malnutrition so that a healthy India emerges by 2047, the centenary year of its independence. He also asked them to get more and more to connect with the BJP through its micro donation exercise. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-calls-for-higher-polling-discussion-on-one-nation-one-election-1074460.html
25-01-2022||National Politics||Buddhadeb not the first, these leaders and individuals also declined Padma awards||Former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee is not the first Marxist leader to decline a national honour. Party's ideologue and former General Secretary late EMS Namboodirpad was the first among the CPI(M) leaders to decline a Padma Award. The CPI(M) leaders, as a policy, do not accept awards from the State. "Com. Buddhadeb Bhattacharya who was nominated for the Padma Bhushan award has declined to accept it. The CPI(M) policy has been consistent in declining such awards from the State. Our work is for the people not for awards. Com EMS who was earlier offered an award had declined it," the CPI(M) said in a statement on Tuesday night. Bhattacharjee separately said, "I don't know anything about Padma Bhushan Award, nobody told me anything about this. If I have been awarded Padma Bhushan then I am rejecting it." EMS was chosen for Padma Vibhushan award along with BJP's AB Vajpayee in 1992 by the then Congress government led by PV Narasimha Rao. While Vajpayee received the award, the Marxist veteran declined it. EMS was not alone in refusing to accept the Padma Vibhushan. There were at least two more people who declined the second-highest civilian award – legendary bureaucrat PN Haksar who felt that "accepting an award for work done somehow causes an inexplicable discomfort to me" and Swami Ranganathananda as it was conferred to him as an individual and not to the Ramakrishna Mission. Former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal returned Padma Vibhushan in 2020 in support of the farmers' protests while the family of politician Lakshmi Chand Jain refused to accept the posthumous honour as he was against accepting state honours. When it comes to Padma Bhushan, 12 people or families refused to accept it while seven returned the honours in protest. Historian Romila Thapar declined twice while civil servant K Subrahmanyam also declined the award as he believed that bureaucrats and journalists should not accept any award from the government because they are more liable to be favoured. Former Chief Justice of India JS Verma's family refused Padma Bhushan in 2014 after his death saying that he himself would not have accepted the honour. Kannada literary doyen K Shivaram Karanth returned his 1968 Padma Bhushan to protest against the Emergency declared 1975. Khushwant Singh returned Padma Bhushan in protest against Operation Blue Star. However, in 2007 he was awarded the Padma Vibhushan. Around 18 people, including Bollywood screenwriter Salim Khan and writer Geeta Mehta, declined Padma Shri while ten returned the awards. Those who returned the awards include poets Kaifi Azmi and Jayanta Mahapatra.  Azmi returned the award in protest against then Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Vir Bahadur Singh saying that those speaking Urdu as a second language should be made to sit on a donkey and paraded. Mahapatra returned the honour in protest against "growing intolerance" in the country. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/buddhadeb-not-the-first-these-leaders-and-individuals-also-declined-padma-awards-1074668.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir tests positive for Covid||Lok Sabha member from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir on Tuesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has mild symptoms.  "After experiencing mild symptoms, I tested positive for Covid today. Requesting everyone who came into my contact to get themselves tested," the cricketer-turned-politician tweeted. In November last year, Gambhir had isolated himself at home after a family member tested positive for the virus. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/east-delhi-mp-gautam-gambhir-tests-positive-for-covid-1074390.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir govt approves 15% reservation for females in police||To give adequate representation to women in police force, Jammu and Kashmir government has approved 15% reservation for females in non-gazetted posts. “On #NationalGirlChildDay, approved 15% reservation for women in non-gazetted posts of @JmuKmrPolice. This is just the beginning. We are determined and committed to increase it further in the future,” Office of LG J&K tweeted. “For women and girls to be agents of change, J&K government is committed to ensure Nari Shaktis’ social and economic empowerment while redressing long-standing inequalities to build a more just and resilient society,” it added. As policewomen are more suited to deal with policing requirements of womenfolk and children, which is more than half the total population, the reservation is seen as a step in the right direction. Qurat-ul-Ain Masoodi, a Kashmiri women rights activist, while welcoming the announcement said, “When a sizable number of women would join the police force it would in a long way improve the police image in society.” “Besides women have more patience, empathy, solicitude and tolerance which all are so valuable for democratic policing. Women are also less likely to use excessive force, which means a curb on malpractices like third-degree and custodial violence,” she told DH. For a long time, policing in conservative Muslim society of Kashmir has been considered a masculine profession, a male bastion. However, in the last decade or so, several Kashmiri women have qualified for the Indian Police Service (IPS) and Kashmir Police Service (KPS) exams. “Societal stereotypes are a barrier for girls to choose the police force as a career. Joining the police often becomes a hindrance in marriage prospects for girls – hence there is an undercurrent of social discouragement,” said Ruqiya, a college student. Ruqiya, who wants to join the force after completing her studies, said that she has been persuading her family to allow her to join the police. “Initially my parents were reluctant, but when women like Sheema Nabi Qasba qualified IPS, it has given a lot of hope for me. I want to become a police officer and serve my society,” she said. “It is important to take care of misogynistic tendencies among male police personnel, including officers, to encourage more women to join the force,” she added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-approves-15-reservation-for-females-in-police-1074414.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||Maharashtra BJP MLA Nitesh Rane moves Supreme Court for pre-arrest bail in an attempt to murder case||BJP MLA from Maharashtra Assembly Nitesh Rane on Tuesday approached the Supreme Court seeking anticipatory bail in an attempt to murder case lodged against him in Sindhudurg district last month. The top court fixed the matter for hearing on January 27. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, along with senior advocates Sidharth Luthra and Satish Maneshinde, mentioned the plea on behalf of Rane for urgent hearing before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana. The counsel said the case has arisen out of political rivalry. The top court agreed to consider the request to give hearing and posted the matter for consideration on January 27. Nitesh, son of Union Minister Narayan Rane, challenged the Bombay High Court's decision on January 17, denying him pre-arrest bail in the case. However, the Maharashtra police had given oral assurance before the High Court not to arrest him till Monday. The case against Nitesh is related to an alleged road rage incident on December 18, last year, The complainant, 44-year-old Santosh Parab, claimed that his bike was hit by an Innova car without a number plate. Parab alleged that he was assaulted by the car occupants and heard one of them tell another person that they “should inform Gotya Sawant and Nitesh Rane”. Nitish, for his part, claimed the FIR had been registered to prevent him from participating him in the Sindhudurg District Co-operative Bank elections, which were to be held on December 30, 2021.  He also contended that the whole thing was a fallout of the catcalling incident that took place outside the Vidhan Bhawan on December 23. At that time, Shiv Sena leaders had said Nitesh would be taught a lesson. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maharashtra-bjp-mla-nitesh-rane-moves-supreme-court-for-pre-arrest-bail-in-an-attempt-to-murder-case-1074428.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||Vigil intensified along J&K border amid infiltration threat||Amid specific inputs that over 100 militants were waiting along the launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) as well as International Border (IB) to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir, Army and BSF have further stepped up patrolling to foil any such attempts. Infiltration along the LoC and the IB had almost dried up after India and Pakistan agreed in February last year to restore peace on borders. However, sources said Pakistan has been desperate to import terror once again in the last few months. “For the first time in the last 32 years of militancy, the number of active militants in Kashmir has come down below 200. The relentless anti-militancy operations by security forces have broken the backbone of terror organisations in Kashmir and to send reinforcements, Pakistan has once again started to push infiltrators,” sources said. Inspector General of BSF, Kashmir, Raja Babu Singh said that after the ceasefire agreement last year, the overall situation along the LoC remained peaceful “but the fresh intelligence inputs suggest that 104 to 135 militants are ready to sneak into this side.” He also said that some guides have crossed over to the other side of LoC and their movement and their families are under the constant watch of security agencies. Pakistan had also activated more launch pads along the LoC and a good number of them are opposite Rajouri-Poonch belt in the Jammu region, sources said. After infiltrating through Rajouri and Poonch, the militants find it easier to reach the Shopian district of south Kashmir via Mughal Road. A BSF spokesperson said that they were on a high alert along the border. “We are carrying out extensive anti-tunneling drive, special patrolling and depth area domination despite extremely hostile weather conditions,” he said. “To strengthen the border domination, mobilisation of troops has been done,” he said and added that in view of possible security challenges ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, vigil has been further strengthened. India shares a 3,323-km-long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vigil-intensified-along-jk-border-amid-infiltration-threat-1074430.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||939 police medals including 189 for gallantry awarded on Republic Day eve||A total of 939 service medals, including 189 for gallantry, was announced by the Union government on Tuesday for personnel of various central and state police forces on the eve of Republic Day. The Union home ministry published a list containing names of personnel who have been decorated with the police medal for gallantry, president's police medal for distinguished service and police medal for meritorious service. Among the 189 gallantry awards, 134 personnel are being awarded for their gallant action in the Jammu and Kashmir region, 47 for their bravery in Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected areas and one personnel for similar conduct in the north-east region, a home ministry spokesperson said. The highest number of bravery medals, 115, have been awarded to the Jammu and Kashmir Police, followed by 30 to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), 10 to the Chhattisgarh Police, nine to the Odisha Police, seven to the Maharashtra Police, three each to the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), and two to the Border Security Force (BSF), among others. Eighty-eight personnel have been awarded the distinguished service medal while 662 have been given the meritorious service medal.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/939-police-medals-including-189-for-gallantry-awarded-on-republic-day-eve-1074443.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||Former MP Anand Gautam resigns from Congress||In a setback to the Congress, veteran party leader and former MP Anand Prakash Gautam has resigned from the party alleging neglect of workers. Announcing his decision at a press conference here on Monday night,  Gautam alleged that due to money and muscle power of prominent leaders in the district, grassroot and hardworking workers were being neglected. Gautam was a member of the Rajya Sabha for two terms. Without taking the name of former MP PL Punia, Gautam alleged that a senior leader of the party is trying to "fix his equations" to make his son win from Jaidpur assembly constituency and has no time to talk in favour of other candidates. "Such leaders are neglecting grassroot workers and disappointed over this, I am resigning from the primary membership of the party," he said. In his resignation sent to the UPCC president, Gautam said that he was hurt by the chaos at the local level in almost all the districts of the state. Senior Congressmen are being deliberately neglected, he said. Gautam said that he had tried to meet national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra many times and also talk to her on phone but the people around her never let him meet her. When asked if his leaving the party was linked to his son Jayant Gautam's aspiration to contest from Haidergarh seat, Gautam said there is no such issue. "In 2012, I myself was seeking a ticket from Haidergarh but did not get it. The one who was given the ticket had later left the party," Gautam added. The seven-phase Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls will begin next month. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-mp-anand-gautam-resigns-from-congress-1074465.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi HC proposes to reduce costs on Juhi Chawla from Rs 20L to Rs 2L in 5G lawsuit||The Delhi High Court Tuesday proposed to reduce from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 2 lakh the costs imposed on actress Juhi Chawla and two others by a single judge while dismissing her plea against 5G roll out, with a condition that she would have to do some work for public cause, considering that she is a celebrity and has presence in public. Chawla’s counsel, senior advocate Salman Khurshid, on instructions from her, consented to the court’s suggestion which came during the hearing of an appeal by Chawla and the two others against the order dismissing her lawsuit against the 5G roll out. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) secretary seeking his response on the appeal and listed the matter for further hearing on January 27. Khurshid submitted that if the cost amount could be waived, they could go back to pursue the cause. To this, the bench proposed to the counsel that it could reduce the cost amount but this would come with a condition that Chawla would have to do some public work. “We will not waive the cost completely but we can reduce it substantially from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. But that comes with a condition. Considering your client is a celebrity and has presence in public, so she should do some public work also. Her image and position may be utilised by the society for some public work, some good campaign and good purpose also. “Will she do it? She could do a programme for DSLSA here. DSLSA people will contact her and they could work out something and she can feature in it and could promote,” the bench said. Khurshid said it would be an honour for her and it would be a life time opportunity and sought a passover to take instructions from the actress on it. After some time, he informed the bench that the actress was grateful to the court for making this suggestion and she was agreeable to it. He also said if the court could find a way of taking care of the negative impact, which the press reports make sometimes, it would help her. While issuing notice to the DSLSA, the bench said it was not inclined to issue notice to other respondents at this stage, considering that the plaint has been returned to the appellants following the single judge’s order and their primary grievance is relating to payment of Rs 20 lakh costs amount to the DSLSA. Regarding the prayer to exempt them from payment of court fees, the high court asked why should there be an exception and it is not that the actress does not have means to pay it. “Everyone pays the court fees, she also has to pay it. It is not that the amount is exorbitant. We are not going to change it. Everyone has to follow the discipline of the court,” the bench said. Khurshid urged the court to allow them to voluntarily deposit the court fees, which would be returned to them, in the account of the DSLSA. In June last year, the single judge had described the lawsuit by Chawla and two others against 5G roll out as "defective", "abuse of process of law" and filed for "gaining publicity" while dismissing it with costs of Rs 20 lakh. In the appeal before the division bench of the high court, the actress and other appellants have contended that the single judge dismissed the plea and imposed costs without any jurisdiction and contrary to the settled law. It is claimed that a plaint can be dismissed only after it has been allowed to be registered as a suit. The appellants have further reiterated their concerns surrounding the harmful impact of 5G technology and submitted, “Every day that the 5G trials are allowed to continue constitutes a distinct and imminent danger to the health of the people who reside in the vicinity of the area where the trials are being conducted.” In the lawsuit, the appellants had claimed that if the telecom industry's plans for 5G come to fruition, “no person, animal, bird, insect and plant on earth will be able to avoid exposure, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to levels of RF radiation that are 10x to 100x times greater than what exists today”. It had sought a direction to the authorities to certify to the public at large how 5G technology is safe to humans, animals and every type of living organism, flora and fauna. While dismissing the lawsuit, the single judge had said the plaint in which questions have been raised about health hazards due to the 5G technology was "not maintainable" and was "stuffed with unnecessary Scandalous, frivolous and vexatious averments" which are liable to be struck down. The single judge had said the suit filed by actress-environmentalist and others was to gain publicity which was clear as Chawla circulated the video conferencing link of the hearing on her social media account which resulted in the repeated disruptions thrice by unknown miscreants who continued disruptions despite repeated warnings. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-proposes-to-reduce-costs-on-juhi-chawla-from-rs-20l-to-rs-2l-in-5g-lawsuit-1074472.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||Police officer, 3 civilians injured in Srinagar grenade attack||A police officer and three civilians were injured in a grenade attack by militants at Hari Singh High Street near city centre Lal Chowk on Tuesday.  A police official said the militants targeted a joint team of police and paramilitary CRPF. However, the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the roadside, causing splinter injuries to three pedestrians, including two women, besides a police inspector identified as Tanveer Ahmad.  The injured were shifted to nearby SMHS hospital where their condition is stated to be stable.   Reports said immediately after the attack the area was cordoned off to nab the attackers.  The attack came on the eve of Republic Day, at a time when security arrangements have already been heightened across Kashmir.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-officer-3-civilians-injured-in-srinagar-grenade-attack-1074508.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi govt offices to have photos of only Ambedkar, Bhagat Singh, no other leader: Kejriwal||Henceforth, all Delhi government offices will carry photos of Babasaheb Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh, and no pictures of any political leader, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. Kejriwal, also the Aam Aadmi Party chief, made the announcement during the Delhi government's Republic Day programme. He said the government offices will henceforth not even have the chief minister’s picture. During his speech, the chief minister said he is most inspired by Ambedkar, who was born in a Dalit family and went on to head the drafting committee of India’s Constitution, and Bhagat Singh, a revolutionary freedom fighter, as they charted different courses for a common purpose. “I announce today that in every office of the Delhi government, pictures of Babasaheb Ambedkar and Shaheed-E-Azam Bhagat Singh will be put up. Now, we will not put up pictures of politicians, including the chief minister,” Kejriwal said. “The Delhi government will function on the principles of these two freedom fighters,” he stated. Kejriwal said he felt amazed every time he thought about how Ambedkar would have even applied to Columbia University and then went to the London School of Economics when there was no internet, around 100 years ago. He then played a crucial role in writing the country's Constitution and became the first law minister. The chief minister said Ambedkar had a dream that every child should get the best education. “But even after 75 years of Independence, we could not fulfil this. Today, on Republic Day, we all pledge to fulfil this dream,” Kejriwal said. In the context of elections in Punjab and other states, the AAP convenor said the country can be taken forward only when everyone gets a good education and not by tall poll promises. “India can become number one only when every child gets a good education. There is no shortcut. No matter how big promises are made in elections… it is a long route. We will have to toil hard and to ensure good education to every child is a key step towards this,” Kejriwal said. In his 26-minute-long speech, Kejriwal largely spoke on issues related to revolutionary changes in the education system done by his government. He said that in 2015, the AAP government set aside 25 per cent of the budget for education and started improving infrastructure at schools. Teachers were sent to IIMs and foreign countries for training. It yielded good results as this year the pass percentage in Class 12 is 99.6 per cent, he said. Kejriwal said the government is now moving to the next step in the education sector and is working on three things – happiness curriculum to make students good human beings; entrepreneurship classes from Class 9 to impart business acumen in students, and Deshbhakti classes to instil a sense of patriotism in them. “If Babasaheb's soul is looking at us from wherever it is, it must be blessing us. Had Babasaheb been alive today, he would have embraced us,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister said revolutionary changes in schools can be gauged from the fact that Melania Trump, wife of former US president Donald Trump, had visited a Delhi government school during her trip to India. “It is a big feat and a certificate to our efforts in making revolutionary changes in school education,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-offices-to-have-photos-of-only-ambedkar-bhagat-singh-no-other-leader-kejriwal-1074526.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi govt to install 115-ft tricolours at 75 spots in city||Delhi government will hoist 115-foot tricolours at 75 locations across the city on January 27 to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the country's independence, PWD Minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. The installation of the high-mast national flags is being done by the Public Works Department (PWD) under Delhi government's “Deshbhakti Budget” to celebrate India's 75th year of independence. “To celebrate the 75th anniversary of the independence, the Delhi government, under the leadership of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, has decided to hoist 115-ft high tricolours at Delhi's 75 locations. This step will instil the feeling of patriotism among crores of people of the country,” Jain said in a tweet in Hindi. He attached a video along with the tweet in which the process of installing the flags and their importance is shown. A Delhi government official said an inauguration ceremony to mark the occasion will also be organised on January 27. A PWD official said the project entails the installation of high-mast tricolours at 500 locations across Delhi of which 75 will be hoisted a day after the Republic Day and the remaining by March 31. The official said the flags will come up at public places like parks, school buildings, market complexes, residential complexes, and open grounds. He said the spots where the flags will be hoisted have been selected meticulously to ensure that they are visible at every two to three kilometres. These high-mast flags will be set up on the lines of the 200-ft high tricolour at the Central Park in Connaught Place. In March last year, the Delhi government had announced its annual budget -- themed on patriotism and named “Deshbhakti budget” -- under which Rs 45 crore was set aside to install high-mast tricolours at 500 locations across the national capital. Later in September last year, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government increased the budget and approved an amount of Rs 104.37 crore for the project. Till August 15, 2021, the PWD has installed high-mast national flags at five locations in the city, including East Kidwai Nagar, Rani Bagh, East Vinod Nagar, Kalkaji and Dwarka. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-install-115-ft-tricolours-at-75-spots-in-city-1074572.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||J&K reports highest single-day jump of 6,570 Covid-19 cases||In the highest single-day jump since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020, Jammu and Kashmir reported 6,570 fresh Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths on Tuesday. An official handout said that of the 6,570 positive cases detected on Tuesday, 5,015 were reported from Kashmir and 1,555 from the Jammu division. Seven deaths related to Covid-19 were reported from Kashmir and Jammu divisions. On Saturday, J&K had recorded the previous highest daily case count of 6,568 since the onset of the pandemic. On May 7 last year, J&K had reported the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases during the second wave with 5,443 fresh infections. There was no new confirmed case of mucormycosis (black fungus) reported on Tuesday. So far 51 black fungus cases have been confirmed in J&K, officials said. So far, 4,09,166 people have been infected with coronavirus in J&K, of which 3,57,163 have recovered while 47,376 are active cases and 4,627 have died. Among those tested positive this month are over 1,100 health workers including doctors, paramedical staff and medicine students.  Health experts say the increase in the Covid-19 cases is a result of the community spread of the virus across the J&K, which was aggravated by the influx of tourists and celebratory programs around the New Year. According to Dr Riyaz Malik, a pediatrician, compared to first and second Covid-19 waves, the number of hospitalisations for children in the third wave have increased. “What we are witnessing is that fever is the most common symptom in children in this wave as compared to the first two waves,” he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-reports-highest-single-day-jump-of-6570-covid-19-cases-1074598.html
25-01-2022||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Youth kills boy for refusing to have unnatural sex||A 20-year-old man allegedly murdered a minor boy for refusing to have unnatural sex with him, police in Bemetara district in Chhattisgarh said on Tuesday. Pankaj Vishwakarma took the boy to an isolated spot near Bijabhata Murum mine and killed him with a sharp weapon on Monday and then fled after hiding the body, Bemetara police station official Prem Prakash Awadhiya said. After the child's parents filed a missing complaint, a probe zeroed in on Vishwakarma, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-youth-kills-boy-for-refusing-to-have-unnatural-sex-1074649.html
25-01-2022||Opinion||The misplaced concern on duties||While speaking at a function last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi claimed that people have been talking about rights since India's Independence while ignoring their duties, which has kept the country weak. Notably, this is not the first time the prime minister, his cabinet colleagues, or his party members have tried to pitch duties against rights. In the last few years, members of the ruling party have been attempting to invoke arguments similar to the prime minister on several occasions.  But unlike previous occasions, the latest attempt to invoke duties and create a misleading binary between rights and duties looks more serious. That's because, during the speech, the PM didn't merely claim that people are ignoring their duties over rights but added that "the coming 25 years are the period of utmost hard work, sacrifice, and penance."  According to him, this is a 25-year span to get back what our society has lost in the hundreds of years of slavery. Moreover, he urged citizens to do their duties, which he claimed would remove the "evils" prevailing in the society and take the country to new heights. The PM's invocation is problematic on several counts. Firstly, it gives an impression that the people of India are not doing anything or have done nothing for nation-building. Secondly, it also overemphasises the role of citizens as if it is the primary duty or responsibility of citizens to make things work and ensure attaining the constitutional objectives of India. Such an emphasis is not just fallacious and contradictory to the values enshrined in our Constitution but can also lead to dangerous consequences if implemented.  As for citizens, they already perform a range of duties such as paying taxes (not just the prosperous but also ordinary and poor citizenry in the form of indirect taxes), adhering to civil and criminal laws, paying fines and taking part in elections, etc. Hence, to claim that people are only or mainly talking about rights while ignoring their duties is untrue. It looks like the government wants to rid itself of its duties and responsibilities or shift that burden on people or private entities.  In this regard, Samuel Moyn, a professor of jurisprudence and history at Yale University, draws our attention towards a vital aspect of pitching duties against rights. According to him, "The rhetoric of duties has often been deployed euphemistically by those whose true purpose is a return to tradition won by limiting the rights of others." He gives examples from Singapore, where it was invoked to "return" to "Asian values" and erode human rights, and in the United Kingdom, where it was deployed to curtail welfare schemes. It would be worth recalling that a list of 10 fundamental duties was inserted into our Constitution in 1976, during the dark era of Emergency. Another was added during the prime ministership of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. According to legal scholar Vineeth Krishna, "We find no evidence that remotely suggests that the framers of our Constitution seriously considered adopting something that resembled fundamental duties." We must also note the similarities between what has been witnessed in Singapore and the UK. For example, we often hear the members and supporters of the current dispensation invoking the idea and need to return to the 'swarnim Bharat', the glorious golden past. Needless to add, the idea of returning to this glorious past has more to do with the political agenda (Hindutva) of the ruling party and little to do with the wellbeing of the ordinary people of India.    Similarly, the government could curtail welfare schemes or deny these by claiming it does not have money to fund the schemes. For example, in mid last year, the Centre submitted an affidavit before the Supreme Court stating that compensation of Rs four lakh cannot be paid to the families of those who have died due to Covid-19 because it is beyond fiscal affordability. Remember, it is one thing to say that we don't have money and another to deny people's fundamental rights because there is no money. If a government is committed to the welfare of its people, it can indeed find ways without anyone reminding or demanding it.  It is important to note that the prime minister and his colleagues, who often like to remind us of our duties, have failed to fulfil their duties both as citizens and as people responsible for running this country. The PM and his government do not have a good record in living up to the 11 fundamental duties enshrined in the Constitution. This analysis (https://thewire.in/government/narendra-modi-says-focus-on-duties-and-forget-rights-but-hes-let-india-down-on-all-11-duties) lists the occasions the PM, and his government, have fallen short of abiding by the Constitution, respecting institutions, the national flag and anthem, cherishing and following the noble ideals that inspired the freedom struggle, and upholding and protecting the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India.  Hence, more than the people, the prime minister and his party members have to adhere to their duties as citizens and also as people who have taken the oath to abide by the Constitution. It is high time they walk the talk. (The writer is a multilingual journalist and researcher) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-misplaced-concern-on-duties-1074332.html
25-01-2022||Opinion||Netaji and Sri Aurobindo: Claims and counterclaims over legacies||Political competition has curdled the simple pleasure of straightforward pride in the achievements of national icons, the latest being the controversies over who exerted what pressure and why to get the Narendra Modi government to install a temporary hologram of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on the vacant pedestal at India Gate and the "merging" of the Amar Jawan Jyoti after its removal to the National War Memorial where another eternal flame was already alight. The timing of the fights deflects attention away from the moments that deserve reflection to petty politicking. In the year of the Amrit Mahotsav marking 75 years of India's independence, the hurly-burly of celebrations ranging from rangoli and deshbhakti geet competitions and the bevvy of birth anniversaries of great national leaders, it is noteworthy that some are greater than others. It is not possible nor seemly to measure what makes some greater than others because all the great national leaders and patriots and the less noteworthy and virtually nameless others made immense sacrifices and contributed to the cause of freedom. The greats do not eclipse each other; contemporary politics does. However, the politics of greatness and appropriating legacy creates hierarchies; who gets more public attention in terms of the controversies that have erupted vis-à-vis the quieter, even if a contentious commemoration of others contributes to creating perceptions about the relative ranking of the greats. This is the year of Bose's 125th birth anniversary, as it is Sri Aurobindo's 150th. Both were ardent nationalists and contributed in their own unique ways to the fight for freedom. Both succeeded in challenging the status quo within the Congress and broke away from the party. The similarities are superficial because the impact of Bose and Aurobindo contributed to the freedom movement but did so in different ways. To pronounce, as Union Home Minister Amit Shah did that neither Bose nor Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel received "due recognition, respect and importance for years" is an exercise in scoring a political point against the Congress and one set of interpretations of the history of India's freedom movement. To claim that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is correcting the skew and the wrong done to Bose is also part of settling scores against the Congress and the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty. The BJP has an axe to grind; as a party with multiple avatars but short on lineage, it still falls short of having directly supplied a galaxy of participants to the freedom movement. That explains its particular politics of appropriating the 'neglected' leaders in order to give them the respect and importance they deserved. If this were simple corrective action, the flavour of settling scores would not be quite so emphatic. Recognition, respect and importance of political legacies are not a simple matter of statues, holograms and flames. Legacies are complicated by the expectations and aspirations of the people who bequeathed their work to the nation. Bose had a specific set of prescriptions for India's future as an independent country beset by poverty, illiteracy, underdevelopment and the burden of British imperialism.  So did other leaders, including Aurobindo, hailed as "the poet of patriotism, as the prophet of nationalism and the lover of humanity." Through his active participation in the freedom movement was short-lived, most historians argue that it spanned less than a decade, his influence on Indian nationalism had a long afterlife. "With Aurobindo, Indian politics crossed the Rubicon; the religious dimension became an integral part of the political scene of the country," MK Haldar wrote in his assessment of the contribution of the mystic and leader's political thoughts on the subject of freedom.  The religious dimension of Aurobindo was not the Hindutva politics of the BJP-RSS. Scholars like Sugata Bose are insistent that the Uttarpara address of Aurobindo is "a speech hugely misunderstood by historians thoroughly imbued with the secular ideology of the postcolonial Indian state." In that speech, Aurobindo declared, even as he signed out of actively leading the political movement, "that this movement is not a political movement and that nationalism is not politics but a religion, a creed, a faith. I say it again today, but I put it in another way. I say no longer that nationalism is a creed, a religion, faith; I say that it is the Sanatana Dharma which for us is nationalism." Experts will probably continue to examine what Aurobindo meant by Sanatana Dharma and nationalism. For the rest, Aurobindo was a political leader. He was also a philosopher, a poet, a mystic and perhaps India's first modern-day global guru. Therefore, it is time, on the occasion of his 150th anniversary for his devotees living in and around the Ashram, as well as the otherwise disengaged citizens living in Puducherry and around the sprawling acres of the still incomplete plan for the development of Auroville and its futuristic design, to reflect on what has been achieved and what remains to be done. It is also time when the Government of India has to assess its role in developing Auroville's infrastructure and how far the project, started in 1968, has moved towards completion. The controversy around Auroville's infrastructure and development is a clash between those who live within the premises and those outside it, be it the government or the neighbourhood locals. The usual elements of a land mafia, vested interests and intrepid devotees or followers of the great leader are all part of the complicated face off. The original plan for the place envisaged a community of 50,000, "a city of relatively dense urban proportions," the progress has been slower than a slow crawl. Since the Centre is invested in the Auroville Foundation and it is public money that is being spent, there is an obligation to get on with the work and complete what has to be done to implement the plan in full. Political leaders bequeathed their legacies of work and sacrifice, vision and ideals to the nation. It is perhaps time to abandon hollow worship at the feet of imposing statues or holograms and get down to the business of accounting what independent India has done to fulfil the expectations and aspirations of the greats and the lowly who participated in the freedom movement. Common to every participant, cutting across the spectrum of ideological positions, was a simple promise to give people a life of dignity as part of a free and independent nation. That promise remains unfulfilled as hunger, poverty, discrimination, repression impact the lives of the overwhelming majority, even as the rich get richer. Claiming to have put Bose on a pedestal as a significant achievement hardly comes close to fulfilling his vision for independent India.  Including yoga in the UN calendar of days celebrated globally does not fulfil Aurobindo's vision for a great and moral nation, nor is that vision fulfilled by completing the unfinished business of developing Auroville. These are distracting sideshows that divert attention from the basics of ensuring that every Indian lives a life of dignity. (The writer is a journalist based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/netaji-and-sri-aurobindo-claims-and-counterclaims-over-legacies-1074333.html
25-01-2022||Opinion||Marital rape and the question of consent||The Delhi High Court, which is hearing a clutch of petitions to criminalise marital rape, said last week that "too much emphasis" was being placed on the wife giving her consent for sex with her husband. Justice C Hari Shankar, part of the two-member bench hearing the case, said that Parliament had provided "some kind of rational basis" to justify the exception to Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The exception protects a husband from the offence of rape if he forces his wife to have sex with him unless she is a minor and below the age of 18. "We are obfuscating this entire argument, this entire rationale, by focusing on consent, consent, consent," Justice Shankar said. However, consent, or the lack of it, is central to the whole debate on whether or not a husband can be exempted from criminal prosecution if he rapes his wife. Rather than "obfuscating" the rationale for granting him immunity from the law against rape, it starkly and emphatically clarifies why any such "rationale" is flawed and unjust. The question of consent is often a tricky one. It is especially so in the case of sex between two people who are in an intimate relationship, where the absence of consent may be nuanced, or may not be explicitly articulated. However, the point is that the mere fact of marriage cannot presume a spouse's everlasting consent to sexual intercourse. The consent may be revoked. And if sex without consent is defined as rape, as it is in the IPC and criminal jurisprudence the world over, a husband forcing his wife to have sex with him can hardly be regarded as a spot of harmless marital sport. Rape is red in tooth and claw — an act of sexual aggression, whether inflicted by a husband or someone else. Besides, the rapist-husband usually commits the act again and again, over months and years. Rape within marriage is rape normalised, and the exception to IPC Section 375 props up and perpetuates that abhorrent normalisation. The petitioners' argument in the ongoing case is that the exception to Section 375 is unconstitutional as it violates a married woman's fundamental right to life, which includes her right to bodily integrity and sexual autonomy. It also discriminates against her on the basis of her marital status and violates her fundamental right to equality by not providing her with the same redress that is available to other victims of rape. The Justice JS Verma Commission, which was set up to amend and strengthen the country's laws against sexual violence after the horrific Nirbhaya rape of December 2012, had stated in its 2013 report: "The law ought to specify that marital or other relationship between the perpetrator or victim is not a valid defence against the crimes of rape or sexual violation… The relationship between the accused and the complainant is not relevant to the enquiry into whether the complainant consented to the sexual activity, and the fact that the accused and the victim are married or in another intimate relationship may not be regarded as a mitigating factor justifying lower sentences for rape." Despite the Verma Commission's emphasis on the centrality of consent in sexual intercourse between intimate partners, and hence, the clear recommendation to do away with the exception to Section 375, successive governments have baulked at it. In an affidavit filed in 2016, the Centre said that criminalising marital rape would "destabilise the institution of marriage and become a tool for harassment of husbands." The subtext of that statement is, of course, patriarchy's dearly held notion that a man has absolute power over his wife, that marriage gives him the divine right to have sex with her whether she likes it or not, and, therefore, any move to punish him for raping his wife will spark some kind of social armageddon. On Monday, the government couched its reluctance to criminalise marital rape in somewhat less anachronistic terms. It urged the Delhi High Court not just to examine the constitutional validity of the provision, but to take "a wider view of the matter" as it involved the "dignity of the woman" and "social and family issues". It sought time from the court for a "consultative process" and said it was considering the issue in a "holistic manner". However, the so-called holistic approach to marital rape really implies the unwillingness to upset the apple cart of deep patriarchy. There is only one way to look at marital rape — it is committed against the woman's will and consent. The bonds of matrimony or the fact that it takes place within a family structure or any other social factor cannot airbrush it in any way. Similarly, it is specious to argue that criminalising marital rape will lead to women abusing the law en masse to victimise their hapless husbands, or that it would be difficult to prove rape in the context of marriage. Every law is open to abuse, and every crime has to be proven. Neither can be grounds for not giving women the legal remedy for the offence of marital rape. In the last few years, the Supreme Court has struck down several antiquated and egregious laws such as IPC Section 377, which criminalised gay sex, or the adultery law of Section 497, on the grounds that they were unconstitutional. Let us hope that the courts, in their wisdom, will admit the stark unconstitutionality of the exception to Section 375, and not let the pushback from the executive derail the move to strike it off the statute books. (Shuma Raha is a journalist and author) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/marital-rape-and-the-question-of-consent-1074424.html
25-01-2022||South||Covid-19 tests remain low in Andhra Pradesh even as positivity rate jumps to 36%||The Covid-19 positivity rate has climbed up to an alarming 36 per cent now in Andhra Pradesh. On Monday,14,502 new positive cases were reported from the state, when 40,266 samples were tested. The Jaganmohan Reddy government, which was leading in the country in tests conducted during the first wave, was also analysing around one lakh samples daily during the height of the second wave last year. However, the Andhra Pradesh health department has now confined the daily tests to around 45,000 only, even as the positivity rate has been shooting up at a dangerous pace in the past few days. Five days back, the positivity rate – proportion of positive cases from among all the samples tested – was at 24 per cent. Ten days back, on January 14, it was at 11 per cent. Speaking to DH, Dr G Hymavathi, director, public health, Andhra Pradesh had said they are following the central guidelines issued earlier this month directing the tests focus on the symptomatic people, those with comorbidities etc. While schools and other educational institutions are closed in Telangana till month-end, in Andhra Pradesh they were allowed to run as usual. The YSRCP government is however implementing a night curfew to control the virus spread. In Telangana, the new Covid-19 daily cases have remained below the 5,000 mark during the present wave till now, even when the state is conducting over one lakh tests daily. Present positivity rate is at 4 per cent only. On Monday, 3,980 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded when 97,113 samples were tested. Five days back, on January 19, 3,557 cases came to light when 1,11,178 samples were analysed. Nevertheless, a fever survey conducted across the state last week has found that over 1.28 lakh people are suffering with Covid-19 like symptoms. Officially, there are 33,673 active cases in Telangana now, either under treatment in hospitals or in isolation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tests-remain-low-in-andhra-pradesh-even-as-positivity-rate-jumps-to-36-1074359.html
25-01-2022||South||Rights activists raise red flag after 7 die in Tamil Nadu Jallikattu||Animal rights activists and Human rights activists have raised the red flag over the continuance of the violent, bloody sport of 'Jallikattu' in Tamil Nadu connected with the harvest festival of Pongal. The festival which is considered a valour sport is to tame bulls that are released from cages. Sometimes the bull gores the tamers, in certain days the bull tramples and kills the owners and at many times it kills the spectators by running into them at the finishing point. Whatever it is, the tough sport has drawn bouquets and brickbats with the young generation of Tamil Nadu raising their thumbs for the continuance of the festival while animal rights activists and human rights activists are calling upon the state government to put a ban on the sport. The Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations (FIAPO) has already opposed the cruelty meted out to bulls during the Jallikattu festival including hurting the animal with knives, biting its tail, and even rubbing red chilly powder in its eyes to make the animal more valiant. Sudhir Raghuram of FIAPO while speaking to IANS said, "Jallikattu was banned by the Supreme Court in 2014 and Tamil Nadu government after public protests brought an ordinance in 2017 and made it happen again. However even now, the cruelty against the bull is unfathomable and this is not valour and it's sheer cruelty and arrogance. Seven people have already lost their lives in this mad sport and several hundred are injured. We don't know the exact number of bulls that have been inflicted injuries." However, in Tamil Nadu on the Mattu Pongal day in several parts of the state including Madurai, Pudukottai, Nagapattinam, Sivaganga, Tirunelveli, the Jallikattu is conducted with even the Chief Minister of the state sponsoring the winner's trophy. In this year's Jallikattu, Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin sponsored a car for the best bull tamer, and his son and DMK youth wing leader and MLA, Udayanidhi Stalin sponsored a two-wheeler to the winner. The PETA has also raised the red flag against the cruelty being inflicted on the bulls during the Jallikattu festival and the extreme mental tension the animal would be facing during the few minutes of the festival. Krishnaveni H. of Madurai who is an activist of the PETA while speaking to IANS said, "The ordinance of the Tamil Nadu government is still the license for conduct of Jallikattu in the state and there should be an end to this sport if one may call it a sport. There needs to be strict monitoring against the practices of hurting the animal including biting its tail, rubbing its eyes with red chilli powder, and also hitting its vertebra and sides with sharpened knives and iron rods to make the animal more valorous. In fact, the poor animal is running for its life and people are making it out as if they are gaining something out of it. Anyway, with the Jallikattu on, the government and the Animal welfare board must take measures to prevent cruelty to the animal and stringent monitoring is necessary for that." While there are many objections being raised against Jallikattu, the Tamil people consider this as their pride and also to find good bulls for insemination purposes. The bulls that win the race and that cannot be tamed are considered powerful bulls and are used to inseminate cows. M. Manikantan, a bull owner in Madurai told IANS, "Jallikattu is part and parcel of the life of a Tamilian and we will not allow it to be stopped or banned. This has been in our blood for ages and we will continue with this. The animals are given royal treatment and it's absurd to say that the bulls are being hurt. How can one hurt a costly bull which has been trained and reared purposefully for this festival? It's a royal sport and not for the weak-hearted. Those who are against Jallikattu are against Tamil pride and we will continue with this manly sport." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rights-activists-raise-red-flag-after-7-die-in-tamil-nadu-jallikattu-1074432.html
25-01-2022||South||Kerala gets country’s first Graphene Innovation Centre||The state-run Digital University Kerala (DUK), along with CMET-Trichur, is gearing up to set up India Innovation Centre for Graphene, the country’s first graphene R&D incubation centre in Kerala. The Ministry of Electronics and IT, Government of India, has given approval for the Rs 86.41 crore-project. The centre, which will be implemented with the support of Government of Kerala, has the potential to accelerate the state’s growth in the knowledge industry sector and the Tata Steel Ltd will be the industrial partner of the centre, an official statement said here. Often referred to as the wonder material for its extraordinary electrical and electronic properties, graphene, as per latest researches, could replace indium and thereby bring down cost of OLED (organic light-emitting diode) screens in smartphones. Graphene is the thinnest and strongest material in the world ever known and has good chemical stability, high electrical conductivity and a large surface area while being transparent and lightweight. The chief investigators of the project, Dr A P James (DUK) and Dr A Seema (CMET-T) are leading the initiative, with an aim to bridge the gap between graphene academic research and industrial applications, it said. The centre aims to be an anchor point to promote startups and commercial research. The main collaborators to the centre include scientists from the National Graphene Institute, University of Manchester, and a growing list of expressions of interest from industry partners from around the world. “We expect the centre to offer students, researchers, established industries and budding startups to test and experiment new innovative products, and make it a thriving environment for innovative graphene-based product development,” said Saji Gopinath, Vice Chancellor, Digital University Kerala. The emerging 2D materials will have a wide range of commercial and industrial applications in biomedical, defense, electronics, energy, and sensors, in the next decade. The centre will also develop the skilled manpower by anchoring Ph.D. and master students through Digital University, with an applied research focus in the areas of electronics product design, sensors, and energy applications, the statement added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gets-country-s-first-graphene-innovation-centre-1074434.html
25-01-2022||South||Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve gets TX2 award||The Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) of Tamil Nadu has been awarded the prestigious TX2 Award after its tiger number doubled since 2010.  The Nilgiri biosphere landscape, which the reserve is a part of, is currently the home to the largest tiger population in the world.  Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve is a protected area and tiger reserve in the Western Ghats in the Erode District of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The awards are presented by the Conservation Assured Tiger Standards (CATS), Fauna and Flora International (FFI), Global Tiger Forum (GTF), IUCN’s Integrated Tiger Habitat Conservation Programme (ITHCP), Panthera, UNDP, The Lion’s Share, Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) and WWF, according to a press statement.  They celebrate the 10th anniversary of all 13 Tiger Range countries committed to double the global population of wild tigers by 2022. The award acknowledges the efforts by the state governments and the local communities who have played one of the most important roles to turn a relatively new tiger reserve into one of the source populations of tigers in India. Sathyamangalam was declared a Tiger Reserve in 2013 and now has about 80 individuals in the area.  The tiger reserve is an important link between the Nilgiris and Eastern Ghats landscape.  It is connected to other well-established tiger habitats like Mudumalai Tiger reserve, Bandipur Tiger reserve and BR Hills tiger reserve.  The adjoining areas like Erode forest division, Coimbatore forest division and Malai Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary are also emerging as important tiger habitats, creating a mosaic that allows the big cats to easily move in search of food and new territory.   Ravi Singh, Secretary-General and CEO, WWF India, said: “The TX2 Awards celebrate the remarkable contributions made by government bodies, NGOs, and local communities to strengthen tiger conservation. To honour a recently notified Tiger Reserve like Sathyamangalam with the award is a step forward to inspire others to work towards preserving this magnificent species and its habitats.” In September this year, tiger range countries will convene at the second Global Tiger Summit in Vladivostok to assess progress towards the ambitious TX2 goal - double the number of tigers in the wild - and identify tiger conservation priorities for the next 12 years.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sathyamangalam-tiger-reserve-gets-tx2-award-1074463.html
25-01-2022||South||Kerala government's move to overlook Lokayukta triggers strong criticism||A move by the Left Front government in Kerala to bring in an ordinance to overlook the Lokayukta's powers to direct public servants to vacate office has triggered strong criticism. The move raised many eye brows as petitions against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Higher Education Minister R Bindu were pending with the Lokayukta. Higher education minister in the previous Left Front government K T Jaleel had to quit following a Lokayukta order. An ordinance for amending the Kerala Lokayukta Act was cleared by the state cabinet and sent to the Governor for assent. Already, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and the Left Front government were locking horns, hence the stand of the Governor on the ordinance is quite curious. Recently there were reports that Chief Minister Vijayan intervened to patch up the differences with the Governor. The Congress and the BJP had strongly flayed the government move to bring in the ordinance alleging that it was aimed at making the Lokayukta toothless. Opposition leader V D Satheesan of the Congress urged the Governor not to sign the ordinance. As per the draft ordinance cleared by the cabinet, a new provision was included in section 14 of the Kerala Lokayukta Act that empowers the government to either accept or reject directives of Lokayukta to public servants to vacate office if the corruption charges were found true. It provides for the government to give an opportunity to the public servant to be heard even after the Lokayukta's directive. At present a petition against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in connection with alleged misuse of funds from the Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund and another petition against Higher Education Minister Bindu in connection with interventions in appointment of vice chancellor were pending before the Lokayukta. Higher Education Minister in the previous Left Front government K T Jaleel had to quit after Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-governments-move-to-overlook-lokayukta-triggers-strong-criticism-1074466.html
25-01-2022||South||TN gangster Padappai Guna surrenders before Madras HC||History sheeter and notorious don, Padappai Guna who is accused in 25 criminal cases including murder, surrendered before the Madras High Court on Tuesday. Police were on the lookout for him for a long time. Guna is involved in murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, and extortion in several cases in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts of Tamil Nadu. Recently the Kancheepuram police had held a meeting with the industrialists at Sriperumbadur and told them not to succumb to pressure from gangsters for protection money. The Tamil Nadu police in a bid to showcase the state as an investment destination do not want complaints from a place like Sriperumbudur where several Multi-National Corporations (MNCs) have set shop. Several small units and micro industries were facing trouble from gangsters like Guna who tried to extort money from them. Tamil Nadu DGP C. Sylendrababu had constituted a special team of police officers led by ADGP, Velladurai considered an expert in cracking high profile criminal cases, to catch Guna and bring him before the law of the land. Velladurai is himself being named as one of the tough police officers of Tamil Nadu and is being seen in the criminal circles of Tamil Nadu as an encounter specialist. He was also in the team of TN police officers who had killed forest brigand Veerappan in 2004. He was also part of the Tamil Nadu police team that had gunned down gangster Veeramani in 2003. Sources in the police told IANS that the constitution of the new police team under ADGP Velladurai had sent shock waves across the criminals in and around the state and the surrender of Padayappa Guna before the Madras High Court is seen as a move to protect himself from the ire of the police officer who is considered as a no-nonsense taskmaster and goes for the kill. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-gangster-padappai-guna-surrenders-before-madras-hc-1074509.html
25-01-2022||South||Ask Sri Lanka to stop attacks on Indian fishermen, M K Stalin tells Centre||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday condemned the “outrageous attack” against three fishermen from the state by Sri Lankan nationals and asked the Ministry of External Affairs to take up the matter with the neighbouring country. In a letter to External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister said India cannot continue to be seen as “a mute spectator as the rights of Indian fishermen is repeatedly trampled upon.” He said three fishermen from Nagapattinam District, Tamil Nadu had ventured out for fishing on January 23 in their FRP boat and were attacked by a group of unidentified Sri Lankan nationals around 9.00 pm, while they were fishing near 16 Nm from Southeast of Vedaranyam coast. “In this attack, they were robbed of a 300 kg fishing net, GPS & VHF equipment, 30 litres of diesel, and also were physically attacked. The injured fishermen are undergoing treatment in Government Hospital, Vedaranyam, Stalin said. “It is observed that continuing attacks on innocent Tamil Nadu fishermen by the Sri Lankan Nationals are clearly aimed at keeping the Tamil Nadu fishermen away from their traditional fishing waters of Palk Bay. I am constrained to point out that these incidents of attacks by Sri Lankan nationals are disconcerting,” Stalin told Jaishankar. The continued attacks have become a matter of life and death for thousands of fisherfolk in Tamil Nadu whose livelihood is under serious threat. “I request the Government of India to take this up with the Sri Lankan Government in a stern manner such that acts of physical assault and robbing or damaging of assets of Tamil Nadu fishermen does not take place in future. I solicit your urgent action in this regard,” he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ask-sri-lanka-to-stop-attacks-on-indian-fishermen-m-k-stalin-tells-centre-1074519.html
25-01-2022||South||PM's photo on Covid vaccination certificates can't be considered as advertisement, says Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal filed against its earlier order dismissing a plea seeking removal of the Prime Minister's photo from the Covid-19 vaccination certificates. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly, said the photo of the PM cannot be considered as an advertisement. The court also said that the Prime Minister has every right to give out a message on vaccination. A Single Bench of the High Court had on December 21, last year dismissed the petition, filed by one Peter Myaliparampil, with a cost of Rs one lakh, saying it was "frivolous", filed with "ulterior motives", "publicity oriented" and the petitioner probably also had a "political agenda". Peter had challenged the verdict. The court had earlier said that in case of failure to deposit the cost within the stipulated period, the Kerala State Legal Services Authority (KeLSA) shall recover the amount from his assets by initiating revenue recovery proceedings against him. It had also said that the "petitioner should study the respect to be given to the Prime Minister and others by watching at least the parliamentary proceedings, which are available live on national TV". The petitioner had contended that the certificate was a private space with personal details on record and therefore, it was inappropriate to intrude into the privacy of an individual. He had contended that adding the Prime Minister's photo to the certificate was an intrusion into an individual's private space. The petitioner, a senior citizen, had contended in his plea that the Prime Minister's photo on his vaccination certificate was a violation of fundamental rights. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pms-photo-on-covid-vaccination-certificates-cant-be-considered-as-advertisement-says-kerala-hc-1074559.html
25-01-2022||South||Stop Sri Lanka from auctioning boats of Indian fishermen: Stalin to Modi||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi objecting to Sri Lanka’s decision to auction 105 fishing boats seized from fishermen belonging to the state. He urged Modi to intervene in the issue and prevail upon the Sri Lankan government to stop the auction scheduled from February 7 to 11 by recalling an advertisement published in newspapers in this regard.  Referring to media reports that Sri Lanka’s Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources has decided to auction the boats owned by Tamil Nadu fishermen, Stalin said the “unfortunate development” has come at a time when the Indo-Sri Lankan Joint Working Group on Fisheries is due to meet again shortly.  “The above action has created alarm and distrust among the Tamil Nadu fishermen who have come forward with an accommodative frame of mind to find an amicable solution for this long-pending issue,” Stalin told Modi.  Hundreds of fishermen from Tamil Nadu have been apprehended by the Sri Lankan Navy for allegedly entering the country’s water. While the fishermen are released after a few days, their boats are often withheld in the island nation.   Stalin recalled that the Ministry of External Affairs had requested the state government through the High Commission of India in Sri Lanka to send a technical team to finalize the process and modalities for disposal of 125 unsalvageable fishing boats berthed in various harbours of Sri Lanka.  Accordingly, the state government has issued orders for deputing officials and stakeholders from Tamil Nadu to inspect and oversee the disposal of fishing boats and to transfer the sale proceeds to the owners of these boats back in India. The schedule of the visit of officials to Sri Lanka for the above purpose was also communicated to the Ministry of External Affairs, he said. “The tearing hurry to conduct an auction without consultation is bound to derail the efforts of the Indian High Commission and the Government of Tamil Nadu aimed at providing some succour to the poor fishermen who have lost their means of livelihood. It is pertinent to note that these unsalvageable fishing boats were released by various Sri Lankan Courts following the due judicial procedure,” the Chief Minister said.  In the letter, Stalin asked India to register its disapproval in the strongest possible terms at the appropriate level and to prevail upon the Sri Lankan Government to recall the advertisement published by the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources for auctioning the Tamil Nadu fishing boats on which they do not have any legal rights.  “In this context, I also request the Government of India to continue the efforts for the transparent disposal of 125 Tamil Nadu boats that were apprehended before 2018. It is also requested to ensure the early release of 75 boats and fishing gears apprehended after 2018 by the Sri Lankan Navy,” he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stop-sri-lanka-from-auctioning-boats-of-indian-fishermen-stalin-to-modi-1074560.html
25-01-2022||South||Daily Covid cases cross 50,000-mark in Kerala; TPR close to 50%||Daily Covid cases in Kerala crossed the 50,000-mark as 55,475 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday with a test positivity rate of 49.4 per cent. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that stringent restrictions were being imposed in districts like Thiruvananthapuram where the cases were more. She also said that many in the 20-30 age group were now getting infected. The total Covid active cases in the state reached 2.85 lakh. But the health minister said that over 50 per cent of the ICU beds and 86 per cent of ventilators were still remaining vacant. Health experts said that flouting of social distancing norms could be a reason for more youngsters getting infected. Hence more tightening of the restrictions might be required to contain the escalation of Covid cases in Kerala. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/daily-covid-cases-cross-50000-mark-in-kerala-tpr-close-to-50-1074580.html
25-01-2022||South||High Court bench expunges adverse remarks against actor Vijay||The Madras High Court on Tuesday expunged certain adverse remarks made by a single judge against actor Vijay in a case relating to his seeking exemption from paying entry tax to the Tamil Nadu government for his luxurious Rolls Royce Ghost Motor Car imported from Britain in 2012.  Allowing the writ petition filed by Vijay against the July 8, 2021 order of Justice S M Subramaniam, a division bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and Mohammed Shaffiq said the remarks made by the single judge against the actor in six paragraphs of the judgement are being expunged.  “…the Writ Appeal is allowed and the observations made by the learned Single Judge against the appellant in paragraphs 3, 4, 7, 8, 11 and 12 of the impugned order stand expunged. No costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is closed,” the bench said in its order. The order added that it is difficult to suggest that the petitioner had acted with malafide and with “deliberate intention and thus, the observation made by the learned single Judge, apart from being unwarranted, is irrelevant to decide the issue.”  “The above sequence of litigation will clearly demonstrate that the appellant cannot be imputed with motive whatsoever and therefore, the disparaging remarks are clearly unwarranted,” the judges added. Justice S M Subramaniam in July came down heavily on the actor, who is one of the highest-paid in the Tamil film industry, for seeking the relief. The actor, who imported the vehicle in 2012, paid import duty to the Customs Department as levied under the Customs Act, but sought exemption from paying the entry tax.  The actor had bought the luxurious car in 2012 costing about Rs 8 crore and the Transport Department had sought Rs 1.5 crore as entry tax. But the actor refused to pay the amount and approached the court. “These actors are portraying themselves as champion to bring social justice in the society. Their pictures are against corrupt activities in society. But, they are evading tax and acting in a manner, which is not in consonance with the provisions of the statutes,” the judge had said in his order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/high-court-bench-expunges-adverse-remarks-against-actor-vijay-1074586.html
25-01-2022||South||What is the difficulty in making Hindi a third language in educational institutions, asks Madras HC||Wondering as to what is the difficulty in making Hindi the third language in educational institutions, the first bench of the Madras High Court said on Tuesday that if one doesn't learn Hindi, it would be very difficult to secure a job in North India. The bench of Acting Chief Justice MN Bhandari and Justice PD Audikesavalu said this when a PIL petition seeking to implement in toto the New Education Policy 2020 of the central government came up before it today. The petition from Arjunan Elayaraja, secretary of Aalamaram, an NGO in Cuddalore district, prayed for a direction to the authorities concerned to implement the NEP in Tamil Nadu with requisite modifications accommodating the suggestions of the Supreme Court in various cases on the issue. Citing certain instances where qualified persons from Tamil Nadu had lost the opportunity for being hired in jobs in north India for lack of Hindi knowledge, the Acting Chief Justice said "for taking job in the state of Tamil Nadu, there is no difficulty because the candidates are well conversant with the local language (Tamil), but outside the State, they would face difficulty." The Acting Chief Justice recalled that one of his brother judges could not get a job in the Airports Authority of India because he did not know Hindi, though selected. This is the biggest drawback for the people of Tamil Nadu, he added. When Advocate-General R Shanmugasundaram replied that everyone in the State is free to learn Hindi through institutions like Hindi Prachar Sabha, the ACJ retorted that 'learning' is different from 'teaching'. When Shanmugasundaram mentioned the State was following the two language system (Tamil and English) as a policy, the ACJ wondered what would be the harm if Hindi is introduced in the three-language policy. The AG replied it would ‘overburden’ the students. However, the ACJ added that the only thing is to give the option of selecting the languages. "Tamil and English are already there. I think adding third language (Hindi) would not be harmful," the ACJ said, admitted the PIL and ordered issuance of notice to the authorities concerned, returnable in eight weeks. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/what-is-the-difficulty-in-making-hindi-a-third-language-in-educational-institutions-asks-madras-hc-1074592.html
25-01-2022||South||Covid-19 situation under control, no curbs need: Telangana officials||The Covid-19 situation in Telangana is under control and does not necessitate restrictions like night curfew, state health authorities have submitted before the high court on Tuesday. The court is reviewing the pandemic situation in the state and measures put in place by the K Chandrasekhar Rao government to mitigate the effect of the present wave. According to a report submitted by Dr Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, the positivity rate in the state at present is under four per cent. Public movement restrictions like night curfew are advised when the positivity rate is above 10 per cent, officials stated. Officials also submitted that the present occupancy of ICU and oxygen beds in the state is under seven per cent. The Telangana health department had last week initiated a fever survey across the state which has so far found that over 1.7 lakh people are suffering with Covid-19 like symptoms like fever, cold, cough. Though the TRS government is conducting over one lakh tests daily, new Covid-19 cases have remained below the 5000 mark, keeping the positivity rate at about four per cent. On Tuesday, 4,559 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded when 1,13,670 samples were tested. About one third of cases are from the Hyderabad region. Officially, there are 36,269 active cases in Telangana now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-situation-under-control-no-curbs-need-telangana-officials-1074630.html
25-01-2022||South||Pay revision impasse: AP employees' unions refuse to hold talks with Jagan government||In continuation of their agitation for better pay scales, thousands of Andhra Pradesh government employees took to the streets on Tuesday. Employees took out two-wheeler rallies and sat in protest at the collectorates in various districts, demanding the Jaganmohan Reddy government to withdraw the pay revision orders issued last week. Employees are agitated that the revisions would in actual effect reduce their remunerations, instead of offering a hike. The employee unions who had, on Monday, submitted notice to the government about their work strike from 7 February have for the second consecutive day refused to hold talks with a high level committee. The committee members include municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana, information and public relations minister Perni Venkataramaiah and government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy. The PRC struggle committee, formed by the association of various employee unions, wants the suspension of the pay revision orders, disclosure of the Ashutosh Mishra pay revision commission's report recommendations, and January month salary payments as per the old pay structure, as the prerequisite for them to join the talks. Though stating its willingness to engage in talks to resolve the matter, the government so far has remained non-committal on these demands. Meanwhile, the state finance department has issued fresh directions asking the treasury, pay and account section officials to draft the salaries, pensions bills of January month according to the new pay scales. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pay-revision-impasse-ap-employees-unions-refuse-to-hold-talks-with-jagan-government-1074631.html
25-01-2022||State||Swimming with hands and legs tied, sexagenarian in Karnataka sets record||Swimming 3.5 km in the Arabian sea for five hours and 35 minutes with his hands and legs chained, a 66-year-old man from Udupi has entered the Golden Book of World Records. Gangadhar Kadekar, who entered the sea from Padukere beach shore in Udupi at 7.50 am on Monday, completed his swim by 1.25 pm. The representative from the Golden Book of World Records Manish Vishnoy, who watched the feat, issued a provisional certificate to Kadekar. “The swimmer’s achievement at an age when people retire and remain at home is really great,” Vishnoy said. Kadekar said he swam like a dolphin as both his hands and legs were chained. “The record was created to make children to draw inspiration from it and I am happy,” he said. Kadekar had earlier entered the India Book of Records by swimming 1.4 km in 73.7 minutes by chaining his legs in the ‘Padmasana’ posture at Padukere on January 24, 2021. He also created a record by swimming with his 41 students at St Mary’s Island on February 14, 2021. Kadekar, who took to swimming at the age of 50, founded the Jai Durga swimming club in Udupi and has been providing training to youths for the last two years. More than 1,000 students are under training under him at present. He had taken part in state and national level aquatic championships and won 31 gold, 16 silver and nine bronze medals at the senior level. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/swimming-with-hands-and-legs-tied-sexagenarian-in-karnataka-sets-record-1074408.html
25-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bangalore University students get 89 marks in 70-mark exam||Bangalore University, which is not new to controversies, landed in fresh trouble on Monday owing to a blunder in the evaluation of B.Com answer scripts. Reflecting poorly on the quality of evaluation of students’ answer scripts, the university went overboard and awarded more marks than what was set by the examiners. Several third semester B.Com students were shocked to see their results which were out recently. Sources revealed to DH that the examination for ‘Tourism Agency’ — one of the subjects — was conducted only for a total of 70 marks. “But students ended up scoring more than 70. How on earth is that possible? It speaks a lot for the quality of evaluation,” said a source in the university. A student who scored “excess” marks said, “I scored 74 marks. I was shocked. Many of my friends in other colleges got 71, 73, 89 and more.” According to officials, around 500 students had opted for Tourism Agency subject. “The examination was conducted in August 2021 for 70 marks and results were announced a few days ago,” an official said. However, the university official shifted the blame on to students and said they should have read the instructions on the question paper. Officials argued that the exam was conducted for both the one-time scheme candidates who studied between 2004 and 2013 and freshers. “Freshers were supposed to write for 70 marks and old candidates were to attempt 100 marks,” an official clarified. Prof J T Devaraju, Registrar, Evaluation, said, “The results will be withdrawn. As it was digital evaluation and tabulation, the person concerned did not notice this. Once the marks are retabulated, fresh results will be announced.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bangalore-university-students-get-89-marks-in-70-mark-exam-1074299.html
25-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Ministers are united, committed to work: Karnataka CM on defection buzz||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday dismissed reports of disgruntlement among Cabinet ministers over allocation of district duties.  Districts have been allocated to ministers based on a party policy that bars them from being in charge of their native districts, Bommai said. "There is no disgruntlement at all," Bommai said, adding that he had consulted all ministers before allocating district duties. "We are all united to work for the people of the state. Any reports on disgruntlement are far from truth." The government issued a notification Monday allocating districts to ministers. While two ministers - Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Law Minister JC Madhuswamy - are not on the list, no minister has been made in charge of districts where their constituency is located. Ashoka wanted Bengaluru Urban whereas Madhuswamy had sought for Tumakuru. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel also maintained that there is no disgruntlement among Cabinet ministers over allocation of districts. "There is a national rule that prevents a minister from taking charge of his home district," he pointed out. Earlier in the day, however, Municipalities Minister MTB Nagaraj said he would have liked Bengaluru Rural. He has been given Chikkaballapur. "I am familiar with Bengaluru Rural. And, since I'm hoping to contest from (Hoskote), it would have helped if I was given that district. I've told the CM what I think about this. I'll stick to whatever he decides," he said. Nagaraj, now an MLC, was earlier the Hoskote MLA. Madhuswamy said that he is not unhappy while making it clear that he wanted no other district other than his native Tumakuru. "The CM discussed the issue with me. When he asked me which district I want, I said I can't take up the responsibility of a district I'm not familiar with. There's no point in presiding over meetings in a place whose realities I won't know. Even Ashoka took the same stand," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ministers-are-united-committed-to-work-karnataka-cm-on-defection-buzz-1074500.html
25-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Discharges overtake number of infections in Karnataka as cases dip to 41,400||After fresh infections dropped over the past two days, the number of discharges overtook new Covid cases in Karnataka on Tuesday. The state recorded 41,400 fresh cases of infection against 53,093 discharges. A total of 52 deaths were recorded on the day pushing the death toll to 38,666.  Of the new cases, 19,105 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 33,011 people being discharged and 19 deaths. The total number of active cases across the state is now at 3,50,742. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 26.70 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.12 per cent. Kalaburagi accounted for the second-highest number of deaths (five), Dakshina Kannada and Belagavi (four each), Bengaluru Rural (three) followed by Chikkaballapur, Chitradurga, Hassan, Mysuru and Tumakuru (two each). Kolar recorded the second-highest cases (2,185) followed by Tumakuru (2,026), Dharwad (1,511), Mandya (1,495) and Mysuru 1,494. A total of 1,55,054 samples were tested and 2,68,432 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Tuesday. Only about 2 per cent infected persons out of 3.62 lakh active cases are hospitalised which indicates that the severity of infection is not as high as it was during the second wave. "It has generally been seen that people are recovering within five to six days, so there is no need to panic. However, people must not let their guard down," cautioned Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar while talking to reporters here on Tuesday. "The third wave is expected to recede by February second or third week as per the ICMR. We have covered 100 per cent in first dose and 84 per centin second dose which has contributed a lot in reducing severity and hospitalisation," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/discharges-overtake-number-of-infections-in-karnataka-as-cases-dip-to-41400-1074581.html
25-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Bank launches NRI mobile banking||The city-headquartered Karnataka Bank has launched mobile banking facility to its NRI customers through its existing mobile banking application 'KBL MobilePlus' app. A bank release here said on Tuesday that with this facility, NRI customers can access a whole range of banking facilities at their fingertips including fund transfer, bill payments, recharge, credit card payments and deposit opening and closing. The bank has also incorporated an added feature of Kannada language user interface in its mobile banking app to cater to the preferences of customers who wish to operate in the regional language. The customers can download KBL MobilePlus app from Google Play Store or Apple AppStore to access the NRI mobile banking. All the services of the bank are now available to the customers through digital mode and KBL MobilePlus app will also be enabled in the Hindi and other regional languages, bank managing director and CEO MS Mahabaleshwara said in the release.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bank-launches-nri-mobile-banking-1074595.html
25-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Five from Karnataka honoured with Padma Shri awards||Five personalities from Karnataka including popular Dalit poet late Prof Siddhalingaiah have been selected for Padma Shri awards, recognising their achievements in different fields. Siddalingaiah (Posthumous) Literature and Education: Siddalingaiah (1954-2021), a Dalit activist, also wrote a number of poems and books. He is credited with starting the Dalit-Bandaya movement in Kannada, as well as starting the genre of Dalit writing in Kannada literature. He was at the forefront of Dalit politics in Karnataka in the 1980s and 1990s and was one of the founders of Dalit Sangharsha Samiti. His poem ‘Yaarige Bantu Yellige Bantu Nalavattera Swatantrya (Who received freedom and where is the freedom of 1947?)’ became an anthem of the Dalit movement in Karnataka. He was served as member of the Legislative Council for two terms between1988-1994 and 1995-2001. He was also a former chairman of the Kannada Development Authority and Karnataka Book Authority. Subbanna Ayyappan (Science and Engineering): Prof Ayyappan is the former Director-General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and Secretary to Government, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and Chancellor of Central Agricultural University, Manipur. A native of Bengaluru, he is a reputed Aquaculture Scientist and played a key role in powering India's Blue Revolution. Dr Ayyappan holds a PhD from Bangalore University and a master’s degree in Fish Production and Management from the College of Fisheries in Mangalore. He has published extensively in areas of fisheries, limnology, and aquatic microbiology." H R Keshavamurthy (Art): Murthy is a Gamaka exponent from Hosahalli in Shimoga district. He is one of the artists featured in the sound tracks of Gamaka available from Gamaka Kala Parishat (Gamaka Art Academy), that is located in Hosahalli. He was honoured for preserving the Kavya Vachana artform of storytelling. Abdul Khader Nadakattin (Innovation in Agriculture): Abdul Khader Imamsab Nadakattin in the village of Annigeri in Naval­gund taluk of Dharwad district. He is credited with over 40 innovations that assist small and marginal farmers across India. A farmer scientist himself, Abdul started the Vishwashanti Agricultural Centre at Annigeri. One of his popular innovations is Nadakattin five-in-one. This equipment can perform five actions – deep digging, uprooting the grass when the farmland is wet, spraying herbal pesticides, applying fertilisers – and can be used even if the gap between the lines is four feet and can cover 20-25 acres in 12 hours. Amai Mahalinga Naik (Agriculture): Naik is a farm labourer and a green revolutionary, known to many as the 'one-man-army'. He is known for single-handedly transforming 2 acres of a barren plot of land into a lush organic farm. His farm in Adyanadka near Mangaluru, has over 300 areca nut palms, 75 coconut trees, 150 cashew trees, 200 banana plants and pepper vines. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-from-karnataka-honoured-with-padma-shri-awards-1074599.html
25-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister Shashikala Jolle tests Covid-positive||Muzrai, Haj and Wakf Minister Shashikala Jolle has tested Covid-19 positive on Monday and is in home isolation. In a tweet late on Monday, Jolle informed that she has tested Covid-19 positive and as per the advice of the doctors, she was in home isolation and the condition of her health was good. She has asked those who had come in her contact to get themselves tested and remain safe. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-shashikala-jolle-tests-covid-positive-1074607.html
25-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka formulates blueprint for public healthcare||The health department is set to release an exhaustive vision document for an overhaul of Karnataka’s health systems at the primary, secondary and tertiary care levels for the next 10 to 20 years, on Friday, when chief minister Basavaraj Bommai completes six months in office. There are about 30 senior experts from various disciplines who are working on this report and about 750 experts have contributed to this over the last one year. The exercise was led by former director of Nimhans Dr G Gururaj. For example, in the cardiology speciality, experts have suggested a hub and spoke model for management of heart attacks in taluk and district hospitals, and peripheral centres. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters on Tuesday, “The health department is coming up with a vision document. It lays down a comprehensive roadmap for overhaul of public health care at all three levels, primary, secondary and tertiary. CM Basavaraj Bommai will release the vision document.” Dr C N Manjunath, one of the experts of the cardiology sub-committee of the vision document team, told DH that he has suggested establishing a system to manage heart attacks in semi-urban and rural government hospitals. The STEMI India heart attack management programme is based on a hub and spoke model. “Heart attack management is time driven. If there’s a delay, there will be complications, including death. The hub can be Jayadeva or private hospitals in the region. Spokes can be taluk hospitals, which will give initial medical treatment, before shifting the patient to the nearest tertiary care centre. Taluk hospitals will be mapped to tertiary care hospitals,” Dr Manjunath said. He said this project was discussed with the CM on Monday, when it was proposed to have the project in 75 taluks across the state. “The project will be implemented in 15 taluks each in the five revenue divisions of Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru, Hubballi and Mangaluru. An agency will be appointed to monitor this. Its responsibility will be to train doctors and nurses in taluk hospitals,” the minister said. All these places will be provided with heart attack management kits, which will have an ECG, defribillator and an in-built app which will relay the ECG results, once it is taken to the hub. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-formulates-blueprint-for-public-healthcare-1074622.html
25-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Rate of people dying at home in Karnataka goes up during third wave||The generally mild third wave has not been without its share of fatalities and this has prompted one trait of the second wave to make a comeback: deaths at home. Since the start of the month till January 24, as many as 309 Covid-19 fatalities were made public, out of which 25 were people who died while at home or were brought dead to hospitals. All but eight of these fatalities were in districts other than Bengaluru Urban.   These fatalities represent 8.09 per cent of total deaths, which is closing in on the home death rate of 8.32 per cent recorded during May 2021, in the second wave.  This suggests the public is once again delaying diagnosis or treatment of the disease. Six of the most recent deaths at home were people (all aged 62 and above) who had been fully vaccinated, as per official information. In Bengaluru Urban, Special Commissioner (Health), Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Dr Thrilok Chandra said  “most of these fatalities were people who had never been diagnosed with Covid-19” when they were alive. “Many of them died of another health condition and were found to be positive for Covid-19 later. These fatalities are ‘incidental’ in nature,” he added. Many of the deceased were senior citizens. A further six were aged between 41 and 59. Four were aged 40 or younger. One was a child in Bagalkot whose death appears to be an archetypal example of late hospital presentation. Dr Jayashree Yemmi, the District Health Officer said the six-year-old girl child was brought to Dhanush hospital in the district when she was already severely symptomatic with pneumonia.  “Because she had classic Covid-19 symptoms of the Delta variant, we subjected her to testing and the RT-PCR result came back as positive. She did not have any recorded comorbidities. We immediately moved her to the ICU at the district hospital. The parents, however, took the child back home on January 20 against our medical advice. She died at home later that night,” Dr Jayashree said. There is a little inkling of which variant of the novel coronavirus is causing the deaths. Samples from “incidental” fatalities are not sent for genomic sequencing, according to Dr Chandra, although he specified that samples from ICU cases are. But data from the Integrated Health Information Platform (IHIP) provides a clue: out of 400-odd Omicron cases from January studied, none went into the ICU. If hospitalization was required, they were restricted to general or HDU beds. However, of the 40 to 50 Delta cases studied, two had required ICU beds. The rest were likely placed in home isolation. This has implications because Omicron cases appear to now dominate in the state. As per official data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare the state had 479 Omicron cases on January 14, comprising 9.40 per cent of total genomic data since the start of the pandemic. By January 24, this share had climbed to 931 cases or 16.67 per cent. In contrast, the share of Delta cases dropped from 57.69 per cent to 52.93 per cent (only 56 new cases were reported between January 14 and 24), while Delta sublineages dropped from 26.51 per cent to 24.57 per cent (only 22 new cases were reported). Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rate-of-people-dying-at-home-in-karnataka-goes-up-during-third-wave-1074638.html
25-01-2022||West||Shiv Sena distributes 1 kg chicken to blood donors in Thane||The Shiv Sena's unit in Ulhasnagar town of Thane district came out with an unusual incentive to encourage people to donate blood on the occasion of party founder Bal Thackeray's birth anniversary – donate blood and take home one kg of chicken! A total of 65 bottles of blood (from as many people) were collected during a donation camp on Sunday, which was the 96th birth anniversary of Bal Thackeray, said Dhananjay Bodare, the Sena leader in the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC). He said party workers gave away one kg of chicken to each of the donors who participated in the camp organised in association with a blood bank. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-distributes-1-kg-chicken-to-blood-donors-in-thane-1074313.html
25-01-2022||West||7 medical students killed in car accident in Wardha||In a tragic incident, seven medical students, including the son of BJP MLA from Tirora constituency Vijay Rahangdale, died in a road accident in Wardha district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra.  The students were on board a car that fell off from a bridge at Selsura while they were on way from Deoli to Wardha, reports reaching here said.  Wardha’s Superintendent of Police Prashant Holkar said that the incident happened around 11.30 pm on Monday night. Among the deceased include Avishkar Rahangdale, the son of BJP MLA Vijay Rahangdale, who represents the Tirora seat in Gondia district.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the medical students. “Pained by the loss of lives due to an accident near Selsura in Maharashtra. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that those injured are able to recover soon,” Modi said. He also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh from PMNRF to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/7-medical-students-killed-in-car-accident-in-wardha-1074355.html
25-01-2022||West||2007 obscenity case: Mumbai court calls Shilpa Shetty 'victim' of Richard Gere's act, discharges her||Almost 15 years after Shilpa Shetty landed in an obscenity case when Hollywood star Richard Gere kissed her on her cheeks at a public event, the actress was discharged from the case by a Mumbai court which observed that she seems to be the victim of the act of Gere. A court of metropolitan magistrate Ketki Chavan discharged Shetty on January 18. A detailed order was made available on Monday. In 2007, Gere and Shetty had come together for an AIDS awareness programme in Rajasthan. On the stage, Gere kissed the actress on her cheeks, causing a stir in the country. "It seems that the accused Shilpa Shetty is the victim of the alleged act of accused no. 1 (Richard Gere). Not a single element of any of the alleged offence is being satisfied in the complaint,” the court said in the order. The kissing incident had evoked strong protests in several cities in India. Following complaints, cases were registered against both Gere and Shetty under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology Act for obscenity. The case was transferred to Mumbai from the court of magistrate first class in Rajasthan on the orders of the Supreme Court in 2017. In its order, the Mumbai court held that none of the news reports annexed to the complaint demonstrated common intention. The allegation against Shetty is that she did not protest when she was kissed by the co-accused Gere. "This by no stretch of imagination makes her a conspirator or perpetrator of any crime," the order said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2007-obscenity-case-mumbai-court-calls-shilpa-shetty-victim-of-richard-geres-act-discharges-her-1074480.html
25-01-2022||West||Olive Ridley turtle tagged for the first time in India's west coast||In a first in the western coast of India, a female Olive Ridley turtle was tagged in Velas in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra on Tuesday.  Till now Olive Ridley Sea Turtles have been tagged only on the east coast of India. Velas is located in the coastal Konkan belt of the state which has become a hub of conservation of the Olive Ridley turtles. A total of five Olive Ridley turtles would be tagged and the first one, a female, was released on Tuesday.  The Mangrove Foundation of Maharashtra is among those who played a key role in the project.  “The Mangrove Foundation of Maharashtra has been one of the most active agencies in the past few years. In the last 2 years, we’ve been able to declare and protect more that 11,000 ha mangrove area.  I commend the mangrove cell on this successful satellite tagging for further study,” state environment, tourism and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray said.  A research project 'Tracking the migratory movements of Olive Ridley Sea Turtles off the coast of Maharashtra' has been commissioned by the Mangrove Foundation, Maharashtra Forest Department to the Wildlife Institute of India.  This study will help in understanding the movement pattern of Olive Ridley Sea Turtles off the coast of Western India. This turtle has been named 'Prathama' as it is the first to be satellite tagged in Maharashtra and for Western Coast of India and also signifies the start of a new era in sea turtle conservation in Maharashtra. The Mangrove Foundation, Maharashtra Forest Department and WII plan to tag the four more Olive Ridley turtles from different beaches in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. The Olive Ridley turtles which visit various coastal areas of Maharashtra every year are 2 to 2.5 feet in size and weigh 36-49 kg. Their breeding season is from December to February and their life span is around 50 to 100 years. These turtles are migratory but during the breeding season, the female turtle comes to the shore, digs a 1-1.5 feet deep hole, and lays 100-150 eggs in it. Out of these eggs, only 1% of the hatchlings survive. This means only 1 out of 100 turtles survives. These  turtles are essential for a balanced ocean ecosystem as they keep the sea clean by consuming dead fish and sea grass. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/olive-ridley-turtle-tagged-for-the-first-time-in-indias-west-coast-1074486.html
25-01-2022||West||Four missing from 'NRI village' in Gujarat on way to 'American dream'||Near the village school, a few youngsters are sitting idle on a cemented platform. "With (sic) without IELTS study in (sic) UK, CANADA..." is painted on the wall behind them. Another wall-size painting nearby advertises, "Holidays & Immigration, student visa, Canada, P.R.” A stone's throw away from this wall is the house of a Patel family whose four members, left for Canada sometime in the second week of January in what their relatives claim on "visitor visas", are untraceable. Several reports have suggested they were found frozen to death far away at the Canada-US border in a suspected bid to cross over to the US as illegal immigrants. The family members at Dingucha village in Kalol taluka, about 40 km from the state capital Gandhinagar, haven't received any official communication about the whereabouts of their four relatives as of Tuesday. However, the description of four bodies found by Canadian authorities in Manitoba province is said to be matching with their profiles — a 39-year-old man, his 37-year-old wife, 17-year-old daughter and 4-year-old son. The worried family hasn't been able to contact them since January 19, the date Canadian authorities issued an official statement on the discovery of four dead bodies. On Tuesday, the authorities issued another statement on Twitter, stating, an investigation to confirm the identity is going on. At Dingucha village, the house of four missing persons stands locked. The occupants left the village to avoid the media, which have been frequenting the village since Saturday. "We haven't received anything official concerning this particular family. Every news is coming through the media. All I can say is that a team of CID (Crime) came to get the details of the family members. I don't know anything beyond this," Jayesh Chaudhary, village secretary (talati), told DH at the panchayat office. Jaswant Patel, the cousin of the missing family, told DH, "After failing to contact them and learning from media reports, we wrote an email to the government of India for help and information. We haven't received any reply yet." Gandhinagar collector Kuldip Arya told DH that he had not received any word. The sleepy village with urban facilities has nearly 3,300 population as per the 2011 census, out of which the majority of them are from the Patidar community. Roughly, 50% of Patidar households have relatives in the United States and Australia. The surrounding is dotted with season crops like wheat, mustard, tobacco, among others. "The landholding is so small that a family with five members can't survive on farming alone," said a neighbour of the Patel family. The missing 39-year-old is said to have worked in a school briefly, tried his hand in selling clothes and did farming before leaving abroad. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-missing-from-nri-village-in-gujarat-on-way-to-american-dream-1074591.html
