26-01-2022||Comment||Indian democracy needs an upgrade in 2022||In 2022, we commemorate important events that led to the creation of modern India, and also events that threatened its very foundations: 100 years since the Non-Cooperation Movement, 90 years since the Poona Pact, 80 years since the launch of the Quit India Movement, 75 years of Independence, the 70th anniversary of India’s first general election, and by extension, India’s first Parliament, and more. To commemorate these events, it is worth examining the limitations and flaws in our democracy. India must move power away from its centralised executive and devolve fiscal and political powers to states, local governments, and various independent institutions, in order to live up to the legacy of these events and struggles. Throughout the freedom struggle, the Indian National Congress (INC), which led it, argued that independent India should have a strong central government to quell secessionist tendencies in the fragmented British Raj. At Independence, Partition, religious and linguistic polarisation and the integration of the princely states underscored the need for provisions to allow the Union to take on emergency powers. However, the perils of a centralised State became clear during Indira Gandhi’s reign. She imposed President’s Rule 50 times during her reign, constrained judicial independence, and finally assumed dictatorial powers by imposing Emergency in 1975. After the Emergency was lifted, aspects of the Indian Constitution that allowed for centralisation were curtailed. For example, the threshold for declaring an Emergency was raised by the 43rd and 44th amendments to the Constitution (1978), while the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments (1992-93) formally recognised local government bodies (LGBs) as a third-tier of government. The coalition era (1989-2014) resulted in natural constraints on the Union government in imposing its rule unilaterally. In turn, conventions and practices emerged to protect states’ rights; nonetheless, centralising provisions were not removed, such as the Governor’s office, the influence of central agencies, and the abuse of the Concurrent List. In order to strengthen India’s democracy, these vestiges of the Raj must be reformed. First, the Union should empower states and LGBs to take on more responsibilities to govern through further political and fiscal decentralisation. Evidence shows that successes in managing Covid-19 outbreaks were a result of decentralised governance, as seen in Kerala and in Mumbai. Globally, local governments such as in Tokyo, Manchester and New York City have shown their mettle in responding to crises while relying on higher levels of government for coordination and funding, and in some cases, disregarding central directives in favour of more effective measures. Public health measures must be discussed extensively with stakeholders, from LGBs to Parliament. For example, the UK Parliament voted on the imposition of Covid-19 restrictions in England but could not legislate on public health measures in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. On the other hand, when India first entered lockdown in March 2020, announced with a four-hour notice, the Union government justified it under the Disaster Management Act (2006) and Epidemic Diseases Act (1897), without consulting the states, ministries, or Parliament, even though health is a state subject. These laws provide, in effect, for centralised authority over the country without using emergency powers. Fiscal decentralisation must be accelerated to empower LGBs and states to be more effective in governing. The deployment of GST revenues to states has been repeatedly delayed, even as states have increased spending to support citizens during the pandemic, despite Union control. The asymmetry between the Union’s powers and governance expectations at a local level undermines federalism and, in turn, harms development outcomes. Second, colonial vestiges of the State, such as the office of Governor, must be reformed or even eliminated, to protect states’ rights. The office of the Governor was retained after Independence to allow competent individuals to provide guidance to fledgling governments and respond to insurgencies. However, the office has become a useful outpost for party loyalists, who frequently target Opposition governments. Over time, Governors have abused pocket vetoes to stall the implementation of legislation and have aired their grievances against elected governments that they are meant to support. Reducing the discretionary powers of the Governor, while strengthening qualifications to become one, and imposing a fixed timeline under which s/he can review legislation, are important steps to curb the excesses of this office. Third, Parliament’s role in drafting and debating legislation must be strengthened. A combination of the US and UK’s approaches may help. For starters, legislation could be created in Parliament itself, rather than having the government introduce bills and then having the discretion whether or not to send them to committees for scrutiny, which allows the Executive to determine the legislative agenda and schedule. Rather, these committees should be the first place for legislation to be conceptualised and evaluated, before going to Parliament. To strengthen trust between the government and Opposition, leading posts in Parliament could be given to Opposition members, such as the role of the Lok Sabha Speaker and Deputy Speaker, and Deputy Chairperson of the Rajya Sabha. Parliament should also be in session more often, with gaps of no longer than two months at a stretch. Ordinances should only be in effect for a short time as a response to emergencies, and not be used as an alternative to legislation by Parliament. Indian independence was achieved by a commitment to the ideals of democracy and secularism, while the modern Indian State was created to respond to a range of crises, from communalism and poverty to secessionist tendencies and movements. The State’s ability and tendency to centralise power is undermining the country’s democracy and, in turn, undermining the very ideals it was built on. If India is to celebrate the enduring legacy of the freedom struggle and its democratic ideals in 2022, it must diffuse power across the government, laterally and to lower levels of government. (The writer studied History and Anthropology at Stanford University) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/indian-democracy-needs-an-upgrade-in-2022-1074626.html
26-01-2022||Davangere||Parliamentarian GM Siddeshwar tests positive for Covid-19||MP and former union minister GM Siddeshwar has tested positive for Covid-19. Following mild symptoms, his throat swab sample was sent to the laboratory on January 25 afternoon for the Covid test. The report confirmed that he has been infected by it. He would be in an isolation in the GMT guest house in the city for seven days.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/parliamentarian-gm-siddeshwar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1074827.html
26-01-2022||First Edit||Rights, not duties, basis of our Republic||It is right and appropriate to reflect on the rights and duties of citizens on Republic Day when the Constitution was adopted as the defining basis of the social contract between citizens and State. We, the people, gave unto ourselves the Constitution and thereby the fundamental rights granted to all citizens by it. It is these rights that turned the people of the country from the subjects of a British colony into citizens of a sovereign republic. That sovereignty ultimately rests with the people, and these rights are at the heart of the Constitution. ‘Fundamental duties’ were added later, significantly during a period of authoritarian rule in the form of the Emergency. They are not a part of the basic structure of the Constitution and are not justiciable and enforceable, as fundamental rights are. In fact, constitutionally, there is no correspondence between rights and duties. This needs to be kept in mind in light of the recent statement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on citizens’ rights and duties.  The Prime Minister said that the people of the country have been busy “talking about rights, fighting for rights and wasting time.” He also said that “the talk of rights, to some extent, for some time, may be right in a particular circumstance, but forgetting one’s duties completely has played a huge role in keeping India weak.” This is a very erroneous view of rights and duties and the relationship between them. Citizens’ rights, not duties, are the basis of a democracy; duties are given primacy by authoritarian regimes. The adversarial linkage between them is a construct of authoritarian governments, intended to deny citizens their rights and to enforce their writ on the people.   Fighting for rights is not a waste of time. It is unfortunate that the Prime Minister thinks so and says that talking about rights is right only under certain circumstances, to some extent or for some time. The Constitution does not limit them as he does, and empowers the citizen with them in a variously unequal society. The courts have expanded them, and a democracy matures with the evolution and expansion of citizens’ rights. The basic unit of the Constitution is the individual citizen with rights. The citizen’s duties to the nation, the community, family or other entities flow from the charter of rights that define citizenship. Duties acquire their value and relevance from rights. It is not that duties are not important, but they cannot be adversarially conflated with rights. India and Indian democracy become weak not when the citizens forget their duties but when they forget their rights and do not talk about them and fight for them. The State’s duty is to protect the rights, and the Prime Minister is sworn to protect and promote them. He has no right to downgrade them or to play them down. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/rights-not-duties-basis-of-our-republic-1074619.html
26-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada 'deemed forest' row to be solved||The Karnataka government led by Chief Minister Basavaaj Bommai is committed to solve the row over the 'deemed forest' in the state, said District-in-Charge Minister V Sunil Kumar.   The government will drop 34,000 hectares of land from 'deemed forest classification' in Dakshina Kannada. There are 66428 hectares of deemed forest in the district, he said after unfurling the National Flag to mark Republic Day celebrations at Nehru Maidan in Mangaluru. Owing to the deemed forest classification, basic amenities could not be developed and even title deeds could not be issued to the farmers who have been cultivating on the land for the last several decades.  He said that activities like Naxalism, terrorism attempted to weaken the Constitution. However, such extremist activities could be overcome through the Constitution which India has. There is a need to strengthen the Constitution through our activities. "A teacher's son could become District-in-Charge Minister of Dakshina Kannada only because of the Constitution which was adopted in the country," said the minister.  Stating that efforts will be made to develop Dakshina Kannada into agriculture, tourism, entrepreneur and culture friendly district, the minister said efforts will be made to expand the area under farming. About 1.54 lakh farmers in the district have received income support under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. As many as 1600 farmer's children in the district have received scholarships from the government.  Jal Jeevan Mission aims at supplying tapped water to 3.28 lakh households in Dakshina Kannada. As many as 458 works worth Rs 149 crore were taken up last year and 126 works worth Rs 198 crore were implemented in the district during the year. The district has a target to provide houses to 8000 shelterless in the district through various housing schemes. About 13 acres of land have been identified in Konaje for the housing projects, he added.  Further, the Minister said that efforts are being made to develop Tannirbavi beach in the city to get Blue Flag certification. About 873-km long interior roads were upgraded as district roads and 237-km long district roads were upgraded as state roads in the district.  To promote industries, the KIADB has been directed to identify land in all the taluks in the district, he said, and added that under the Belaku scheme 2500 houses had been provided with electricity in the district. To improve the quality of supply of electricity seven 110 kv sub stations will be developed in Dakshina Kannada in addition to five 33 kv sub stations.  A total of 97% of the population in the district have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 81% have received the second dose. There is no scarcity of oxygen in the district. Under the Amrith scheme, 25 primary health centres will be upgraded in the district. Eight lakh people have benefitted under Ayushman Bharat scheme, he added.  Farmer Mahalinga Naik who has been selected for Padma Shri award was felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-deemed-forest-row-to-be-solved-1074801.html
26-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Congress politicising Narayana Guru issue: Sunil Kumar||District-in-Charge Minister Sunil Kumar, who is also Energy and Kannada and Culture Minister, accused the Congress and Left parties of politicising the issue over Narayana Guru tableau proposal of Kerala.  Speaking to media persons on the sidelines of Republic Day celebrations, the Minister said, "Narayana Guru is not restricted to any religion or caste. He stood above all the systems in society. For politicising the issue, the Congress and Left parties are engaged in creating confusion in the minds of the people. Any programmes that aimed to honour Narayana Guru, I will support them wholeheartedly. As the organisers of Narayana Guru tableau in Dakshina Kannada had clarified that it was not against any individual, I am supporting the tableau procession," he said.  "The Congress in the Council of the Mangaluru City Corporation had opposed the naming of Lady Hill Circle after Narayana Guru. They had insulted Narayana Guru. Now, they feel that Narayana Guru is insulted over the issue of tableau proposal," said the Minister.  Further, he said that Congress is losing its base in the country and in Karnataka. "Just wait and watch over the condition of Congress in the ongoing Assembly elections and also in the upcoming BBMP election. The BJP led by Basavaraj Bommai government will once again come to power in the state," he predicted.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-politicising-narayana-guru-issue-sunil-kumar-1074812.html
26-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Minister becomes laughingstock at Republic Day event at Shivamogga||The newly appointed District in-Charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda became a laughingstock at the Republic Day Programme in DAR ground in the city on Wednesday as he not only struggled to utter the names of guests on the dais and BJP leaders, but also pronounced simple Kannada words wrongly during the speech. In his 11-minute long speech, he mispronounced around 24 words including the names of Home Minister Aaraga Jnanendra and Mayor Sunita Annappa. Instead of terming K S Eshwarappa as Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister, he addressed Yediyurappa as the minister of Rural Development (both were not present). People who gathered in the event were not only shocked by his pronunciation, they were wondering what went wrong for the minister. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-becomes-laughingstock-at-republic-day-event-at-shivamogga-1074945.html
26-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru man's library that was gutted reopened||Students inaugurated the library of Syed Ishaq in the presence of Suttur mutt seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami on Republic Day at Rajiv Nagar in the city on Wednesday. MP Pratap Simha and others participated in the inaugural ceremony. Ishaq’s library was gutted in a fire mishap and he has rebuilt the library at the same place with funds raised from donors. The library building has been constructed at a cost of Rs 4 lakh. At present, Syed has managed to place 2,150 books and the professors of the University of Mysore have assured of donating 6,500 books. A massive fire destroyed a couple of thousand books, including Kannada copies of Bhagavad Gita and Quran, on April 9, 2021. Following the incident, the Mysuru City Corporation, in association with the Department of Public Libraries, had decided to rebuild the library at Rajeev Nagar. The authorities failed to keep the promise later. Thus, Syed, with the support of donors, has rebuilt the library.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-mans-library-that-was-gutted-reopened-1075028.html
26-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Udupi hijab row: Status quo to be maintained, says MLA||MLA Raghupathi Bhat said the status quo will be maintained at the Women’s Government PU College, where six Muslim girl students are demanding their right to express their religious sentiments by wearing the headscarf (Hijab) inside the classrooms, till the state government finds a solution to the row.   Bhat told reporters that the government will set up a high power committee to look into the issue. Until the committee’s report is submitted to the government, the status quo will be maintained, he added.  Bhat, who is also the president of the college development committee, said online classes may be conducted so that the students will not miss out on appearing for the examination. They may be helped with notes so that they do not face any problems. Next year, those students can move to other colleges wherever their demand is met, Bhat said. He said the controversy is the result of the interference of vested interests. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-hijab-row-status-quo-to-be-maintained-says-mla-1075030.html
26-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Making ministers in-charge of their home districts helps development, says Jagadish Shettar||Opining that not making ministers in-charges of their home districts would create bit inconvenience, MLA and former chief minister Jagadish Shettar on Thursday expressed his personal view that it would be better for better administration and development if ministers are made in-charges of their home districts. In the wake of minister's not getting in-charge of their home districts, Shetar said he conveyed this to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and it was known that it was done as per party's policy decision. An experiment is being done as per the party's decision. Let us see its result for some days, and then I would speak to the party's seniors, he said. When asked whether this decision was a mistake the government, he refused to comment on the party's decision. It has no link with forthcoming elections also, he noted. 'BJPmen not joinig Cong' Reacting to the Congress leaders' remarks about BJP leaders joining the Congress, Shettar stated that nobody from BJP is going to the Congress, and those who do so are foolish. "If Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar have courage and they speak truth, let them reveal the names of BJP leaders joining the Congress. Instead, Congressmen are coming to the BJP, and Uttar Pradesh is an example. They are just trying to create a negative image about the BJP which is strong. The Congress has lost its existence except in Karnataka and Punjab, and it would lose that also soon. Congress would be whitewashed after Assembly polls in five states, and it has to be searched with the help of a binocular," Shettar said. In reaction to the speculation about the possibility of defection if Cabinet expansion is delayed, Shettar said, "I do not react about somebody's personal statement. BJP is very strong in the state and nobody can shake it," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/making-ministers-in-charge-of-their-home-districts-helps-development-says-jagadish-shettar-1074833.html
26-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||No one can do anything without JD(S) after 2023 Karnataka Assembly polls, says H D Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Wednesday indicated his party would have a crucial role to play in Karnataka after the 2023 Assembly polls as he claimed that no one can do anything without the party. The former Chief Minister said defections have become a common phenomenon in all parties ahead of elections these days as ideology has no buyers. "...JD(S) will grow stronger. Not only that, in 2023, too, no one can do anything without JD(S). I'm not saying this out of ego for there is a section of people that has saved and nurtured this party, those people will never leave this party," Kumaraswamy said. Speaking to reporters here, he said his party is whatever it is today because of the workers and not because of leaders. He hit out at now Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah, who was earlier with the JD(S), for belittling his party. "...without any leaders, we have won seats in various elections. Even when Siddaramaiah was with JD(S) we used to get 19 per cent vote share and after him leaving the party too it has remained intact, who is responsible for it, our karyakartas, I'm not saying it is because of me," he added. Kumaraswamy had earlier announced "Mission 123" (winning minimum 123 seats in the 224-member Assembly) to bring the party to power independently after the 2023 Assembly polls. In the 2018 Assembly polls, there was no clear mandate for any party and BJP, the single largest party, failed to muster numbers, and the Congress and JD(S) joined hands to form a coalition government under Kumaraswamy's leadership. It collapsed in 2019 due to internal squabbling and defection of MLAs. The regional party had also been in coalition with the BJP in the past. Kumaraswamy said he won't make claims that leaders from both Congress and BJP are eager to join JD(S) like it was being done by the two national parties. "We are a small party...rather than people from other parties joining us, we have created an atmosphere for youth to join us and grow themselves as leaders, such an atmosphere in a way has always existed in this party," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-one-can-do-anything-without-jds-after-2023-karnataka-assembly-polls-says-h-d-kumaraswamy-1074923.html
26-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Congress appoints ex-RS member B K Hariprasad as its leader in Karnataka Legislative Council||The Congress on Wednesday appointed former Rajya Sabha member B K Hariprasad as the party's leader in the Karnataka Legislative Council. It also appointed Prakash Rathod as the chief whip and K Govindraj as the Congress Deputy Leader of Legislative Council in the state. An official statement said Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed Hariprasad as the Leader of Legislative Council, along with making other appointments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-appoints-ex-rs-member-b-k-hariprasad-as-its-leader-in-karnataka-legislative-council-1075005.html
26-01-2022||National||Plea in SC seeks deferment of NEET-PG scheduled on March 12||A plea was filed on Tuesday in the Supreme Court seeking postponement of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled on March 12 for admissions in post graduate medical courses, claiming that many MBBS graduates would not be able to take up the examination due to non-completion of mandatory internship period. The plea filed by six MBBS graduates, through Dubey Law Chambers, seeks a direction to the National Board of Examination to defer the scheduled test until various requirements, such as completion of mandatory internship period, set forth in the PG Regulations, are met by many aspirants. One of the NEET PG regulations said that 30 beds of a hospital have to be assigned to one unit of students pursuing the PG course and now two students of two academic sessions will have to be accommodated in the same facility. The petition raises a challenge to the violation of NEET PG Regulations, 2000, while admitting candidates for academic sessions in one session as there is an "explicit cap on the number of PG admissions to be done per year per unit", a lawyer of the firm said. Several hundred MBBS graduates, whose internship got halted due to their duty in tackling Covid-19 pandemic, would be rendered ineligible from appearing in the NEET-PG test due to lack of mandatory internship duty that too without their fault, the plea said while seeking deferment of the test. It referred to the statement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 3, last year to postpone NEET-PG 2021 by at least four months and the fact that the services of final year MBBS doctors will be utilised to handle mild Covid cases. The plea challenges the condition provided in the information bulletin which provides for a deadline of May 31, 2022 for completion of internship. "The petitioners (with 1500 candidates) have mentioned that they were in Covid duties in the year 2021 and therefore their internship was postponed. They have submitted that they are victims of circumstances and that they were not informed at any time that serving in Covid duties would tantamount to a situation where they will not be eligible to appear for the NEET-PG," the lawyer said. The plea has sought an extension of the deadline of completion of internship from May 31. Recently, the apex court, on January 7, had paved the way for starting the stalled NEET-PG 2021 counselling process based on the existing 27 per cent OBC and 10 per cent EWS reservations in the All India Quota seats, saying there is an "urgent need" to begin the admission process. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-deferment-of-neet-pg-scheduled-on-march-12-1074710.html
26-01-2022||National||Bengal BJP depends more on 'outsiders', Mamata a street fighter: Suspended leader Jaiprakash Majumdar||The infighting in Bengal BJP deepened on Tuesday with suspended BJP leader Jaiprakash Majumdar slamming the party leadership for undermining "old-timers" and giving more prominence to new-comers, while lauding chief minister Mamata Banerjee's "street fighter" capabilities. Majumdar, who along with Ritesh Tiwari, was suspended for allegedly violating party discipline, hit out at the state leadership accusing it of compromising with Trinamool Congress and having a tacit understanding with Prashant Kishor-run consultancy I-PAC. He also ridiculed the state BJP, calling it a team run by a "team of rookies" with no chance against a seasoned politician like the feisty TMC boss. “Old-timers and seasoned leaders have no place in the state unit. Leaders from others parties, agents of the TMC, are now calling the shots. "The BJP faced defeat in the assembly polls as leaders were running it from other states, (who) vanished after the defeat. At present, too, the BJP is being run by a few outsiders. This will prove to be fatal for the BJP in the state,” Majumdar said while addressing a press conference along with Tiwari. At the same time in the course of the press meet, Majumdar lauded Banerjee as a “street fighter” and said the state BJP depended more on “running to courts” on every issue rather than organizing street protests against the TMC. Mocking the state BJP president Sukanta Majumdar and state general secretary (organization), Amitabha Chakraborty, for lack of political experience, he said "it appears Bengal BJP is a team of rookies playing against Lionel Messi-led Argentina, and that too after only three days of practice." "The entire country considers Mamata Banerjee, a national-level leader with great maturity and political wisdom. We might have political differences, but we have to accept the truth," the BJP leader said. For good measure, Majumdar fulminated there was "no review of party's debacle in assembly polls. Whenever the cause of defeat was sought to be analyzed, our leaders avoided any reference. Even the mic was turned mute during a zoom meeting." Both Majumder and Tiwari were show-caused on Sunday and were temporarily suspended from the party till the investigations against them were over. The two leaders had participated in a meeting convened by union minister Shantanu Thakur, an influential leader of the sizeable Matua community in the state, over a week ago in Kolkata. They were present when Thakur, the union minister of state for ports, shipping and waterways, castigated a section of the state leaders. Discontent had been brewing ever since the state leadership had omitted several Matua leaders from various sub-committees. The union minister had held a picnic with several disgruntled BJP leaders in his Bongaon constituency a few days ago. The two senior BJP leaders, who were dropped from the new office bearers committee last year, were on Sunday issued a show-cause notice by the state unit. Both were vice-presidents of the state unit in the previous committee, and Majumdar was named one of the spokespersons in the new state committee announced a month ago. Tiwari was not included in the committee. "What crime have I committed by standing by the side of Shantanu Thakur, a union minister, when he is speaking to the press? How can that be construed as anti-party activity or breaching discipline?" he questioned. Majumdar, who had joined BJP from Congress in 2014, said he has never said anything against the party. “I would like to know under which rule of the party constitution, both of us were suspended. This is not only unethical but also violates the party discipline,” he said. While reacting to the allegations, West Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar said the party is not bound to inform Majumdar under which rule the action was taken against the duo. “There is no such rule in the party constitution which forces us to inform them under which rule action was taken. Secondly, all the steps have been taken following the party rules and regulations,” he said. However, senior BJP leader Tathagata Roy came out to support the duo and said, "it seemed it was pre-decided that both would be suspended". "Something seems to be rotten in the party. Without giving any scope of defending themselves, the two leaders were suspended. This is unprecedented. I have known Ritesh for a long time; he is a dedicated party worker for more than three decades," Roy, who has been lashing out at the state leadership since the West Bengal poll debacle, said. The ruling TMC lost no time in taking a dig at the ongoing tiff in the saffron camp. "The BJP is a sinking ship in West Bengal. When we used to say that outsiders are running BJP, we were questioned. Now BJP leaders are saying the same thing. It is proven that outsiders call the shots in BJP," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-bjp-depends-more-on-outsiders-mamata-a-street-fighter-suspended-leader-jaiprakash-majumdar-1074711.html
26-01-2022||National||India ranks 85 in corruption perception index: Transparency International report||India's rank improved one place to 85 among 180 countries in a corruption perception index (CPI) of 2021, according to a new report by Transparency International which, however, raised concern over the country's democratic status. The index, which ranks 180 countries and territories by their perceived levels of public sector corruption according to experts and business people, uses a scale of 0 to 100, where 0 is highly corrupt and 100 is very clean. Among those with weak scores are some of the world's most populous countries such as China (45) and India (40), and other large economies such as Indonesia (38), Pakistan (28) and Bangladesh (26), the report by the anti-corruption watchdog said. Calling the case of India particularly worrying, the report released on Tuesday said while the country's score has remained stagnant over the past decade, some of the mechanisms that could help reign in corruption are weakening. “There are concerns over the country's democratic status, as fundamental freedoms and institutional checks and balances decay. "Journalists and activists are particularly at risk and have been victims of attacks by the police, political militants, criminal gangs and corrupt local officials,” the report based on the index said. The report further alleged that civil society organisations that speak up against the government have been targeted with security, defamation, sedition, hate speech and contempt-of-court charges, and with regulations on foreign funding. “A concerning trend across some of these nations (with weak scores) is a weakening of anti-corruption institutions or, in some cases, absence of an agency to coordinate action against corruption,” it said. Denmark, Finland, New Zealand and Norway topped the list with the highest score. While corruption takes vastly different forms from country to country, this year's scores reveal that all regions of the globe are at a standstill when it comes to fighting public sector corruption. At the top of the CPI, countries in Western Europe and the European Union continue to wrestle with transparency and accountability in their response to Covid-19, threatening the region's clean image. In parts of Asia Pacific, the Americas, Eastern Europe and Central Asia, increasing restrictions on accountability measures and basic civil freedoms allow corruption to go unchecked. Even historically high-performing countries are showing signs of decline, the report said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranks-85-in-corruption-perception-index-transparency-international-report-1074716.html
26-01-2022||National||Delhi under thick security cover for smooth Republic Day celebrations||In view of the 73rd Republic Day celebrations, Delhi has been brought under a heavy security cover as the city police intensified patrolling and sealed the borders of the national capital, in coordination with its counterparts from the neighbouring states, to thwart any untoward incident amid a terror alert by intelligence agencies. Over 27,000 police personnel have been deployed on Republic Day security duties in Delhi and anti-terror measures intensified, officials said. According to the officials, the police personnel deployed include deputy commissioners, assistant commissioners, inspectors and sub-inspectors. Armed Police Force personnel, commandos, officers and jawans of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) have also been deployed. CCTVs fitted with facial recognition software and anti-drone equipment have also been installed, the police said. All major border points of Delhi, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, have been sealed to ensure incident-free and smooth Republic Day celebrations. Extra pickets have been deployed and patrolling has been intensified at the border points, the officials said. On January 26 last year, thousands of farmers protesting against three agriculture laws of the Centre entered Delhi on tractors and wreaked havoc on the city roads. They clashed with police and even hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort, a privilege reserved for the Indian tricolour. "We have sealed the borders and put up extra pickets in coordination with our counterparts. No commercial vehicles will be allowed to enter the national capital. Only permitted vehicles and those engaged in essential services will be allowed. Non-permitted vehicles will be sent back while at some borders, traffic diversions and alternate routes are also in place," a senior police officer said. The security personnel are keeping a hawk-eyed vigil over the venue, where President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be celebrating the occasion along with other dignitaries and thousands of people. "We are fully prepared. We have been preparing for almost two months now. Elaborate arrangements with multi-layered security have been made all around the district. Vehicle checking would start at the borders of New Delhi district and it would become more and more stringent as you move towards the venue," Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said. Only vehicles with authorised passes or control passes that have already been issued will be allowed to move towards the function area, Yadav said. All the high-rise buildings have been covered with rooftop arrangements and anti-drone equipment has been installed on a number of these structures, the DCP said. "With the help of multiple agencies, we have taken adequate measures against any kind of a drone attack or anti-social elements. At the same time, we have also briefed our staff to take adequate precautions to curb the spread of Covid-19. At the time of entry and exit, the staff have been briefed to ensure that it is done in a phased manner and there is no crowding at the entry and exit points," he said. Briefing the media on Saturday about the security arrangements, Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana had said a total of 27,723 Delhi Police personnel, including 71 DCPs, 213 ACPs and 753 inspectors, have been deployed for the Republic Day parade. They are being assisted by 65 companies of the CAPFs. Police said anti-terror measures have been intensified in coordination with other security agencies. "Since the last two months, we have intensified our anti-terror measures. These measures have been taken on 26 parameters very intensively. It is also because Delhi has always been a target for terrorists and anti-social elements. This year too, we have been very much alert," Asthana said. He mentioned that the anti-terror measures include blockades at various places, checking of vehicles, hotels, lodges and dharamshalas, amid other verification drives like that of tenants, servants and labourers. Counter-drone technology is being used for air space security. Security in and around the area where the Republic Day celebrations will take place has also been beefed up, Asthana said. Security arrangements for the Central Vista project have also been made in coordination with the officers of the agencies working on the project, he said. Besides the Delhi Police, other agencies have also been deployed to ensure foolproof security. About 200 teams have been working towards it. About traffic arrangements, the police commissioner said an advisory was issued detailing specific restrictions on routes so that no inconvenience is caused to the public. According to a recent order, the operation of sub-conventional aerial platforms, including unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), paragliders and hot air balloons, over Delhi has been prohibited in view of the Republic Day celebrations. The order came into effect on January 20 and will remain in force till February 15. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-under-thick-security-cover-for-smooth-republic-day-celebrations-1074738.html
26-01-2022||National||India reports 2.85L new coronavirus cases, positivity rate 16.16%||As India celebrates its 73rd Republic Day, the country on Wednesday reported 2,85,914 new coronavirus cases. 665 fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours, Union Health Ministry data showed. Active cases declined to 22,23,018, and comprise 5.55 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 93.23 per cent, the ministry said.   Daily positivity rate stands at 16.16 per cent. A reduction of 13,824 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. After five consecutive days, India’s daily Covid-19 count dropped below 3 lakh on Tuesday, but the signs of a spreading epidemic are seen in more than 550 districts where the weekly test positivity rate stands at more than 5 per cent. At a review meeting with nine northern states including poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya asked them to ramp up tests in those areas where it went down and share the testing and vaccination data with the Centre in time. Meanwhile the World Health Organization said that the risk level related to the Omicron variant remains very high, with numbers of new Covid-19 cases hitting another record high last week. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23 (With inputs from PTI) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-285l-new-coronavirus-cases-positivity-rate-1616-1074744.html
26-01-2022||National||Stones hurled at BJP candidate Manindar Pal Singh's convoy in Uttar Pradesh's Chur village||Stones were hurled at the convoy of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manindar Pal Singh at Chur village in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut district during campaigning. He is the saffron party candidate from Siwalkhas constituency. The attack left the window panes of his car broken. Singh was visiting the Jat-dominated village for campaigning when the attack took place. A video of the incident soon surfaced on social media. The BJP blamed a 'disgruntled Rashtriya Lok Dal' for the attack, while the latter blamed the BJP instead for "plotting the attack against itself to gain sympathy votes." Singh, who has been a member of both the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party prior to joining the BJP, had faced a similar protest in Patholi village in Meerut last week, when angry villagers asked him to leave and raised anti-BJP slogans. The resentment against Singh, who hails from Sardhana, had begun the day his candidature was announced by the BJP, with party workers sitting on a dharna, demanding that his ticket be cancelled. He got the ticket after BJP's sitting MLA, Jitendra Pal Singh, was denied one. This has also led to a furore among many BJP workers since Jitendra Pal Singh is said to be popular in the area. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stones-hurled-at-bjp-candidate-manindar-pal-singhs-convoy-in-uttar-pradeshs-chur-village-1074746.html
26-01-2022||National||Railways suspends NTPC, Level 1 exams amid protests||After violent protests in Bihar by job aspirants over the selection process of its recruitment exams, Indian Railways on Wednesday decided to put on hold its recruitment drives and talk to the agitators first. The national transporter decided to suspend its mega recruitment drive after the law and order situation worsened in Bihar and intelligence inputs indicated protesting job seekers were mobilising in other states as well. The Non-Technical Popular Category (NTPC) recruitment drive, whose second round of exams was scheduled to start from February 15, is now on hold. A committee headed by Deepak Peter Gabriel, Principal Executive Director (Industrial Relations) in the Railway ministry, was formed. The committee will talk to willing volunteers from protestors and engage with those who have qualified as well as those who could not Railway Minister Ashwani Vaishnaw announced here on Wednesday. The panel will look into the concerns raised by candidates regarding the results of the first stage Computer-Based Test (CBT) conducted for Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC). Job seekers in Bihar have been protesting against the selection process and disrupted train services in several places for the past few days. On Wednesday, a crowd stormed the Gaya Junction and set fire to the Bhabhua-Patna InterCity Express, though nobody was injured. In Sitamarhi, police fired in the air to disperse demonstrators at the railway station. Protests were also reported from Patna, Nawada, Muzaffarpur, Buxar, and Bhojpur districts.The stir affected several sections of the East Central Railway (ECR) zone and hindered the running of more than 25 trains causing inconvenience to passengers. The central government warned that those who vandalise the railway properties will now be categorised under “unlawful activities” that may get one banned for life from obtaining railway jobs. The protesters have raised many issues including opposing two stages examination. They say the second stage for final selection is tantamount to “cheating” those who appeared and cleared the first stage of the RRB-NTPC exam for a computer-based test which was released on January 15. Many of the protesters also opposed allowing candidates with higher qualifications to compete for jobs meant for those with relatively lower qualifications. The aspirants have also alleged discrepancies in the examination results, which reportedly showed that one candidate had been declared qualified from multiple regions when according to the official rules, one candidate is allowed to qualify from only one region. Railways is recruiting 35,281 vacant posts in various categories ranging from the junior clerk, train assistant, guard, timekeeper etc to station master across its verticals in its zones. Of the total vacancies, 24,281 posts are open to graduates, 11,000 are for under-graduates. Around 1.25 crore candidates had appeared. Reacting to some of the demands of protestors, Ashwini Vaishnaw said that no candidate can be recruited for multiple posts. However, he also said that the government cannot legally bar graduates from applying to posts that require 10+2 qualifications. After vacancies were announced in 2019, the exams were to be tentatively held in September 2019 but were postponed to March 2020. Due to Covid-19,  finally, CTBT-1 (Computer Based Test) was held over 68 days in 133 shifts with two shifts each day between April-July 2020. The results for CBT-1 were declared on January 14, 2022. The next stage called CBT-2 is scheduled for mid-February. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-suspends-ntpc-level-1-exams-amid-protests-1074749.html
26-01-2022||National||Jaganmohan government notifies creation of 13 new districts in Andhra Pradesh||In a major administrative reform in Andhra Pradesh, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has on Wednesday morning issued notification for the creation of 13 new districts. The move, intended to ease governance and improve the accessibility of officials, would double the number of districts to 26 from the present 13 districts. In an interesting move, the YSRCP regime chose to create one district containing Vijayawada city in the name of opposition TDP founder, legendary actor and former chief minister NT Rama Rao. The Reddy government had earlier announced its intention to reorganise the existing 13 districts into 25, to go with the state's 25 Lok Sabha segments. However, the vast Araku agency constituency, spread over four districts as of now, is divided into two districts, according to the list released now. Names of some of the new districts are – Alluri Sitharama Raju (Paderu as the headquarter) – named after the celebrated revolutionary who had led the tribals, other locals against the British a century ago, Annamayya (Rayachoty) – a 15th-century saint and music, sankirtana composer and Kona Seema (Amalapuram) – the picturesque Godavari delta area. The new districts are expected to start functioning from Ugadi, the Telugu new year day. The gazette notification said that the alteration of the distrait boundaries, under Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Districts (Formation) Act, 1974, is “in the interest of better administration and development of the areas concerned.” Objections, suggestions are invited till 25 February from persons “likely to be affected” residing in the respective districts. Following the bifurcation of united Andhra Pradesh in 2014, the K Chandrasekhar Rao government had earlier created 33 districts in place of the 10 that existed before in the Telangana region. Full List of Districts and HQs:  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaganmohan-government-notifies-creation-of-13-new-districts-in-andhra-pradesh-1074751.html
26-01-2022||National||Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad dismisses rumours of changing Twitter bio||Congress Veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad took to Twitter to dismiss concerns about his relationship with the grand old party and criticised  those creating a “mischievous propaganda.” The clarification by the Congress leader came amid rumours that he had removed the Twitter handle of the Indian National Congress from his social media profile. Some users posted screenshots of his bio. Azad said that “nothing has been changed” in his Twitter profile. Some mischievous propoganda being circulated by some people to create confusion. Nothing has been removed or added to my twitter profile. The profile is as it was earlier. The Congress leader has been facing flak from the Gandhi family loyalists over the past two years, as he approached Sonia Gandhi as part of the G-23 (Group of 23) seeking improved leadership within the party.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-veteran-ghulam-nabi-azad-dismisses-rumours-of-changing-twitter-bio-1074756.html
26-01-2022||National||PM Modi, Home Minister Shah extend Republic Day wishes to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday extended their wishes to the people on the occasion of Republic Day. "Wishing you all a happy Republic Day. Jai Hind!," the Prime Minister wrote on Twitter. Home Minister Amit Shah in his greetings paid tributes to the soldiers who have kept the country's integrity intact. "I bow to all the soldiers who have dedicated their lives to keep the pride, unity and integrity of Indian Republic intact," he said. Shah further asked all the countrymen to take a pledge on the day to ensure India's commitment to the democratic values of freedom. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said this is an occasion to celebrate our democracy and cherish the ideas and values enshrined in our Constitution. "Praying for the continued progress and prosperity of our country," he said. Earlier, on the eve of Republic Day, President Ram Nath Kovind addressed the nation and called it "an occasion to celebrate what is common to us all, our Indianness". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-home-minister-shah-extend-republic-day-wishes-to-nation-1074760.html
26-01-2022||National||Google showcases elements of ceremonial parade on Rajpath in Republic Day doodle||Elephants, camels, saxophone and various other rich elements from the annual January 26 ceremonial parade on Rajpath have been depicted in a vibrant doodle by internet search giant Google to mark India's 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday. The artwork showcases animal forms, musical instruments complemented with a delightful dash of colours, including the national tricolour. In a note released on the august occasion, the company said, "Today's Doodle celebrates India's Republic Day, commemorating 72 years since the Indian Constitution took effect and the nation completed its transition to an independent republic". The Indian Constitution was adopted on November 26, 1949, and officially enacted on this day in 1950 to coincide with the day the Indian National Congress declared 'Purna Swaraj' or “complete freedom," it said. The doodle portrays the elements of the grand parade, with each letter of 'Google' embedded with symbolism. The 'G' has been formed with a mix of an elephant, a camel, a horse and a dog, being depicted together. All four animals are seen in the parade. The 'O' next to it has been made using the image of a 'tabla', while the other 'G' had been depicted with a curvy saxophone, a wind instrument, portraying the bands in the parade. Two doves, a symbol of peace, fly around the letter 'L' symbolically depicting the parade route with blue colour, standing next to the 'E' which is suffused in tricolour, representing the Indian flag. Google, in its note, further said that across the South Asian subcontinent, Republic Day is celebrated over a three-day period with cultural events that "honour the resilience, history, and diverse social fabric of the world's most populous democracy". "The largest official display of national pride held today is the Republic Day Parade—elements of which are depicted in the Doodle artwork—from left to right, parade animals: an elephant, a horse, a dog, a camel; a red tabla; the parade path; a saxophone as part of the iconic camel-mounted band; doves; and the tricolours of the national flag," it said. Along Rajpath, a ceremonial boulevard in the Indian capital of New Delhi, this momentous parade features a float for Indian states alongside dozens of bands, folk dancers, and government officials, the note said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-showcases-elements-of-ceremonial-parade-on-rajpath-in-republic-day-doodle-1074764.html
26-01-2022||National||India's first woman Rafale fighter jet pilot part of IAF tableau||The country's first woman Rafale fighter jet pilot Shivangi Singh was part of the Indian Air Force tableau at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday. She is only the second woman fighter jet pilot to be part of the IAF tableau. Last year, Flight Lieutenant Bhawna Kanth became the first female fighter jet pilot to be part of the IAF tableau. Singh, who is from Varanasi, joined the IAF in 2017 and was commissioned in the IAF's second batch of women fighter pilots. She had been flying MiG-21 Bison aircraft before flying the Rafale. She is part of the IAF's Golden Arrows squadron based out of Ambala in Punjab. The IAF tableau was based on the theme -- 'Indian Air Force transforming for the future'. Scaled down models of Rafale fighter jet, indigenously developed light combat helicopter (LCH) and 3D surveillance radar Aslesha MK-1 were part of the float. It also featured a scaled down model of MiG-21 aircraft that played a major role in the 1971 war in which India defeated Pakistan, leading to the creation of Bangladesh, as well as a model of India's first indigenously developed aircraft Gnat. The first batch of Rafale fighter jets arrived on July 29, 2020, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. So far, 32 Rafale jets have been delivered to the IAF and four are expected by April this year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-woman-rafale-fighter-jet-pilot-part-of-iaf-tableau-1074787.html
26-01-2022||National||Air manoeuvres steal the show at Republic Day parade||A flypast, comprising a number of formations, displayed by 75 aircraft and helicopters of the Indian Air Force left onlookers of the Republic Day parade at Rajpath stunned on Wednesday morning. Vintage, as well as current modern aircraft and helicopters, including Rafale, Sukhoi, Jaguar, Mi-17, Sarang, Apache and Dakota carriers, displayed different formations, such as Rahat, Meghna, Eklavya, Trishul, Tiranga, Vijay and Amrit. Precision at tremendous speeds and thundering aerobatics done with professional skill was on display at Rajpath in the national capital. The Rahat contingent comprised five LHA flying in an 'arrowhead' formation, which flew past over the water channel to the north of Rajpath. The Meghna contingent, comprising CH-47 Chinook in lead and four Mi-17 1V in echelon, also flew in the five 'arrowhead' formation. The Eklavya contingent, consisting of Mi-35 in lead with four Apache helicopters in echelon, also took the 'arrowhead' formation, while the Tangail contingent, comprising a Dakota in lead with two Dornier in echelon, flew in a 'vic' formation. The Traan contingent, comprising a C17 and two C 130As in echelon, also flew in the 'vic' formation. The Netra contingent, comprising an x AEW&C with two MiG 29 UPG and two Su-30 MKI in echelon, flew in the 'arrowhead' formation, after the Traan contingent. The Vinaash contingent comprised five Rafale jets taking the 'arrowhead' formation. Following Vinaash, the Baaz contingent, comprising one Rafale, two Jaguar, two MiG-29 UPG and Su-30 MI, flew in a 'seven-Arrowhead' formation. The Trishul contingent, comprising three Su-30 MKIs flying in 'vic' formation followed, a minute after the Baaz contingent approached the dais. The contingent pulled up and outward for the Trishul manoeuvre. The Varuna contingent comprised one P8-i with two MiG-29K in the echelon to take a 'vic' formation, followed by five Sarang (ALH) taking a 'ladder' formation, streaming the colours of the national flag. A Rafale jet also flew in at 900 kmph behind the Tiranga contingent and upon approaching the dais, pulled up for 'vertical Charlie' and carried out two half turns. The show ended with the Amrit contingent, comprising 17 Jaguars, which formed the number 75, to depict the number of aircrafts and helicopters. The parade culminated with the national anthem and the release of tricolour balloons. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-manoeuvres-steal-the-show-at-republic-day-parade-1074803.html
26-01-2022||National||On Republic Day, Mamata calls on people to protect federal character of Constitution||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday greeted the people of the country on the 73rd Republic Day and urged them to take a pledge to protect the basic structure of the Constitution, including and particularly its federal character. She saluted the freedom fighters and jawans who have sacrificed their lives to protect the country and ensure the safety and security of the citizens. The Trinamool Congress supremo also called on the country, whom she described as pillars of the Indian democracy, to protect, preserve and follow the ideals of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity. "Heartiest greetings to all on the Republic Day. On this day, let us once again take pledge to protect the basic structure of the Indian Constitution, including and particularly its federal character," she tweeted. Let us strive to protect, preserve and follow the ideals of Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity, as enshrined in our Constitution, which, among other things, gives us our inalienable rights. (2/4) "Let us strive to protect, preserve and follow the ideals of Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity, as enshrined in our Constitution, which, among other things, gives us our inalienable rights," Banerjee said in another Twitter post. "I salute all our freedom fighters and jawans whose valiant sacrifice and their selfless duty protect our country and ensure our safety and security. My heartiest congratulations to all the countrymen who are the pillars of our democracy. Jai Hind," she added. My heartiest congratulations to all the countrymen who are the pillars of our democracy.Jai Hind (4/4) A short programme was held on the Red Road in the heart of Kolkata to celebrate the day with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols, amid the presence of Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, the chief minister and Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee. Dhankhar exchanged pleasantries with the chief minister and the speaker. A tableau each on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Kolkata Police's road safety awareness programme 'Safe Drive, Save Life' were taken out. Contingents of army, air force and navy, besides that of the state police, took part in the parade. People attending the programme wore masks and maintained physical distancing. The day was also celebrated in a restricted manner in other parts of the state. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-republic-day-mamata-calls-on-people-to-protect-federal-character-of-constitution-1074804.html
26-01-2022||National||Meghalaya tableau honours contribution of women-led cooperative societies, self-help groups||Meghalaya's tableau showcased bamboo and cane handicrafts as well as Lakadong turmeric to honour women-led cooperative societies and self-help groups which revived the popularity and demand of these products with their relentless efforts. While the front part of the tableau depicting a woman weaving a bamboo basket and several bamboo and cane products of Meghalaya, the rear portion of the tableau depicted the traditional farming and processing of Lakadong turmeric. The north eastern state is renowned for its cane and bamboo craftswomen. However, there was a time when the demand for Meghalaya's cane and bamboo products had declined, and almost led to the demise of the craft due to the availability of cheaper mass-produced plastic alternatives. Determined to revive the craft, women across several villages in Meghalaya came together to form cooperative societies and self-help groups for the revival of the cane and bamboo products. Women-led cooperative societies and self-help groups today cater to the demand for these products from across the globe. This has not just increased the income levels of artisans in the state, but also revived a craft that was once almost lost. The Lakadong turmeric, renowned for its high curcumin content, also attained its global fame due to the efforts of the cooperative societies and self-help groups, promoted by enterprising women of Jaintia Hills region of Meghalaya. Lakadong turmeric has a high curcumin content ranging from 7-12 per cent, a combined outcome of a cultivar selectively bred by the villagers and the tender care given to each crop by its farmer. The state's tableau depicted the entire value-chain which is driven by women-led cooperative societies and self-help groups. For Meghalaya, this year's Republic Day was not just an occasion to celebrate 75 years of the country's Independence, but also 50 years of its statehood. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meghalaya-tableau-honours-contribution-of-women-led-cooperative-societies-self-help-groups-1074813.html
26-01-2022||National||Religious sites showcased on Uttarakhand Republic Day tableau||Uttarakhand showcased connectivity projects and religious sites in its tableau at the Republic Day parade here on Wednesday. The front portion of the tableau showed Gurudwara Hemkund Sahib, one of the holiest Sikh shrines. Hemkund Sahib is located at an altitude of around 4,329 metres on the bank of  Hemkund lake. Surrounded by snow-capped peaks, the gurudwara's pictorial natural settings and trek routes include the one to the Valley of Flowers. The tableau also displayed the Dobra-Chanti Bridge. The 440-metre long suspension bridge is the connecting link between Tehri Garhwal district headquarters and Pratap Nagar.  Tehri Dam is the highest dam in India and the fourth highest dam in the world. It was shown in the middle part of tableau, while the Badrinath temple was displayed on the end part of the tableau. The Badrinath temple is one of the four sites of the Char Dham pilgrimage. The Chardham all-weather road was shown on the side portion of the Uttarakhand float.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/religious-sites-showcased-on-uttarakhand-republic-day-tableau-1074817.html
26-01-2022||National||Covid-19 an educational hurdle in Chhattisgarh, one of India's most backward districts: Report||According to the latest Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), which captures Covid-related learning losses in one of the country's most backward states, the proportion of students in classes II, III and VI who are unable to recognise letters has doubled since 2018, along with a sharp drop in their basic mathematical skills. The present fundamental reading level among students in grades I-VII is "lower than at any time in the recent decade," according to the ASER study, which covered 46,021 children aged 3-16 years across 33,432 families in 28 districts of Chhattisgarh in October-November 2021. According to the research, the number of children in class III who can read standard II-level material fluently has decreased from 29.8 per cent in 2018 to 12.3 per cent in 2021, showing that learning outcomes for younger children, particularly those in government schools, have been significantly harmed. According to statistics, until 2018, learning capacities among children of all ages were improving. For example, in 2014, 70.7 per cent of children in government class II could read letters; in 2016, it grew to 77.1 per cent; in 2018, it declined slightly to 76.3 per cent; and in 2021, it fell to 57 per cent. In the case of mathematics, 14.2 per cent of children in class III (public and private schools combined) were able to subtract in 2014; the ratio grew to 20 per cent in 2016, dropped slightly to 19.3 per cent in 2016, and remained at 9 per cent in 2021. In 2018, 18 per cent of class V students could do division; this grew to 23.1 per cent in 2016, 26.9 per cent in 2018, and then dropped to 13 per cent in 2021. According to the survey, the proportion of children who are unable to recognise even single-digit numerals has climbed across grades, with the proportion of students in classes I-V being the highest. According to the research, the percentage of children in this category climbed from 11.4 per cent to 24.3 per cent in class II and from 1.7 per cent to 4.5 per cent in class V. In a report released in September 2021, ASER captured the state of learning outcomes in Karnataka, just as it had done in Chhattisgarh. This analysis indicated "steep declines" in core skills, notably in lower primary grades, based on a sample examination of 20,000 students aged 5 to 15. The poll discovered that private school students have more access to resources such as smartphones and television than their government school counterparts. In a poll, 88.5 per cent of private school kids had cellphones at home, compared to 79.1 per cent of government school students. Furthermore, children in private schools are considerably more likely (8.1 per cent) than those in government schools (3.2 per cent) to take paid private tuition classes, according to the report. The National Achievement Survey (NAS), which was conducted by the federal government in November of last year to examine children's learning achievements across the country, is slated to be revealed in March 2022. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-an-educational-hurdle-in-chhattisgarh-one-of-indias-most-backward-districts-report-1074821.html
26-01-2022||National||Jal Shakti Ministry tableau depicts challenges of water supply at altitudes of over 13,000 feet||A tableau depicting how the Jal Jeevan Mission provides clean tap water to homes in Ladakh at an altitude of more than 13,000 ft even in harsh winter months rolled down the Rajpath at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday. The tableau showed a proud droplet figure in front, depicting the achievement of the ‘Har Ghar Jal’ scheme and community ownership of village water supply. The middle section showcased the joy of the community getting clean tap water in the comfort of their homes, schools and anganwadis. It showed how trained local women conducted water quality tests by using Field Test Kits. The last section depicted the situation in winter -- when temperatures fall to minus 20 degrees Censius, water sources get frozen, supply lines become inoperative, pipes burst and supply of materials is affected badly, construction material is lifted and transported with the help of animals and helicopters. The section also depicted the technical challenges involved in drawing water from frozen water sources.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-shakti-ministry-tableau-depicts-challenges-of-water-supply-at-altitudes-of-over-13000-feet-1074822.html
26-01-2022||National||Kashmir police bags lion's share of gallantry medals this Republic Day||The Jammu and Kashmir Police have retained the distinction of bagging the highest number of gallantry medals among all States, Union Territories and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) across the country on this years Republic Day. Fighting the 32-year-long armed insurgency, the J&K Police have got as many as 115 Police Medals for Gallantry (PMGs) announced by the Government of India a day ahead of the Republic Day on Tuesday. The next highest slot has been retained by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) with 30 PMGs. Only seven States and two Union Territories (UTs) figure among the recipients of this year's gallantry medals. While Chhattisgarh has bagged 10 PMGs, nine have gone to Odisha and seven to Maharashtra. Madhya Pradesh and Delhi have bagged three each, Jharkhand two and Uttar Pradesh and Manipur one each. Among the CAPFs, CRPF with 30 PMGs is followed by the Indo-Tibetan Border Policy (ITBP) and SSB who have taken three each. The Border Security Force (BSF) has bagged two medals. In J&K Police, 46 medals have gone to the Police officers/officials who had already taken PMG once, two times or three times. Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Jammu Mukesh Singh, DIG Udhampur Mohammad Suleiman Choudhary, DIG Rajouri Vivek Gupta, SSPs Sridhar Patel, Amritpal Singh, Mohammad Aslam and Tahir Bhatti are among this year's recipients of PMGs. On last year's Independence Day, Jammu and Kashmir stood first in bagging the prestigious PMGs. Out of 215 medals, the J&K Police had received as many as 81 for the year 2020. The recipients included 2 officers of the rank of DIG, 5 SSPs, 5 SPs, and ASPs, 16 DSPs besides 6 Inspectors, 8 Sub Inspectors (SIs) and 2 Assistant Sub Inspectors (ASIs). Thirty-five J&K Police personnel of the ranks of Head Constables, Constables and Selection Grade Constables and one Follower were declared as recipients of PMG on the Independence Day 2020. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-police-bags-lions-share-of-gallantry-medals-this-republic-day-1074823.html
26-01-2022||National||Playback singer Sonu Nigam 'proud' of Padma Shri award||Playback singer Sonu Nigam and filmmaker Chandraprakash Dwivedi on Wednesday expressed their gratitude after they were conferred with the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award of the country. Nigam, who has had a successful singing career of three decades, is regarded as one of the most versatile voices in the Indian film industry. Dwivedi, 62, is best known for directing the 1991 epic TV series Chanakya, in which he also played the titular political strategist. He also directed Urmila Matondkar and Manoj Bajpayee-starrer Partition drama Pinjar. The 48-year-old singer said January 25, when the Padma awards were announced, would remain a "special day" for him and his family. "I’m thankful to the Government of India for thinking of me as a deserving candidate and bestowing me the Padma Shri. My heartfelt thanks to all those who selected me and suggested my name for this prestigious honour. I would also like to thank my mother, Shobha Nigam, and my father, Agam Kumar Nigam. In fact, I want to dedicate this award to my mother. Had she been here today, she would have cried a lot," Nigam said in a statement. The singer, whose memorable chartbusters include Ye Dil Deewana, Kal Ho Na Ho, Saathiya and Abhi Mujh Mein Kahin among others, noted the contribution of his gurus and credited their lessons for his success. "Whatever I know today is because of them and their blessings. Watching and listening to them has been a learning experience for me. My sincere gratitude to my friends and colleagues who have been a part of my journey, and my family who is my pillar of support," Nigam said. Dwivedi also acknowledged his creative collaborations in the past, crediting them in "enriching" him as an artist. The director, who has often chronicled stories of and about the country, said he dedicates the award to India. "I’m deeply humbled to have been bestowed with the prestigious Padma Shri award. I have been fortunate enough to creatively collaborate with some of the best minds of the Hindi film and television industry. They have enriched me, pushed my boundaries and made me better creatively," he said.  "I share this huge moment of my life with all these people who have shaped me and my thinking. I have always been someone who has tried to tell a story that is dipped in our country’s history and culture and I dedicate this award to my country," he said in a statement. The director said the honour will empower him to celebrate the country, much like his upcoming Akshay Kumar-starrer Prithviraj, a historical film is based on the life of Samrat Prithviraj Chauhan. "This recognition will drive me to tell stories that celebrate my motherland in its full glory like my next Prithviraj in which we will honour the valour of one of the bravest warriors that India has ever seen," he said.  Renowned classical vocalist Dr Prabha Atre of the Kirana Gharana has been awarded the Padma Vibhushan, the nation's second-highest civilian honour.  Veteran actor Victor Banerjee, known for films such as Satyajit Ray classic Ghare Baire and David Lean's epic A Passage of India, as well as Madhur Jaffrey, actor and culinary expert, received the Padma Bhushan, the third-highest civilian award of the country. The names from the Indian arts field who have been chosen for Padma Awards also included Punjabi folk singer Gurmeet Bawa (posthumous) and classical musician Rashid Khan, who will be felicitated with Padma Bhushan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/playback-singer-sonu-nigam-proud-of-padma-shri-award-1074832.html
26-01-2022||National||Vedas to metaverse: Education Ministry tableau showcases key aspects of new educational policy||The tableau of the Ministry of Education and Skill Development showcased key aspects of the new National Education Policy (NEP) through the theme 'Vedas to Metaverse' during the 73rd Republic Day parade. The front portion of the tableau depicted the rich tradition and glorious past of the country in the area of education since ancient times, starting from the Vedas, followed by the Gurukul education system, and then the universities like Nalanda where thousands of students used to come from all over the world. The first part of the rear portion shows a glowing brain-like prop, symbolising innovation and creativity. A procession of students of different age groups depicted skill development, joyful learning, emphasising the latest technologies of augmented reality and virtual reality. Images of educationists and scientists from ancient times to the modern age could be seen on both sides of the tableau. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vedas-to-metaverse-education-ministry-tableau-showcases-key-aspects-of-new-educational-policy-1074837.html
26-01-2022||National||125-year-old yoga expert, 91-year-old social worker among Padma Shri winners||A 125-year-old yoga practitioner in Kashi, a 91-year-old woman who organised 'Cloth Bank' for Kutch flood victims, an 82-year-old orthopaedic surgeon fighting against polio and a 33-year-old martial arts from Kashmir's Bandipora are among a clutch of 'unsung and unique heroes' who were chosen for Padma Shri on the eve of Republic Day. A total of 128 Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri awards were announced on Tuesday night. Of this, 108 were Padma Shri awards. Sivananda, who the government says is a 125-year-old from Uttar Pradesh, is perhaps the oldest Padma award winner in the history of the country and is described as 'Yog Sevak', who continues to serve all around him, despite his humble origins. He has been practising and teaching yoga at Kashi's ghats for over three decades. The second centenarian in the Padma Shri list is Shakuntala Choudhary from Assam's Kamrup. Known as Shankuntala Baideo, the 102-year-old has been "silently promoting the value of service for the last seven decades". A follower of Mahatma Gandhi and Vinoba Bhave, she founded Gram Seva Kendras across north-east and works for villagers through Stree Shakti Jagaran movement. If the yoga expert is the oldest in the list, martial arts teacher Faisal Ali Dar at 33 is the youngest among "unsung heroes". The "Kashmir's Karate Kid" from Bandipora established a Sports Academy for martial arts and trained around 4,000 students so far with an aim to empower the youth in the "sensitive, militancy-hit regions" with opportunities and dreams. His achievement is reflected in the medals won by his students in global Kickboxing championships, the government says. Prabhaben Shah (91) was chosen for the national honour as she dedicated her life for social work, conducting awareness camps, organised 'Vastra Bank' for Kutch flood victims and started canteen for patients and economically weaker people in hospitals. Polio warrior Sunkara Venkata Adinarayana Rao, who hails from Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam, is a veteran Orthopaedic Surgeon who has performed over one lakh polio surgeries, and treated more than 20 lakh patients with polio and cerebral palsy for free or nominal fees. For his work, including organising 900 camps across the country, he was chosen for the award. Moti Lal Madan, an 82-year-old veterinarian and Biotechnologist from Haryana's Karnal who led a team to perform world's first successful Invitro fertilised (IVF) of a buffalo leading to the birth of a calf, Pratham, was also in the list. He served as Director of National Dairy Research Institute in Karnal and pioneered research in reproductive endocrinology, embryo biotechnology, IVF and cloning. The list also included 52-year-old Gamit Ramilaben Raysingbhai from Gujarat. A tribal social worker from Tapi, her dedicated efforts led to the transformation of nine villages to open defecation-free villages. She also created more than 300 sanitary units and held awareness events on open defecation, sickle cell in the tribal belt. A 66-year-old wood carver from Ladakh, Tsering Namgyal was recognised for four decades of contribution in producing Ladakhi wooden crafts for monasteries. He is known for creating the Jugskhang statue & scripture cases at the monasteries in Leh. Darshanam Mogilaiah, a tribal Telugu Folk Singer and Kinnera player from Nagarkurnool in Telangana, has been keeping his family legacy alive and has dedicated over 50 years to conserving it. Popular for singing ballads and the only person to master 12 steps on the instrument 'Kinnera', the new Padma award winner's life is already a part of social studies textbooks in Telangana. Authoring 19 books and 100 songs in Karbi to keep alive the dying dialect, another winner Dhaneswar Engti (66) had earlier served as Joint Secretary of Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council. Durga Bai Vyam (50) from Madhya Pradesh is a traditional Gond artist and illustrator who learnt Digna art at the age of six years and has painted using Gond tribe life as theme.  A veteran Rai folk art from Bundelkhand, 91-year-old Ram Sahay Panday has been in the art field for over 60 years. He founded the Ram Sahay Panday dance group to promote and preserve the Rai Art of the extinct Bediya tribe and performed on more than 100 stages in 18 countries.   Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/125-year-old-yoga-expert-91-year-old-social-worker-among-padma-shri-winners-1074846.html
26-01-2022||National||Virat, elite horse of president's guard, retires||Before their departure at the end of the Republic Day parade, President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh spent a few minutes with a majestic horse that was always a part of the iconic parade for over a decade. The 73rd Republic Day parade was the 13th and last parade for Virat, the majestic mount and an integral member of the President’s Bodyguard – an elite Army unit - for all these years. Inducted into the PBG on September 12, 2000, the horse has been the Commandant’s Charger for over a decade. In his last outing, Virat was mounted by Col Anup Tiwari, the Commandant of the President Bodyguard, who rode to the right of the President’s car. A Hanoverian breed, Virat was awarded with the Chief of Army Staff’s commendation on the occasion of the Army Day, 2022 and is the first charger horse of the PBG to receive such a prize. “His performed his duties as the Commandant's Charger for over a decade and awed spectators including foreign dignitaries with his trademark poise and confidence. He displayed the potential and temperament to become the most trustworthy parade horse,” said an officer. Last year, during the Republic Day parade and Beating Retreat ceremony, Virat performed exceptionally well despite his old age. President Kovind also complimented the horse on a number of occasions for his stellar performance during mounted ceremonial events as well as equestrian events. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virat-elite-horse-of-presidents-guard-retires-1074847.html
26-01-2022||National||Two Gujarat families who became 'untraceable' in Turkey, found; in touch with parents: Police||Amid reports that six members of two families from a village in Gujarat's Gandhinagar district were abducted in Istanbul by traffickers, police on Wednesday cited their parents saying they are found and currently staying at a hotel in Turkey and will return in the next two-three days. Police also denied any abduction angle citing their relatives. The six members became untraceable after reaching Turkey on the visitor visa earlier this month, a senior police officer said. Though there were reports that the two families, comprising two couples and two children, were abducted in Istanbul by human traffickers, their parents back here denied the abduction angle, said a senior police officer of the Ahmedabad crime branch who had questioned the agent through whom the two families had acquired visitor visas. "These two families have already been found. They are staying at a hotel in Turkey and are coming back in the next two-three days. They went to Turkey on a valid visitor visa with the help of an agent," the officer said. "Once they land here, we will talk to them and find out what exactly happened to them and what were their plans after landing in Turkey," said the officer when asked if these two families were trying to migrate illegally to any foreign country. The matter came to light after the crime branch launched the preliminary probe into the alleged involvement of local agents following the death of four members of a family who died due to extreme cold while attempting to cross into the US through the US-Canada border illegally a week back. While it is yet to be known which agent was involved in sending the four to Canada, the crime branch, during the investigation, learnt about these two families who had become untraceable after landing in Turkey. "When we contacted the relatives of the families back here for further investigation, they told us that all the six members were already found and are in touch with them. We don't know what their plans were after reaching Turkey, '' said the officer and ruled out any connection between the two incidents (Canada and Turkey). Following reports that a family of four from a village in Kalol taluka of Gandhinagar froze to death on the Canadian side of the US-Canada border, Gujarat DGP Ashish Bhatia had on Monday asked the state CID to probe the role of agents involved in illegal immigration and human trafficking. On Tuesday, the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit of the Gujarat CID said it had written to the immigration authorities to find out whether the fateful family of four reached Canada through a legal tourist visa or any illegal means. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-gujarat-families-who-became-untraceable-in-turkey-found-in-touch-with-parents-police-1074855.html
26-01-2022||National||Filmmaker Suneel Darshan accuses Google of copyright infringement||The Mumbai Police has filed an FIR against Google CEO Sundar Pichai and YouTube MD Gautam Anand, and the top executives of the two software giants in a case of copyright infringement. The FIR was registered following a Magistrate's order under section 156(3) of the CrPC on a private complaint filed by producer Suneel Darshan regarding his 2017 film 'Ek Haseena Thi Ek Deewana Tha' being illegally uploaded on YouTube. The offence was registered under section 63, 51, 69 of the Copyright Act, 1957. Darshan in his complaint said that Google allowed unauthorised persons to upload his film 'Ek Haseena Thi Ek Deewana Tha' on YouTube. A magistrate court has asked the Mumbai Police to lodge an FIR. There is no immediate statement either from Google or YouTube. Those named in the FIR are Google LLC, YouTube LLC, Google India Ltd, Sundar Pichai, Gautam Anand, Joe Grier, Namrata Rajkumar, Pawan Agarwal and Chaitanya Prabhu. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/filmmaker-suneel-darshan-accuses-google-of-copyright-infringement-1074875.html
26-01-2022||National||Each dose of Covishield, Covaxin likely to be capped at Rs 275 after getting regular market approval||The price of Covishield and Covaxin, the Covid vaccines which are expected to soon get regular market approval from India's drug regulator, is likely to be capped at Rs 275 per dose plus an additional service charge of Rs 150, official sources said. According to them, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) has been directed to start working towards capping the price to make the vaccines affordable. As of now, Covaxin is priced at Rs 1,200 per dose while Covishield costs Rs 780 in private facilities. The prices include Rs 150 service charge. Both the vaccines are only authorised for emergency use in the country. A Subject Expert Committee on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation on January 19 recommended granting regular market approval to Covid vaccines Covishield and Covaxin for use in the adult population subject to certain conditions. "The NPPA has been asked to work towards capping the price of the vaccines. The price is likely to be capped at Rs 275 per dose along with an additional service charge of Rs 150," an official source said. Prakash Kumar Singh, the director (government and regulatory affairs) at Serum Institue of India, had submitted an application to the Drugs Controller General of India on October 25 seeking regular market approval for its Covishiled vaccine. A couple of weeks ago, V Krishna Mohan, the whole-time director at Bharat Biotech, submitted complete information on the chemistry, manufacturing and controls, along with the pre-clinical and clinical data while seeking regular market authorisation for Covaxin. Covaxin and Covishield were granted Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) on January 3 last year. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/each-dose-of-covishield-covaxin-likely-to-be-capped-at-rs-275-after-getting-regular-market-approval-1074877.html
26-01-2022||National||Immune response induced by Omicron effectively neutralises Delta variant: ICMR study||An ICMR study has demonstrated that individuals infected with Omicron have a significant immune response which could neutralise not only the Omicron but also other variants of concern, including the most prevalent Delta variant. It suggests that the immune response induced by the Omicron could effectively neutralise the Delta variant, making the re-infection with Delta variant less likely, thereby displacing the Delta as dominant strain, the study said emphasising upon the need for Omicron-specific vaccine strategy. The study was conducted on 39 individuals, of which 25 had taken both the doses of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, eight people had taken a double dose of Pfizer jab, and six were unvaccinated. Also, 28 of these 39 were mainly foreign returnees from the UAE, South/West/East Africa, Middle East, the US and the UK, and 11 people were their high-risk contacts. All these individuals were infected with the Omicron variant. The study assessed the IgG antibody and Neutralizing Antibody (NAb) response in people with breakthrough and natural Covid-19 infections. "Our study demonstrated substantial immune response in the individuals infected with Omicron. The neutralizing antibodies could effectively neutralize the Omicron and other variants of concern (VOCs), including the most prevalent Delta variant," the study stated. The main limitation of this study is lesser participants in the unvaccinated group and the shorter window period post-infection. This could be the important reason for the low immune response specifically in the unvaccinated individuals against Omicron, the scientists stated. The study has been conducted by ICMR scientists, including Pragya D Yadav, Gajanan N Sapkal, Rima R Sahay and Priya Abraham. It is yet to be peer-reviewed and has been released on the bioRxiv preprint server on January 26. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/immune-response-induced-by-omicron-effectively-neutralises-delta-variant-icmr-study-1074880.html
26-01-2022||National||Air India likely to be handed over to Tata group on Thursday||The Indian government is likely to hand over Air India to the Tata Group on Thursday, nearly 69 years after it was taken from the conglomerate, officials said on Wednesday. After a competitive bidding process, the government had on October 8 last year sold Air India to Talace Private Limited - a subsidiary of the Tata Group's holding company - for Rs 18,000 crore. Meanwhile, two airline pilot unions - Indian Pilots' Guild (IPG) and Indian Commercial Pilots' Association (ICPA) - on Monday warned Air India's CMD Vikram Dev Dutt of legal action as "multiple deductions and recoveries have been projected" on the dues owed to pilots. "This recovery exercise is entirely illegal, and we demand that this anomaly is rectified and the amount due is repaid with immediate effect," the letter sent by the two unions said.  Additionally, two other unions have opposed the carrier's January 20 order to check grooming and measure the body mass index (BMI) of cabin crew members at the airports just before their flights. These unions - Air India Employees' Union (AIEU) and All India Cabin Crew Association (AICCA) - on Monday wrote to Dutt opposing the order on the grounds that it is dehumanising and in violation of rules prescribed by aviation regulator DGCA. "BMI is a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in metres. A high BMI can indicate high body fatness," stated the website of US' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Three days after Air India's sale was announced on October 8 last year, a Letter of Intent (LoI) was issued to the Tata Group confirming the government's willingness to sell its 100 percent stake in the airline. On October 25, the Centre signed the share purchase agreement (SPA) for this deal. Officials said on Wednesday that the airline will most likely be handed over to the conglomerate on Thursday as all the formalities are close to completion. As a part of the deal, the Tata group will also be handed over Air India Express and a 50 percent stake in ground handling arm Air India SATS. Tatas had on October 8 beat the Rs 15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 percent stake in the loss-making carrier. While this will be the Centre's first privatisation since 2003-04, Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable as it holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-likely-to-be-handed-over-to-tata-group-on-thursday-1074884.html
26-01-2022||National||Driving under influence of alcohol not only serious misconduct but offence too: SC||The Supreme Court has said that driving a vehicle under the influence of alcohol is not only serious misconduct but is an offence also. "Nobody can be permitted to drive the vehicle under the influence of alcohol. Such misconduct of driving a vehicle under the influence of alcohol and playing with the life of the others is very serious misconduct," a bench of Justices M R Shah and B V Nagarathna said. The court ordered compulsory retirement of a police truck driver, who was accused of driving the vehicle under the influence of alcohol and causing an accident when he was carrying personnel from Fatehpur to Allahabad for Kumbh Mela duty in the year 2000. "Driving a truck carrying the PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) personnel under the influence of alcohol is a very serious misconduct and such an indiscipline cannot be tolerated and that too in the disciplined Military," the bench added. Family members of driver Brijesh Chandra Dwivedi, contended that the employee has since died, no loss was caused due to accident and his dismissal from service by the disciplinary authority was disproportionate. "Merely because there was no major loss and it was a minor accident cannot be a ground to show leniency. It was sheer good luck that the accident was not a fatal accident. It could have been a fatal accident. When the employee was driving a truck carrying the PAC personnel, the lives of the personnel who were travelling in the truck were in the hands of the driver. Therefore, it can be said that he played with the lives of that personnel," the bench said. \The court, however, converted punishment from dismissal to compulsory retirement saying it was too harsh and the driver has rendered 25-year long service.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/driving-under-influence-of-alcohol-not-only-serious-misconduct-but-offence-too-sc-1074894.html
26-01-2022||National||India spreads message of brotherhood, peace across world: RSS chief||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday hoisted the Tricolour and said India, a peace-loving country, has been spreading the message of brotherhood, harmony across the globe. Bhagwat, who is in Tripura on a four-day visit from Jan 24, also said that the saffron colour at the top of India’s national flag depicts courage, sacrifice and zeal, qualities that could be seen in the life and philosophy of the country’s ancient kings as well as freedom fighters. He described the green colour of the flag as the "symbol of progress". "As Bharat has been a spiritual country since ancient times, the Dharmachakra in the middle of the flag depicts the importance of socio-cultural philosophy followed and practised by the people of India. "India is a peace-loving country. It spreads the message of brotherhood and harmony to the rest of the world. India worships nature," he said at Sewa Dham, Khayerpur here. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief, addressing the volunteers of the right-wing organisation, also said that democracy in its true sense was depicted in the life and philosophy of India's ancient states. "India’s ancient Ganarajyas are where the true sense of democracy was depicted in the life and philosophy of people back then.… Today’s democracy in India must be glorified with the sense of the democratic system of ancient Ganarajyas such as Baishali, Lichhabi," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-spreads-message-of-brotherhood-peace-across-world-rss-chief-1074903.html
26-01-2022||National||Don't destroy 'own property', will resolve grievances: Ashwini Vaishnaw on violence by job aspirants||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Wednesday urged job aspirants not to destroy public property and assured them that their grievances would be resolved as candidates of went on a rampage over alleged irregularities in a recruitment exam by the public transporter. Earlier in the day, the ministry suspended the Non-Technical Popular Categories (RRB NTPC) and the Level 2 exams after reports of vandalism by job aspirants from different parts of the country came to light. "I am telling the aspirants that this is their own property. Why are they destroying something that is their own? However, authorities will follow due process if public property is damaged,” the minister said at a press conference. His comments came after violent protests by job aspirants erupted in Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Vaishnaw said the Railways is in touch with chief ministers and the issue is being handled "sensitively". "I urge the candidates to put forth their grievances formally. Our intention is to resolve this issue quickly. A committee has been formed and it will examine representations by the candidates," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-destroy-own-property-will-resolve-grievances-ashwini-vaishnaw-on-violence-by-job-aspirants-1074906.html
26-01-2022||National||Light a lamp to symbolise Amar Jawan Jyoti, play 'Abide With Me': Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday urged "well-wishers of inclusive India" to symbolise the Amar Jawan Jyoti by lighting a lamp tonight and on January 29. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wished people on Republic Day and posted a picture of the Amar Jawan Jyoti at its erstwhile position at India Gate. "On Republic Day in 1950, our country took the first step in the right direction with confidence. Salute to that first step of truth and equality. Greetings on Republic Day. Jai Hind," Gandhi tweeted along with the picture. Tharoor also urged people to play Mahatma Gandhi's favourite hymn, "Abide With Me", in their homes at 7 PM on January 29, the day of Beating Retreat ceremony. The Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate was merged with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial (NWM) last Friday. The Congress has accused the BJP government of "removing history" by "extinguishing" the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate and merging it with the immortal flame at National War Memorial. "Our colleagues at @ProfCong &all well-wishers of #InclusiveIndia are invited to light a lamp to symbolise #AmarJawanJyoti at 7 pm tonight & on 29th night, and to play Gandhi ji's favourite hymn, "Abide With Me", in their homes at 7 pm on 29 Jan," Tharoor tweeted, using the hashtag 'WeWillNotRetreat from our values'. The Congress had also attacked the government over the dropping of one of Mahatma Gandhi's favourite Christian hymns 'Abide With Me' from this year's Beating Retreat ceremony, alleging that it was another attempt to erase his legacy. The hymn has been replaced with Kavi Pradeep’s 'Aye Mere Watan Ke Logon'. "Abide With Me", written by Scottish Anglican poet and hymnologist Henry Francis Lyte in 1847, has been part of the Beating Retreat ceremony since 1950. According to a brochure released by the Indian Army on Saturday, "Abide With Me" does not figure in this year's Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/light-a-lamp-to-symbolise-amar-jawan-jyoti-play-abide-with-me-tharoor-1074909.html
26-01-2022||National||'Hit rivals with sticks, slippers, just don't shoot them': UP BJP MLA tells supporters||Muscleman BJP legislator Mahesh Trivedi, who has been re-nominated from Kidwai Nagar Assembly seat in Kanpur, has told his supporters to 'hit' his rivals with "sticks, slippers" and anything which they can lay their hands on, except shooting them. A video showing Trivedi telling his supporters not to worry about the consequences and leave everything to him has become viral on social media platforms. "Virodhion ko lathi, chappalon se maro, bas goli mat maro. Hum sab dekh lenge" (hit opponents with sticks and slippers, just don't shoot them. I will manage everything), Trivedi is heard telling his supporters while addressing them in the constituency. Trivedi's speech was aired live on Facebook by his supporters so that everyone, even his opponents, could see it. Trivedi is pitted against Congress leader Ajai Kapur, who had represented the constituency three times before being defeated by the former in the 2017 assembly polls. In the previous polls also Trivedi's supporters had allegedly attacked Kapur and chased his cavalcade during campaigning. Kapur managed to save himself by taking refuge in the house of a supporter. Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders sharply condemned the remarks and urged the Election Commission (EC) to take note of the video and act against Trivedi. "Is the EC watching? It must act against Trivedi," said an SP leader. The district officials said in Kanpur that they had not yet seen the video. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hit-rivals-with-sticks-slippers-just-dont-shoot-them-up-bjp-mla-tells-supporters-1074910.html
26-01-2022||National||Time to turn potential energy of youthful India into actionable reality: Sadhguru||It is time that potential energy of youthful India is transformed into an actionable reality, said Isha Foundation founder and spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on Wednesday. Addressing a gathering at the 112-foot Adiyogi statue after unfurling the tricolour to celebrate the 73rd Republic Day at Isha Yoga Centre, he called upon the youth and every citizen of the nation to take the lead in the global movement to Save Soil he would unveil in March this year. "This Republic Day is a special one as it comes to us in the year when we are celebrating the 75th anniversary of independence," he said and spoke about the unique strength of the country is its youthfulness as a democracy and its antiquity as a civilisation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-to-turn-potential-energy-of-youthful-india-into-actionable-reality-sadhguru-1074917.html
26-01-2022||National||Around a dozen states oppose Centre’s move on deputation of IAS, IPS, IFoS officers||Eleven states, including BJP-ruled Karnataka, have expressed their opposition to the Centre’s latest move to amend the service rules to give itself unbridled powers to bring civil servants on deputation so far while seven are in favour of the proposed changes. The rest of the states have not responded by the deadline of January 25 and a reminder is likely to be sent as early as Thursday, sources in the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said on Wednesday.   Besides Karnataka and NDA-ruled Meghalaya, nine Opposition-ruled states, that have also responded in the negative to the DoPT or wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the proposal to allow the Centre to call an IAS, IPS or IFoS officer on central deputation without state’s consent among others, are non-NDA ruled states. These states are BJD-ruled Odisha, Trinamool Congress-ruled West Bengal, Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, DK-ruled Tamil Nadu, Left-ruled Kerala, TRS-ruled Telangana and JMM-ruled Jharkhand, sources said.  Though Maha Vikas Agadhi-ruled Maharashtra has expressed its opposition, it was not immediately clear whether it has officially responded to the letter from the Centre.   It is also not clear whether Karnataka will change its stand as the Centre will be extending the window to submit recommendations, as several states are yet to provide their views. The seven states that are in support of the proposal are BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Manipur, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh. Bihar initially had reservations about the proposal but it has changed its mind though it has not been clear whether it has officially communicated its stand. Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), MK Stalin (Tamil Nadu), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh), Pinarayi Vijayan (Kerala), Hemant Soren (Jharkhand) and K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana) have written to the Prime Minister, saying that the proposal was “draconian” and damages “cooperative federalism. The Centre argues that there are an acute shortage of All India Service (AIS) officers to meet its requirement, as the states are “not sponsoring an adequate number of officers” for central deputation. Official data showed the number of IAS officers on central deputation at the Joint Secretary level has come down from 309 in 2011 to 223 now. At the Deputy Secretary level, it has dropped from 117 to 114 during the same period. The proposed amendment gives more powers to the Centre to enforce the deputation. If a state delays the posting and does not give effect to the Centre’s decision within the time specified, the officer will stand relieved from the cadre from the date and time as specified by the Centre. At present, the officer should get a NOC from the state.  Amendments also provide for the Centre to decide on the number of officers to be deputed from a particular state in consultation with the state and the latter should provide the list. If there is a dispute, the Centre’s decision is final and the state will have to enforce it within a stipulated time frame. The Centre could also call an officer on deputation in the public interest and the state should implement the decision within the specified time. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/around-a-dozen-states-oppose-centre-s-move-on-deputation-of-ias-ips-ifos-officers-1074926.html
26-01-2022||National||Amrit formation involving 17 aircraft marks 73rd R-Day on the sky||Seventeen Jaguar combat jets creating a figure of 75 in the sky was the spectacular finale of the Republic Day parade in the 75th year of Independence, but the weather played a spoilsport as several formations during the flypast – the most eagerly awaited part of the parade - were barely visible from the ground due to the cloud cover. The televised version of the Amrit formation involving 17 aircraft, however, used video footage captured during the practice sessions to provide an uninterrupted viewing experience to millions who watched the 73rd Republic Day parade on TV or online. “The fly-past went through as planned. Some of the formations were only partially visible from the ground due to the presence of clouds,” said an IAF spokesperson. The 75 aircraft flypast over the central boulevard had two special formations named Meghna – one Chinook and four Mi-17 flying in proximity to form an arrowhead – and Tangail with one Dakota and two Dorniers to commemorate the golden jubilee of the victory of the 1971 war that led to birth of Bangladesh. The two were meant to bring back the memories of the historic Tangail Air Drop and Meghna heli bridge – crucial moments during the 1971 campaign, which remains India’s most emphatic military victory. Both were shown to the public for the first time during the Air Force Day flypast in October. But in an ironical turn of the events, Tangail and Meghna formations flew over the Rajpath days after Narendra Modi government decided to merge the Amar Jawan Jyoti, the eternal flame at the India Gate that came up a year after the 1971 victory with another flame at the National War Memorial, triggering a huge controversy with a section of the veterans observing that both flames could have been retained as decided earlier. The IAF for the first time coordinated with public broadcaster Doordarshan to show recorded in-flight videos giving a unique viewing experience. Five Rafale fighters participated in the fly past while India’s first woman Rafale pilot Flt Lt Shivangi Singh was a part of the IAF tableau. The Republic Day parade that showcased India’s military might and cultural diversity had several firsts this time ranging from 750 mt hand painted scrolls and giant LED screens to a sharply reduced number of guests with the Defence Ministry restricting the number of invitees to just about 5,000 lest the event turn into a Covid super-spreader. For the second year in a row, there was no Chief Guest with President Ram Nath Kovind accepting the salute. Ashok Chakra, the nation’s highest peacetime gallantry award was given posthumously to Babu Ram, an assistant sub-inspector with Jammu and Kashmir Police for his bravery in an anti-terror operation in August, 2020 in which he killed three terrorists and saved a colleague before death. As a portion of the redeveloped Central Vista was opened to the public, among the special invitees were construction workers of the Republic Day arena, labourers who prepared the majestic tableau, auto-rickshaw drivers, sanitary staff and front line workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amrit-formation-involving-17-aircraft-marks-73rd-r-day-on-the-sky-1074949.html
26-01-2022||National||PM Modi to virtually host first India-Central Asia Summit on January 27||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host the first India-Central Asia Summit in a virtual format on Thursday during which the leaders are expected to deliberate on steps to take forward relations to newer heights as well as the evolving regional security situation. The virtual summit will see the participation of the five presidents -- Kazakhstan's Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, Uzbekistan's Shavkat Mirziyoyev, Emomali Rahmon of Tajikistan, Turkmenistan's Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow and Sadyr Japarov of Kyrgyz Republic. This will be the first engagement of its kind between India and the Central Asian countries at the level of leaders, the Ministry of External Affairs had said. The summit is symbolic of the importance attached by the leaders of India and the Central Asian countries to a comprehensive and enduring India-Central Asia partnership. The participation of the secretaries of National Security Councils of Central Asian countries in the Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan held in New Delhi in November last year outlined a common regional approach on Afghanistan. The summit is being held a day after Republic Day which saw no foreign head of state or government as the chief guest. The leaders of the five central Asian countries were likely to be the chief guest but the countrý saw a rise in Covid-19 cases which led to a curtailed Republic Day celebrations. The first India-Central Asia Summit, the MEA had said, is a reflection of the country's growing engagement with the Central Asian countries, which are a part of India's "extended neighbourhood". Modi had paid a visit to all Central Asian countries in 2015. Subsequently, there have been exchanges at high levels at bilateral and multilateral forums.  During this summit, the leaders are expected to discuss steps to take forward India-Central Asia relations to newer heights, the MEA had said.  They are also expected to exchange views on regional and international issues of interest, especially the evolving regional security situation.  The inception of the India-Central Asia Dialogue at Foreign Ministers' level, the third meeting of which was held in New Delhi from December 18-20, 2021, has provided an impetus to India-Central Asia relations.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-virtually-host-first-india-central-asia-summit-on-january-27-1074961.html
26-01-2022||National||Sites in India, Nepal awarded for doubling tiger population||India's Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) and Nepal's Bardia National Park have won this year's TX2 Award for doubling the population of wild tigers since 2010. Nepal's Khata Forest Conservation Area - which secures transboundary connectivity for tigers between Nepal and India - also won the award for Tiger Conservation Excellence. Congratulating the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve on the achievement, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav tweeted: "The award is a testimony to the dedication of field staff in protecting our tigers and policies of the government of India for tiger conservation." The awards were presented by the Conservation Assured Tiger Standards (CA|TS), Fauna and Flora International (FFI), Global Tiger Forum (GTF), IUCN's Integrated Tiger Habitat Conservation Programme (ITHCP), Panthera, UNDP, The Lion's Share, Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) and WWF. Celebrating the 10th anniversary of all 13 Tiger Range countries committed to double the global population of wild tigers by 2022, the award acknowledges the efforts by the state governments and the local communities, who have played one of the most important roles to turn a relatively new tiger reserve into one of the source populations of tigers in India. Tigers numbered perhaps 100,000 a century ago in India but dropped precipitously to as few as 3,200 in 2010. Their numbers have slowly recovered to approximately 3,900, based on estimates from tiger range countries compiled in 2016. The Nilgiri Biosphere Landscape that the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) is part of, is currently the home to the largest tiger population in the world. Sathyamangalam was declared a Tiger Reserve in 2013 and now has about 80 individuals in the area. This tiger reserve is an important link between the Nilgiris and Eastern Ghats landscape. It is connected to other well-established tiger habitats like Mudumalai Tiger reserve, Bandipur Tiger reserve and BR Hills tiger reserve. The adjoining areas like Erode forest division, Coimbatore forest division and Malai Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary are also emerging as important tiger habitats, creating a mosaic that allows the big cats to easily move in search of food and new territory, a release from the World Wide Fund India (WWF India) said. Secretary-General and CEO, WWF India, Ravi Singh said, "The TX2 Awards celebrate the remarkable contributions made by government bodies, NGOs, and local communities to strengthen tiger conservation. To honour a recently notified Tiger Reserve like Sathyamangalam with the award is a step forward to inspire others to work towards preserving this magnificent species and its habitats." In September this year, tiger range countries will convene at the second Global Tiger Summit in Vladivostok, Russia, to assess progress towards the ambitious TX2 goal - double the number of tigers in the wild - and identify tiger conservation priorities for the next 12 years. The Khata Forest Conservation Area in Nepal, the Khata corridor where community-based conservation efforts, including a network of 74 community forests covering 202 sq km, have secured safe passage for tigers between Bardia National Park in Nepal and Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary in India. Over the last five years, 46 individual tigers have been detected using the corridor with other iconic and threatened mammal species, including the Asian elephant and the greater one-horned rhino. Lead of WWF's Tigers Alive Initiative, Stuart Chapman said: "The commitments made in 2010 demonstrate what can be achieved through long term commitments to tiger conservation. The dedication of field teams, conservation partners and communities living with tigers are behind these extraordinary results." Sugoto Roy, Coordinator of the Integrated Tiger Habitat Programme, IUCN, said: "Successful tiger conservation involves continuous management and improvement of habitats at the landscape scale, rigorous monitoring of tigers and their prey, and working extensively with local communities. All of these criteria have been met with excellence, giving us these globally significant results." The TX2 goal is one of the most ambitious conservation goals ever set for a single species. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sites-in-india-nepal-awarded-for-doubling-tiger-population-1075007.html
26-01-2022||National||Don't allow Twitter to become a pawn: Rahul Gandhi's letter to CEO Parag Agrawal||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has written to Twitter complaining that his follower count has not increased since his account was temporarily suspended in August 2021 for a tweet about meeting the family members of a Dalit rape victim. In the letter that he wrote to Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal on December 27, Gandhi said that he found the matter perplexing and he believed that the “unwitting complicity” of Twitter was curbing free and fair speech in India. Gandhi said that since he raised the issue of the Dalit girl who died after she was raped, his average monthly follower count has “fallen to nearly zero”. “I am writing to you on behalf of more than a billion Indians to not allow Twitter to become a pawn in the destruction of the idea of India… You have an enormous responsibility to ensure that Twitter does not actively help in the growth of authoritarianism in India,” Gandhi wrote. He also sent along with the letter an analysis of his follower count – comparing it to the follower count of PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Congress leader Shashi Tharoor. Monthly analysis of the follower counts of the four leaders, and a weekly comparison from the week between May 3 to May 10, 2021 to November 22 to November 29, 2021, was part of the analysis. Congress has said that Gandhi gained anywhere from 220,000 to 640,000 new Twitter followers every month from January to July 2021. But since August 2021, there has been a dramatic fall in the number of new followers.   Gandhi said that in May, his account gained roughly 6,40,000 new followers every month, and an active base of 8,000 to 10,000 followers every day. “For example, in May 2021, my account gained roughly 6,40,000 new followers. This has been the case for several years until July 2021. Then something strange happened. Since August 2021, the average number of my new monthly Twitter followers has fallen to nearly zero. There is an inflection point after which my Twitter account has been paralysed,” Gandhi wrote. He added that the development coincided with him raising the issue of the Dalit rape victim and the three farm laws which led to unrest and protest by farmers. He also added that he has been informed by Twitter officials “discreetly” that they are under immense pressure from the Indian government. In the analysis, which Gandhi said was done by social media experts, Gandhi’s account gained 54,803 followers in August, 2021. In the same period, the analysis details, Modi gained 7,73,134 followers, Shah gained 2,85,059 followers, and Tharoor gained 23,939 followers. In September, October and November, the analysis states that Gandhi lost 132 followers and then gained 2,380 and 2,788 followers, respectively. The development was first reported by the Wall Street Journal. DH has seen a copy of both the letter and the accompanying analysis, but has not been able to verify the claim independently. A Twitter spokesperson said that the platform has a zero-tolerance approach to platform manipulation and spam. “We fight spam and malicious automation strategically and at scale with machine learning tools, and as part of those consistent and ongoing efforts to ensure a healthy service and credible accounts, follower counts can and do fluctuate. We remove millions of accounts each week for violating our policies on platform manipulation and spam,” the spokesperson said.  Twitter also said that they ask accounts to validate or confirm account details or complete a CAPTCHA test, and accounts that fail to do so within a specified period may be suspended or locked and their follower count will not be reflected. Congress leaders, on the other hand, said that they have written to Twitter several times before Gandhi sent a letter to Agrawal.   Srivatsa YB, who handles Gandhi’s digital communication, told WSJ that Twitter’s response was not explanatory or satisfactory. “The chronology of events does not corroborate Twitter’s claims,” he said. Rohan Gupta, chairman of the social media department, said that he fears that Twitter is falling prey to the pressures of the government. "We have raised issues with the social media accounts of Congress and other leaders as well. But there has been a standard reply; a look at the statistics of last three years will show us results," said Gupta. Congress said that it did not receive any correspondence from Twitter before August 2021 about anyone reporting against content on Gandhi’s handle. And in August 2021, after Gandhi’s account was blocked, it received three emails from Twitter.  On August 10, Gandhi received an email from Twitter which said that “Twitter has received a request from India regarding” the account. The email has a redacted letter written by BJP MLA Vijay Jolly on July 28, 2021, complaining about tweets on Gandhi’s handle on December 13, 2019, and on Aam Aadmi Party’s Uttar Pradesh handle October 7, 2020 which were defamatory of PM Modi and Jolly. Parts of the complaint in this letter were redacted. Gandhi was sent a second letter on August 11, which said, “Twitter has received official correspondence from a third-party regarding”. This letter referenced Jolly’s letter again, but carried no redacted material.  He then received a third letter on August 24, 2021, stating that “Twitter has received a request from Cyber Police Station, Crime Branch, CID, Mumbai” for content posted by the account which was in violation of the Information Technology Act 2000. The development comes weeks before polls to five states are to be held starting February 10. Due to the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission has curbed on-ground campaigning and parties are increasingly trying to woo voters online.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-allow-twitter-to-become-a-pawn-rahul-gandhis-letter-to-ceo-parag-agrawal-1075012.html
26-01-2022||National||Indians abroad celebrate 73rd Republic Day; greetings pour in from leaders across the world||Indians across the globe on Wednesday celebrated the 73rd Republic Day amid Covid-19 restrictions, as several world leaders, including British, Australian, Israeli and Bangladeshi Prime Ministers, extended their greetings on the occasion, highlighting their strong friendship with India. Charge d'affaires of the Indian Embassy in Beijing Dr Acquino Vimal unfurled the tricolour at the embassy premises and read President Ram Nath Kovind’s address which was followed by cultural events. The ceremony was restricted to only officials of the embassy in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the Chinese capital. This is the third time the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the Republic Day celebrations in Beijing. It was cancelled in 2020 due to a lockdown announced by China after the coronavirus broke out in Wuhan. In 2021, it was restricted to staff and their families in view of the prevailing infections. In Singapore, Acting High Commissioner Siddhartha Nath read the President's message to the Indian community through social media. Performance of students from Indian schools in Singapore was also shared through social media. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson extended greetings to the people of India, saying he is proud of the friendship shared by the two “diverse democracies” and looked forward to fortifying the strong bond over the next 75 years and beyond. He focussed his Republic Day message on the launch of free trade agreement (FTA) talks and the India-UK vaccine partnership. Anglo-Swedish biopharma major AstraZeneca is in a manufacturing tie-up with Serum Institute India (SII) for the production of Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine, known in India as Covishield. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison extended his greetings, also in Hindi, to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi. "Australia and India enjoy a wonderful friendship. While we celebrate #AustraliaDay today, I also extend my very best wishes to my good friend @narendramodi and all Indians on #RepublicDayIndia," Morrison tweeted. Israeli President Isaac Herzog and Prime Minister Naftali Bennett extended greetings to their Indian counterparts. "Happy 73rd Republic Day to my great friend Prime Minister @NarendraModi and the wonderful people of India. Warm greetings to you all on this special day! May India be blessed with continued peace and prosperity,” Bennett tweeted. The two countries are also celebrating 30 years of establishment of their diplomatic relations this week. They established diplomatic ties on January 29, 1992; though India recognised Israel much earlier on September 17, 1950. "What a terrific milestone to celebrate India's #RepublicDay 73 and the 30th anniversary of Israel-India ties in the same week! My warmest congratulations to President @rashtrapatibhvn (Ram Nath Kovind) and the great people of India," President Herzog tweeted. In Saudi Arabia, Ambassador Ausaf Sayeed unfurled the tricolour at the Embassy of India in Riyadh. He also read out the message of the President. The event was attended by members of Indian community based in the Gulf Kingdom. The celebration coincided with 75 years of establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Saudi Arabia. Nepal Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba, in his message to Modi, expressed confidence that the bilateral relations would continue to grow stronger. Deuba commended India's remarkable achievements in socio-economic development and impressive advancement in technologies and innovation, according to a statement issued by Nepal's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. President Bidya Devi Bhandari extended "best wishes for good health and happiness of the President of India as well as for the continued progress and prosperity of the people of India," according to the statement. Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra felicitated war widows and next of kins of deceased Gorkha soldiers by disbursing their dues of NRs. 6.35 crore and blankets. The embassy of India in Nepal is planning to inaugurate 75 development projects implemented with India’s assistance across the country this year, the Indian mission said in a press release. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said Dhaka is keen to work with India towards realising the shared vision of building a peaceful and prosperous region as she extended greetings to her Indian counterpart and the people of India on the Republic Day. Hasina said the unique ties of close friendship, cooperation and trust between the two countries have flourished and grown from strength to strength in recent years. "We look forward to working with India in the next fifty years and beyond, towards realising the shared vision of building a peaceful and prosperous region," she said. The High Commission of India in Dhaka celebrated the Republic Day at Chancery premises with Indians living in the Bangladeshi capital. High Commissioner Shri Vikram K Dioraiswami unfurled the national flag and read out the President’s address to the Nation at a ceremony following Covid-19 protocols. In his greetings, Bhutan Prime Minister Lotay Tshering said, "as the two nations stood firm and resolute in extending profound friendships through the contours of time, I have no doubt that we will continue to write many more stories of success and happiness together." "On this Republic Day of India, the people of Bhutan and I send our best wishes to the people of India. While you witness the majestic parades in celebration today, please know that the Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan rejoice with you in heart and spirit," he said in his message on Twitter. Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, in a Twitter message, wished Prime Minister Modi, the government and the people of India. "Wishing PM @narendramodi, the Government and People of #India a very happy 73rd Republic Day. May the relationship between our two nations continue to grow to mutually benefit our people so that our nations may prosper," Rajapaksa wrote. In Islamabad, Suresh Kumar, Chargé d'Affaires, unfurled the tricolour at the High Commission and read the President's message. This was followed by cultural programmes by Indian officials and their family members. In Washington, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said the partnership between India and the US is rooted in their shared responsibility to uphold democratic values. "We join India, the world's largest democracy, in honouring Republic Day, the day that marks the adoption of India's Constitution," she told reporters at her daily news conference on Tuesday. In a tweet, the US State Department's South and Central Asia Bureau said: "Happy 73rd Republic Day India! As millions of Indians celebrate their vibrant Constitution today, we are reminded of our nations' shared democratic values and the strength of the US-India strategic partnership." A friendly cricket match was played between India and Australia High Commission in Pretoria, South Africa as part of the celebrations. The High Commission to Brunei celebrated the day at the Chancery premises. Despite heavy torrential rains, more than 100 members of the Indian diaspora and friends of India attended the function. In New Zealand, High Commissioner Muktesh Pardeshi launched a handbook titled Exporting to New Zealand. The report has been prepared jointly by the High Commission to New Zealand and Duco Consultancy. On the eve of the 73rd Republic Day, the majestic Baths of Diocletian, dating back to the IV century in Rome, was illuminated with tricolour lighting. Chancery and India House were also illuminated and looked resplendent in tricolour at Atlanta. In South Korea, the Korean traditional musical instrument Gayageum performance was held by Gimhae City Gayageum Orchestra on the occasion. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-abroad-celebrate-73rd-republic-day-greetings-pour-in-from-leaders-across-the-world-1075024.html
26-01-2022||National Politics||Bhattacharya wants to be 'Azad not Ghulam': Jairam Ramesh||Soon after former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya declined the Padma award, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Tuesday took a veiled dig at party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad who was also conferred with the award. "Right thing to do. He wants to be Azad not Ghulam," Ramesh said on Twitter after Bhattacharya declined the Padma award. Veteran Congress leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad, who was part of the group of 23 which has been critical of the party leadership and has sought an organisational overhaul, has also been awarded the Padma Bhushan for his contribution to public affairs. After it was announced that Bhattacharya has been awarded the Padma Bhushan, the country's third-highest award, the veteran CPI(M) leader said he was rejecting it. "I know nothing about this award. No one has told me anything about it. If they have decided to offer Padma Bhushan to me, I refuse to accept it," he said in a statement. Official sources said the Union Home Ministry informed the wife of ailing Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee about the government's decision to give him Padma Bhushan before announcing his name and no one from his family objected to it. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhattacharya-wants-to-be-azad-not-ghulam-jairam-ramesh-1074717.html
26-01-2022||National Politics||Buddhadeb's wife informed of Padma award before announcement; no one from family objected||The Union Home Ministry informed the wife of ailing Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee about the government's decision to give him Padma Bhushan before announcing his name and no one from his family objected to it, official sources said Tuesday night, after the former chief minister of West Bengal refused the award. Soon after the veteran CPI(M) leader announced he has rejected the Modi government's decision to give him the country's third-highest civilian award, official sources said that a top official of the home ministry had called Bhattacharjee's home early Tuesday morning. The former chief minister's wife picked up the phone as he has been unwell and she was conveyed the central government's decision to name him as one of the Padma awardees this year. Bhattacharjee's wife told the top official that she would inform him about it. No one from Bhattacharjee's family got back to the home ministry about his unwillingness to accept the Padma award. The home ministry always calls up the prospective awardees about the decision to give the Padma awards before announcing the names. If anyone conveys any objection, he or she is not named, sources said. Since no one from the Bhattacharjee household got back to the home ministry throughout the day, his name was announced late in the evening as one of the Padma awardees, they said. In a statement, the former chief minister said, "I know nothing about this award. No one has told me anything about it. If they have decided to offer Padma Bhushan to me, I refuse to accept it." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/buddhadebs-wife-informed-of-padma-award-before-announcement-no-one-from-family-objected-1074718.html
26-01-2022||National Politics||DH Toon | When will we abide with the constitution?||The Centre decided to drop one of Mahatma Gandhi's favourite hymns "Abide With Me" from this year's Beating Retreat ceremony as playing more Indian tunes would be appropriate in view of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', which celebrates the 75th year of India's Independence, government sources said on Sunday. "Abide With Me", written by Scottish Anglican poet and hymnologist Henry Francis Lyte in 1847, had been part of the Beating Retreat ceremony since 1950.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-when-will-we-abide-with-the-constitution-1074724.html
26-01-2022||National Politics||Populist policies have deeply damaged democracy: Varun Gandhi||BJP’s Pilibhit MP Varun Gandhi has been vocal about farmers’ issues and has been writing regularly on issues like unemployment, MSMEs etc. Acting like a conscience keeper, he does not shy away from taking on his own party, as one saw while demanding action against Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra following the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. As the country is in an election mode with polls to five states, he spoke to DH’s Shemin Joy. We are in an election season now. What are the themes you think should be on the top? With the 75th anniversary of India's independence occurring this year, there should only be one theme to discuss – nation-building. We have fallen far short of the promise of those initial years and we have a lot of ground to cover. This requires us to do right by our farmers, to foster job creation for our youth, while keeping retail prices in check and helping our MSMEs grow. I also wish to see more citizens using their vote to reward or dissuade policy makers against their record. This is the only way to pursue a citizen revolution in the country. Until lawmakers are not rewarded or punished on their track record, as opposed to the grand narrative of the day, we will not be able to make a great leap. You have placed your wish-list. But are we seeing that on the ground or can we hope to see that in the coming days? The political ground has already shifted over the past year, with a focus on these key themes – unemployment, inflation, farmers’ agitation. Such themes are also bubbling up into our body politic and into party manifestos. The election campaigning five years ago had communal colour. Do you think this time will be different? What is your wish on this count? I think the upcoming election campaign is an important one where citizens will be able to take stock of issues like jobs, income, prices that matter to them on a daily basis. With aspirations growing, people expect the government to deliver on basic services, infrastructure and to take ownership of larger policy issues – for example farmer earnings, the lack of jobs. Such issues are coming to the fore after a long time. Other identity politics – for example identity ones with a focus on ethnicity, religion – takes centre-stage only when the government of the day, whether at state or the Centre, is unable to deliver on more important issues. Sadly, the media has also helped the government of the day reinforce this narrative. It remains sad that select policymakers continue to consider policies and view elections as one of discord instead of amity; pursuing the 80% instead of the 100%. Do we see populism overtaking prudent policy-making? Absolutely. It is very disheartening to see this trend that populist policies have been favoured over the past decade by policymakers of various political hues, at the Centre and in the states, and have been rewarded by voters. It is tragic and comical at times, where subsidies and gifts – for example, a TV here, a laptop there – are given almost always six months prior to the next election. This has deeply damaged our democracy and our elections, making voters see elections with a sense of entitlement. However, this is a tactic with diminishing returns, as citizens increasingly realise that one-time giveaways fail to make an impact on issues that matter to them on a daily basis. The hanker, now, is for our youth to get a job, instead of a cash payment in their bank account. People want a life that is meaningful and offers them respect; not one where they must be supplicants. You have been very vocal about farmers' issues. Will the farmers’ anger subside now? The farmer’s movement has only been postponed, it has not ended – India’s farmers remain the backbone of our society, providing an anchor for our food security and also the sons and daughters who enable our national security. Farmers have always had an impact on elections, whether in state or the Centre – however, for the first time, it is heartening to note that their daily struggles and inability to make an income is an issue that is drawing policy attention. The struggle will continue for many issues related to farmers – for example the legal guarantee on MSP, dismissal of cases filed against farmers during the agitation, compensation for farmers who have lost their lives in this struggle, resignation of those in positions of power who have harmed farmers – with select campaigns running (for example Vote ki Chot) during the ongoing election season. I am the only MP who has introduced a private member bill for an MSP law for our farmers. I hope we will continue to be able to hold our government to account on that. You have written several letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister. Have your concerns been addressed? Yes, it is true that many issues, dear to me and upon my insistence, have been taken up. However, there are other concerns like. employment, inflation, law and order, quality of education where I hope action will soon be taken, in favour of the weak and the downtrodden. Do you think the repeal of farm laws will be of help? I believe that the repeal of the farm laws is an initial, albeit helpful, step in our journey to recast the economic lot of our farmers. We have to work with them, helping to restructure our economic system so that it makes sense for them to continue to grow. It’s not easy being a farmer – it’s an unrewarding life, but also of honour and duty. As a nation, we should not forget that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/populist-policies-have-deeply-damaged-democracy-varun-gandhi-1074732.html
26-01-2022||National Politics||Ironic Congress doesn't need his services when nation recognises them: Sibal on Padma award to Azad||Padma Bhushan for senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad appears to have once again ignited a war within Congress.   Though not many have publicly joined the issue, Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal on Wednesday saw the irony in the Congress not seeking his services even when the nation recognises his contribution as Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh made a cryptic tweet on Narendra Modi government bestowing the third highest civilian award on the Congress leader, exposing the further widening chasm. There has been no statement from Congress or its former president Rahul Gandhi on Ghulam Nabi Azad. Azad has maintained a good relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and is at loggerheads with the Congress leadership since August 2020 after he and 22 others wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking clarity and transparent leadership after they felt that the party was not headed in the right direction.   Detractors, on the other hand, were pointing out to Marxist veteran Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee declining the Padma Bhushan and wondering why Azad did not take such a stand. Soon after the government announced the award for former Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Azad among others, there was chatter on social media about Azad jumping ship soon with some claiming that the leader from Jammu and Kashmir removed references to Congress from his profile, prompting an immediate denial. Some mischievous propoganda being circulated by some people to create confusion. Nothing has been removed or added to my twitter profile. The profile is as it was earlier. "Some mischievous propaganda is being circulated by some people to create confusion. Nothing has been removed or added to my twitter profile. The profile is as it was earlier" Azad tweeted. The choice of conferring the award to Azad, a former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister, and former West Bengal Chief Minister Bhattacharjee had created flutters in the Opposition circles even as the latter declined the award saying that he was never consulted while the CPI(M) noted that it was not the party's line to accept State honours. Ramesh posted a cryptic tweet by playing on Azad's name and referring to Bhattacharjee's denial late Tuesday night, "Right thing to do. He (Bhattacharjee) wants to be Azad (independent) not Ghulam (slave)." Ramesh had in August 2021 told DH that he had never seen Azad taking proactive steps for the Opposition like the present Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge did. On Wednesday, a number of G-23 leaders or change-seekers came out in Azad's support. Sibal was the most vocal as he wondered why the party was not using the senior leader's services. "...Congratulations bhaijan. Ironic that the Congress doesn’t need his services when the nation recognises his contributions to public life," Sibal tweeted. Ghulam Nabi Azad conferred Padam Bhushan Congratulations bhaijan Ironic that the Congress doesn’t need his services when the nation recognises his contributions to public life Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari tweeted, "I congratulate Azad on being conferred the Padma Bhushan for his public Service. It is a well deserved recognition." Another Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted, "Warm congratulations to Azad on his Padma Bhushan. It is good to be recognised for one's public service even by a government of the other side." Sharma tweeted, "heartiest congratulations to Ghulam Nabi-ji for well-deserved recognition of his lifelong enriching contribution to public service and Parliamentary democracy."  Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader Priyanka Chaturvedi, however, came out in support of Azad, saying, "Calling someone Azad for declining a national honour and Ghulam for accepting it, shows how shallow one’s thought is towards a national honour. This isn’t the first nor the last time that opposition leaders will be acknowledged for their work, please maintain that spirit and dignity."  Calling someone Azad for declining a national honour&Ghulam for accepting it,shows how shallow one’s thought is towards a national honour. This isn’t the first nor the last time that opposition leaders will be acknowledged for their work, please maintain that spirit&dignity There has been speculation that Azad may float a party or may even join the BJP. The rumours got more weight as he conducted a tour of Jammu and Kashmir in recent times. While Azad was removed from the Disciplinary Committee of Congress a couple of months ago, he was listed as a star campaigner for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections though he had not been listed among the star campaigners for West Bengal elections last year. Full list of Padma award recipients:  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ironic-congress-doesnt-need-his-services-when-nation-recognises-them-sibal-on-padma-award-to-azad-1074770.html
26-01-2022||National Politics||9 non-BJP states oppose Centre’s proposal on IAS officers’ deputation||As many as nine non-BJP ruled states, including Odisha, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand, have so far joined the clamour against the Centre’s proposal giving itself an overriding power while deciding on central deputation of IAS officers, saying they were against the federal structural of the country, officials said on Wednesday. The central government, on the other hand, has defended the proposal saying that the states are not sparing sufficient number of IAS officers for deputation which is affecting the functioning of the administration at the Centre. Sources in the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said a trend of decreasing representation of IAS officers, up to the Joint Secretary-level at the Centre, has been noticed as most of the states are not meeting their Central Deputation Reserve (CDR) obligations and the number of officers, sponsored by them to serve at the Centre are much lesser. Officers of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) are allocated a cadre, which is a state/states or states and Union territories. Every cadre is allowed a CDR to ensure that officers have the opportunity to work on central deputation, which adds to their experience. The DoPT has recently proposed changes in the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, that will take away the power of states to override the Centre’s request for seeking officers on central deputation. Odisha, the latest to join the list of the opposing states, said the move once come into force will affect the administration of states and have an impact on the implementation of various development projects. Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Rajasthan have also raised their voices against the amendments. Describing the proposed amendments as “draconian” and intended to promote unilateralism, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to "bury" the proposals. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, first to air her voice against the move, has urged Modi to withdraw the proposal as it would "create a fear psychosis among officers and impact their performance". Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin has also asked the prime minister to drop the move that “strikes at the very root” of the nation's federal polity and states autonomy. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has said the proposed changes will violate the constitutional jurisdiction prescribed for the central and state governments, and reduce the spirit of working fearlessly and faithfully by the officers. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, in his opposition, said the proposed amendments are against the spirit of federalism and if implemented may lead to "collapse" of administrative system of states. Information and Broadcasting Secretary Apurva Chandra, an IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre, had on Friday said working with both the Centre and state governments broadens the perspective of the officers. Citing shortage, the DoPT has been writing to the states seeking officers on central deputation. It had in June last year asked all state governments to nominate more officers for central deputation at the level of deputy secretary, director and joint secretary. Officers of the level of deputy secretary/director and above are usually appointed in central government ministries/departments (that is, on central deputation) under the Central Staffing Scheme (CSS). According to DoPT sources, the number of IAS officers on CDR has gone down from 309 in 2011 to 223 as on date. The non-availability of sufficient number of officers at the Centre is affecting the functioning of the central government since the Centre needs the services of these officers to obtain fresh inputs in policy formulation and programme implementation, the sources said. Further, the movement of officers from state to Centre and vice versa is mutually beneficial to both as it enables the professional growth of officers besides contributing towards better coordination with the states for effective programme implementation, they said. The sources further said the reason quoted by most of the state cadres for not sponsoring the number of officers as per prescribed CDR is the shortage of officers in the cadre. Considering the same and the fact that shortage of officers in the cadres, if any, has to be shared mutually between the Centre and the states, they said. According to DoPT’s proposal, sent to chief secretaries of all state governments on January 12, “in specific situations where services of cadre officer(s) are required by the central government in public interest, the central government may, seek the services of such officer(s) for posting under the central government…and the state government concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government within the specified time”. It further states that “wherever the state government concerned does not give effect to the decision of the central government within the specified time, the officer(s) shall stand relieved from cadre from the date as may be specified by the central government”. Existing rules allowed mutual consultation for the officers’ central deputation. The DoPT had written to chief secretaries of all state governments on December 20, 2021, after which reminders were sent on December 27, 2021 and January 6 and January 12. The January 12 letter to states specifically mentions the Centre’s power to override the states’ disagreement on sending the officers on deputation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/9-non-bjp-states-oppose-centre-s-proposal-on-ias-officers-deputation-1074815.html
26-01-2022||National Politics||Congress-yukt BJP: Shashi Tharoor's dig after RPN Singh switches sides||A day after RPN Singh joined the BJP, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday took a dig at the saffron party with rhyming sentences in Hindi and the phrase "Congress-yukt BJP". Just weeks ahead of Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Singh quit the Congress party on Tuesday and joined the BJP, in a setback for the grand old party. A Union minister in the UPA-II government, the 57-year-old leader joined the BJP at the party headquarters here, evoking a sharp reaction from Congress leaders, including its spokesperson Supriya Shrinate, who called him a "coward". On Wednesday, Tharoor took to Twitter to say in Hindi, "'Chorh kar ja rahe hain ghar apna, shayad unke kuch aur sapne hain, ab udhar bhi sab apna sa hai, ab udhar bhi toh sabhi apne hain. (Congress-yukt BJP)'" The tweet roughly translates to: "He is leaving his home, maybe he has other dreams; now there also it feels homely, there also are his own people". Tharoor's "Congress-yukt BJP" jibe is a wordplay on the BJP's slogan of 'Congress-mukt Bharat' (Congress-free India). Responding to Tharoor, national spokesperson of the Congress Pawan Khera said in a tweet in Hindi: "One who couldn't be true to his ideology, cannot be our own." Borrowing the essence of the 'Bhagwad Gita', Khera said, "Have to defeat those who divide people in 80-20, O Arjun; don't look for your people there, don't look for dreams there." After joining the BJP, Singh said the Congress is not the same party where he worked for 32 years and that he wants to contribute to the nation's development while reposing faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-yukt-bjp-shashi-tharoors-dig-after-rpn-singh-switches-sides-1074882.html
26-01-2022||National Politics||Priyanka Chaturvedi, Sushmita Deb finds fault with Jairam's Azad criticism||Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi and Trinamool Congress' Sushmita Dev, both former Congress leaders, on Wednesday found fault with senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh's criticism of Ghulam Nabi Azad for accepting the Padma Bhushan. Ramesh had on Tuesday night posted a cryptic tweet after Marxist veteran Buddhadeb Bhattacherjee declined Padma Bhushan, "Right thing to do. He (Bhattacharjee) wants to be Azad (independent) not Ghulam (slave)." Congress' Rajya Sabha Chief Whip did not mention Azad by name but the wordplay did not miss any eyes. However, Sena's Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader Chaturvedi, who was a former Congress spokesperson, responded saying it showed how one's thought is shallow. Chaturvedi resigned from Congress in the midst of Lok Sabha elections in 2019 and joined Shiv Sena, which later nominated her to Rajya Sabha. "Calling someone Azad for declining a national honour&Ghulam for accepting it, shows how shallow one’s thought is towards a national honour. This isn’t the first nor the last time that opposition leaders will be acknowledged for their work, please maintain that spirit and dignity," she tweeted. Deb, who was former Mahila Congress chief, tweeted, "Padma Bhushan for Tarun Gogoi and Bharat Ratna for Pranab Mukherjee -- does it make them Ghulams?" She joined Trinamool Congress last year and was nominated to Rajya Sabha later. Narendra Modi government had conferred Bharat Ratna on Mukherjee in 2019 while Gogoi was chosen for Padma Bhushan last year. The Modi government had in 2017 conferred Padma Vibhushan on NCP chief Sharad Pawar. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-chaturvedi-sushmita-deb-finds-fault-with-jairams-azad-criticism-1074932.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||8-year-old girl raped in Delhi's Shastri Park, 2 juveniles apprehended||An eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two minors in northeast Delhi's Shastri Park area, police said on Tuesday. A senior police officer said the condition of the survivor is stable and she has been shifted to the general ward of the hospital where she is undergoing treatment. Earlier in the day, Delhi Commission for Women Chairperson Swati Maliwal had said the victim was battling for life due to critical injuries. Police said they have nabbed two juveniles, aged 10-12, in connection with the incident. According to them, the victim was playing outside her house at around 2 pm on Monday when she was lured by one of the boys who lives in the same locality. He along with his friend then raped the girl. As she returned home at around 4:30 pm, she narrated her ordeal to her mother who brought her to the police station, a police officer said. The officer said a case was registered under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 376 AB (sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code as well as relevant sections of the POCSO Act. Police said one of accused stays with his relatives as his father is not alive and mother lives in Bihar. The girl's father is a street vendor. In a statement issued earlier in the day, Maliwal had said that the girl was "brutally raped" and in "unimaginable pain" as she was battling for her life due to severe damage caused to her private parts. "The people gang-raping an eight-year-old are not humans! The strongest punishment needs to be given to the guilty," Maliwal had said. "I have issued a notice to the Delhi Police giving them 48 hours to produce a detailed action taken report in the matter along with complete details of the FIR and accused(s) arrested," she said. The national capital had reported a brutal incident of gangrape in 2012. A 23-year-old paramedic student, referred to as Nirbhaya, had been gang-raped and brutally assaulted on the intervening night of December 16-17 inside a moving bus in south Delhi by six people before being thrown out on the road. According to Delhi Police, 1,725 rape cases were reported in Delhi till October 31 last year while 1,699 such cases were registered in 2020. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-year-old-girl-raped-in-delhis-shastri-park-2-juveniles-apprehended-1074678.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Rajpath brims with patriotic fervour as India celebrates Republic Day||The teeth-chattering cold on Wednesday morning failed to dampen the spirits of the people coming to witness the Republic Day parade at the majestic Rajpath, here. People started arriving at the Rajpath as early as 5 am, even as the parade begins at 10.30 am However, this year the rush compared to previous years was less, possibly owing to the fear of the latest Omicron variant of novel coronavirus. Notably this is the second time India is celebrating the Republic Day in a subdued manner. Still almost every seat for the visitors at the Rajpath was occupied. It may be also mentioned that the seating arrangement was adhering to the Covid-induced protocol of keeping distance. The security personnel were even checking the Covid vaccination certificates at the entrance of the Rajpath area. People, who were standing in the queues, could be heard singing and chanting patriotic songs and slogans. Amid chilly weather in the morning, the slogans "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" and "Vande Matram" injected the heat of patriotism in the veins of the people. The parade was yet to start at the time of filing of this report. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajpath-brims-with-patriotic-fervour-as-india-celebrates-republic-day-1074761.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||73rd Republic Day: Scrolls depicting valour of freedom struggle heroes displayed along Rajpath||Ten huge scrolls depicting the valour and bravery of unsung heroes of freedom struggle were displayed along the Rajpath during the 73rd Republic Day parade. The scrolls, each of 75 metres in length and 15 ft in height, were prepared during the ‘Kala Kumbh’ event jointly organised by ministries of defence and culture. The scrolls were painted in two phases - at Bhubaneswar and Chandigarh - by over 600 renowned artists and young aspirants from across the country. Inspiration for the scrolls was drawn from the unsung heroes of the freedom struggle, showcasing the rich cultural heritage of indigenous and contemporary visual art practices. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/73rd-republic-day-scrolls-depicting-valour-of-freedom-struggle-heroes-displayed-along-rajpath-1074763.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Awarded for taking varsity to greater heights, says Jamia VC Najma Akhtar on Padma Shri award||Jamia Millia Islamia Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar said the Padma Shri award was a recognition of her work to take the university to greater heights in the past year, during which the varsity received A++ grade by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. Akhtar was appointed as the vice-chancellor (VC) in April 2019, the same year which saw protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December. Jamia Millia Islamia had become the epicentre of anti-CAA protests after police barged into the campus and allegedly attacked students studying inside the library on December 15, 2019. "It was an unhappy situation across the country. It was not my fault (what happened at that time). I did what was expected from me. Not many others might have done what I did. I had to take care of my students at that time and that is what I did," she told PTI after the award was announced. Akhtar holds the distinction of being the first woman VC of the university, and probably also the first VC of any central university in the country, paving the way for other women to be appointed in leadership roles. "After several years of independence, no government showed confidence in a woman. It was for the first time that the current government chose a woman. I had to show that they were right and justify my appointment," she said. Akhtar has been awarded the Padma Shri in the field of Literature and Education. She thanked President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government for recognising her work. Talking about the honour, she said the award gives her more encouragement to perform. "I was not aiming to get it. In the last one year, the university has been achieving great heights. The VC is given the responsibility as well as the blame. I know people are recognising my work. I am obliged that the prime minister and the president are recognising my work. I am extremely grateful. Everyone puts in hard work, but not everyone gets recognition," she said. Talking about the university's performance in terms of rankings, she said along with her team, she tried her level best to improve the performance of the university. "I was entrusted with an important responsibility by the government to head Jamia Millia Islamia. I tried my level best with my team to improve the performance of the university and recent achievements like the A++ accreditation by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), improvement in National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) and other international rankings can be seen as a result of that work," she said. The university has battled three waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, with several faculty members contracting the virus. "We did a lot of work during Covid-19 not only in the university, but also for the whole community that is around the university and even for south Delhi," she said. The VC said, in a statement, that the award is an important achievement for not only herself, but for every individual associated with the university, especially female students.  "The responsibility has increased now and I will try my level best to keep up to their expectations," she said. The Jamia Millia Islamia, in a tweet, called Akhtar''s achievement a proud moment for the university. "It is a matter of great pride for the @jmiu_official that Vice Chancellor Prof.Najma Akhtar has been selected for #PadmaShri Award for her distinguished services in the field of literature and education," the university tweeted. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/awarded-for-taking-varsity-to-greater-heights-says-jamia-vc-najma-akhtar-on-padma-shri-award-1074785.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Braving sub-zero mercury, Republic Day celebrated in Himachal||Amid sub-zero temperatures following days of widespread snow and rains, the 73rd Republic Day was celebrated across Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday with a grand parade. Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar unfurled the national flag at the historic Ridge in the state capital where Chief Minister Jairam Thakur, his cabinet colleagues and government functionaries were among those present. In snow-marooned Keylong, headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti, and Rekong Peo in Kinnaur district, people took part in the flag-unfurling ceremonies and also witnessed the march past by the security personnel as well as cultural programmes staged by children. In Keylong and Rekong Peo, Cabinet ministers Ram Lal Markanda and Rakesh Pathania, respectively, took the salute. In Shimla, the governor took the salute at an impressive parade by contingents of the police, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Home Guards, Army, NCC and Ex-Servicemen. Braving temperatures below zero, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel commemorated Republic Day at 16,000 feet high in the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/braving-sub-zero-mercury-republic-day-celebrated-in-himachal-1074788.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Republic Day march past begins with Param Vir Chakra, Ashok Chakra gallantry award winners||The march past on Republic Day on Wednesday began with Param Vir Chakra and Ashok Chakra gallantry award winners following the parade commander in their jeeps. Retired Subedar Major Yogender Singh Yadav, who won India's highest wartime gallantry award Param Vir Chakra for showing exemplary bravery during the 1999 Kargil war, was in the first of the three jeeps. Yadav was conferred the rank of Honorary Captain on Independence Day last year. Subedar Sanjay Kumar, who also won the Param Vir Chakra for showing exceptional bravery during the 1999 Kargil war, was in the second jeep. Colonel D Sreeram Kumar -- who won India's highest peacetime gallantry award Ashok Chakra for showing exceptional bravery during an anti-terrorist operation in Imphal on October 23, 2008 -- was in the third jeep. All three jeeps -- each with an award winner -- drove parallel during the parade. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-march-past-begins-with-param-vir-chakra-ashok-chakra-gallantry-award-winners-1074789.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||R-Day parade: Swachhagrah, frontline, construction workers, auto drivers among special guests||Swachhagrah, frontline workers, auto-rickshaw drivers, construction workers and labourers who prepared the majestic tableaus were among special guests invited this year to the Republic Day parade. The number of people allowed to attend the parade was curtailed to approximately 5,000-8,000 due to the Covid-19 situation, with seats reserved for construction workers, frontline health workers and others. Surya, a sanitation worker, said the experience of seeing the parade from such close quarters has been surreal. "I feel so special and honoured that I was invited to the event. I never thought that I would be treated with so much respect," she said. Surya said the favourite part of the parade was the national anthem was played. "It gave me goosebumps," she said. Ramu Singh, a construction worker, said he always used to tell his children how he has a role in building this city. "For the first time, I felt my work was recognised and appreciated," he said. Among special guests were those who made an exemplary contribution towards the society during the time of Covid like the auto-rickshaw drivers who help one commute every day, construction workers of Republic Day arena who help enjoy the serenity at Rajpath and also the labourers who prepared the majestic tableaus to make the Republic day parade a grand event. Hundred "safaimitras" of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) were among the special invitees to watch the Republic Day Parade at Rajpath. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/r-day-parade-swachhagrah-frontline-construction-workers-auto-drivers-among-special-guests-1074790.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh's Republic Day tableau depicts ghats, Kashi Vishwanath Dham||The religious centre of Varanasi, with the recently inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Dham, was the centrepiece of Uttar Pradesh's tableau in the 73rd Republic Day Parade on Rajpath. The first phase of the mega project  — expected to boost tourism in the holy town — was dedicated to the people by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 13 last year. The Uttar Pradesh float, in its centre, depicts a model of the ancient Kashi Vishwanath temple, the structures of which are said to have been built by Holkar Queen Ahilyabai Holkar around 1780. As the tableau rolled down Rajpath during the ceremonial parade, the accompanying song played with it also extolled the new corridor and how it had provided a direct link of the temple with the river Ganga for devotees. The temple premises have undergone a massive overhaul in the past two years as part of the mega Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project, whose foundation stone was laid by Modi on March 8, 2019. It connects the main temple with Lalita Ghat via a corridor, and grand gateways and ornamental arches have been built in heritage architecture style in four directions, facing the ancient temple at its core. Three of the ornamental gateways have been depicted on the side of the tableau. On one side, the famous ghats of Benares on Ganga, a key defining visual symbol of the city's spirituality, along with priests and other people offering prayers, form part of the display. A total of 23 buildings were inaugurated mid-December in the first phase of the project. These will provide a variety of facilities to pilgrims, including 'yatri suvidha kendras', tourist facilitation centre, 'vedic kendra', 'mumukshu bhavan', 'bhogshala', city museum, viewing gallery and food court, among others. The scale of the project was such it is now spread across five lakh square feet, whereas the earlier premises were limited to just around 3,000 square feet. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the work on the project was completed on schedule, the PMO had earlier said on the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project. In the front of the tableau were the state's achievements through skill development and employment via 'One District One Product (ODOP)' initiative, which is based on the new micro, small and medium enterprise policy and industrial development policy of the state government. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradeshs-republic-day-tableau-depicts-ghats-kashi-vishwanath-dham-1074794.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||R-Day parade: Navy's tableau depicts 1946 uprising; Woman officer leads marching contingent||The Indian Navy's tableau at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday depicted the 1946 naval uprising, which contributed to the country's Independence movement, and its marching contingent was led by a woman officer. The uprising was started by the Royal Indian Navy's sailors of 'Talwar' ship on February 18, 1946, and it then spread to 78 ships. The tableau on Tuesday showed the navy's theme of 'Combat Ready, Credible and Cohesive'. The naval contingent comprised 96 men, three platoon commanders and one contingent commander. It was led by Lieutenant Commander Aanchal Sharma, who is an observer officer posted at the Indian Naval Air Squadron (INAS) 314. Sharma, who was commissioned in June 2016, had on January 22 said that the enthusiasm and energy of the contingent is unparalleled and it is indeed an honour to be leading it at Republic Day parade. As the nation is celebrating 75 years of Independence as 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav', the navy's contribution to the Indian freedom struggle had a special mention in the tableau. The forward part of the tableau depicted the naval uprising while the rear section of the tableau illustrated the 'Make in India' initiatives of the Indian Navy, particularly for the period 1983 to 2021. The model of indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant with Light Combat Aircraft in the air took the centre stage. This model was flanked by models of the indigenous missile corvette Kora, destroyer Visakhapatnam, frigate Shivalik on left and P-75 submarine Kalvari, frigate Godavari and destroyer Delhi on the right. Frames on the lower section of the trailer depicted indigenous construction of naval platforms. At the parade, the 72-men band of the Indian Navy was led by Vincent Johnson, Master Chief Petty Officer Musician and Hon Sub Lieutenant. The naval brass band played the Indian Navy's song 'Jai Bharati'. Johnson led the naval band as a drum major. This was the 18th time that he was participating in the Republic Day parade. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/r-day-parade-navys-tableau-depicts-1946-uprising-woman-officer-leads-marching-contingent-1074795.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Republic Day: Internet services on mobile phones suspended in Kashmir||Internet services on mobile devices were suspended in Kashmir on Wednesday as a precautionary measure for ensuring smooth passage of Republic Day celebrations in the Valley, officials said. However, mobile phone services and internet on fixed lines remained unaffected. "The mobile internet telephone services have been temporarily suspended in the valley for ensuring peaceful Republic Day celebrations," the officials said. Suspension of mobile phone and internet services on Republic Day and  Independence Day have been part of the security drill in the Valley since 2005 when terrorists used a mobile phone to trigger an IED blast near the venue of Independence Day celebrations. The services are usually restored in the afternoon following culmination of official functions across the Valley.  Republic Day celebrations were held amidst tight security arrangements in Srinagar City and elsewhere in the Valley.  Officials said here were no report of any untoward incident from anywhere in Kashmir. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-internet-services-on-mobile-phones-suspended-in-kashmir-1074796.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Security agencies expand ops beyond physical encounters in Kashmir||Despite elimination of more than 400 militants in the last two years in Kashmir, the infrastructure of militancy still remains intact forcing security agencies to expand their operations beyond physical encounters. Besides physical encounters with militants, the focus of security agencies has shifted to tackle “white collar terrorists.” In more than two years, the crackdown by the J&K Police has led to the arrest of nearly 2,000 over ground workers (OGWs) of militants. The police categorise “anybody who supports militants” as an OGW. A person providing a safe house, passage, information or acting as a messenger for suspected militants automatically comes under the radar of the police as an OGW. Official figures reveal that nearly 200 “terror modules” were busted across J&K in 2020 and 2021 while 35 terror hideouts were dismantled last year. The number of accused detained under stringent UAPA increased from 437 in 2019 to 557 in 2020 before coming down to 500 in 2021. The number of persons booked under these cases over the last three years is over 2,700 with more than half of them still in custody. Sources said the people booked under these cases are active terrorists, OGWs, stone-pelters and other terror sympathisers. “The crackdown has yielded positive results when it comes to stone-pelting incidents which had emerged as a huge problem from 2008 to 2019. The stone-pelting has come down drastically as most of the networks who were organising it have been dismantled,” they said. A senior police officer, involved in counter-insurgency operations, said that an effective strategy has been put in place to dismantle the entire militancy structure. “White collar terrorist operatives pose as professionals in order to entrap youth and recruit them into terrorist ranks. We have to nip the evil in the bud,” he said. “This can only be done through effective prosecution of the entire network through their linkages, whether logistic, funds or otherwise,” the officer added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-agencies-expand-ops-beyond-physical-encounters-in-kashmir-1074800.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab tableau prominently depicts martyrs Bhagat Singh, Udham Singh, Lala Lajpat Rai||Martyrs and independence movement was the theme of the poll-bound Punjab tableau during the Republic Day parade on Wednesday, which prominently featured Bhagat Singh and Udham Singh, both martyrs of freedom movement from the state. The very front of the tableau depicted the life size replica of the martyr Bhagat Singh raising his hand in protest against the British rule accompanied by his companions Rajguru and Sukhdev. All three were hanged to death together during the British rule. The center part of the tableau depicted the scene of another Punjab based freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai protesting against the Simon commission and getting injured. The tableau also featured the large size portrait of Udham Singh, who had avenged the Jallianwala Bagh massacre by shooting Michael O'Dwyer. While the tableau's rear portion showcased the "Jang-e-Azadi Memorial" of Kartarpur in Punjab.  During the Republic Day parade states showcase their culture, contribution to the country and other key features through tableau.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-tableau-prominently-depicts-martyrs-bhagat-singh-udham-singh-lala-lajpat-rai-1074811.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Gujarat depicts British massacre of tribals in Republic Day tableau||A century-old, long-forgotten uprising in Bhil dominated Sabarkantha that was quelled by the British after the horrific massacre of 1,200 tribals was showcased by Gujarat in the Republic Day parade on Wednesday. The tableau of the Gujarat government depicted scenes of the congregation of tribals in Pal-Dadhvaav villages to protest against high taxation (lagaan) and forced labour imposed by the British and the subsequent indiscriminate firing by the British Army. The horrific incident had taken place on March 7, 1922, just three years after the Jallianwalla Bagh massacre, but had gone into oblivion. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his tenure as the chief minister of Gujarat, had put the incident back into the spotlight, a Gujarat government statement said. Modi, as the chief minister Gujarat, built a memorial to Motilal Tejawat, the leader of the tribal uprising, at the site of the massacre in Sabarkantha. On the fateful day, when Tejawat was addressing a large number of tribals who had gathered to protest against the land revenue system, Major H G Saturn of the Mewad Bhil Corps opened unprovoked fire on the protestors, killing 1,200 innocent tribals. The front part of the tableau showcased statues of tribal freedom fighters carrying torches as symbols of revolution and two horses on either sides showcasing tribal rituals. The two wells named Dhekhadiya and Dudhiya, said to be the graveyards of the martyrs, were part of the tableau. Along with the tableau, 10 tribal artists dressed in their traditional costumes also performed the Ger dance and sang a song describing the incident. Songs describing the bravery of the tribals of Pal-Dadhvaav are still sung in the region on auspicious occasions and hail Tejawat. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gujarat-depicts-british-massacre-of-tribals-in-republic-day-tableau-1074826.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Department of Post tableau showcases modern face of India Post, women empowerment||The Department of Post's tableau at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday displayed the robust outreach and the modern face of India Post as well as all-women post offices to showcase the steps taken towards gender equality. In its tableau, the department also displayed 'Divyang' friendly post offices. The front of the tableau featured a 'Post Woman', equipped with a digital device and a postman's bag, showcasing a perfect blend of technology and tradition with the image of a 'Harkara' (foot Dak messenger) as side relief. The two images were set in the foreground of the ubiquitous red-letter box. The middle part of the tableau featured the 'Floating Post Office' of Srinagar with girl child highlighting the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojna, a scheme under the "Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao" campaign of the Narendra Modi government. The all-women post office showcased opportunities provided to women employees to serve shoulder-to-shoulder with men. At the rear of the tableau was displayed Kolkata GPO, the oldest general post office at one of the iconic heritage buildings of India and a proud witness to the journey of India Post. Adorning the tableau, there was a collage of stamps digitally printed on 'khadi', pertaining to the country's freedom struggle. The Department of Post stands as a model employer of women, besides rendering financial inclusion services to women. Almost 50 per cent of account holders of the India Post payments bank, as well as the post office savings bank, are women. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/department-of-post-tableau-showcases-modern-face-of-india-post-women-empowerment-1074843.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Aviation ministry's tableau showcases impact of regional air connectivity scheme Udan||The Aviation Ministry's tableau at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday showcased its regional air connectivity scheme Udan and its impact across the country. Under the UDAN scheme, financial incentives from the Centre, state governments and airport operators are extended to selected airlines to encourage operations from unserved and underserved airports and to keep airfares affordable. The front part of the aircraft-shaped tableau showcased women pilots depicting women power in India's aviation -- India has amongst the highest number of female pilots globally. The rear portion showed Buddhism symbols and the UDAN motto - Sab Uden, Sab Juden. The middle portion focused on the Buddha circuit, featuring the Buddha statue in Gaya where he attained enlightenment, the Dhamekh Stupa, Sarnath where he delivered his first sermon (Dharmachakra Parivartan) and the Mahaparinirvana Stupa, Kushinagar, where he attained Mahaparinirvana. Both sides of the section depicted heritage sites — Humayun tomb in the north, Konark sun temple in east, Hampi temple chariot in south and Ajanta caves in west -- connected through air services. In October last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Kushinagar international airport. Various airlines operate domestic Udan flights to Kushinagar currently. A total of 403 Udan routes connect 65 underserved or unserved airports, including heliports and water aerodromes, and over 80 lakh people have benefited from it in seven years. Twenty-five tableaux of various states, departments and armed forces were part of this year's Republic Day parade. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aviation-ministrys-tableau-showcases-impact-of-regional-air-connectivity-scheme-udan-1074849.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Amid chill, tight security, Republic Day celebrated in Jammu and Kashmir||Amid bone chilling cold and tight security arrangements, 73rd Republic Day celebrations were celebrated in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. Internet services on mobile devices were suspended in Kashmir as a ‘precautionary measure’ in the morning for ensuring smooth passage of Republic Day celebrations, officials said. However, the services were restored as the functions ended. J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who presided over the main Republic Day function in Jammu said that the Union Territory was on the path of everlasting peace, progress and development “but some people continue to instigate people as they aren’t happy with development.” “Under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendera Modi, J&K is on the path of peace, progress and development. All efforts are being made to take J&K to new heights and make it at par with any other State of India,” Sinha said, after unfurling the tricolour. Without mentioning any names, the L-G said some people were not happy with the pace of development in J&K and they continue to instigate people. “I urge the youth of J&K to join the process of development and shape their future accordingly,” he said. Sinha said that in February, they were expecting a Rs 25,000 crore investment boost in J&K. “The government has ensured e-governance, corruption free governance, and a transparent system. No work is being carried out without a proper tendering process,” he said. In Srinagar, RR Bhatnagar, Advisor to the L-G, presided over the Republic Day function which was held at Sher-e-Kashmir Cricket Stadium at high security Sonawar area of the city. In his speech after unfurling the tricolour, Bhatnagar lauded the role played by health care workers and other allied personnel in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. He also praised the security forces for maintaining law and order and battling subversive elements in Kashmir. The Republic Day celebrations passed off peacefully everywhere in Kashmir as stringent security arrangements were put in place to foil any nefarious plots. Meanwhile, like last Independence-Day, there was huge demand for tricolours in the market with employees hoisting national flags in offices. From 1989 to 2018, separatists used to call for a shutdown while militants would warn officials from participating in Independence Day or Republic Day functions in Srinagar and other parts of the Valley. These functions were generally limited to district headquarters, with the main functions held in Srinagar and Jammu cities. However, there has been a change since 2019 with employees and civilians openly participating in Independence and Republic Day functions across Kashmir. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-chill-tight-security-republic-day-celebrated-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1074854.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Bomb scare in MP with note naming Yogi Adityanath||A box made of tin attached to a timer along with a note left on a flyover on the National Highway connecting Rewa district in Madhya Pradesh with Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh kept the police on their toes on Wednesday. The handwritten note mentioning a few names, including that of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said the box is fitted with explosives, thus creating panic among the local people. However, the police later found that the box had a timer and wires attached to it, but there were no explosives inside. It all started after a passerby noticed the box on the flyover, which falls under the Mangawan police station, 30 km from district headquarters Rewa, and informed the local police. On reaching the spot, the police found that the note attached to the box mentioned it as a bomb, following which the district police headquarters in Rewa was alerted. Suspecting it to be a terror attack attempt on the occasion of Republic Day, a team of district police led by Additional Superintendent of Police, Shiv Kumar Verma, reached the spot along with the bomb disposal squad. By the time the bomb squad arrived and inspected the object, security was tightened in and around the area, and the traffic on the highway was also halted temporarily. "The box was fitted with multiple wires and a clock timer. A case has been registered in the matter and further investigation is underway," Verma told IANS. The officer also said that it wasn't an explosive device. "A high-level meeting has been called by the SP (Rewa), Naveen Bhaseen, on this matter," he said. The district police are trying to find out the real purpose behind the bomb scare. "It has nothing to do with the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. We are investigating the matter from all angles," Verma said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bomb-scare-in-mp-with-note-naming-yogi-adityanath-1074881.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi govt to recommend reopening of schools in DDMA meeting on Thursday: Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government will recommend the reopening of schools in the national capital in the DDMA meeting as it has now become necessary to prevent further damage to the social and emotional well-being of children, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. Asserting that online education can never replace offline education, Sisodia said the government had closed schools when it was not safe for children, but excessive caution is now harming students. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has called a meeting on Thursday to deliberate on easing the curbs in the national capital in view of the improved situation of Covid-19. The issue of reopening schools is also on the agenda. "In the past two years, school children's lives have been confined to their rooms. Instead of going to schools and spending time in playgrounds, all their activities now take place only on mobile phones. "The pandemic-induced school closures have not only affected their studies but also their mental health. During Covid, our priority was children's safety. But since various researches have now found that Covid is not so harmful for kids, it is important to reopen the schools, as now is the time for exams and related preparations," Sisodia said. Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said that schools are being reopened in several countries and even many Indian states. "On this basis, the Delhi Government will recommend reopening of schools in the DDMA meeting scheduled on January 27," he said. "While the Covid cases and positivity rate are on the decline in Delhi, it would not be suitable to keep children away from schools. With children returning to schools, not only will the schools witness a buzz but it will also indicate lives coming back on track," he said. Earlier today, a delegation of parents lead by Chandrakant Lahariya, an epidemiologist and public policy specialist, met Sisodia and submitted a memorandum signed by over 1,600 parents demanding that the schools be reopened. "Why we are the last among major countries to decide on this? I agree with their demands. A generation of children will be left behind if we do not open our schools now," added Sisodia. Lahariya pointed out that according to AIIMS, ICMR, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, NITI Aayog, WHO and several other organisations, the risk associated with Covid is very less among children. "School closures have a few advantages but its negative impact on children's learning and mental-emotional well-being was very high. Hence, reopening of schools is a crying need of the hour," he said. After being briefly reopened, schools in Delhi were again closed on December 28 last year in view of the third wave of Covid-19 driven by the Omicron variant. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-recommend-reopening-of-schools-in-ddma-meeting-on-thursday-manish-sisodia-1074936.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||UP police cane students protesting against Railway recruitment test; 3 cops suspended||Several students, who had squatted on the tracks at Prayagraj in protest against the Railway recruitment test were injured, some seriously, when the police made a lathi charge to disperse them and clear the tracks on Tuesday. Many videos surfaced on social media showing the cops breaking the doors of inns and guesthouses near the Prayagraj railway station to flush out the students, who had taken refuge there to save themselves from the lathi charge. The videos also showed the cops hitting the students with lathis after forcing them out of the rooms from the inns and guest houses. Three cops were suspended on charges of using excessive force, the officials said in Prayagraj. A case was lodged against 1500 students, the officials said, adding that an inquiry would be conducted into the police lathi charge and the guilty cops would not be spared. The students were protesting against the recruitment of the 'non-popular technical category' organised by the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) examination. They alleged that the Railway in its notification had earlier said that 20 per cent of candidates would be selected for the second examination but it was later revealed that only five per cent had been selected from the first examination. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-cane-students-protesting-against-railway-recruitment-test-3-cops-suspended-1074937.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Indian Army unfurls J&K's tallest national flag||The Army on Wednesday dedicated to people a 150-feet-high flagpole in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir to mark the Republic Day celebrations, a defence spokesman said. He said it will be the tallest flagpole in the union territory. "On the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day, the Chinar Corps in collaboration with Punit Balan Group installed a 150-feet-high mast National Flag in the historic town of Shopian," the spokesman said. He said installing the highest flagpole ushered in a new milestone in the history of south Kashmir. The second tallest flagpole is also located in Shopian district, the spokesman added. "The foundation stone was laid on 18 October 2021 at Army Goodwill School, Balapur in a colorful event and the flagpole was dedicated to the people of Shopian by Lt Gen D P Pandey, GOC Chinar Corps," he said. The inauguration ceremony commenced with the unfurling of the national flag by the GOC Chinar Corps and the singing of the national anthem by the students of Army Goodwill School, Balapur. A drill by cadets of 1st J&K NCC Battalion, Srinagar showcased the pride of the local youth associated with the tricolour, the spokesman said. Lt Gen Pandey said, "The national flag is the greatest symbol of our national conscience as it represents the supreme collective expression of our commitment and loyalty to our motherland.” He congratulated the efforts of the civil administration, citizens of Shopian and the security forces for striving for peace and progress in south Kashmir, the spokesman said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-army-unfurls-jks-tallest-national-flag-1074959.html
26-01-2022||North and Central||Militants open fire at forces in J&K's Shopian||Militants opened fire at security forces during an encounter in Shopian district of Kashmir on Wednesday, police here said. The security forces had launched a cordon-and-search operation in Chek Nowgam area of Shopian following information about presence of militants there, the police said. An encounter took place when militants opened firing at the security forces which too retaliated with gunfire. No casualties were reported so far on either side, the police said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-open-fire-at-forces-in-jks-shopian-1074973.html
26-01-2022||Oasis||Nachiketa's demands||Kathopanishad is one of the most revered spiritual and religious texts in Hinduism. It describes the spiritual journey of a young boy called Nachiketa, son of sage Vajashravasa. During his childhood, his father performed a yagna to give away his material possessions as a step towards spiritual bliss. Nachiketa observed that his father was donating only a few cows that were old and barren. Although young, he thought that a son is also his father’s property and hence must be given away, so he approached his father and persistently asked “Since I belong to you, tell me, to whom are you going to give me”. His father got irritated and in retort said, “I am going to give you to Yamaraj, the Lord of death”.  Nachiketa decided to seek Yamaraj on his own in order to make his Father’s Yagna successful. He reached Death’s realm and had to wait for three days without food or water as Yamaraj was away. When he came back he was moved by the boy’s determination and said, “You have been waiting in my place since three nights without food. Please ask me for three boons for each of those nights waited”. Nachiketa’s first wish was to restore peace with his father when he returned. The second wish was to learn Agnividya, the ritual for the fire sacrifice which would lead to immortality. His third wish was to know about what happens after death. “Some say the spirit exists, some say it does not exist. I desire to know the truth from you clearly”. While his first two wishes were granted with ease, Nachiketa had to prove his worthiness to receive his third gift, the esoteric knowledge, from Yamaraj.  By rejecting all the ephemerals offered to him and with his single-minded pursuit of the pathway to self-realisation Nachiketa finally convinced Yamaraj that he is a true seeker and succeeded in eliciting the knowledge of the supreme-self. Yamaraj imparts to his disciple the awareness about the immortality of the soul, the meditative vibrations of the syllable ‘Oum’ and the way inward that leads to permanent liberation from the cycle of life and death. Nachiketa’s is a timeless story of a journey of inner-self in the quest for spiritual reality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/nachiketas-demands-1074627.html
26-01-2022||Opinion||Curious case of drug branding in India||The Wall Street Journal recently carried an article: ‘What Covid Vaccine did you get? You probably don’t know its name.’ If you did not know that Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine is called ‘Comirnaty’ and Moderna’s is called ‘Spikevax’, you are not alone. The article points out that despite a year of continuous coverage and debate over these vaccines, their trademarks are far from well-known. It takes around two years to settle on a name of a medication in the USA due to stringent naming requirements of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The aim is to make sure the names of medicines are distinct and patients use the right prescription drugs. Regulatory requirements even impose handwriting tests to ensure that names are not confusing. As reported, machine learning-based computer models are used to make sure a name is at least 70% dissimilar to other names. The process is complicated and time-consuming since thousands of names are screened at a time. This article brings back to light an old but serious issue in India:  pharmaceutical branding. The regulatory regime in India stands in contrast to the regime in the US. Brand names of Covid-19 vaccines such as Covishield and Covaxin are widely known. Even Baba Ramdev’s Coronil’ tablet is well-known. The relaxed regulatory regime in India allows pharmaceutical companies to launch their ‘brands’ in the market quickly. However, the brands that are launched are not always unique and can cause serious confusion in the market. This problem has plagued the Indian pharma market for years. Patients, doctors, pharmacists and everyone in the chain can easily be confused by medicines that have similar names. For example, an antifungal medicine was named almost similar to medicine for treating hypertension. An anti-hypertension drug and an antipsychotic drug were also named similarly. Your doctor or local pharmacist will surely be able to give you more such examples. Obviously, confusion between medicines that cure different ailments can have disastrous effects! Unlike most other consumer goods where confusion may lead to mere inconvenience, confusion with respect to pharmaceuticals can lead to serious health consequences.  Unlike the US, the approval process for trade/ brand names of medicines remains largely unregulated in India. The Indian Trade Marks Registry mainly oversees this process. According to the annual reports of the Indian Trade Marks Office, pharmaceutical trademarks are the single largest category of registered trademarks. As it so happens, pharmaceutical trademarks are often very similar. The Trade Marks Registry is barely equipped to examine and approve names of medicines. Trademarks are handed out without considering things like therapeutic class or disease that the medicine seeks to treat. The process adopted is random and unscientific. Similar-sounding pre-fixes and suffixes that contribute to the confusion are commonly used and accepted for registration. There are neither requirements of dissimilarity to other brand names nor handwriting tests. Thus, look-alike and sound-alike brand names continue to threaten patients. While the Supreme Court has directed the Trade Marks Registry to adopt stricter standards, regulatory changes have not been forthcoming. In addition to the trademark registration process (which in itself is not mandatory), the Indian regulatory regime only requires pharmaceutical companies to self-certify that the names of their medicines are not similar to others. As pointed out in a letter, with comments on the existing regulatory set-up, by the Citizens for Affordable, Safe and Effective Medicine (CASEM), in most jurisdictions, regulators have to approve the trade name of a drug since confusing drug names are seen as a threat to patients. Obviously, a self-certification mechanism is suspect and does not carry the same weight as an independent regulatory process. Another regulatory attempt to address this problem was made in 2016 by the Medical Council of India (MCI). The MCI directed doctors to prescribe medication using the medication’s scientific /non-proprietary name (that is accepted the world over) rather than its brand /proprietary name in the written prescription. This was thought to reduce the chances of confusion in dispensing medicines. As studies show, this attempt has not been very successful for various reasons — enforcing this requirement is not straightforward. Non-proprietary names are complicated, patients lack confidence in names they cannot understand. There is, therefore, a serious need to reconsider name approval processes for medicines in India because settling for a medicine’s name is a little more than rearranging Scrabble tiles. (The writer is a lawyer based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/curious-case-of-drug-branding-in-india-1074629.html
26-01-2022||Opinion||Afghan turmoil drives India's Central Asia push||Driven by evolving geopolitical imperatives, India is all set to give yet another push to its ties with the five 'stans' - Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan – collectively known as the Central Asian Republics (CARs) when it hosts a virtual summit with the leaders of these nations on January 27.  What has also impelled New Delhi to try and step up its strategic engagement with Central Asia is the unfolding situation in Afghanistan. Its takeover by the Taliban has exacerbated both Indian and Central Asian countries' concerns about the security risks this poses to the region as radical Islamic elements gain traction. While Omicron may have played spoilsport in New Delhi's plans to collectively host the leaders as chief guests for the Republic Day parade, the summit should afford the leaders the opportunity to at least spell out a clear roadmap for the future trajectory of India-Central Asia relations. Days ahead of the India-hosted summit, China, too, held a virtual summit with the CARs on Tuesday. Indeed, increasing Chinese footprints in the energy and mineral-rich Central Asian countries has been a cause for worry for many countries, including India.  China has been relentlessly pressing ahead with its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and pumping money into infrastructure projects in the region, with the CARs accepting the largesse with open arms. While India cannot match Chinese munificence, it announced a $1 billion Line of Credit to the CARs in 2020 for infrastructure development.  In the three decades since the CARs came into being, China has also become the region's largest trading partner. According to the Chinese government mouthpiece Global Times, trade with the Central Asian countries pegged at $460 million in 1992 is now expected to exceed $40 billion. In addition, Chinese investments in the region now exceed $14 billion, reported GT.  Even as New Delhi works to revitalise ties with a region it says is part of its 'Extended Neighbourhood', its immediate priority is Afghanistan. The CARs, three of whom share land borders with Afghanistan – Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan – are equally worried about any fall-out long-term instability in their neighbourhood will have on them. Terrorism, radicalisation and drug trafficking are expected to gain ground amid Afghanistan's descent into further chaos under the Taliban. While Islam is the dominant religion in the CARs and all have some radical elements, they have largely managed to prevent the tentacles of terrorism from taking a strong hold within their territories. But with Afghanistan in turmoil, the CARs fear that radical elements that had a free run of the region in the early 1990s and fled to Afghanistan after a crackdown will now return in an even more virulent avatar.  This anxiety with regard to Afghanistan has found reflection in the three India-Central Asia Dialogues held thus far at the foreign minister-level since 2019. The third dialogue was held last month and saw the foreign ministers of the CARs travel to New Delhi.  It was the first dialogue after Afghanistan fell to the Taliban. Importantly for India, the expansive joint statement issued after the dialogue called for respect for Afghanistan's territorial integrity and "non-interference in its internal affairs", an oblique reference to Pakistan.  Reassuringly for New Delhi, a month prior to this, the five 'stans' had participated in the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan along with Russia and Iran.  Indicative of the desire on the part of India and the CARs to ensure the summit is not a one-off affair, there are indications that its meetings will take formal shape in the form of a biennial meet. Also said to be on the anvil is a secretariat that will provide an institutional framework for the summit.  While the aim clearly is to re-energise ties through these mechanisms, the real test will lie in going beyond mere symbolism and ensuring decisions taken at the summit level are implemented. While India has for long boasted of historical and civilisational links with the Central Asian countries, it has not been able to channel these age-old ties into mutually beneficial relations in the three decades since the break-up of the Soviet Union. Undeniably, intermittent efforts have been made by India to forge closer relations with the CARs. If there was the 'Connect Central Asia' policy under Congress-led UPA II government, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government too tried to give an impetus to ties with the region when Prime Minister Narendra Modi made back-to-back visits to all the 'stans' during a six-day tour of the region in 2015.  But New Delhi's outreach to these countries has lacked consistency. The lack of adequate connectivity with the land-locked CARs should not be the reason for the strategic neglect of the region. India's efforts in recent years to access Central Asia and beyond via Iran's Chabahar port, of course, have also run into trouble in view of the US sanctions. Had it taken off, it would've helped India improve trade with the CARs, which at present is a measly $2 billion.  Air connectivity, the only viable option for trade, has languished over the years. New Delhi has not been able to persuade even national carrier Air India to fly to any of these countries.  As the crow flies, the capital cities of the five CARs are not more than a two to three-hour flight away from New Delhi. Yet, no Indian carrier wants to fly these routes that normally have fully booked flights on airlines of these five countries. Hopefully, this will change soon as New Delhi makes a renewed push to engage more closely with its 'Extended Neighbourhood".  (The writer is a New Delhi-based senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/afghan-turmoil-drives-indias-central-asia-push-1074736.html
26-01-2022||Opinion||RPN Singh jolts Congress, but BJP's gain or SP's loss?||The switching of loyalties by senior Congressman RPN Singh to the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) barely a month before the state assembly election in Uttar Pradesh has created waves in political circles of the country's most populous state. Singh's exit is undeniably a jolt to the Congress, although the Congress high command should have known it was on the anvil. The more pertinent question is whether it would help the BJP in UP. Also, is it a loss for the Samajwadi Party (SP), seen as the mighty BJP's only challenger in UP? More than any electoral loss for the Congress in UP, RPN Singh's exit could be interpreted as a setback to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's efforts to put the party back on its feet in the state. It is more so because RPN Singh's departure has followed that of trusted Rahul Gandhi aides, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada. RPN Singh, like them, enjoyed an enviable position in the Congress. Interestingly, all three have a shared alumnae background of the elite Doon School, as did RPN Singh's father, Congress leader CPN Singh. Although RPN Singh was appointed Congress party's in-charge for Jharkhand, he has felt sidelined over the past two years since he lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Kushinagar, even losing his security deposit. The seat was won by a low profile BJP nominee, Vijay Dubey, while the Samajwadi Party's Nathuni Prasad Kushwaha stood second. His political graph had begun to decline ever since he lost the 2014 Lok Sabha election during the 'Modi wave' after winning that seat in 2009. Even then, his winning margin was relatively slender with just about 21,000 votes, considering that the victory margin rose to 86,000 when he lost the next election in 2014. In 2019, his losing margin went up to nearly four lakh votes. These successive electoral losses contributed to the perception that his political profile was waning. His proximity to the Gandhi family ensured he was entrusted with the charge of Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. Scindia and Prasada reportedly persuaded him to bid goodbye to the Congress. While he was keen to follow Prasada in June 2021, the BJP did not see much political capital in importing RPN Singh. Prasada's Brahmin roots made him a catch for the BJP, at the time trying to overcome its "anti-Brahmin" image because of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's overt pro-Thakur stance. Meanwhile, RPN Singh's Kurmi lineage was not viewed as significant since the BJP already had sizeable support in the community in large parts of UP. But that has changed.  The repeated jolts the BJP suffered from the exit of several backward caste leaders, who crossed over to the SP, prompted its leadership to portray a semblance of recovering its losses. A political non-entity like Aparna Yadav was inducted into the BJP with fanfare to show that the party has symbolically dented the bastion of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav.  Likewise, the Kurmi OBC background of RPN Singh was considered to make for good optics. Much like Aparna Yadav, RPN Singh's entry has made headlines. But it is open to debate whether he would add any political value to the ruling party, which already enjoys the support of prominent Kurmi leaders. Such a move could have served a meaningful purpose if someone with RPN Singh's profile had crossed over from the SP. Unfortunately for the BJP, it has failed to match the injury inflicted on it by the SP, which stole three ministers of the Adityanath cabinet – Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan and Dharam Singh Saini - besides nearly a dozen sitting MLAs of the ruling party. Significantly, each of them belonged to the OBCs. This has helped Akhilesh Yadav shape the narrative that the backwards were gravitating towards his party now that it has emerged as the only formidable opposition against the BJP. It became increasingly pronounced that Akhilesh Yadav was successfully stitching alliances with the larger chunk of the non-Yadav OBCs, whom Prime Minister Narendra Modi had systematically and painstakingly nurtured and wooed over to the BJP since 2014. On paper, RPN Singh may be a part of the backward community, but he hails from the erstwhile princely family of Sainthwars, which diminishes his branding as an OBC leader. He has been a three-time MLA from Padrauna - 1996, 2002 and 2007. Subsequently, he also got elected to the Lok Sabha in 2009, following which he remained minister of state for home in the Manmohan Singh government. BJP insiders were busy claiming that RPN Singh could come in handy as the ruling party nominee against Swami Prasad Maurya. RPN Singh had defeated Swami Prasad Maurya from the Kushinagar Lok Sabha seat in 2009. Interestingly, a year earlier, Maurya had defeated Singh's mother, Mohini Singh, in a bypoll for the Padrauna assembly segment under that parliamentary constituency.   It remains to be seen if Maurya contests from Padrauna. He has once won from Dalmau assembly seat in the Rae Bareli district. On the other hand, RPN Singh's options are limited to Padrauna or a neighbouring assembly segment in Kushinagar. The election outcome would best judge his actual worth in political terms on March 10. But the fact remains that his exit from the Congress makes a more profound impact than his entry into the BJP. And sure enough, it would be naïve to believe that it could have any bearing whatsoever on BJP's key adversary, the SP. (Sharat Pradhan is a journalist and author based in Lucknow) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rpn-singh-jolts-congress-but-bjps-gain-or-sps-loss-1074748.html
26-01-2022||Opinion||73rd Republic Day: What is a strong nation?||What is a strong nation? Is it one where a few people move from strength to strength, or is it one where the vast majority have access to education, healthcare, work, opportunities and a social ethos that allow them to live a life of dignity and fulfil their potential? Conversely, what makes a nation 'weak'? Can we see strength as happy citizens, social cohesiveness, freedom to speak out, resilience and cultural influence? The questions are not quite as philosophical as they may seem as the country celebrates its 73rd Republic Day. The Narendra Modi government constantly uses the word 'strong' to brand its vision for the country and the word 'weak' to denigrate political rivals and their vision. How does one unpack repeated use of the words 'strong' and 'weak'? The statements of the prime minister and his colleagues offer telling clues. Earlier this month, Modi said talking about and fighting for "rights" in the 75 years since Independence and forgetting "duties" had kept the country "weak" and that the next 25 years would be for hard work, sacrifice and "tapasya". In October 2017, while speaking at an event in Lucknow, then Union home minister Rajnath Singh had said that India had become a strong country under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party. He said, "India's borders are completely safe, and China has started to understand that India is no more weak. Its strength has grown." In April 2019, while addressing rallies at Sambalpur in western Odisha and Bhubaneswar, Modi said, "No one had listened to India earlier when it pleaded for peace. However, now the entire world is with us after witnessing our strength. Only the strong and powerful can talk about peace. No one listens to a weak nation." Here is a view from the pavement. On a bitterly cold Delhi afternoon last week, I stopped for a chat with Shiv, a cobbler I have known for some time. We talked about this and that, and as always, we landed up exchanging a word or two about his life. Life had become harder than usual for Shiv - he lost his son last year, did not have much work, went back to his village, was in debt, and customers are few and far between. "Who wants to get bags and shoes repaired when they are going out much less?" he wryly said. I asked him about his thoughts for the future. Did he feel the country was becoming stronger? Shiv did not immediately reply. After a slight pause, he broke into a familiar, toothy grin. "I am not educated. I dropped out of school. What is a country but its people? Do I look strong to you?" Shiv is one among the millions of what academics call the 'urban poor'. A recent survey by People's Research on India's Consumer Economy (PRICE), a Mumbai-based think-tank, between April and October 2021, has this to say – the annual income of the poorest 20 per cent of Indian households had been rising since 1995 but plunged 53 per cent in the pandemic year 2020-21 from their levels in 2015-16. In the same five-year period, the richest 20 per cent saw their annual household income grow 39 per cent. The survey covered 200,000 households in the first round and 42,000 households in the second. It was spread over 120 towns and 800 villages across 100 districts. Even among the poorest 20 per cent, those in cities have been hit harder than their rural counterparts. There is other data that points to growing inequality and the précarisation of those at the bottom. A recent report by Oxfam India flags important points about India's inequality crisis – the number of Indian billionaires grew from 102 in 2020 to 142 in 2021, the worst year yet for India during the pandemic, the report notes. This was also the year when the share in the national wealth of the bottom 50 per cent of the population was a mere 6 per cent. The Oxfam report also refers to the FAO report on The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World. That report says there are over 200 million undernourished people in India. There are other disturbing insights in the Oxfam report - the life expectancy of a Dalit woman is approximately 15 years less than that of an upper-caste woman. Additionally, research suggests that relative to upper-caste Hindus, Adivasi life expectancy is more than four years lower, Muslim life expectancy is about one year lower, and Dalit life expectancy is more than three years lower; economic status explains less than half of these gaps. Arguably, India is not the only country where the poor have been bludgeoned by the pandemic, nor is India the only country with glaring inequalities. But at a time when the poor, like my neighbourhood cobbler, find themselves in an increasingly vulnerable position for no fault of theirs, what message are we giving out when we say talking about rights paves the way to a weak nation? Strength is not an abstract term. The strength of a country is based on the strength of its people. The Constitution of India guarantees certain fundamental rights. When these rights are violated, an Indian citizen can go to court, at least in theory. In reality, there is a huge backlog of cases, a lack of awareness about legal rights and millions of Indians are denied their fundamental rights. Shiv, like every other Indian, has a right to live with basic dignity. He also has a right to speak out. And as an Indian citizen, I have the right and the duty to point out when I see the violation of rights of people who are less privileged, increasing fragility and deepening inequalities around me. Only by doing so – by talking about people's fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution and other rights like healthcare, education, nutrition and decent work – can a citizen lead a life of dignity. We have a strong country only when our citizens lead lives of dignity, when they can hold their heads high. By muting rights talk, we weaken the Republic of India. (The author is an independent journalist and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/73rd-republic-day-what-is-a-strong-nation-1074750.html
26-01-2022||Panorama||If the hawa blows from the west in UP polls, BJP will have a tough time||East to west or west to east? This is a common question many would ask in Uttar Pradesh days ahead of the announcement of an election schedule in India’s electorally most significant state, be it polls to the Lok Sabha or the state Assembly. And mind you, every other voter in this most populous state is an inquisitive political animal, like in Bihar, and would ask this question. It was no different ahead of the announcement of the current Assembly poll schedule. The Election Commission has, of course, answered it – the election caravan will travel from western UP to the eastern part via the central and Bundelkhand regions over seven phases. But then, why does this question even crop up in Uttar Pradesh? Such a question is hardly asked in any other state. Is there any political significance to it? Will it make or mar the chances of any political party? Will the scheduling influence the voting pattern? Well, in the current, hot political scenario, with no-holds-barred electioneering by the parties that matter, it would. The western districts of the state will go to polls in the first three phases (some politically key ones include Meerut, Baghpat, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur, Agra, Mainpuri, Mathura, Aligarh, Etah, Hathras, Etawah, Farrukhabad). Politically and geographically, some of these parts are closer to Delhi, especially the districts of Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Baghpat, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, the brass city of Moradabad. Polling in the next phases takes place in central UP districts, such as Lakhimpur, where protesting farmers were run over and killed, allegedly by the son of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, and Kanpur, Lucknow, etc. Then, finally, on to the eastern region’s Rae Bareli, Amethi, Allahabad, Ayodhya, Varanasi, Gorakhpur — where Yogi Adityanath will contest — among others. The BJP had done exceedingly well in 2017 in the west. Of the 58 seats that go to polls in the first phase, it had won some three-fourths of them. The scene was no different in the other western UP areas. Jats and Muslims form the core of the voters here, especially in the first two phases – they form 30-50% of voters in several seats. The districts that go to polls in the first phase are politically sensitive and communally polarised. What happens in Delhi perhaps influences these western areas more than the far-off regions of eastern UP. Importantly, the UP-Delhi border areas were the nerve centres of the farmers’ agitation which is seen to be having a huge impact on the UP outcome, especially in the western region. Also, it was the Jat community that was at the forefront of the agitation – and Jats are also the prominent community concentrated in the west. It is believed that this time, western UP is up against the BJP and may favour the RLD-Samajwadi Party combine. Incidentally, RLD is helmed by Jayant Chowdhary, son of Ajit Singh and grandson of former Prime Minister Charan Singh, considered the most prominent Jat leaders of UP. Also, there are the lasting, horrific images of bodies of those who died of Covid floating on the Ganga or cremated on its banks, which has forced BJP onto the backfoot. The BJP has a problem on another front, too. The west is also the sugarcane belt of UP; farmers here are up in arms against the Yogi Adityanath government for not resolving their demands, which include payment of dues by sugar mills, minimum support price (MSP) for cane, withdrawing cases filed against farmers for stubble burning, and increased electricity charges. Communal riots The BJP has done well in western UP since 2014. One of the main reasons cited was the large-scale communal riots in Muzaffarnagar and neighbouring districts in 2013. That pitted the Jats against the Muslims and brought the former close to the BJP. However, this time, with the RLD and SP coming together, the warring communities are said to be united, backing the ‘gathbandhan’. The farmers’ agitation is said to have revived the broken communal harmony in the region. So, if this region favours the anti-BJP forces, will the other parts of UP, especially the eastern part, go with them? “Hawa paschim se chalti hai,” central minister and BJP leader Sanjiv Balyan, a prominent Jat face from western UP, had once said in an interview. If that indeed happens, BJP may be in for trouble. Interestingly, it did happen in the past three elections. Polling took place from west to east in 2014, 2019 (both Lok Sabha) and 2017 (Assembly), and the BJP romped home in all these elections with stupendous wins. The momentum gained from the robust performance of the BJP in the west in all these elections was carried on to the east, as the results showed. Reports had it that the BJP wanted the elections to start from the east, considering the farmers’ ire in the west. However, after several BJP leaders who hail from the east, including ministers and MLAs, quit the party recently, its leaders may not be unhappy that elections would start from the west. The ticket distribution by SP-RLD in western UP is not without problems. Some of the seats have seen a ruckus between groups of the two parties; in some seats, SP candidates are fighting on the RLD symbol. Many Jat leaders are unhappy over the candidate selection by RLD, or that some particular seats have been given to the SP.   Interestingly, the BSP had traditionally done well in the west but its strength declined drastically in 2017 and 2019. Bhim Party leader Chandrashekar Azad ‘Ravan’ hails from this region, but he has now said he will contest against Yogi Adityanath in Gorakhpur in the east. It is not that only BJP and RLD-SP are contesting in the west. There are other parties too, like Congress, Asaduddin Owaisi’s MIM, and others. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/if-the-hawa-blows-from-the-west-in-up-polls-bjp-will-have-a-tough-time-1074625.html
26-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Recalling Republic Day||In 2022, for the first time in the history of Republic Day, the parade in Delhi will start at 10.30 am instead of 10 am. The change comes over half a century too late for my brother and me. Growing up in the nation’s capital, we were woken up at an unearthly hour to get ready to head for Rajpath. It was bitterly cold, and we longed for a few extra minutes in bed. We could never understand why we had to leave so early. We lived near the beautiful broad avenue leading from Rashtrapathi Bhavan to India Gate, and a brisk walk would get us there quickly. Our entreaties to let us sleep longer fell on deaf ears. Our parents were eager to get the best possible view of the proceedings, and that was to be had from the top of one of the galleries on both sides of the road. In a bid to escape stirring out, my brother and I used to protest that we had already seen the parade. Our school (in the same locality as our home) was not far from Rajpath. In the run-up to Republic Day, our teachers would take us to watch the participants practising for the final event. Since the seating arrangements were not yet in place, we stood at the railings that separated us from the stars of the show. We were especially fascinated by the children who performed rhythmic drills with cymbals and tambourines. We cheered them lustily and wished we could join them. On one occasion, after my brother had gained admission to a prestigious school in the city, he and his classmates were selected to take part in the parade. At two rehearsals, I proudly pointed him out to my friends. Unfortunately, that was the last we saw of him at the rehearsal. Apparently, the students of the illustrious institution were not amenable to the discipline expected of youngsters playing a patriotic part in the celebrations. Consequently, they were dismissed. Therefore, on the morning of that particular January 26, my brother was with us in the stands instead of wending his way down Rajpath. We were bundled up in layers of warm clothing, which we shed as it grew warmer. We admitted to each other, as we did every year, that nothing could quite compare with the sights and sounds of the parade on Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/recalling-republic-day-1074623.html
26-01-2022||Second Edit||Forest cover claims unscientific||The India State of the Forest Report, 2021, paints a picture of Karnataka as one of the top five states to increase its forest cover -- by 155 sq km. The reality is different. The devil is in the detail, and a thorough reading of the survey shows that the state has not much to be proud of. For starters, the state’s forest cover at 20.19% falls woefully short of the targeted 33% of geographical area (GA) as envisaged by the national forest policy. In about a dozen districts, the green cover is less than 10%, while in some others, it is less than even 3%. Most of these districts have also not made any substantial addition to their green cover in the past two years. While Tumakuru added the highest area of 39 sq km, Udupi lost nearly 27 sq km to ‘development’. Some districts face a genuine issue though, as the GA under the control of the forest department is itself low. For instance, in Vijayapura, only 0.17% of the landmass belongs to the forest department, which prevents it from taking up afforestation.  According to the survey, India has increased its forest cover by 2,261 sq km in the last two years, but experts question the methodology adopted and even doubt if the numbers are artificially boosted to support India’s climate change commitments announced by the Prime Minister at the UN Climate Conference at Glasgow. The very definition of ‘forest cover’ is flawed as it does not distinguish between natural forests and tree cover like sugarcane fields or plantations. As tree patches of over one hectare with a canopy density of more than 10% are considered forests, even coffee estates in districts like and Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru become ‘forests’. And perhaps so do the thick shrubs of weeds like Lantana that have become a menace in the tiger reserves of Bandipur, B R Hills and Nagarahole.  Considering that the report is defective and unscientific, claims about the green cover increasing in Karnataka need to be taken with more than a pinch of salt. Besides, given the increasing complaints about timber smuggling, often with the connivance of forest officers, and the afforestation programmes remaining far from satisfactory, the state government should order an audit to assess the health of the state’s forests. Karnataka has for long remained complacent. It is time the government wakes up to aggressively pursue the goal of achieving the target of 33% forest cover, and genuine forest area at that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/forest-cover-claims-unscientific-1074617.html
26-01-2022||South||Erode likely to become sixth Tiger reserve of Tamil Nadu||Erode is likely to become the sixth tiger reserve of Tamil Nadu, senior officials of the state forest said. The state forest department is in the final stages of drafting a proposal to create a new Tiger reserve in Erode forest range. This is after the central government approved the Srivilliputhur- Megamalai Tiger reserve as the state's fifth Tiger Reserve an year ago. Spread over 82,144 hectares of land, the Erode forest division is home to around 20 tigers, according to senior officials of the state forest department. The number of tigers, according to them, may vary from 15-20 in the Erode forest division. In addition to 15-20 tigers, Erode Forest division is home to elephants, wild boars, leopards, wild dogs, deer, Indian guars, and other rare species. It is surrounded by the Kollegal forest division of Karnataka on the northern side and the Satyamangalam Forest Range on the western side. Chief Wild Life Warden of Tamil Nadu, Shekar Kumar Niraj while speaking to IANS said, "Erode forest division is well connected to western and eastern ghats and this would ensure the good genetic quality of wild species." The official said that fieldwork, data collection, and survey according to the government of India guidelines are to be done for considering the Erode forest division as the sixth Tiger reserve of the state of Tamil Nadu. The local communities will also get opportunities to earn a livelihood and involve in the protection mechanism. Erode forest division is home to six tribal settlements. Forest department officials said that 50 per cent of the area of Erode Forest division is already having the presence of tigers and with the detailed and minute survey of wild animals, tigers are done the proposal will be forwarded to the Union Ministry for Environment and Forests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/erode-likely-to-become-sixth-tiger-reserve-of-tamil-nadu-1074771.html
26-01-2022||South||Rejected for Delhi Republic Day parade, Tamil Nadu's tableau finds place of pride in Chennai||The tableau proposed by Tamil Nadu and rejected in the third round by the Central government for the National Republic Day parade was used by the state government at its Chennai parade for the 73rd Republic Day celebrations. The tableau titled 'Tamil Nadu in Freedom Struggle' depicted V O Chidambaranar, 'Mahakavi' Subramania Bharathi, Rani Velu Nachiyar, and the Maruthu Pandiyar brothers, who were executed by the East India Company. Chief Minister M K Stalin had earlier said that these tableaus will be displayed during the Tamil Nadu Republic Day parade and later, taken across the state to showcase to the people the freedom fighters of the state. Tamil Nadu Governor R N Ravi on Wednesday unfurled the national flag near the Gandhi square on Kamarajar salai in Chennai in the presence of Chief Minister, M K Stalin on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day. About 6,800 police personnel are on duty as part of the security and are deployed in various parts of Chennai city on the occasion. Due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the general public has not been given entry to the Republic Day functions at the Gandhi square. Parades by school and college students are also not taking place due to Covid. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rejected-for-delhi-republic-day-parade-tamil-nadus-tableau-finds-place-of-pride-in-chennai-1074775.html
26-01-2022||South||Telangana CM plans special cell with 1,000 personnel to curb drug menace in state||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed for the formation of a special Narcotic and Organised Crime Control (Counter Intelligence) Cell in the state. The special cell in the Telangana police department, Rao said, should operate under the direct supervision of the state DGP Mahender Reddy. The cell is among the several measures the TRS government has contemplated to eliminate the usage of narcotic drugs from the state. The cell is planned to have about 1,000 members, performing special duties towards curbing the narcotic drugs. It would also act stringently against various organised crimes. On Wednesday, Rao reviewed the measures to control the drugs menace with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Reddy, Hyderabad Police Commissioner CV Anand and other officials. The CM, one official said, wants the culprits in narcotic drugs businesses be punished “however high and mighty they may be.” In continuation, a conference is planned on Friday, chaired by the CM and attended by the home and excise ministers, all the top and district level police and excise officials. Rao had chaired such a meeting in October after few cases of crime under the influence of drugs took place in the state. With reports indicating the consumption of Cannabis (ganja) as also on the rise, the Chief Minister had instructed for a comprehensive action plan to totally eradicate its availability, “before the situation goes out of hand.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-plans-special-cell-with-1000-personnel-to-curb-drug-menace-in-state-1074893.html
26-01-2022||South||Kerala Minister unfurls national flag upside down; BJP demands his resignation||A Kerala minister hoisted the national flag upside down in this district, during the Republic Day celebrations on Wednesday, triggering a political controversy as the opposition BJP demanded his resignation for showing disrespect to the tricolour. The incident occurred when minister Ahamed Devarkovil, who holds the Port and Archaeology portfolios in the Left government, unfurled the flag at the Municipal Stadium here this morning. Later, the minister told reporters that there was no lapse from his side and he just hoisted the flag when the officials concerned handed him the rope. He also said the district police chief and the Additional District Magistrate were asked to conduct a comprehensive inquiry into the incident and assured stringent measures would be taken against those responsible for the lapse. A nominee of the Indian National League (INL), an ally of the CPI(M)-led LDF, Devarkovil was the chief guest of the Republic Day celebrations at the district headquarters. "It was the officials who should have conducted a trial-run before the minister comes for flag hoisting. As far as ministers are concerned, we can only go on the scheduled time as per the protocol and unfurl the flag. There will be sure action against those responsible for the incident. Investigation is going on," he said. Interestingly, no one, including the minister, peoples' representatives, police officials and other dignitaries present on the occasion, noticed the gaffe. After the flag hoisting, the minister saluted it and proceeded with his speech, amidst which some media personnel who had gathered there to cover the event pointed out the error. Then the minister came back, lowered the flag and hoisted it again correctly. Meanwhile, BJP state chief K Surendran sought the immediate resignation of Devarkovil and registration of a police case against him and the officials concerned who showed disrespect to the national flag. "It is a matter of serious concern that the minister also saluted the tricolour after it was hoisted upside down. It is ridiculous that despite such a grave mistake, neither the minister nor the officials realised the error," he said in a statement. He also wanted the state DGP to order a probe into the incident. Senior Congress leader and Member of Parliament, Rajmohan Unnithan, who was present during the occasion, termed the incident as "unfortunate" and wanted the government to take action. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-unfurls-national-flag-upside-down-bjp-demands-his-resignation-1074901.html
26-01-2022||South||Andhra Pradesh CM launches monetary aid scheme for women from upper castes||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has launched a new scheme offering monetary assistance to the economically-backward women from the upper castes. Under the EBC Nestham, Rs 589 crore were disbursed into the bank accounts of about four lakh women. The direct benefits transfer scheme is aimed at bettering the livelihoods of EBC women in the 45-60 years age group by providing an assistance of Rs 15,000 per annum. 3,92,674 women from the forward castes like Brahmins, Vysyas, Reddys, Kammas and Kshatriyas are the beneficiaries at present. Speaking during the launch on Tuesday, the eve of 73rd Republic Day, Chief Minister Reddy said that “EBC Nestham was not mentioned in the YSRCP's election manifesto, but the government came up with the scheme to help the poor among the forward castes.” Reddy mentioned that his government is already implementing similar schemes like YSR Cheyutha, Kapu Nestham aiding about 32 lakh middle-aged women from other castes in their economic empowerment. Reddy said the AP government has partnered with companies like ITC, Amul, Proctor and Gamble, Reliance to help women with business opportunities. “These initiatives boost the confidence among women to run their businesses effortlessly and make them self-reliant.” The Chief Minister stated that in the past two and half years of his regime, Rs 13025 crore was spent on Amma Vodi scheme benefiting over 44 lakh mothers. “61.73 lakh people have been receiving social security pensions under YSR Pension Kanuka, and 78.75 lakh women have benefited through YSR Aasara scheme.” "Amma-vodi" gives Rs 15,000 per year to mothers from poor sections sending their kids to schools. Reddy said that his government “not just implemented welfare schemes for women but has also appointed them in prominent positions like Legislative Council Vice Chairperson, Deputy Chief Minister, Home Minister, State Election Commissioner.” “We have brought 50 percent reservation for women in all nominated posts and nominated works.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-launches-monetary-aid-scheme-for-women-from-upper-castes-1074920.html
26-01-2022||South||3 youths detained in Andhra for trying to hoist national flag at tower named after Jinnah||Three people were arrested in the Kothapet area of Guntur city in Andhra Pradesh for trying to hoist the national flag at a tower named after Mohammad Ali Jinnah in violation of prohibitory orders on Republic Day, police said. Tension prevailed in the area on Wednesday as some persons claiming to be from the Hindu Vahini outfit tried to march to the Jinnah Tower Centre in the city and hoist the tricolour, even as a large posse of police personnel was posted there to prevent such an act. For some time now, the BJP and other Hindu organisations have been demanding that the Jinnah Tower, a pre-Independence era monument in Guntur, be renamed. They threatened to demolish the structure if the Jagan Mohan Reddy government did not pay heed to their demands. Following this, the Guntur civic authorities fenced off the Jinnah Tower and police posted to prevent any untoward incidents that could potentially flare up communal tension. The Hindu Vahini gave a call for hoisting the tricolour at Jinnah Tower on Republic Day and press for its renaming. “Some youths belonging to the outfit tried to march to the tower to carry out their activities but we foiled it. We have taken three persons into custody,” a senior police official said. He said a case would be registered against the youths for trying to disturb the peace. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-youths-detained-in-andhra-for-trying-to-hoist-national-flag-at-tower-named-after-jinnah-1074951.html
26-01-2022||State||Rich folk art, handicraft shine in Karnataka's Republic Day tableau||From skillfully made pots, carefully sculpted sandalwood miniatures to hand-woven sarees, Karnataka's rich tradition of handicrafts was on grand display at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday.  A massive Asiatic elephant sculpted from Mysuru rosewood with ivory inlay carvings, eye-catching Bidriware, bronze statues and lacquerware toys from Channapatna were the highlights of the tableau which was titled 'Karnataka: The Cradle of Traditional Handicrafts'.  The tableau also featured Kamaladevi Chhatopadhyay, the acclaimed freedom fighter from Karnataka, who is also hailed as the 'mother of traditional handicrafts in India'. She was seen offering 'baagina' that includes a sandal box, peacock shaped lamp pots and banana fibre bags from Sandur, among others.  Terracota, sandalwood carving and the art of ivory carving is unique to Karnataka and the state government was making special efforts to ensure that the 55,000 artisans in the state get access to markets in the digital age, officials said.  Karnataka was the only state from southern India whose tableau was selected for the Republic Day parade. The tableau showcased 16 traditional handicraft products that have received the Geographical Indicator tag.  The coastal traditions of the state also found a place on the tableau in the form of Yakshagana models and bronze face masks used in 'bhootha aradhane' (devil worship). The tableau was designed by a team of 100 artists, led by art director Shashidhar Adapa. A minute-long special song, praising the state's folk arts and craft, was also composed by music director Praveen Rao for the tableau.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rich-folk-art-handicraft-shine-in-karnatakas-republic-day-tableau-1074809.html
26-01-2022||State||Should handle Covid-19 third wave with 'total seriousness': Karnataka Governor||Cautioning about the third wave of Covid-19, Karnataka Governor Thaawar Chand Gehlot on Wednesday, called on the citizens to handle the situation with "total seriousness" and said there should be no room for negligence. Delivering his address after unfurling the national flag on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day here, he complimented the state government for succeeding in reducing the effect of Covid-19 efficiently. "We are now facing the 3rd wave of Covid-19. We should handle this situation with total seriousness and negligence has no room now. We must continue to observe the SMS mantra of - Social Distancing, Masking and Sanitization for the sake of everybody's health," the Governor said. "My Government has worked day and night and with the support of the public, we have succeeded in reducing the effect of Covid-19 efficiently. We have used this crisis as an opportunity to build on our strengths, to create additional health infrastructure and enhance the production capacity of Oxygen cylinders and Ventilators," he said. This is Gehlot's first Republic Day as the Governor of Karnataka. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, a few of his cabinet colleagues and top government officials were among the select invitees, who attended the low-key event held at the Manekshaw Parade Ground here, by following the Covid protocols. The Governor said different fields like management of Covid war room, Telemedicine, identifying the infected and quarantine observation were managed efficiently with advanced technology and this has resulted in less number of deaths in Karnataka when compared to other parts of the world. "I also salute our field staff, Disaster Management Teams and the District Heads who effectively handled the challenge and mitigated the disaster of heavy rain in the North Karnataka region," he said. Noting that Karnataka, being one of the progressive states in the Country, is implementing many schemes and programmes on the occasion of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' (75th Anniversary of Independence), Gehlot said, the State has announced 14 Amrit Mahotsav programmes and has prepared an implementation roadmap with targeted outcomes till August 15, 2023. He also highlighted the government's focus on Watershed development, mobile and technology-based crop surveys, among others. The Governor said an amount of Rs 14.23 crore from the Union Government and 13.39 crore from the state government has been released under the modernization scheme for procuring weapons, vehicles and scientific equipment etc. to various units of police departments. He said Rs 9.14 crore from the union government and 6.09 crore from the state government has been released for procurement of wireless equipment and added that Rs 30 lakh compensation has been paid to 173 families of Police personnel who died due to Covid-19. Gehlot also noted that the Forest department has planted 2.39 crore saplings of different varieties in 37,745 hectares and 1.87 crore saplings were distributed to the public to grow in agricultural and private lands. An incentive of Rs 4.39 crore has been distributed to the farmers under the Agriculture Forest Encouragement scheme. Further, by taking action for comprehensive protection and conservation of the dwelling places of wildlife the State has 524 Tigers in its forest area and has been identified as the second State having the highest number of Tigers. As per the census of 2017, there are 6,049 Elephants in Karnataka. This covers 25 per cent of the Elephants in India, and the state stands first by having the highest number of Elephants, he said. The Governor also said that the classes for post-matric girl students, training them in self-defence skills like Karate, Judo and Taekwondo have been started in backward class hostels. "My Government prioritises women-centric budgets and provides nutrition-based food to pregnant ladies and nursing mothers, under Matru poorna scheme. This has been implemented in all districts of the State and 9.36 lakh beneficiaries have availed this facility," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/should-handle-covid-19-third-wave-with-total-seriousness-karnataka-governor-1074825.html
26-01-2022||State||Karnataka set to establish military school in the name of Sangolli Rayanna||The Karnataka government is all set to establish a military school in the name of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna at a cost of Rs 180 crore, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. Speaking after garlanding the statue of Rayanna on his 191st Remembrance Day here, he said, the state government has already released Rs 55 crore for the purpose, and the construction work of the school would be completed this year. "Discussions are on with the Defence Ministry to adopt the school. Defence ministry is almost likely to convert it into a military school. Hostel and all the required facilities are coming up on a 100 acre land," he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Noting that work on developing his tomb at the spot where Rayanna, a 19th century icon who fought against the British, attained martyrdom at Nandagada ,would be taken up, the Chief Minister said approval has been given for developing a rock garden on a 10 acre land at his birth place Sangolli. These memorials are being built to provide a glimpse into the life of Rayanna for the young generation, he said. Bommai also said orders would be issued to have Rayanna's portrait displayed in all schools and colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-set-to-establish-military-school-in-the-name-of-sangolli-rayanna-1074989.html
26-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 50 engineering colleges in Karnataka see intake below 50||There are hardly any takers for over 50 engineering colleges in the state owing to poor infrastructure and teaching facilities. Admissions to undergraduate engineering courses for the current academic year were completed on December 31, 2021. Data from the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) shows that as many as 57 colleges have got less than 50 admissions and some courses, including mechanical and civil engineering, witnessed an all-time low in admissions this year despite a rise in the number of eligible candidates due to the no-detention policy in the II PUC examinations of 2021. Sources say four colleges have got less than 25 admissions though they were allowed an intake of 150. Most of these colleges are located outside Bengaluru, some are government colleges and others in Hyderabad-Karnataka. There are over 230 engineering colleges in the state and as many as 23,000 seats are left unfilled even after the second extended round of counselling. There were over 58,110 seats available under the government quota. The total seats available were 64,484, including private quota seats. Of these, 48,027 seats were allotted and 41,483 students have downloaded the admission cards and enrolled at the colleges. During 2020 KCET, 76 colleges failed to cross 50 admissions. “Students and parents are more aware now. They will research colleges before taking admissions and reject those with poor infrastructure and placement records,” said an official from the higher education department. Sources from the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) said there is a request from several colleges to close down mechanical and civil branches. Prof Karisddappa, vice chancellor, VTU, said: “We are considering this during the Local Inspection Committee visit to colleges seriously and we will give such colleges a deadline for progressive improvement.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-50-engineering-colleges-in-karnataka-see-intake-below-50-1074691.html
26-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Government sports facilities in Karnataka's lack gender parity: Study||A government-commissioned study has found lack of gender parity in state-run sports training institutions, with women facing discrimination and even sexual abuse in certain cases. The study titled 'Impact evaluation of interventions by the state in respect of select sports in Karnataka (2011-12 to 2016-17)' undertaken by Sudheshna Mukherjee of Pan India Network was submitted to the government recently. In majority of the districts, there were no separate hostels for boys and girls. In the Department of Youth Empowerment & Sports (DYES) hostels, there are no segregated buildings and different floors of the same building are used for men and women. Construction of separate hotels will encourage better participation of women in sports, the study says. "In a rural set-up, parents are reluctant to send their daughters to such hostels," Mukherjee told DH. The study cites instances of sports hostels in Mysuru and Davanagere where trainees narrated that they were subjected to "discriminating treatment by the hostel authority" but had not reported them owing to a sense of fear. A few female sports dropouts did hint at sexual abuse by coaches and hostel wardens, underlining the importance of grievance redressal mechanisms as per Vishakha guidelines. Besides, the hostels also show a glaring lack of representation of youth from minority communities and there is a need for special initiatives to ensure adequate representation. Also, majority are from lower income households, suggesting that the wealthier ones go to private academies, it points out. Hostels catering to trainees in athletics, wrestling, basketball, cycling, hockey, and football have performed well compared to other sports. The government should set aside more budget for hostels with good performance as an incentive to do even better, it says. "When it comes to certain equipment like a hockey stick, each sportsperson needs their individual equipment and these cannot be shared. These are some issues that are coming in the way of creating champions," Mukherjee added.  Overall, the residential facilities for different sports are yielding an impressive result, although there is room for further improvement, the study says. Better infrastructure in sports hostels, gender-specific hostels, pro-active grievance redressal system and a gender policy document to accommodate the LGBTQ population in sports are some of the recommendations made by the author. That apart, better pay packages to coaches will also lead to more commitment on their part, according to the recommendations. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-sports-facilities-in-karnatakas-lack-gender-parity-study-1074694.html
26-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to train general physicians in mental healthcare||Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday launched the Karnataka Brain Health Initiative to train general physicians in mental healthcare.  The initiative, undertaken by Nimhans in association with Niti Aayog, is being rolled out in Bengaluru, Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts on a pilot basis. Under this programme, doctors will be trained in screening and treating patients with mental health problems.  “Since the beginning of the pandemic, the government is helping people to cope with mental health issues. We have conducted thousands of counselling sessions with Covid-infected people and their families,” Sudhakar said. He continued: “Mental health has a bearing on the physical health and the overall wellness of the individual. We need to ensure that everyone is aware of mental health issues.”  The minister also spoke about the need to screen newborns for mental health issues. “Due to various socio-economic factors as well as genetic and family issues, many people suffer from mental health issues which will have an impact on their day-to-day activities and quality of life. Therefore, we need more doctors trained in mental healthcare,” he explained.  Dr Sudhakar called for the effective implementation of the programme so that it can get more funds in the future budgets. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-train-general-physicians-in-mental-healthcare-1074701.html
26-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress, Communists 'misusing' Guru's name: V Sunil Kumar||The Congress party and the communists are 'misusing' the name of Sree Narayana Guru for political gains, Karnataka Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V Sunil Kumar alleged on Wednesday. Addressing reporters, Kumar said Sree Narayana Guru’s ideals are above all narrow interests of castes and system. By using his name for political gains, the communists and the Congress are making a mistake, he said. Congress leaders have been criticising the Centre’s rejection of the Sree Naryana Guru’s tableau proposed by the Kerala government for the republic day parade, saying it is an insult to the social reformer. On taking charge as the new district in-charge minister for Dakshina Kannada, Kumar said he will work along with people’s representatives for the overall development of the district.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-communists-misusing-gurus-name-v-sunil-kumar-1074914.html
26-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government launches 'Grama One' in 12 districts, centres to come up by March||Grama One centres will come up in all gram panchayat limits by the end of March, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. He was speaking to reporters after launching the Grama One centres in 3,024 GPs in 12 districts of the state. The technology-driven centres will offer various services to the rural masses and prevent the influence of middlemen and corruption in tahsildars’ offices, he said. Documents, such as income, caste, residency certificates, RTCs and other documents will now be issued at Grama One centres. 15-20 services will be offered initially. It will be increased in the coming days by introducing banking, Aadhaar and other services, Bommai said. The centres will be connected to tahsildars’, assistant commissioners’ offices and Atal Seva Kendras so that villagers can get documents without having to travel to taluk centres. “A special cell will be set up at all taluk offices, consisting of one staff and a high configuration system.” The e-Governance Department will regularly review the progress and activities of Grama One Centres, Bommai said. On door delivery of services in rural areas, Bommai said that it will be introduced in villages after studying similar practices in other states. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-launches-grama-one-in-12-districts-centres-to-come-up-by-march-1074968.html
26-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 48,905 Covid-19 cases, 39 deaths||The state reported 48,905 new Covid cases and 39 deaths on Wednesday, taking the active case count in the state to 3,57,909 and toll to 38,705. Bengaluru alone reported 22,427 new cases and eight deaths. The state capital’s active caseload is currently 2,16,145. The positivity rate in the state for the day is 22.51 per cent and the case fatality rate is 0.07 per cent. The state discharged as many as 41,699 people on Wednesday. Mysuru reported 2,797 cases, Tumakuru 2,645, Mandya 2,186, and Hassan 2,016. Dakshina Kannada and Hassan reported four deaths each. Mysuru reported three deaths. Ten other districts reported one death each. On Wednesday, the state conducted 2,17,230 Covid tests. As many as 2,55,965 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Wednesday, taking the total vaccination doses given so far to 9,42,32,625.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-48905-covid-19-cases-39-deaths-1074971.html
26-01-2022||West||Khaman seller from Surat gets PETA award for saving birds from kite string||A khaman (snack) seller from Gujarat's Surat has been given an award by PETA India for his initiative to dissuade people from using manja or nylon string thus saving the lives of many birds. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA India) said in a release that Chetan Patel had offered 1 kg of khaman in exchange of 1 kg of discarded manja after Uttarayan festival celebrated on January 14. The "Hero to Animals Award", in the form of a certificate, was recently handed over to Patel, the owner of Jay Gopinath Khaman and Locho in the Vesu area of Surat city. "Numerous humans and thousands of birds are injured or killed every year after being cut or trapped by manja, which can get caught on trees, power lines, or buildings," PETA India Advocacy Associate Farhat Ul Ain said. PETA India said Patel's kind gesture has set an example of compassion for everyone to follow. Birds' wings and feet are slashed and even sliced off when they fly into or become tangled in manja. Rescue organisations report that they receive distress calls about injured birds long after kite-flying events and, for some, they come too late. Manja also causes many human injuries and deaths every year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/khaman-seller-from-surat-gets-peta-award-for-saving-birds-from-kite-string-1074783.html
26-01-2022||West||Every Maharashtra district will have village of books, Koshyari reiterates||In a unique initiative, every district of Maharashtra would have one village of books, Maharashtra governor reiterated on Wednesday. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari made a mention of the “Pustakanche Gaon” initiative in his Republic Day address. “One village of books will be established in every district of the state for preservation of literature and culture and for taking the reading movement to maximum people of the state,” Koshyari said.  Earlier this month, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government took the decision to have a village of books in every district.  "The aim behind creating such villages is to inculcate reading habit among the people, especially children,” Marathi language minister Subhash Desai had stated.  Maharashtra pioneered the village of books concept in India. In 2017, Bhilar village near the hill stations of Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani in Satara district was converted into a village of books. In 2017, the village had a collection of 15,000 Marathi books in 25 homes, however, now the collection has risen to 30,000 books in many languages in 35 homes. Maharashtra has 36 districts and each district will have a village of books.  The Hay-on-Wye in the United Kingdom is often referred to as the town of books. Hay-on-Wye, which is a destination for bibliophiles in the United Kingdom, has two dozen bookshops,  many selling specialist and second-hand books.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/every-maharashtra-district-will-have-village-of-books-koshyari-reiterates-1074829.html
26-01-2022||West||Row erupts over renaming Mumbai sports arena after Tipu Sutan||A major political row has surfaced in Mumbai over the renaming of a sports complex after the controversial 18th century ruler Tipu Sultan, the Tiger of Mysore, who won several wars in South India. While the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi seems to be divided over the issue, the Sangh-parivar and BJP has launched a vehement campaign against giving the name of Tipu Sultan to the sports arena located in the Malad suburbs of Mumbai.  Over the last few days, workers of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal have been protesting against the development. Subsequently, the BJP joined in and questioned the Maharashtra government - which has Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress as partners, and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has governed Mumbai for quarter of a century.  The maidan is located in the constituency of state textiles and ports minister Aslam Shaikh.  “This Tipu Sultan who has committed atrocities against Hindus cannot be our hero. The decision to rename the sports complex after Tipu Sultan should be withdrawn,” leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said.  On Wednesday, several Sangh-parivar workers undertook protests near the sports complex. However, they were detained by police. “This definitely is with an intention of ruining the peace of our Mumbai and could have been avoided. Our Maharashtra is a Sant Bhoomi and naming a project in the name of a brutal, barbaric anti-Hindu is condemnable,” VHP spokesperson Shriraj Nair said. Shaikh said that the renaming was done when the BJP shared power with the Shiv Sena in the BMC. "BJP is just politicising this issue. When they were in politics, many such gardens, roads were given the name of Tipu Sultan. Why do they have problems now?" he asked. Shiv Sena leader and state environment, tourism and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray, however, stayed away from commenting on the issue. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/row-erupts-over-renaming-mumbai-sports-arena-after-tipu-sutan-1074874.html
26-01-2022||West||Paschim Lehar: Indian Navy's joint maritime exercise concludes off west-coast||A joint maritime exercise Paschim Lehar was conducted by the Indian Navy concluded off the West Coast on Tuesday.  The exercise was conducted over a duration of 20 days with an objective to validate operational plans of the Western Naval Command and enhance inter-service synergy among the Indian Navy, Indian Air Force, Indian Army and Coast Guard. The exercise was conducted under the aegis of Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Naval Command. The intra-theatre exercise included mobilisation and participation of over 40 ships and submarines of the Indian Navy.  In addition, the IAF deployed SU 30 MKI & Jaguar maritime strike aircraft, Flight Refuelling Aircraft and AWACs, alongside the Indian Navy’s maritime reconnaissance aircraft P8i, Dorniers, IL 38 SD, unmanned aerial systems and MiG 29K strike aircraft.  Various elements of the Indian Army including Air Defence batteries were also mobilised for the exercise. After a long gap, many OPVs, FPVs and Air Cushion Vessels of the Coast Guard also participated in exercise Paschim Lehar. A variety of weapon firings in a realistic tactical scenario, besides validation of operational missions and tasks under varying settings, were undertaken during the exercise. “The exercise provided all participating forces an opportunity to operate together under realistic conditions, in responding to contemporary maritime challenges, across the areas of the Command’s responsibility,” a Mumbai-based defence spokesperson said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/paschim-lehar-indian-navys-joint-maritime-exercise-concludes-off-west-coast-1074878.html
26-01-2022||West||Gujarat: 3.2 magnitude tremor hits Valsad district; no casualty||A 3.2 magnitude tremor was experienced in Valsad district of south Gujarat on Wednesday afternoon, said the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR), but no casualty or damage to property was reported. The minor earthquake had its epicentre around 46 km East-North East from Valsad and occurred at 12:46 pm at a depth of 9 km, the ISR said in an update on its website. A district administration official said no loss of life or damage to property was reported due to the tremor. It may be recalled that it was on the same date in 2001 that Gujarat was struck by an earthquake of 6.9 magnitude with its epicentre located near Bhachau in Kutch district. The quake had killed 13,800 people and injured another 1.67 lakh, as per information provided by the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-32-magnitude-tremor-hits-valsad-district-no-casualty-1074943.html
26-01-2022||West||Multi-floor structure collapses in Mumbai; 9 injured||Nine persons, including a senior citizen and three teenage girls, were injured after a multi-storey structure collapsed in suburban Bandra on Wednesday, a civic official said. The ground plus four-storey structure caved in at around 3.50 pm in the Behram Nagar of the western suburb, he said. Fire brigade and police personnel immediately rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation, the official said. Nine persons, three of them teenage girls, suffered injuries in the collapse and were admitted to hospitals, he said, adding among the wounded was a 64-year-old man. One of the injured was in a critical condition, while the others were stable, the official said. Half a dozen ambulances, five fire engines and one rescue van were sent to the crash site, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/multi-floor-structure-collapses-in-mumbai-9-injured-1074946.html
26-01-2022||West||Will try to make Maharashtra 'saviour' of women in world: CM Uddhav||The Maharashtra government will work to ensure that the state becomes the "saviour" of women in India and the rest of the world, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Wednesday. The CM was speaking virtually at an event organised by the Mumbai Police to launch the 'Nirbhaya Squad' and the Nirbhaya Empowerment centre to protect women. Thackeray said that Maharashtra always worshipped women and respected them. "We (government) will work to ensure that Maharashtra will be known as the saviour of women not only in India but in the entire world. Maharashtra is a 'Shakti Pujak' (worshiper of women power) state," he said. He said the Nirbhaya squad will ensure the safety of women who are working in various fields so that they don't feel helpless. "We have to protect women. We will also strengthen the police force," he added. Citing data, state Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil said that incidents of violence against women are on the rise which is a cause of worry as many women are working in the public sector. He also said that in about 80 to 90 per cent of incidents, the accused are known to the family of the victim women, but it is portrayed that crimes against women are increasing in Maharashtra and Mumbai is not safe for women. Such portrayal damages the image of the police, he said. Walse Patil said that women who visit police stations with a complaint should be listened to and action should be taken immediately so that criminals are not emboldened which will prevent serious crimes against women. The home minister said that the reputation of society depends on the safety of women. "A society where women are not safe can never prosper. The question of the safety of women is not limited to herself or her family, but it is the responsibility of the whole society," he added. Walse Patil, his cabinet colleagues Aaditya Thackeray and Aslam Shaikh, NCP MP Supriya Sule attended the event in person.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-try-to-make-maharashtra-saviour-of-women-in-world-cm-uddhav-1074955.html
