27-01-2022||Comment||Between Scylla and Charybdis||The Union government proposes to amend the rules for the deputation of cadre officers of the All-India Services (AIS) to the Centre. This has evoked strident protestations from some Chief Ministers, expectedly of the Opposition-ruled states, alleging that the amendments proposed are against the ‘spirit of cooperative federalism’. So, what exactly does the Centre propose to do? The changes proposed to the Rules: If the state government delays posting a cadre officer to the Centre and does not give effect to the central government’s decision within the specified time, “the officer shall stand relieved from cadre from the date as may be specified by the central government”; the Centre will decide the number of officers to be deputed to the central government in consultation with the state and the latter should make available such number of officers. Current deputation rules already require the states to depute the All-India Service (AIS) officers to the central government offices not exceeding 40% of the total cadre strength; in case of any disagreement between the Centre and the state, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state shall give effect to the decision of the Centre “within a specified time”; in specific situations where services of cadre officers are required by the central government in ‘public interest’ the state shall give effect to its decisions within a specified time. Incidentally, remember that the central government is the cadre-controlling authority for AIS officers. If the AIS (IAS, IPS, and IFoS) are to remain what they are intended to be — a strong and effective bridge between the Centre and the states in our federal polity — they must be kept above party, or indeed petty, politics. The central government, the appointing authority of the AIS, should also be responsible for the functioning and conduct of AIS officers, as also the prevention of their undue harassment, regardless of whether an officer is serving at the Centre or in the states. On first principles, the appointing authority must also have the right to draw on the services of the officers, and should not have to wait for the consent of the officer or the state cadre on which s/he is borne. The AIS represent a unique feature of our federal polity, especially because the India Constitution, though federal in form, is unitary in substance. The legislative, financial and administrative powers vested in the Centre leave little doubt that the Union has been assigned not just more decisive, but even overriding, powers over the states. The AIS scheme is part of this general policy of making the Centre strong in the overall constitutional arrangements. The self-righteous expression of outrage by some Chief Ministers is woefully out of place; made worse by quoting Sardar Patel completely out of context. As a matter of fact, it is in some of these very states that AIS officers are perceived as polarised along party lines, with government-wide transfers routinely carried out each time the transfer of power from one party to another takes place. The stand taken by states like West Bengal and Tamil Nadu are neither new nor surprising. They had expressed similar views in their submissions to the Sarkaria Commission on Centre-state relations in 1985; and the Sarkaria Commission, like the States Reorganisation Commission before it, dismissed their submissions.  It is not without reason that Sardar Patel championed the cause of the AIS. In October 1946, he sought the consent of the premiers of the provinces to the AIS scheme; and all the premiers agreed, barring two provinces — Punjab and Bengal — which withheld consent. The crucial question was of ultimate control over the proposed service. Patel argued that provincial control would expose the service to undesirable influences. The underlying assumption was, and events in the last 75 years have demonstrated, that the states are less immune to undesirable influences than the Centre. This must not be seen in a pejorative or derisive sense, but as a reflection of the often local, disparate, parochial, and political-economy interests that state politics represent, leading to a greater propensity to treat the civil servant as the handmaiden of politics. To paraphrase the Sardar, ‘this Constitution is meant to be worked by a ring of service which will keep the country intact. We have in our collective wisdom come to a decision that we shall have this model wherein the ring of service will be such that will keep the country under control.’ But for the AIS, there would have been no need for Part XIV of the Constitution dealing with services under the Union and the states. Let us look at what happens in practice: Several states, notably, all the states south of the Vindhyas and those in the North-East, remain exceptionally underrepresented in the Government of India. Indeed, when some Chief Ministers visit New Delhi, they can barely count a handful of officers from their states at the Centre. On the other hand, to borrow Ashish Bose’s evocative description, the ‘BIMARU’ states are over-represented at the Centre — crawling out of the woodwork, if you will. This has longer-term implications for pan-India governance, both in emphasis and nuance. It is creating within the AIS two classes of officers: those who serve in the Government of India, and move back and forth between the Centre and the state; and those that choose to spend their entire careers in the states, blurring the distinction between what is an AIS and what would otherwise be a provincial service. The Centre’s proposal resolves these issues, compelling states to meet their Central Deputation Reserve obligations, without affecting their own requirement of officers, and ensures a more even geographic representation at the Centre. This is a modern-day parable, if ever there was one: some states wanting to reduce the AIS to a glorified provincial service; and the appointing authority being chided that it cannot post the officers where it needs them; and the officers, stuck between Scylla and Charybdis. (The writer is a former IAS officer and currently, Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/between-scylla-and-charybdis-1074984.html
27-01-2022||First Edit||Wrong priority, wrong incentive||The Union Environment Ministry’s move to introduce a star rating system for assessment of environmental impact is unwise and will prove to be counter-productive. The ministry has told states that they would be ranked on the basis of the speed with which they give clearance to industrial or infrastructure projects. The State Environment Impact Assessment Authorities (SEIAA) are the agencies responsible for clearance and they will now be ranked on some parameters. These include the average number of days taken to accept proposals, the number of complaints addressed by the authority, and the percentage of cases in which site visits were made. There are some other criteria too. The assessment authorities will be given stars on the basis of the speed and “efficiency’’ with which projects are cleared. A state whose SEIAA grants clearance in less than 80 days will get more points than another that clears a project in less than105 days. No point is given if the clearance takes more than that. A state that gets seven or more points is entitled to five stars.  It is claimed that the system will promote transparency, efficiency and accountability among states in the process of environmental clearance and that it would incentivise them to reduce delays. It is seen as part of some measures planned to improve the Ease of Doing Business in the country and is traced to a Union cabinet decision in this respect. SEIAA assessment, which studies the ecological cost of infrastructure or development projects, is a major requirement to determine if the project should be cleared. The new system may lead to quicker clearances of projects because states will be in an unhealthy competition to secure star rankings. But procedures like public hearings and detailed analysis of the implications of projects on the environment are likely to be short-circuited.  It is true that there are delays in the clearance of projects, as in the case of most government procedures. This is partly due to bureaucratic red tape and partly due to the complexity and sensitivity involved in the task which has a bearing on the lives and welfare of people and ecosystems. Greater attention is given to the task now because of greater awareness about the importance of the environment. There is greater public scrutiny too. It is wrong to hurry the procedure in order to secure a business-friendly image. The ministry has recently been emphasising the need to give clearances faster. But such haste will lead to lax scrutiny, especially if such laxity is to be rewarded with stars. As it is, the environmental impact assessment system has been diluted and is considered inadequate. The new grading system is likely to weaken it further. The government should drop this plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/wrong-priority-wrong-incentive-1074983.html
27-01-2022||In Perspective||A time for sanity||Having worn my motherland's sacred olive-green uniform for nearly 41 years with great pride and a child-like joy, accentuated with the privilege of undergoing a fair amount of operational service, and thence being a Veteran for many years, many happenings in the nation currently cause me a lot of pain. In my personal life, I am a devout Hindu, but to say that the socio-political environment all around greatly aggravates my metabolism will not be over-stating the unpleasant truth of our times. That lakhs of retired ex-servicemen like me do not require any certificate from anyone on our patriotism or nationalism will perhaps be accepted, at least on the face of it, by those who have taken upon themselves the mantle, including those in a section of the media, to distribute such testimonials!   Let us all never forget the simple fact that we are the inheritors of one of the most ancient and profound civilisations that has withstood the vicissitudes of time, multiple invasions from outside, and many political upheavals. This geographically huge landmass is home to dozens of religions, hundreds of castes and languages, and unimaginable diversity in epic proportions. Down the ages, though culturally there was a form of kinship among most of India's population, politically we were never one as we became in 1947. Yet, there was an invisible, yet strong, strand of unity and Indianness amongst all our peoples. Our unique freedom struggle against British rule, since the mid-19th century, cemented fraternal ties amongst the people all across this vast land. The call of religious and linguistic chauvinism was subsumed by the call of a nation yet to be born. A fierce unity was forged to oust the British imperialists. How diversity in amazing forms shed its divisive cloak for the overall national good is much to be both recalled and felt proud about.   Enlightened and selfless leadership right across the length and breadth of this nation spearheaded the freedom struggle. India, however, had to pay a very heavy price for its Independence when in mid-August 1947, this ancient land was partitioned, leading to millions being displaced and unimaginable violence and killings took place between the same people who had fought together to oust the British. These unfortunate happenings at the time of Partition were attributable primarily to religious divisions. Unfortunately, some of us, even 75 years after our Independence, have not imbibed the lesson that misplaced and blind allegiance to religion is not just a divisive factor but indeed proves fatal to the statecraft of a multi-religious and multi-cultural nation like India.  Today, it is more than evident to any dispassionate observer in India, no matter what one’s political or ideological leanings are, that far too much religiosity, and the attendant politics of intolerance and hate are on the ascendant. Frequent elections every year in the states tempt some political parties to fan communalism and casteism to polarise their vote-banks -- an unacceptable and painful phenomenon that hits at the nation's unity in diversity. As the political tempo and electoral temperature increases in the ensuing polls to five important states in the country, the leaders of all political parties must rein in their cadres and their own base instincts in their campaigns. Some former chiefs and veterans of the Armed Forces have also expressed their concerns to the highest political leadership in the country and sought action to curb the spread of divisiveness and religious intolerance. They have warned that if these hate campaigns are not curbed, even the serving Armed Forces personnel, who hail from all across the nation and belong to all religions, castes and creeds, will get affected. As acknowledged the world over, the Indian Armed Forces have so far magnificently represented the secular, inclusive and totally united values of the nation. India today confronts formidable external, internal security and economic challenges, further compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic. There can be no two opinions that these can only be successfully met by unity and cooperation amongst the entire population, of people of all hues. If the unity of the population can be guaranteed, how can any force in the world thwart the forward march of 135 crore people in unison!   Thus, it is the fervent prayer of all those who believe in the noble idea of India that all political parties discard their petty ambitions for the nation's unity and integrity, growth and well-being. Politicians of all hues must reach out to heal the marginalised, the downtrodden and the minorities. Remember, a third of our population still lives under the poverty line. The media must play a positive, neutral role, with truth as its cardinal principle. Let us never forget the simple fact that no political party, no religion, no ideology, nor any person is permanent. Only India is eternal. (The writer was the first Director General of Defence Intelligence Agency and Deputy Chief, Integrated Defence Staff)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-time-for-sanity-1074980.html
27-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||20 Hescom staff suspended over Rs 86 crore scam||A total of 20 officials of Hubballi Electricity Supply Company Limited’s (Hescom) Athani division, including five assistant executive engineers (AEE), have been suspended with immediate effect for the alleged irregularities committed in implementing Ganga Kalyan and drinking water and flood relief. The Hescom general manager, following the instruction by Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar, has ordered suspension of the officials pending enquiry. Seven officials have been punished with transfers. The departmental enquiry report points out to misappropriation of Rs 86 crore by the officials in question. Suspended officers are: S H Bahuroopi (AEE-Chikkodi sub-division); R H Kallari (AEE-Aigali sub-division); Geetha G Kadlaskar (AEE-Ugara sub-division); G V Sampannavar (AEE-Vijayapura) V G Nayak (AEE-Belagavi Rural sub-division-1); B M Patil (Accounts officer-Athani); Y S Kelagade (Asst accounts officer-Athani); V A Gani, S B Bullagouda, D K Kambale and R C Rathod (all assistant engineers); S A Parthanahalli, N B Nemannavar, B S Sheelvantar, S B Mahishawadagi and G S Kolkar (all junior engineers); M K Kulkarni (senior assistant)C K Hiremath (operator) and K S Thakkannavar (meter reader). Several farmer leaders had lodged complaints that several Hescom officers had indulged in rampant corruption in executing works, thereby causing huge losses to state exchequer. The farmer organisation had staged protests in Athani in this regard. A team of executive engineer and auditors has taken up a comprehensive probe into the irregularities in executing the government schemes in the Athani Hescom division. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/20-hescom-staff-suspended-over-rs-86-crore-scam-1075075.html
27-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Speeding lorry rams car, kills two near Machenahalli||Two persons died on the spot in a road mishap at Machenahalli near Bhadravathi on Thursday morning.  The police identified the deceased as Shanmukha and Ramachandra, residents of Paper Town, Bhadravathi. The incident took place when a speeding lorry coming from Shivamogga rammed the car after hitting the road divider.  The duo was heading towards Thirthahali in the car.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/speeding-lorry-rams-car-kills-two-near-machenahalli-1075123.html
27-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Hijab row: Muslim students defy govt order to shun 'hijab'||Despite the Karnataka government forming a high-level committee to decide on the "hijab" row and uniform code, the stalemate continued in Udupi with Muslim students refusing to attend classes without veil. Meanwhile, Education Minister B C Nagesh and local BJP MLA Raghupathy Bhat on Thursday termed it an "international conspiracy". The Muslim students of the Government Girl's College of Udupi in Karnataka have refused to shun "hijab" and attend classes in uniform until the report of the high-level committee formed in this regard is submitted. They have also flatly refused to attend classes online as suggested by local BJP MLA Raghupathy Bhat. The government order in this regard directed the students to maintain status quo with the normal uniform until the further order. The Education Minister said "why this kind of problems arise only in few pockets of the country? The forces against the nation are behind this." "The government has considered this very seriously and a high-level committee has been formed to decide on the uniform. Till then, education institutes in the state, whether government or private, can't change rules regarding uniform. The institutions are being given right to continue with their earlier guidelines," he stated. Once the report is submitted, the matter will be discussed with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and until then status quo has to be maintained, he explained. Raghupathy Bhat, Udupi BJP MLA stated that the matter is being resolved cordially. If the issue is left to the parents and students of the college and Muslims of Udupi, it can be resolved in one hour. It is not a problem at all. The problem is created by outsiders, he said. "The uniform problem suddenly surfaced after Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) won three seats in Kapu local elections. There is a big conspiracy," he added. A H Almas, a protesting student when asked about attending online classes, stated that they are science students and required to attend lab classes and how will they be able to learn it online. When asked about them being asked to go to the college of their choice where hijab is allowed, she asked why they should go to other college as they are studying in a government college. "We are not being allowed sit outside the classroom and hear lecturing. If we discuss with any of our classmates on studies and get notes, they will be called to chamber and warned not to help us. We are harassed. Those who are now not wearing hijabs will also start wearing if it is allowed. It is a very shameful matter for the government officials to not allow us to attend classes as they are not allowing our fundamental rights," Almas and other protesting students said. The Campus Front of India issued a statement that it vehemently condemns the government's idea of banning the hijab in colleges that are contrary to the constitution's intent. "Despite the issue being discussed at national and international levels, the silence of the department of undergraduate education, who should have intervened, is causing suspicion towards the department. The minister of Education's irresponsible statement that the hijab is 'indisciplined' results from a sense of religious intolerance too. While looking into these series of events, it is clear that the government and the Department of Undergraduate Education, who should upheld justice have continued to be unjust. Their inaction will be legally questioned," stated State President Athaulla Punjalkatte.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-hijab-row-muslim-students-defy-govt-order-to-shun-hijab-1075205.html
27-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||B C Patil, Sudhakar say won't return to Congress||A day after Congress leaders D K Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah said that a few BJP ministers and MLAs are in touch with them, ministers K Sudhakar and B C Patil, on Wednesday, clarified that the question of returning to the grand old party does not arise. The said ministers are among the 14 Congress MLAs who defected to the BJP in 2019, helping the saffron party to wrest power from the JD(S)-Congress coalition government. Speaking to reporters in Chikkaballapur, Health Minister K Sudhakar dared the Congress leaders to reveal the names of BJP legislators who they claim to be in touch with them. “KPCC president D K Shivakumar has said that a few BJP MLAs are in touch with him. It is better if he reveals the list... No idea about the MLAs who are in touch with the Congress,” he said. Agriculture Minister B C Patil echoed similar views. “I will not forget the ill-treatment meted out to me by the Congress when I resigned as MLA. We will not leave BJP... I even doubt if Siddaramaiah will remain in the Congress, Patil told reporters in Chitradurga.” “Allegations by party MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal that a few ministers’ return tickets to the Congress have been booked, are far from truth. He should clarify which ministers are in contact with the Congress, Patil said. Minister Muniratna and S T Somashekar also have expressed similar views saying that they would stay put in the BJP. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-c-patil-sudhakar-say-wont-return-to-congress-1075037.html
27-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Bommai, Siddaramaiah in verbal duel over ‘defections’ to Congress||Even as the Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has claimed that several BJP and JD(S) leaders were in touch with him to join Congress, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday rubbished these claims.  Speaking to mediapersons, Siddaramaiah reiterated that there were a few BJP and JD(S) leaders in touch with him to join the Congress. “Whoever wants to join Congress by agreeing to the party ideology is welcome. I have not voluntarily reached out to anyone but have interacted with everyone who has gotten in touch with me,” he said.  Meanwhile, in a retort to Siddaramaiah’s claims that some BJP leaders wanted to the Congress, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai dismissed it as “lies”. Siddaramaiah claimed earlier that some leaders were in touch with him and that they would join soon. Now he is saying they will join ahead of elections. When he was asked who these leaders were, he didn’t have an answer. This only shows that it’s a lie, Bommai said. “There are more chances of Congress leaders quitting the party owing to so many internal conflicts there. No one will join Congress. There are likely chances that more people will quit Congress. After the upcoming elections in five states across the country, Congress will become irrelevant nationally,” Bommai stated.  Meanwhile, even as there’s much speculation on where Siddaramaiah will contest from in the upcoming Assembly polls, the senior Congress leader on Wednesday said he had offers from 10 constituencies and that he would take a call on where to contest from, ahead of the elections.  Speaking to mediapersons, Siddaramaiah said he would discuss with the party high command and decide on which constituency to contest from, closer to the elections. “I have offers from Chamarajpet, Kolar, Koppal and Hebbal to name a few,” he said. He himself has ruled out contesting from Chamundeshwari, where he lost previously and Varuna, a seat represented by his son, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-siddaramaiah-in-verbal-duel-over-defections-to-congress-1075038.html
27-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||New JD(S) core committee to meet on Thursday||The JD(S) will hold the first meeting of its new core committee on Thursday. The new core committee is headed by party leader and Bidar South MLA Bandeppa Kashempur. There are 20 members in the committee, JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy said on Wednesday. Party supremo H D Deve Gowda, H D Kumaraswamy and state president H K Kumaraswamy will be the special invitees to the meeting.  Speaking to mediapersons, Kumaraswamy said the party had also appointed former minister N M Nabi as the state working president, while Manvi MLA Raja Venkatappa Naik has been appointed as the state ST committee president.  As for rumours about defections from the party, Kumaraswamy said he had information about likely defections but was not disturbed by it. "People keep jumping according to what suits them at a particular circumstance," he said. While the Congress has been continuously alleging that the JD(S) is BJP's 'B' team, the same party has also been stating that several BJP leaders are in touch with Congress to join the party. This shows how much cooperation there is between Congress and BJP leaders. "Who is the real 'B' team in this case?" Kumaraswamy sought to know. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/new-jds-core-committee-to-meet-on-thursday-1075043.html
27-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Shivakumar takes 'Nimhans' dig at Ramesh Jarkiholi||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar took a dig at BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi saying that he would not respond to the remarks of those requiring admission at Nimhans. He was responding to media queries on Jarkiholi’s remarks that 16 Congress MLAs are ready to join BJP. “Let him give the list (of MLAs) to his party leaders and do as he wishes,” he said. Referring to BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal’s remark, Shivakumar said, “Time will (provide an) answer to his statements,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shivakumar-takes-nimhans-dig-at-ramesh-jarkiholi-1075073.html
27-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Savadi conspired with D K Shivakumar against BJP in MLC polls: Lakhan Jarkiholi||MLC Lakhan Jarkiholi, without naming former deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi, has alleged that an influential BJP leader from Athani, who lost the Assembly election but rose to the top position, as responsible for the loss of the saffron party candidate in the MLC election to Belgaum local authorities constituency. Speaking to reporters in Gokak, he said, “The leader from Athani conspired with KPCC president D K Shivakumar against the BJP candidate Mahantesh Kavatgimath in the MLC polls. The chief minister has intelligence reports on who worked against the party. He (Bommai) should take action against the leader in question.”  BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has warned the party about a few fence-sitting MLAs. The party will suffer if the leadership fails to act against such legislators, the MLC said. “The Athani leader is in contact with Shivakumar and he may hop to Congress in the coming days.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/savadi-conspired-with-d-k-shivakumar-against-bjp-in-mlc-polls-lakhan-jarkiholi-1075358.html
27-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Congress a closed chapter, says miffed Ibrahim||Miffed over being sidelined in the party, senior Congress leader and MLC C M Ibrahim on Thursday announced his intentions to quit the party. Speaking to mediapersons here, Ibrahim said, “Congress is a closed chapter,” for him. He would deliberate with his well-wishers and announce his next move, he said. He will also resign from his position as an MLC soon, he said. He has a three year tenure left. Apparently, Ibrahim was keen on being appointed as the leader of opposition in the Legislative Council. However, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) chose B K Hariprasad for the post on Wednesday. This decision is believed to have pushed Ibrahim’s decision to quit the party. There have been speculations of late that he will join JD(S). However, Ibrahim did not announce anything officially. He maintained that he had offers to work with political parties in West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and he would take a call soon. He ruled out joining the BJP. His ideology doesn’t match with the BJP’s, he stated, adding, “I am Basava Krupa. They (BJP) are Keshav Krupa. The two are contrary to each other.” Training his guns at the party, Ibrahim said the Congress culture today was to say, “Yes boss”. Ibrahim minced no words in saying that he was unable to gel with KPCC President DK Shivakumar. “Our ways are different,” he said. He also expressed disappointment with Siddaramaiah. He was the one who told Siddaramaiah to contest in Badami as his prospects from Chamundeshwari were bleak, he recalled. “Siddaramaiah gave me a good gift in return,” he lamented. “I tilled the land but the land is in someone else’s name,” he said cryptically. He also predicted that the political equations would drastically change in Karnataka after the Uttar Pradesh elections. There could be an election soon. People will also see many Congress leaders quitting, he claimed. Commenting on Ibrahim’s statement, KPCC President D K Shivakumar said he would talk to the senior leader. “Ibrahim was made the minister during Siddaramaiah’s tenure as the Chief Minister, by sidelining many legislators. Although he lost elections, he was given cabinet ranking and was made the planning commission chief. He was made the MLC twice,” he said. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said Ibrahim was welcome to join his party. Ibrahim is a former JD(S) leader. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-a-closed-chapter-says-miffed-ibrahim-1075360.html
27-01-2022||National||Diaspora has been important pillar of India-US relationship: Ambassador Sandhu||The Indian American diaspora has played an important role in strengthening the India-US relationship, the country's top envoy said here on Wednesday, a day after the Indian government announced Padma Bhushan civilian awards to three eminent Indian Americans. "The diaspora has been an important pillar of the relationship, which continues to strengthen ties through its achievements in diverse sectors and contribute to India's development journey," India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu told the community during a virtual celebration of the country's 73rd Republic Day. Addressing thousands of Indian Americans, who joined the celebrations through various social media outlets, Sandhu said this year, three of the distinguished diaspora members have been conferred the Padma Bhushan -- Madhu Jaffrey for popularising Indian cuisine, Satya Nadella and Sundar Pichai for their leadership in the technology sector. "This is a matter of pride for all of us, as well as a testament to the strength of the community," Sandhu said from the lawns of India House, the official residence of India's Ambassador to the US, in Washington DC. In his remarks, the Indian ambassador said the United States has been a key partner for his country. "As Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi mentioned in his remarks at the Bilateral Summit with President (Joe) Biden last year, we are witnessing a transformative period in the India-US strategic partnership driven by tradition, talent, technology, trade and trusteeship. All of us are working towards realising the full potential of this consequential relationship," he said. Observing that this year is special as the county celebrates the 75th anniversary of its independence as Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, Sandhu said India today is better placed to face the increasing challenges and complexities that the world encounters. "We have a massive vaccination drive against Covid-19 ongoing, administering more than 1.6 billion (160 crore) doses so far and taking vaccines to the remotest corners of the country. The initiatives of the government aimed at boosting jobs, consumer demand, manufacturing, infrastructure, agriculture and exports are accelerating economic recovery," he added. "There is greater investor confidence in the resilience of the Indian economy. India has emerged as one of the largest tech startup bases globally, reflecting the entrepreneurial and innovation spirit particularly among its youth. We have also made rapid and substantial strides in the social sector, including in areas such as health, sanitation, affordable housing, rural electrification, women empowerment and financial inclusion," Sandhu said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diaspora-has-been-important-pillar-of-india-us-relationship-ambassador-sandhu-1075106.html
27-01-2022||National||Portion of Howrah-Delhi railway line blown up by naxals in Jharkhand||In a suspected naxal attack, a portion of the Howrah-New Delhi railway line between Chichaki and Chaudharybandh railway stations in Giridih of Jharkhand was blown up, news agency ANI reported. Officials are ascertaining details about the incident. More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/portion-of-howrah-delhi-railway-line-blown-up-by-naxals-in-jharkhand-1075109.html
27-01-2022||National||India reports 2.86 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 573 fatalities||With 2,86,384 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 4,03,71,500, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll has climbed to 4,91,700 with 573 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. The active cases have decreased to 22,02,472 and comprise 5.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 93.33 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 20,546 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 19.59 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 17.75 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,76,77,328 and the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.22 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 163.84 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 573 new fatalities include 140 from Kerala and 79 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,91,700 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,42,316 from Maharashtra, 52,281 from Kerala, 38,705 from Karnataka, 37,359 from Tamil Nadu, 25,710 from Delhi, 23,106 from Uttar Pradesh and 20,445 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-286-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-573-fatalities-1075116.html
27-01-2022||National||Now, ministries to compete with each other over ease of doing business?||These parameters include single-window clearance of projects, time taken to clear files per department,  the number of permits required to set up a new unit, time taken for these approvals, and the use of Digital India tools. The Centre will also take into account factors such as number of physical files created and complaints raised and cleared per month. "The idea is to discourage creation of physical files for various obvious reasons. Government ministries at central level must accelerate the adoption of digital tools in their day-to-day work," an official told the publication. A senior government official told the publication that these rankings are being prepared in extensive consultation with senior industrialists, industry bodies, trade and policy groups as well as representatives of startups.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-ministries-to-compete-with-each-other-over-ease-of-doing-business-1075128.html
27-01-2022||National||India may not approve Covid-19 vaccine booster shots for all age groups: Report||The government may decide against administering booster shots or “precaution” doses of the Covid-19 vaccines to all age groups as experts are unsure of its merits. “Rethinking has to be done for boosters. The policy… has to be thought through. Boosters have not helped the cases in any country that has administered the third dose. Besides, we will not blindly follow what other countries have done. We have to look at our local epidemiology and science, and our decisions have to be based on that assessment,” a government official was quoted in the publication. Data of booster doses from countries where it has been given and local data about the virus is also being studies, following a meeting of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) for Covid-19 and the World Health Organization (WHO), the report stated. While experts are reviewing the infection date — patterns, behaviours and variants — the WHO is also likely to issue an advisory on booster doses soon, the report stated. “The need of the hour is to develop a vaccine that can prevent not only severe disease from the infection but also spreading of infection. So that we can avoid community transmission,” the official said. With several studies now claiming that the Omicron reduces the risk of reinfection against Delta variant, the focus may soon switch to an Omicron-based fight. WHO experts have already warned that repeating booster doses of the original Covid vaccines is not a viable strategy against emerging variants.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-not-approve-covid-19-vaccine-booster-shots-for-all-age-groups-report-1075138.html
27-01-2022||National||V Anantha Nageswaran may be named next chief economic adviser||By Vrishti Beniwal and Siddhartha Singh Venkatraman Anantha Nageswaran, an academic and former executive with Credit Suisse Group AG and Julius Baer Group, has emerged as the frontrunner to be the chief economic adviser for India’s finance minister, according to people with knowledge of the situation. An announcement on the decision, which hasn’t been finalised, could come as soon as this week, the people said, asking not to be identified as the information isn’t public.  Nageswaran didn’t immediately reply to an email and calls to his office outside of business hours in India. A finance ministry spokesman couldn’t be immediately reached for comment. If appointed, he would succeed Krishnamurthy Subramanian, who returned to academia at the end of his three-year tenure in December.  Asia’s third-largest economy is showing signs of gaining recovery momentum from the pandemic. While the nation is on track to grow at the world’s quickest pace, it has seen inequalities and unemployment rise, putting pressure on the government to address those concerns for sustainable growth.  The new chief economic adviser will be expected to provide a recipe for high growth, while reviving investments and containing the budget gap. The role requires advising on key policy matters to the finance minister, as well as being the lead author of the Economic Survey -- the annual report card of the economy that gets tabled in Parliament ahead of the budget.  Previous advisers have used the platform to bounce off ideas before the public. Subramanian, for instance, used “Thalinomics” -- equivalent to The Economist’s Big Mac Index -- to show how prices for a plate of food moved. The post had also been held by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and former central bank governor Raghuram Rajan. Nageswaran is a visiting distinguished professor of economics at Krea University in India’s southern state of Andhra Pradesh. He got his doctorate in finance from the University of Massachusetts Amherst for his work on the empirical behaviour of exchange rates, and has worked as a part-time member of the Prime Minister’s economic advisory council between 2019 and 2021.  He recently wrote about the need to open educational institutions, saying the costs of closure exceeds covid-safety gains as the virus weakens. In a January 24 column in the Mint newspaper, Nageswaran wrote that the world faces risks including asset-price corrections and inflationary pressure from food and fuel.  He was also previously the global chief investment officer for Bank Julius Baer & Co., based in Singapore, until 2011. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/v-anantha-nageswaran-may-be-named-next-chief-economic-adviser-1075153.html
27-01-2022||National||5G lawsuit: High Court relief to Juhi Chawla; fine cut to Rs 2 lakh from Rs 20 lakh earlier||In a relief to Bollywood actress Juhi Chawla, the Delhi High Court on Thursday reduced the costs slapped on her for filing a plea against the introduction of 5G technology from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh also expunged the adverse remarks made against her by the single-judge bench which held that the suit filed by Chawla and others was frivolous and intended for publicity. Senior Advocates Salman Khurshid and Chawla, who herself appeared before the court, agreed to be part of Delhi State Legal Services Authority's programme for the cause of marginalised women and children following a suggestion by the court. In its order, the bench said, "We reduce the cost from Rs 20 to two lakhs. We are inclined to retain the part of the cost since we do find that the application moved along with the plaint were completely wrong." The court noted Chawla has appeared before it and volunteered that she would work with DSLSA in whose favour the cost had been awarded and which is now reduced to Rs two lakh, to advance the cause of deprived children and women who are in need of legal aid. She stated that it would be an honour for her to render social service by featuring in their programme. The bench also said that the suit by her may have been filed to espouse a genuine cause but the petitioners who did not have legal background or knowledge might have been unaware of the implications of the manner in which the plea came to be drafted. On June 4, 2021, the High Court had dismissed her plea against the introduction of 5G technology with Rs 20 lakh for abusing the process of law. "The suit was filed for publicity... also contained unnecessary, unverified and vexatious assertions," the court had said, imposing Rs 20 lakh cost on Chawla and two others Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani. The plea filed by Chawla and others claimed that 5G wireless technology can be a potential threat to provoke irreversible and serious effects on humans and it could also permanently damage the earth's ecosystems.  It also contended that radiation would be 10 to 100 times greater than the existing levels, and no living species on the planet would be able to survive round the clock exposure. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5g-lawsuit-high-court-relief-to-juhi-chawla-fine-cut-to-rs-2-lakh-from-rs-20-lakh-earlier-1075167.html
27-01-2022||National||Centre asked Twitter for data on 2,200 accounts in 1st half of 2021||The Indian government asked Twitter for data on 2,200 user accounts in the January-June 2021 period and the micro-blogging platform complied with just 2 per cent of the requests. There were also nearly 5,000 legal demands to remove Twitter accounts from India in the reporting period, the company's latest transparency report has revealed. Global government preservation requests decreased by 4 per cent, while accounts specified increased by 24 per cent during this reporting period. The US (57 per cent) and India (25 per cent) together accounted for 82 per cent of all global preservation requests. Since Twitter started bringing out its transparency report in 2012, India has requested information on 11,667 user accounts, which is 10 per cent of the global information requests. The US submitted the most government information requests, accounting for 24 per cent of the global volume, and 27 per cent of the global accounts specified. The second highest volume of requests originated from India, comprising 18 per cent of global information requests and 30 per cent of the global accounts specified. Twitter said that it partially disclosed or did not disclose information in response to 64 per cent of global government information requests, a decrease of 9 per cent during this reporting period. Japan, Brazil, and the US were the top three requesting countries when it comes to non-government requests, with all three accounting for 89 per cent of all requests and 87 per cent of the total accounts specified for this period. In terms of legal demands from governments, in the six-month period, Twitter received 43,387 legal demands to remove content, specifying 196,878 accounts. "This is the largest number of accounts ever subject to removal requests in a reporting period since releasing our first transparency report in 2012," the company said late on Wednesday. In the January-June period, Twitter required account holders to remove 4.7 million tweets that violated its rules. Of the Tweets removed, 68 per cent received fewer than 100 impressions prior to removal, with an additional 24 per cent receiving between 100 and 1,000 impressions. In these six months, Twitter permanently suspended 453,754 unique accounts for violations of its child sexual exploitation (CSE) policy. In the first half of 2021, Twitter suspended 44,974 unique accounts for promotion of terrorism and violent organisations. According to Article 4(d) of India's Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, Twitter is required to publish a monthly report regarding its handling of complaints from users in India, including action taken on them, as well as the number of URLs that Twitter has taken action as a result of proactive monitoring efforts. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asked-twitter-for-data-on-2200-accounts-in-1st-half-of-2021-1075185.html
27-01-2022||National||I-T refunds worth Rs 1.62 lakh crore issued so far this fiscal||The Income Tax Department on Thursday said it has issued refunds worth Rs 1.62 lakh crore to more than 1.79 crore taxpayers so far this fiscal. This includes 1.41 crore refunds for 2020-21 fiscal amounting to Rs 27,111.40 crore. "CBDT issues refunds of over Rs 1,62,448 crore to more than 1.79 crore taxpayers from 1st Apr,2021 to 24th Jan,2022," the Income Tax department tweeted. This includes personal Income Tax refunds of Rs 57,754 crore issued to over 1.77 crore entities and corporate tax refunds of Rs 1.04 lakh crore have been issued in 2.23 lakh cases. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-refunds-worth-rs-162-lakh-crore-issued-so-far-this-fiscal-1075186.html
27-01-2022||National||Ahead of Budget Session, Congress to meet on January 28||Ahead of the Budget Session, the Congress strategy group is to meet on Friday to discuss and strategise the party's stand during the session. The Congress meeting will be chaired by Sonia Gandhi and attended by floor leaders of both the Houses, chief whips and important functionaries of the party. Congress is likely to raise the issue of MSP laws, growing unemployment and shifting of Amar Jawan Jyoti. The meeting comes ahead of the all-party meet called by the Centre on January 31. The meeting of the floor leaders will be held virtually at 3 p.m. In the meeting of floor leaders of all parties, the government will deliberate with the opposition on issues that it would like to discuss during the session. The government will discuss the agenda and Legislative business that they would likely follow in the session. The Budget Session will commence on the same day with the Presidential address at 11 a.m. followed by the laying of the Economic Survey. The finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget on February 1. In a tweet, Union parliamentary affair minister Pralhad Joshi said, "1st part of the #BudgetSession to commence on 31st January, with the address of the Hon'ble President to both the Houses. On 1st February, Hon'ble FM @nsitharaman ji will present the Union Budget. To ensure Covid safety protocol, the two Houses of Parliament will function in shifts." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-budget-session-congress-to-meet-on-january-28-1075189.html
27-01-2022||National||Why are Indian Railways job aspirants angry?||A group of protesters in Bihar, alleging that they were cheated by the Railways, on Wednesday set a train afire after storming the Gaya Junction station.  The protesters, who are job seekers, claimed that holding a second round of examinations for those who had cleared the Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) exam is not “fair.” The protesters are claiming that those with higher qualifications will get the jobs meant for 10+2 pass-outs, due to multiple rounds of screening.  The results of the RRB-NTPC for computer-based test (CBT) was released on January 15. Around 1.25 crore candidates had applied for the exams, against 35,000 posts from level 2 to level 6.  The Railways has previously maintained that the number of candidates shortlisted for jobs will be 20 times the number of available posts. Currently, the number of shortlisted candidates is over 3 lakh, but still meets the Railways criteria as several applicants are eligible for multiple vacancies. However, the Railways clarified that those shortlisted for multiple vacancies will not get multiple jobs. Currently, Railways has decided to suspend its NTPC exam and level 2 tests. "A high power committee has been formed to look into the concerns and doubts raised by candidates in regard to results of 1st Stage Computer Based Test (CBT) of Centralized Employment Notification (CEN) 01/2019 of Non Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) issued by Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) on 14-15th January 2022," the Railways said in a statement. The panel will give its recommendations by March 4. The panel will accept suggestions and objections from candidates till February 16.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-are-indian-railways-job-aspirants-angry-1075190.html
27-01-2022||National||Tata Sons Chairman meets PM Modi ahead of Air India handover||Tata Sons Chairman N Chandrasekaran met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday ahead of the official handover of Air India. The Tata Group is expected to take full control of the airline, founded in 1932. The cash component of the deal would come once the handover process is completed. The Tata Group would pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the airline's debt. The deal also includes the sale of Air India Express and ground handling arm AISATS. This will mark the return of Air India to the Tata fold after 67 years. The Tata Group had founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932. The government nationalised the airline in 1953. According to media reports, the Air India Board is expected to resign on Thursday and Tata nominees will likely replace the government members. More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tata-sons-chairman-meets-pm-modi-ahead-of-air-india-handover-1075192.html
27-01-2022||National||PM vows to deepen Indo-French ties, jointly work for peaceful Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday thanked French President Emmanuel Macron for his Republic Day greetings, and said he looks forward to deepen India's strategic partnership with France as well as jointly work for an open and peaceful Info-Pacific region. Macron had wished the prime minister and people of India on the country's 73rd Republic Day Wednesday with a message in Hindi posted on his Facebook page. Macron said our Info-Pacific aspirations and joint projects would continue. Modi responded to Macron's message in French. "Thank you my dear friend @EmmanuelMacron for your warm greetings. I look forward to further deepening our unique and multidimensional strategic partnership and would like to work with you for an open and peaceful Indo-Pacific. Long live the Indo-French friendship," Modi said, according to a rough translation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-vows-to-deepen-indo-french-ties-jointly-work-for-peaceful-indo-pacific-1075197.html
27-01-2022||National||Congress claims Rahul's Twitter stand 'vindicated' after company assures of healthy debate||The Congress on Thursday said its leader Rahul Gandhi's stand that democracy and social media platforms cannot be suppressed or subjugated by the ruling government and allowed to become a space for mere abuse and trolls stands vindicated. The comments came after Twitter said it is committed to India and healthy debate on its platform. Gandhi had written to Twitter, accusing it of "unwitting complicity" in curbing free and fair speech in India and expressed serious concern over "suppressing" his Twitter account followers. Twitter, however, said the account follower numbers are "meaningful and accurate". Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "The plurality, the multi-culturalism, the open debate, the critique of policies and programmes of the government and that the social media patforms should be healthy forum for debates and discussions has been the stand of Rahul Gandhi, which now stands vindicated." In his letter to Twitter CEO Parag Aggarwal, Gandhi had said, "I am writing to you on behalf of more than a billion Indians to not allow Twitter to become a pawn in the destruction of the idea of India. I want to bring your attention to what I believe is Twitter's unwitting complicity in curbing free and fair speech in India," Gandhi also said in his December 27 letter to Twitter. Responding to him, Twitter's vice president, Global Public Policy and Philanthropy, Sinead McSweeney said, "Twitter is deeply committed to India" and will ensure that public conversation is healthy, which includes diverse voices, diverse points of view, allowing people to be better informed and to participate safely and comfortably. Twitter also pointed out that it does not arbitrarily censor political content and elevating political debate and open discourse is fundamental to its service and core values. "We understand increased transparency is at the foundation to promote healthy public conversation on Twitter and to earn trust. We know it is critical that people understand our processes and that we are transparent about what happens as a result. We assure you that Twitter, Inc. treats its role as a platform service provider with utmost seriousness and we are deeply committed to India," McSweeney said. Gandhi had pointed out that the ideological battle between liberal democracy and authoritarianism across the world is being shaped on social media platforms and this places a huge responsibility on those that are at the helm of companies such as Twitter. As a leader of India's largest opposition party, Gandhi said it is his duty to raise my voice on behalf of our people against injustice. "As you may be aware, there is an ongoing assault on India's institutional framework and a complete capture of traditional mainstream media," he alleged, adding that social media platforms like Twitter have become important channels to raise people's issues and hold the government to account. "In this background, it is perplexing that the growth in my Twitter followers has suddenly been suppressed," he alleged, adding that his Twitter followers which were increasing by an average of 10,000 every day have become stagnant and have fallen to nearly zero. Gandhi's Twitter following has started rising since this week and is growing by around 10,000 per day, sources close to him said. Gandhi's followers crossed 19.6 million on Thursday morning, after being stagnant at 19.5 million for many months. The former Congress chief also pointed out that Twitter India is under "immense pressure from the government to silence my voice" and pointed out that his account has even been blocked after being "singularly targeted". On Gandhi's follower count, Twitter said the numbers are "meaningful and accurate" as it keeps fighting spam and malicious automation strategically with machine learning tools. "Twitter also removes millions of accounts each week for violating our policies on platform manipulation and spam. While some notice a minor difference, in certain cases, the number could be higher. We understand this change can be concerning, but we believe accuracy and transparency make Twitter a more trusted service for public conversation. We're continuing our work to proactively identify and challenge problematic accounts globally that distort and detract from the public conversation on Twitter," the company said. McSweeney said it focuses on developing machine learning tools that identify and take action on networks of spammy or automated accounts automatically. "If we put an account into a read-only state (where the account can't engage with others or Tweet) because our systems have detected it behaving suspiciously, Twitter removes it from follower figures and engagement counts until it passes a challenge, like confirming a phone number," Twitter said. To that end, follower counts may also for this reason, continue to change more regularly. It does not mean that these account holders did anything wrong, it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-claims-rahuls-twitter-stand-vindicated-after-company-assures-of-healthy-debate-1075200.html
27-01-2022||National||Covishield, Covaxin get conditional market approval for use in adult population||India’s drug regulator on Thursday granted a conditional market authorisation for Covishield and Covaxin asking the manufacturers to submit safety data for the two Covid-19 vaccines after every six months, but retained the existing vaccination rules for the recipients at the moment. “The Central Drug Standards and Control Organisation has upgraded the permission for Covaxin and Covishield from restricted use in emergency situations to normal new drug permission in the adult population with certain conditions,” Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a tweet. The conditions include supply for programmatic settings including registration on the CoWin platform and to continue to submit safety data on a six-monthly basis. While there is no official word on the relaxation of existing rules allowing a common man to buy the vaccines from the market, PTI soon after the approval reported quoting sources that the two jabs would be available in private clinics at pre-decided MRP so that people could buy them. But the shots would be administered as per the prevailing government guidelines only. Gradually, the vaccine will be available in the market at a price lower than at what it was being sold earlier at private hospitals. "The idea is that those who are keen to get a booster dose can now avail it through private clinics as the vaccine available in private clinics can be used for any purpose, whether it's first dose, second dose or a booster as one wishes, provided that all guidelines including for eligibility of beneficiaries are followed," sources said. A regular license would allow the two manufacturers Serum Institute of India (Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (Covaxin) to bring their products to the commercial market for better availability. "The programme setting would continue, which means application of the vaccines is to be done only through Co-WIN. There would also be monitoring of adverse events following immunisation,” explained Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the Health Ministry. A key difference is currently such safety data is submitted every 15 days but with the upgraded licensing, the companies would have to share the data with the Drugs Controller General of India every six month. About ten days ago, an expert panel recommended granting regular new drug licenses for the two vaccines instead of the emergency use authorisation after more than a year of their use in India's Covid-19 vaccination programme. India’s cumulative vaccination coverage crossed 164 crore doses on Thursday, of which 141 crore was Covishield and 23 crore was Covaxin. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-covaxin-get-conditional-market-approval-for-use-in-adult-population-1075201.html
27-01-2022||National||Goa CM Pramod Sawant, ex-CM Parrikar's son file nomination for upcoming polls||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday filed his nomination papers from the Sanquelim constituency in North Goa for the February 14 Assembly polls. "We will win 22 plus seats in these 2022 elections," Sawant said after filing his nomination papers in the company of Bharatiya Janata Party's Goa election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis. Thursday also saw two other significant former BJP personalities filing their nomination papers as independent candidates. Former BJP Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar, who resigned from the BJP last week filed nomination papers as an independent candidate from the Mandrem Assembly constituency.  Parsekar said that any dialogue with the BJP was not an option anymore. He also said that Chief Minister Pramod Sawant was living in a "fool's paradise" to expect any form of discussions any further. "People are free to live in fools' paradise, work their brains, make assumptions they are free to... Those who claim that talks are on, should come before me and raise their head and start talking to me by looking at me in the eye. I am not the one to succumb to the pressure of party seniors," Parsekar said. Former Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar's son Utpal also filed his nomination papers as an independent candidate. Utpal had resigned from the BJP after he was denied a ticket by the ruling party, which opted for sitting BJP MLA Atanasio Monserrate instead. "...my father had worked in Panaji. I want to follow his footsteps. I will give 200 per cent hard work. This is what I want to tell the people of Panaji," Utpal Parrikar said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-ex-cm-parrikars-son-file-nomination-for-upcoming-polls-1075209.html
27-01-2022||National||Not invited to Republic Day celebration by Mamata govt, claim BJP, Congress leaders||Two senior-most politicians representing the Opposition in West Bengal were allegedly left out of the state's Republic Day celebrations. West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee President, and Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, has written to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleging ‘bias in the celebration of Republic Day by the West Bengal Government’. “I am writing this letter with (a) lot of anguish that as a people’s representative and a Member of Parliament I have not been invited to participate in the Republic Day function, neither in my district nor in the state capital,” Adhir stated. He alleged that even on occasions of national ‘festivities’ the state administration is “acting with bias and on political considerations”. Adhir added that the matter be examined seriously and “it may be examined whether the laid down protocol” on this issue has been followed, or ignored. BJP leader and Leader of the Opposition in the state legislative assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, allegedly, was also left out of the state’s programme.  “In another low, Mamata Banerjee didn’t invite Shri Suvendu Adhikari, LoP in WB, for the Republic Day celebration held at Red Road in Kolkata. This is the first time LoP hasn’t been invited,” claimed Amit Malviya, BJP’s co-in-charge for the state of West Bengal, in a tweet. Suvendu, as he posted photos of the celebration in Nandigram, his constituency, stated, “Proud to hoist the National Flag. One doesn’t need any ‘invitation’ to do it.” The leader in a post further alleged that the chief minister violated protocol, as she “did not receive” Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at the Republic Day function, and instead, the Governor walked to her and greeted her. Administrative sources suggest that due to strong Covid norms, there were a limited number of invitees, around 60, to the function.  In political circles, the interpretations are different. Kunal Ghosh, the spokesperson for the Trinamool Congress, said that if Suvendu was eager to watch, he could have walked to the venue and taken a chair. For Congress leader Adhir, Kunal said that it’s his political compulsion to raise issues. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-invited-to-republic-day-celebration-by-mamata-govt-claim-bjp-congress-leaders-1075217.html
27-01-2022||National||Two militants escape from Shopian encounter site||Two militants, including a Pakistani, managed to escape from an encounter site in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Thursday. The gun battle which had started in Nowgam village of Shopian on Wednesday evening left two soldiers injured. Inspector General of police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar while confirming the escape of two militants, who were trapped last evening, said the ultras escaped from the spot due to darkness and evacuation of civilians by security forces. “During the initial exchange of fire, two soldiers received bullet injuries and they were immediately rushed to a nearby healthcare facility,” he said. At least 16 militants have been killed in Kashmir this year, while last year 171 ultras were neutralised. According to police figures, 156 ultras, including 73 foreigners, were active in Kashmir on December 31. This is for the first time that the number of active militants in the Valley has come down to less than 200 since the insurgency erupted in Kashmir in 1990. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-militants-escape-from-shopian-encounter-site-1075228.html
27-01-2022||National||Centre mulling to revisit precaution dose policy||The Centre is mulling over the relevance of the precaution dose which is currently being administered to the frontline and healthcare workers along with 60 plus population as some experts are sceptical about the benefits of the third dose. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) for Covid-19 held a high-level meeting with NITI Aayog on Wednesday. A source said that the NTAGI group is sceptical about the benefits of the third dose administered. "The NTAGI presented some research papers on the third dose administered in several countries which have not helped in curbing infection, to the NITI Aayog in the meeting", a source told IANS. Some cases of getting infected even after the third dose have also been reported in India. The source said that the experts from NTAGI have assessed the data from the countries where booster doses have been administered. It has also studied the impacts of the third dose against the infection. The NTAGI is expected to meet the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) next week with some more fact-finding papers on the third dose, the source said. However, the policy on booster or precaution dose could be revisited for the extension of the policy among other age group beneficiaries. As per the source, the precaution dose may continue among healthcare and frontline workers and the 60 plus population. Meanwhile, according to the health ministry report, a total of 97,03,569 precaution doses have been administered so far which includes 29,87,993 for healthcare workers, 31,02,620 for frontline workers and 36,12,956 for over 60 population. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulling-to-revisit-precaution-dose-policy-1075235.html
27-01-2022||National||Padma award for Azad a political decision, not on merit: Congress leader Veerappa Moily||Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily said on Thursday the Narendra Modi government's decision to confer Padma Bhushan on Ghulam Nabi Azad was a political one and not based on merit. He said the former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister should not accept the award if he thinks that it harms the interest of the Congress party. "Narendra Modi took a political decision," Moily told PTI here. "They have taken a decision politically; not weighing on any merit or otherwise. Now, it's for him (Azad) to take a decision (on whether to accept or decline the award). The former Union Minister, who was among the Congress group of 23 leaders who wrote to the party chief Sonia Gandhi in 2020 seeking internal reforms, said Azad should think whether it's in the interest of the party or not before accepting it. Noting that Azad is a senior member of the Congress who had also served as Union Minister, the former Karnataka Chief Minister said he has to weigh the pros and cons on whether accepting the award will harm the interest of the party.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-award-for-azad-a-political-decision-not-on-merit-congress-leader-veerappa-moily-1075236.html
27-01-2022||National||ED arrests Karvy stock broking CMD, CFO in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday said it has arrested Karvy Stock Broking Limited (KSBL) CMD C Parthasarathy and group CFO G Krishna Hari in connection with a money laundering investigation linked to alleged diversion of clients' securities of over Rs 2,873 crore. The agency produced the two-- already lodged in central jail, Bengaluru after being arrested by the police-- before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Hyderabad on January 20 and on January 25 it remanded them to four days of ED custody from January 27-30, it said in a statement. The ED case, filed under the criminal provisions of the PMLA, is based on multiple Telangana Police FIRs filed by the HDFC Bank, few other banks and investors alleging clients' securities were illegally diverted by Karvy Stock Broking Ltd and these were later pledged with banks and non banking financial companies (NBFCs) for loans which were later "defaulted". The ED has earlier recorded the statement of various Karvy group employees and also conducted searches in this case in September last year. "The ED has uncovered the complex web of transactions designed by the senior management of the Karvy Group to misuse the securities of their clients and to raise loans fraudulently which were then rotated via multiple related companies and diverted away from the stated purpose. "The shares of clients who did not owe any funds to KSBL were also transferred to the margin/pool account of KSBL and were pledged with the banks/ NBFCs," the agency said. The power of attorney (POA) given by clients to KSBL to facilitate exchange settlements was "grossly misused" by KSBL at the directions of the CMD and senior executives.  It said CMD Parthasarathy and chief financial officer (CFO) Hari were the "main conspirators" who gave instructions to others.  "Fund trail investigation has shown that the borrowed funds were transferred to other group companies, particularly to one wholly-owned subsidiary of KSBL  Karvy Realty (India) Limited (KRIL) and then to 14 shell companies floated by Karvy Group.  "They have been further diverted by layering done through complex web of transactions from the several accounts of group companies without any financial rationale," it said. It said various financial consultants and defunct NBFCs were used to route the funds.  "It was found that KSBL availed loans from NBFCs to the tune of Rs 400 crore in the name of five such shell companies by pledging shares of clients of KSBL after illegally transferring these shares to their account.  "The fraudulently availed loans were used to clear pending loans of related companies, do massive stock transactions which have allegedly turned into complete losses and diverted to personally held family companies," it said. The agency last year had frozen Rs 700 crore worth shares of Parthasarathy as it said it was investigating the money trail to trace the "proceeds of crime which are close to around Rs 2,000 crore." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-karvy-stock-broking-cmd-cfo-in-money-laundering-case-1075239.html
27-01-2022||National||Steeper penalties in West Bengal for traffic offences||Traffic offences in West Bengal are to invite steeper penalties, a notification issued by the state transport department, on Thursday, mentioned revised penal measures.  A person who is disqualified for holding, or obtaining a driving licence, now invites a fine of Rs 10,000 (instead of an earlier fine of Rs 500, for first, second offences). If a vehicle is plied without an effective and valid driving licence, the penalty applied with being Rs 5,000 (instead of Rs 1,000 for the first, second offences, earlier) Those who are found to drive dangerously will have to pay Rs 5,000 (instead of Rs 1,000). If a repetition of the offence occurs within three years of a previous similar offence, the penalty stands at Rs 10,000. Driving at excessive speed will invite a fine of Rs 1,000 for LMVs, and Rs 2,000 for MGV/MPV/HGV/HPV vehicles.  A second offence would invite penalties of Rs 2,000 and Rs 4,000 respectively, with licence impounded. The penalty for unauthorised racing of speed is Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000 for the second offence. The absence of protective headgear will now invite a fine of Rs 1,000 (from an earlier of Rs 100, and Rs 300 for a second offence). Also, the person will be disqualified from holding the licence for three months. Further for, ‘violation of standards prescribed in relation to road safety, control of noise and air pollution the penalty is Rs 10,000 with a licence being suspended for three months. The penalty will be repeated for a second offence. A penalty of Rs 10,000 will be imposed for ‘failure to allow free passage to Emergency vehicles’. Despite several attempts made by corps through campaigns to persuade drivers to be more disciplined, breaking of traffic regulations is not uncommon even on major thoroughfares and crossings. Instances of over-speeding and serious accidents occasionally resurface. The new fines, while being sharply high, deter drivers from neglecting traffic regulations.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/steeper-penalties-in-west-bengal-for-traffic-offences-1075247.html
27-01-2022||National||Modi holds talks with Central Asian leaders to offset strategic edge for China and Pakistan||India on Thursday moved to deepen its ties with the Central Asian nations to offset the strategic edge Pakistan and its “iron brother” China might seek to gain in the region taking advantage of the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a virtual summit with the leaders of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Kyrgyzstan – just two days after Chinese President Xi Jinping also had a video-conference with them and had announced a $ 500 million grant assistance to support livelihood programmes in the five countries. Modi, however, did not announce any new package of economic assistance during his summit with the Central Asian leaders. They, however, discussed implementing the $ 1 billion Line of Credit (LoC), which New Delhi had offered in October 2020 to support development of infrastructure in the five countries. The Prime Minister and the leaders of the five Central Asian nations agreed that the senior officials of the six nations would regularly hold consultations on Afghanistan. They also agreed that India would also hold regular joint counter-terrorism exercises with the interested nations in the region. New Delhi moved to deepen its engagement with the five former Soviet Union nations amid escalating tension between Moscow and Washington DC over Russia’s troop build-up near its border with Ukraine. Modi on December 6 hosted Russian President Vladimir Putin, who earlier this month reasserted his nation’s role as a security provider for the Central Asian region by sending troops to help quell the uprising against the government in Kazakhstan. “We all have the same concerns and objectives for regional security. We are all concerned about the developments in Afghanistan,” Modi said, during he virtual summit with President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev of Kazakhstan, President Sadyr Japarov of Kyrgyz Republic, President Emomali Rahmon of Tajikistan, President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov of Turkmenistan and President Shavkat Mirziyoyev of Uzbekistan. “Our mutual cooperation has become even more important for regional security and stability.” The virtual summit saw Modi and the leaders of the five Central Asian nations agreeing to set up a joint working group on Afghanistan, comprising senior officials of the six governments. They also agreed to set up another Joint Working Group with officials of the six governments to utilize the services of Shahid Beheshti Terminal at Chabahar Port in Iran. The India Ports Global Limited has taken over port operations at the Shaheed Behesti Port in Chabahar in December 2018 and has been handling cargo since then. The port opens up a sea-land connectivity between India and Afghanistan as well as Central Asia and beyond, bypassing Pakistan. Afghanistan had also started using the port facility to send its first export consignment to India early 2020. New Delhi has been reaching out to the five Central Asian nations ever since President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul collapsed on August 15 last year and the Taliban returned to power in Afghanistan almost two decades after being dislodged by the offensive launched by the United States in response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks by the Al Qaeda. With its proxy back in power in Kabul, Pakistan has been trying to gain its much-cherished strategic depth in Afghanistan. Pakistan’s “iron-brother” China has also been trying to take advantage of the United States’ withdrawal and the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan, even as the communist country’s relations with India hit a new low over the 22-month-long military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval hosted his counterparts from the five Central Asian nations as well as Iran and Russia on November 10 to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also hosted his counterparts from Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Kyrgyzstan in New Delhi from December 18 to 20 for the third dialogue between India and Central Asia. New Delhi had plans to host the leaders of the Central Asian nations as the Chief Guests in the Republic Day ceremony. The plan was dropped in view of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister and the Central Asian leaders, however, agreed to hold such summits once every two years, apart from institutionalizing other high-level engagements. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-holds-talks-with-central-asian-leaders-to-offset-strategic-edge-for-china-and-pakistan-1075255.html
27-01-2022||National||Covid-19: Centre mulls model for staggered opening of schools||The union government is working on a model for staggered opening of schools for physical classes following all Covid-19 related protocols, sources said on Thursday. Schools have been closed in most parts of the country for physical classes after the emergence of the new Omicron variant of the virus. Students have been mostly attending online classes, barring some brief periods in between, for almost two years now due to the coronavirus pandemic. "As parents have been demanding for the opening of schools, the union government is working on a model for staggered opening of schools following all Covid related protocols," a highly-placed source said. A delegation of parents led by Chandrakant Lahariya, an epidemiologist and public policy specialist, and Centre for Policy Research president Yamini Aiyar, had met Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday to submit a memorandum signed by over 1,600 parents demanding that the schools be reopened. Similar demands have been made in some other states as well, though another section of parents has been favouring the continuation of online classes. The Delhi government had recommended reopening of schools in the national capital, but a decision on this was postponed till the next meeting by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Thursday. It has become necessary to prevent further damage to the social and emotional well-being of children, Sisodia had said on Wednesday. Asserting that online education can never replace offline education, Sisodia had said the government had closed schools when it was not safe for children, but excessive caution is now harming students. After being briefly reopened, schools in Delhi were again closed on December 28 last year in view of the third wave of Covid-19 driven by the Omicron variant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-mulls-model-for-staggered-opening-of-schools-1075256.html
27-01-2022||National||Third wave plateauing in some areas, says Centre||Amid a falling Covid-19 count, the Union Health Ministry on Thursday said there are early indications of the third Covid wave plateauing in certain geographies and maintained that more than 90 per cent of active cases are in home isolation indicating mild or moderate disease. The ministry also observed that 75 per cent of the samples sequenced in January were of the Omicron variant that drove away the more virulent Delta from all states barring Odisha, Maharashtra and West Bengal, but cautioned the unvaccinated or people with comorbidities to watch out as majority of Covid-19 deaths and serious diseases during the third wave occurred in such populations. “There are early indications of a plateau (in the Covid-19 curve) limited to certain geographies. There are areas where the case positivity is going down,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union Health Ministry said, without disclosing the sites. The maximum number of daily new cases during the third wave was registered on January 20 (3,47,254) following which there has been a steady decline. Asked whether India crossed its peak, Agarwal said, “The overall bigger picture on the peak is yet to come as there are some areas where the disease is still spreading.” More than 400 districts have a weekly positivity of over 10 per cent while 141 districts have a positivity between 5 and 10 per cent. Four southern states are among the areas with an expanding epidemic as they recorded an increase in Covid-19 case as well as positivity on the week ending on January 27 as against the previous three weeks. The weekly cases in Karnataka stands at 3,25,214 with a positivity rate of 22.67 per cent -- both substantially higher than corresponding figures recorded in the week ending on January 20. A similar rise has been seen in Kerala (3,10,382 weekly cases with nearly 50 per cent positivity), Tamil Nadu (2,10,001 and 22 per cent) and Andhra Pradesh (95,132 and 28.3 per cent). “Ten states contribute more than 77 per cent of the active cases,” Agarwal said. Karnataka tops the list of states with the maximum number of active cases. Besides its southern neighbours, others in the list are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh though the Health Ministry data indicates a decline in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal in the last one week. On the community spread of Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, Sujit Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control said 75 per cent of the samples genetically sequenced in January turned out to be Omicron. There are 9,672 Omicron samples as against 4,779 Delta and AY samples (1,578 Delta). In comparison, there were 1,292 Omicron cases in December as against 17,272 Delta and AY cases. “Delta is still not out fully as the variant is still being seen in three states,” he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-wave-plateauing-in-some-areas-says-centre-1075261.html
27-01-2022||National||'Unreasonable': Former bureaucrats on Centre's move to amend IAS rules||Over 100 former bureaucrats on Thursday described the Centre's bid to amend the rules to give them sweeping power to call IAS, IPS and IFoS officers on deputation as "arbitrary, unreasonable and unconstitutional" and one that hits at the "very core" of the constitutional scheme of Indian federalism. A statement issued by 109 former civil servants under the aegis of Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG) said the proposed amendments interfere with the basic structure of the Constitution of India as a Union of States and can cause "irreparable damage" to the one institution which country's first Home Minister Sardar Vallabhai Patel held as being the most critical to the unity of the country.  They quoted Patel's speech in the Constituent Assembly in October 1949, "The Union will go, you will not have a united India if you do not have a good All India Service which has the independence to speak out its mind, which has a sense of security….”  The signatories asked, "will a government which holds the Sardar in higher esteem than any other figure in the history of the freedom movement pay heed to his words and drop the proposal to change the AIS Cadre Rules?"  They argued that the proposed amendments will shift the "balance disproportionately" in favour of the Centre in matters of cadre deployment and cadre management will effectively convert the three All India Services -- IAS, IPS and IFoS -- into three more central services. "It is possible that AIS officers may view the interests of the State as secondary and subordinate to the Centre and to the political regime in power there. AIS officers working in the State will be reluctant to take any decision or action against the wishes of the political party in power at the Centre for fear of being summarily transferred to the Centre and harassed there. This will undermine the ability of the State governments to implement their policies and stand up against any arbitrary diktats of the Centre," they warned. They also expressed apprehension that states will consider the State Civil Services as more amenable to them and may treat AIS officers with suspicion and distrust. "If the AIS begins to play a lesser role in the States, it will also affect the unifying role which they play in the context of federal diversity – social, economic, and cultural (including administrative culture)," the statement said. "It will allow greater scope for abuse of power by the Union Government so that whenever it is unhappy with the State Government it can target AIS officers occupying strategic posts (e.g., Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, Director General of Police, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, District Magistrate, Superintendent of Police etc.), withdraw them from their pots and place them elsewhere, thereby effectively derailing the functioning of the State administrative apparatus," it said. The former civil servants pointed out that the AIS covenanted in the main body of the Constitution, making them creatures not of the Executive but of the Constitution itself. The Constitution places the AIS squarely in the middle of a federal, dual polity so that there is a sense of shared ownership between the Union and the States, they said. "This is a feature unique to the AIS and distinguishes them from other Central Services created by the Centre as well as from services created by State Governments. For Sardar Patel, this feature was critical to guaranteeing members of the AIS their independence and their ability to speak their minds. Their Constitutional status and independence would give them the security to function as a protective ring around the Constitution," they said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unreasonable-former-bureaucrats-on-centres-move-to-amend-ias-rules-1075268.html
27-01-2022||National||Tata Group committed to making Air India a world-class airline: Chandrasekaran||Tata Group is committed to making Air India a world-class airline, Tata Sons Chairman N Chandrasekaran said on Thursday after the conglomerate took over the ownership of the national carrier from the government. The group also acknowledged Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment to reforms and faith in India's entrepreneurship spirit, which made the "historic transition" possible. "We are excited to have Air India back in the Tata Group and are committed to making this a world-class airline. I warmly welcome all the employees of Air India to our Group, and look forward to working together," Chandrasekaran said in a statement. The group also said it philosophically agrees with "the Prime Minister's vision for the aviation sector, of making it affordable and ensuring it contributes to boosting 'Ease of Living' for citizens". Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tata-group-committed-to-making-air-india-a-world-class-airline-chandrasekaran-1075269.html
27-01-2022||National||Covid curbs extended till Feb 28 as positivity rate in 407 districts still above 10%, says MHA||With 407 districts in 34 states and Union Territories reporting a Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, the government on Thursday asked authorities across the country to exercise caution and vigilance even as it extended guidelines on the pandemic till February 28. Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla shot off letters to state Chief Secretaries and UT Administrators urging them to issue necessary directions to the districts and all other local authorities to take necessary measures for prompt and effective management of the pandemic. Bhalla said there has been a steady increase in the number of Covid-19 cases due to the Omicron variant and the active cases have increased to over 22 lakh. "Though a majority of active cases are recovering fast and a low percentage of cases are in hospitals, it is still a matter of concern that 407 districts in 34 states and Union Territories are reporting a Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 10 per cent. Therefore, looking at the current trends of Covid-19, there is a need to exercise caution and vigilance," he wrote. Asking states to observe all precautions and not let the guard down, he said local administration should continue to take prompt and appropriate containment measures.    "Imposition and lifting of local curbs/restrictions should be dynamic and should be based on the case positivity and hospitalisation status at the local level," he said while emphasising the need for continued focus on five-fold strategy -- test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Bhalla insisted that the state enforcement machinery should "strictly enforce" the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing of masks and maintaining social distance.  With 2,86,384 people testing positive for Coronavirus infection in a day, the country's total tally of Covid-19 19 cases rose to 4,03,71,500. Latest bulletin issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday put fresh deaths at 573, taking the total toll at 4,91,700. The active cases have decreased to 22,02,472, comprising 5.46 per cent of the total infections. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-curbs-extended-till-feb-28-as-positivity-rate-in-407-districts-still-above-10-says-mha-1075295.html
27-01-2022||National||India initiates anti-dumping probe against acid from China, Korea||India has initiated an anti-dumping probe against 'Ursodeoxvcholic Acid', used in the medical field, imported from China and Korea following a complaint by a domestic player. The commerce ministry's investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has started the probe into alleged dumping of this acid, which is used as medical therapy in gallstone disease (cholelithiasis) and for biliary sludge. Arch Pharmalabs Ltd has filed an application before the directorate for initiation of anti-dumping investigation and imposition of the duty, according to a notification of the DGTR. The applicant, it said, has claimed that the injury to the domestic industry is being caused due to dumped imports from China and Korea. The Directorate said that "on the basis of the duly substantiated written application filed by or on behalf of the domestic industry, and having satisfied itself, on the basis of the prima facie evidence submitted by the domestic industry about the dumping...the authority hereby initiates an investigation". If it is established that the dumping has caused material injury to the domestic players, the DGTR will recommend the imposition of anti-dumping duty on the imports from these countries. The finance ministry takes the final decision to impose the duties. Countries start anti-dumping probes to determine whether their domestic industries have been hurt due to a surge in cheap imports. As a countermeasure, they impose these duties under the multilateral regime of the Geneva-based World Trade Organization (WTO). The duty is aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and creating a level-playing field for domestic producers vis-a-vis foreign producers and exporters. India has already imposed an anti-dumping duty on several products to tackle cheap imports from various countries, including China. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-initiates-anti-dumping-probe-against-acid-from-china-korea-1075306.html
27-01-2022||National||External Affairs Minister Jaishankar tests positive for Covid||The Minister of External Affairs, S Jaishankar, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Taking to Twitter, the minister said: "Have tested Covid positive. Urge all those who have come in recent contact to take suitable precautions." Have tested Covid positive. Urge all those who have come in recent contact to take suitable precautions. Earlier in the day, Jaishankar had met his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian virtually to discuss the opportunities for India in the French Presidency of the European Union.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-tests-positive-for-covid-1075314.html
27-01-2022||National||Quota in promotion: SC to pronounce judgement on Friday||The Supreme Court would on Friday pronounce its judgement on granting reservation in promotion for SC/ST employees. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai would deliver the verdict at 10.30 am on January 28 in the case titled as 'Jarnail Singh Vs Lachhmi Narain Gupta and others'. During the hearing, the court had sought to know from the Centre what exercise it undertook to ascertain adequacy of representation as per the mandate by the Constitution bench decision in Nagaraj case in 2006 for granting reservations in promotion for SC/ST employees. The court had said it would decide the contentious issue whether the reservation should be on the basis of proportion or adequacy of representation as enjoined in the Nagaraj case.  Attorney General K K Venugopal, for his part, had said even after 75 years of independence, members of SC/ST community could not be brought at par with the general category employees. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan and advocate Kumar Parimal, appearing for one of the parties, contended that the reservation in promotion can't continue indefinitely after adequacy of representation was achieved. The top court had also made it clear the issues relating to reservation in promotion has already been decided in Nagraj and Jarnail Singh (2018) cases and required no reconsideration. Those opposing the Centre's plea also submitted that States haven't undertaken the exercise as mandated in the Nagaraj case like collections of quantifiable data, adequacy of representation and overall impact on efficiency of administration for granting reservations. Venugopal, in his submissions, said the number of posts in the cadre should be in proportion to the percentage of population.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quota-in-promotion-sc-to-pronounce-judgement-on-friday-1075336.html
27-01-2022||National||Railways to address issues raised by protesting candidates||Railway Minister Ashwani Vaishnaw on Thursday said the government will protect the interest of those candidates who have cleared Computer-Based Test-1 (CBT-1) in the Non-Technical Popular Category (NTPC) recruitment drive. The officials' committee constituted to hear grievances of job-seekers has already started functioning. Besides, every railway recruitment board official will also meet the protesting candidates to take account of their views. Based on the committee report, the railway ministry will take decisions on the next course of action, the minister said here. The railways will provide justice to all and will address the issues raised by protesting candidates, he added. Over the demand to prevent higher qualified candidates from competing for jobs that required 10+2 education, the railway minister said the government will fix only minimum education qualification for the jobs and not maximum qualification. The government cannot legally bar graduates from applying to posts that require 10+2 qualifications, he said. After violent protests in Bihar by job aspirants over the selection process of its recruitment exams, Indian Railways on Wednesday decided to put on hold its recruitment drives and talk to the agitators. As a result, the Non-Technical Popular Category (NTPC) recruitment drive, whose second round of exams was scheduled to start from February 15, is now on hold. Railways is recruiting candidates for 35,281 vacant posts in various categories ranging from junior clerk and train assistant to station master across its verticals in its zones. Of the total vacancies, 24,281 posts are open to graduates, 11,000 are for under-graduates. Around 1.25 crore candidates had applied for the jobs. Reacting to some of demands of protesters, Vaishnaw said no candidate can be recruited for multiple posts. After vacancies were announced in 2019, the exams were to be tentatively held in September 2019, but was postponed to March 2020. Due to Covid-19, CTBT-1 (Computer Based Test) was held over 68 days in 133 shifts with two shifts each day between April-July 2020. The results for CBT-1 were declared on January 14, 2022. The next stage, called CBT-2, was scheduled for mid-February. The protestors have raised many issues including opposing a two-stage examination. They say the second stage for final selection is tantamount to “cheating” those who appeared and cleared the first stage of the computer-based test which was released on January 15. Many of the protesters also opposed allowing candidates with higher qualifications to compete for jobs meant for those with relatively lower qualifications. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-address-issues-raised-by-protesting-candidates-1075351.html
27-01-2022||National Politics||Congress leader files plea in Delhi HC seeking to postpone Assembly elections in 5 states citing 3rd wave||A Congress party worker has approached the Delhi High Court for postponing Assembly elections in five states in view of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a writ petition, Jagdish Sharma contended that experts in India have warned that states like Delhi and a few others would see the peak of the third wave of Covid in the next few days. "Due to elections in five States, almost all ministers of the Government are busy in elections and less concerned about the upcoming health emergency in the state," his plea said. The 55-year-old petitioner, who claimed himself to be a social worker, also said in the past two years, a total of 4,85,780 people have lost their lives due to Covid-19. Besides seeking postponement of Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Goa, he also sought a direction to the Centre and Delhi government to submit an action plan, including on distribution of essential supplies, for dealing with the third wave of the pandemic. Assembly polls in five States are scheduled in different phases between February 10 and March 7 and counting of votes would take place on March 10. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-files-plea-in-delhi-hc-seeking-to-postpone-assembly-elections-in-5-states-citing-3rd-wave-1075041.html
27-01-2022||National Politics||DH Toon | Modi's Republic Day attire shows unity in diversity?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday struck an emotional chord with the people of poll-bound Uttarakhand by wearing an Uttarakhandi cap at the Republic Day function in Delhi. Manufactured at SOHAM Himalayan Centre, Mussoorie, the cap worn by Modi remained the talk of the town throughout the day with political leaders interpreting it as a warm gesture of the Prime Minister to the people of the state which goes to polls on February 14. "We are grateful to the Prime Minister. By wearing an Uttarakhandi cap at Rajpath he has honoured every citizen of the state. It is a proud moment for every Uttarakhandi," Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-modis-republic-day-attire-shows-unity-in-diversity-1075095.html
27-01-2022||National Politics||'No comments': Cong on Padma Bhushan for Ghulam Nabi Azad; division within party on honour||Congress on Thursday refused to comment on the Narendra Modi government conferring Padma Bhushan on senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and the row over him accepting it as leaders were divided over the issue. “I have no comment to make,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told a press conference when asked about the Padma award for Azad and the row over it following a tweet by senior MP Jairam Ramesh slamming the senior leader, who had joined 22 leaders to write to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking changes in the party. Congress has so far not made any comments on Azad’s recognition, indicating that the party is not happy over the national honour by the BJP dispensation.  Azad has a good equation with the Prime Minister and the party is looking at his activities, including a series of rallies he conducted in Jammu and Kashmir recently, amid speculation that he may float an outfit of his own. Azad had described these rumours as unfounded. The Modi government had on Tuesday evening announced Azad’s name among 17 Padma Bhushan winners, while former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee declined to accept the award. Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh expressed unease within a section of the party through a cryptic tweet playing on Azad’s name, "(Bhattacharjee's refusal) Right thing to do. He wants to be Azad, not Ghulam." However, this did not go down well with Azad's supporters in the G-23 with Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Bhupinder Singh Hooda coming out in support of the veteran leader. Sibal said it was ironic that the party was not using Azad’s services when the country had honoured his services. Azad also got support from outside the G-23 with former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar who said Ramesh’s criticism was “nothing less than a shameful innuendo intended to rob both the award and its recipient of the deserved dignity”. The Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi and the Trinamool Congress’s Sushmita Deb, both former Congress leaders, also found fault with Ramesh. "Calling someone Azad for declining a national honour and Ghulam for accepting it, shows how shallow one’s thought is towards a national honour. This isn’t the first nor the last time that Opposition leaders will be acknowledged for their work, please maintain that spirit and dignity," Priyanka said. Sushmita, who was a former Mahila Congress chief, tweeted, "Padma Bhushan for Tarun Gogoi and Bharat Ratna for Pranab Mukherjee - does it make them Ghulams?" She joined the Trinamool Congress last year and was later nominated to the Rajya Sabha. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-comments-cong-on-padma-bhushan-for-ghulam-nabi-azad-division-within-party-on-honour-1075198.html
27-01-2022||National Politics||Ex-Congress MP Rajeev Sachan, SP leaders join BJP ahead of Uttar Pradesh polls||Ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, former Congress MP Rajeev Sachan, former minister and Samajwadi Party leader Shivkant Ojha on Thursday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Another Samajwadi Party MLA, Sharatveer, also switched to the saffron party. Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, former Uttar Pradesh party president Laxmikant Bajpai and national media head Anil Baluni welcomed the three into the BJP fold at the party headquarters. "These leaders are prominent figures in the political and social circle of Uttar Pradesh. People are strongly standing with the BJP after seeing the positive changes in the states under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and our state election in-charge, Pradhan. We welcome them to the BJP family," Naqvi said. Speaking on the occasion, Pradhan said, "They are prominent names fighting for social justice and joined BJP to contribute to the development of the state under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi and Chief Minister Adityanath." Introducing the leaders, Baluni said, "People can judge in which direction wind is blowing with joining of so many people." Sachan is a former Congress MP and two-term MLA. In 2009, Sachan was elected to the Lok Sabha from Fatehpur Parliamentary Constituency. Ojha was a four-time MLA and former minister in the Akhilesh Yadav government. Sharatveer is a third-term sitting MLA from Samajwadi Party. On January 25, former union minister and senior Congress leader R P N Singh had joined BJP. Earlier, Mulayam Singh Yadav's daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav also joined the party. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ex-congress-mp-rajeev-sachan-sp-leaders-join-bjp-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-polls-1075202.html
27-01-2022||National Politics||BJP has narrow mindset of making youth sell ‘pakoras’: Mayawati on violence by rail job aspirants||Amidst continuing unrest among railway job aspirants in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, BSP chief Mayawati on Thursday accused the BJP of having a narrow mindset of making the youth sell “pakoras”. “There has been a huge uproar in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar over UPTNT and now over Railways' RRB-NTPC results, this is proof of the failure of the governments. Beating up poor and unemployed youths for protesting, and playing with their future is totally unjustified,” she said in a tweet in Hindi. “Due to the wrong policies of the government, poverty and unemployment have reached the peak. Government jobs and reservation facilities in them have become secondary. In such a situation, it is unjust to not have the examination even for small government jobs for years. BJP should change its narrow mindset of making the youth sell ‘pakoras’ (snacks)," she added. Mayawati was apparently referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comments during an interview to a TV news channel in 2018 that selling pakoras is also a form of employment and can be seen in the light of “job creation”. Meanwhile, the railways had on Wednesday suspended its Non Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) and Level 1 exams after candidates went on a rampage in some states alleging irregularities in the process, whilst minister Ashwini Vaishnaw urged them not to destroy public property and assured redressal of their grievances. On Tuesday, the railways had issued a general notice, warning its job aspirants that those found involved in vandalism and unlawful activities while protesting would be barred from ever getting recruited in the railways. This came a day after protesters squatted on railway tracks in several places in Bihar. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had also condemned the "repression" of candidates and urged the government to find a solution to their problems through dialogue. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-has-narrow-mindset-of-making-youth-sell-pakoras-mayawati-on-violence-by-rail-job-aspirants-1075232.html
27-01-2022||National Politics||Is Congress in Kerala trying to learn from the CPI-M?||The Congress is known as the grand old party, but in Kerala their state president K.Sudhakaran is trying to imbibe the CPI-M's cadre culture to strengthen the party and beat the rival in the game. The word cadre says everything and that is why perhaps Sudhakaran, who was brought in by the party high command much against the wishes of the once-powerful top brass of Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, first response after taking over is that he would bring in a semi-cadre culture in his party. 73-year-old Sudhakaran, a Congress MP from Kannur and one who hails from the CPI-M bastion of Kannur district is perhaps the only Congress leader who the CPI-M leadership fears, has been often winning whenever he takes on the CPI-M. After about six months now since Sudhakaran took over, there have been a few brushes between Sudhakaran and CPI-M's topmost leader, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and each time he opens his mouth to attack the CPI-M leadership on political or other issues, the CPI-M turns jittery. A media critic on condition of anonymity said, "The word cadre means a lot and it's through that the CPI-M is able to maintain strict discipline and there is not a word spoken against the leadership and if someone does, then it's curtains for such big mouthed people in the CPI-M. Sudhakaran knows it very well and that's why he continues to speak of bringing in a culture of discipline," said the critic. "Just look, there is not a single word that one hears when the CPI-M decides on anything. Look into the controversial pet project of Vijayan, K-Rail. Is there a single word that is spoken against this from the ruling Left? Just imagine it would have been free for all if Congress had brought in such a project. We would have seen protests, numerous press conferences and even maligning of leaders even from the Congress party itself. In the bargain, the common man is confused and feels those behind the project have ulterior motives and mind you, the CPI-M, till date has not accepted any project that the Congress has brought," added the critic. Whenever this question has been posed to the Congress leaders, why is that the party is divided on the basic issues and their leaders speak in different tones, the stock answer so far has been, "we are a party where there is democracy and party members can air their opinion freely". But it's here that Sudhakaran's statement of making the state unit into a semi-cadre party holds some hope for the party and he has already started to wield the rod of discipline. To take it forward strongly, he has put in place a disciplinary Committee, headed by senior legislator Thiruvanchoor Radhakarishnan. Sudhakaran, according to a source in the know of things, is determined that he will not allow the grand old party in Kerala, which has been badly bruised after it lost the last Assembly polls, to sit in the opposition benches for a second successive five-year term. It's here that he has started to imbibe some things from his arch-rivals, which is quintessential for the Congress to move forward. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-congress-in-kerala-trying-to-learn-from-the-cpi-m-1075253.html
27-01-2022||National Politics||BJP leaders face ire of farmers in Uttar Pradesh villages||Amid desperate efforts by the top BJP leadership to placate the electorally influential 'Jat' community ahead of the first phase of polling in the western UP districts on February ten, the BJP leaders and the saffron party nominees have been facing protests from the people, mainly farmers, in the villages in several districts in the region. As the videos of the protests against the BJP candidates and leaders became viral on social media platforms, the party blamed the rival Samajwadi Party (SP) and its alliance partner Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) for the same. It all started with the protests against the BJP candidate from the Khatauli assembly seat in Muzaffarnagar district Vikram Saini when he reached Munavarpur village in the constituency a few days back for campaigning. As Saini sought to speak to the villagers, scores of them started raising slogans against him and asked him to go back. Saini tried to persuade the villagers to listen to him but they remained adamant and finally, he had to leave. State BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh also had to face the ire of the people, when he visited the Valmiki Basti in Khatauli on Tuesday. As his cavalcade reached the Valmiki Basti, several youths shouted slogans against him. They were angry over the Hathras incident in which a Dalit teen was allegedly gangraped before being murdered and her body was cremated by the cops at midnight in the absence of her family members. BJP candidate from Asmauli assembly seat in Sambhal district Harendra Singh Rinku also had to face the ire of the people when he visited Shakarpur village in the constituency for campaigning. According to the reports he was heckled by the people and was forced to leave. Similarly, the BJP nominee from Siwalkhas assembly seat Maninder Pal Singh also faced protests from the people when he visited the constituency on Tuesday for door-to-door campaigning. He was chased and the window panes of his vehicle were broken after someone threw stones. UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya also faced protests on his home turf of Sirathu from where he is in the fray in the forthcoming assembly polls Reports of protests against some other BJP candidates, including firebrand saffron leader and UP minister for cane Suresh Rana, were also received from their respective assembly constituencies. ''The protests are being organised by the SP and the RLD.....only a handful of people are behind them...they want to demoralise our nominees but they will not succeed,'' said a senior BJP functionary here on Thursday while reacting to the protests. SP leaders however said that the protests were spontaneous and not sponsored by them or the RLD. ''People are angry with the BJP.....it is reaping what it has sown,'' remarked an SP leader. SP president Akhilesh Yadav had also said that the BJP leaders were being 'thrashed' by the villagers but the TV channels were not showing it. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leaders-face-ire-of-farmers-in-uttar-pradesh-villages-1075262.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Modi puts on Uttarakhandi cap during Republic Day function, strikes emotional chord with hill state||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday struck an emotional chord with the people of poll-bound Uttarakhand by wearing an Uttarakhandi cap at the Republic Day function in Delhi. Manufactured at SOHAM Himalayan Centre, Mussoorie, the cap worn by Modi remained the talk of the town throughout the day with political leaders interpreting it as a warm gesture of the Prime Minister to the people of the state which goes to polls on February 14. SOHAM Himalayan Centre preserves and promotes Uttarakhand's Himalayan heritage, culture and ethnicity. "We are grateful to the Prime Minister. By wearing an Uttarakhandi cap at Rajpath he has honoured every citizen of the state. It is a proud moment for every Uttarakhandi," Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said. Mussoorie MLA Ganesh Joshi also thanked the Prime Minister for honouring Uttarakhand's cultural identity by wearing the cap. "This is the reason why Modi ji lives in the hearts of the people of Uttarakhand. It also shows that vocal for local is not just a slogan for the Prime Minister but a commitment," Joshi said. He also congratulated Samir and his entire team of artisans at Soham Himalayan Centre for making the cap. Political commentators said such emotional gestures do produce an impact on the voters but the problem is all parties are doing it. "With the corona curbs still in place, large rallies are not being held. Maybe the Prime Minister is trying to make up for that through this kind of symbolism. But then all political parties are doing that to add a sentimental quotient to their campaign," political observer Jaisingh Rawat said. Citing the example of a function held at a local hotel on Tuesday to launch "Char Dham Char Kam" campaign of the Congress party, he said all Congress leaders including Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, party campaign head Harish Rawat, senior party leader Mohan Prakash and PCC president Ganesh Godiyal were wearing the Uttarakhandi cap. "In a situation like this, it will have to be seen which party's gesture touches more hearts," Rawat said. "Modi never misses an opportunity to strike an emotional chord with people. He always begins his speech at the rallies in the local dialect, be it in Himachal Pradesh or the Kumaon or Garhwal regions of Uttarakhand," he said. The state's Congress party leaders, however, dismissed the PM's gesture of wearing the Uttrakhandi cap during the Republi Day function at Rajpath as "just a poll gimmick".  "He had grown a long beard during West Bengal assembly elections but after the polls the beard went missing,"   Once the polls are over here, people of Uttarakhand will go about searching for the cap to the way people in West Bengal are searching for his missing beard. It is just an electoral stunt," he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-puts-on-uttarakhandi-cap-during-republic-day-function-strikes-emotional-chord-with-hill-state-1075094.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Donkey hide trade goes unabated in India: Brooke India||In some areas of Andhra Pradesh alone, hundreds of donkeys are illegally procured and butchered for meat every Thursday and Sunday. In AP Guntur district's Tadepalli locality, several meat shops openly sell donkey meat despite a ban by the government. The open sale of donkey meat is going on unabated as people, including medical practitioners, believe it can cure several ailments, including falling libido, among men. These are some of the findings of a study on Donkey Hides Trade (DHT) initiated by The Brooke India, the India chapter of the United Kingdom-based international equine charity Brooke. The Study, titled The Hidden Hide was conducted by Chandigarh based Sharat K Verma, the editor of the Delhi edition of the First India newspaper, who travelled across the country to bring to fore the unabated illegal trade of donkey hides in India. The report has now been submitted to Dr Praveen Malik, Commissioner Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India. From the 2012 Livestock Census until the latest Livestock Census of 2019, the donkey population has decreased by 61.23 per cent. Gopal R Surabathula, the founder and secretary of Animal Rescue Organisation, says he is pursuing a legal battle to get the illegal sale of donkey meat and slaughter of donkeys stopped. “If the slaughter of donkeys continues at this pace, 10 years down the line, the entire donkey population would be wiped out,” Surabathula said in the report. Surabathula has been rescuing donkeys that are illegally brought to Andhra Pradesh and runs a small donkey sanctuary for rescued animals. Surabathula said that he doesn’t know where the donkey skins were disposed of, but he has photo evidence that some persons come and collect donkey skins from the butchers. According to the report, China is blamed directly and indirectly for the fall in the donkey population not only in India but across the globe as donkey hides are used for manufacturing Ejiao, a traditional Chinese medicine. Ejiao is donkey hide gelatin or ass-hide glue obtained from the skin of a donkey by soaking and stewing. Ejiao is an ingredient to treat different types of illness such as bleeding, dizziness, insomnia and dry cough. It is also a health fad, believed to prolong life, increase sex drive and maintain beauty, and has seen an explosion in demand for China's rising middle class. Alarmed by the trigger of a drastic decrease in the donkey population in India, Brooke India (BI) planned to conduct an investigative undercover study. This study is based on the hypothesis that an illegal DHT exists in India. Sharad Verma, speaking to DH, said the study has established that DHT is going on illegally in India and illegal export of living donkeys, their hide, and meat is taking place across borders via easily accessible routes. The investigator collected substantial anecdotal evidence on the video camera to conclude that DHT is taking place in the country undetected.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/donkey-hide-trade-goes-unabated-in-india-brooke-india-1075120.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Journalist beaten to death in road rage incident at Saharanpur of Uttar Pradesh||A journalist was killed by three men in an incident of road rage on Wednesday evening, the police said. The journalist, identified as Sudhir Saini, was on a motorbike and overtook the vehicle in which three persons were seated. Angered by this, the men stopped the journalist and beat him up. Saini was taken to a hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. Senior SP of Saharanpur, Akash Tomar, said, "Jahangir and Farman were immediately arrested by Saharanpur police in the case involving death of Sudhir Saini due to road rage incident. We will ensure that they are convicted in a fast-tracked manner." One of the accused, Mannan, is absconding. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-beaten-to-death-in-road-rage-incident-at-saharanpur-of-uttar-pradesh-1075125.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Students claim DU college opened cow centre instead of women's hostel||Much to the dismay of its student body, Delhi University’s Hansraj College has opened a cow protection and research centre. Currently, the centre, named 'Swami Dayanand Saraswati Gau-Samwardhan ewam Anusandhan Kendra,' has only one cow. The Hansraj College unit of the CPI(M)’s Students’ Federation of India (SFI) has been against the proposal since they believe it has been made on land earmarked for a women’s hostel, considering that the college currently only has a men’s hostel. Dr Rama, the principal of the college, said that the role of the centre is not only to do research but also to provide “pure milk and ghee” for the students and for the monthly 'havan' done on the campus.  Students' body, SFI, however, condemned the opening of such a Centre. "As colleges shut down because of the pandemic, our college administration demanded full and bulk fees payment even though most of our families were suffering economic hardships. Now imagine our surprise when we learn that while the campus has been shut, the college has finished the construction of a full-fledged 'gaushala' without any warning or discussion with the student community," the student body said.  The principal denied the claim and stated that the land parcel was too small for a hostel. She said that they are going through formalities and waiting on approvals from the municipality as they rework the college’s master plan to accommodate a women’s hostel. "The architects had seen the land and told us it is a setback area and a hostel cannot be constructed on it. The women's hostel is my dream project and the architects will analyse a suitable place for it," she said. The principal hopes that once the hostel reopens the cow can also provide “fresh milk and curd” for the students. Apart from that, the college is also planning to open a gobar gas plant for which it is expecting support from the Centre. Delhi University officials are unsure if such initiatives are there in other colleges and believe that it is an initiative taken at the college’s level. (with agency inputs) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-claim-du-college-opened-cow-centre-instead-of-womens-hostel-1075129.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||RS floor leaders to meet virtually on January 31st ahead of Budget||Virtual meeting of the Rajya Sabha floor leaders, ahead of the budget session of the Parliament, will be held on January 31st, chaired by Chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu. More to follow...   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-floor-leaders-to-meet-virtually-on-january-31st-ahead-of-budget-1075132.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Woman assaulted and paraded in Delhi street; 4 arrested||A shocking case of sexual assault of a woman in Delhi on Republic Day has emerged, where a 20-year-old woman was allegedly abducted, sexually assaulted, had her hair forcibly chopped, her face blackened, garlanded with shoes and paraded through the streets of Delhi’s Kasturba Nagar. On Thursday, Delhi Police said that four people have been arrested.  The incident has drawn sharp reactions from Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, as well as the Delhi Commission for Women. Kejriwal reached out to HM Amit Shah to take appropriate action. NCW chief Rekha Sharma took suo motu cognisance of the case and wrote to Delhi Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana asking him to arrest all the perpetrators at the earliest and complete investigation within two months.  The incident took place on Wednesday, when the woman was abducted from her husband’s home in Anand Vihar. The police said that the incident could be the result of personal enmity,  as preliminary investigations indicated that the woman and a boy belonging to the family of the accused were friends. “The boy committed suicide in November last year and his family is now blaming the victim. They have alleged that it was because of her he took the extreme step. To extract revenge from her, they allegedly abducted her," a senior police officer said.   The police have registered an FIR under sections of the Indian Penal Code. “We have arrested four accused persons who are from the same family. The victim was given counselling and medical aid," said DCP Shahdara R Sathiyasundaram. Police said they rescued the woman from the home of the accused after they received a call at 1:18 pm on Wednesday. In her complaint to the police, the woman alleged that she was abducted by the accused who are acquaintances, living near her mother’s place. She said they took her to their house where they allegedly thrashed her, sexually assaulted her, chopped her hair and forcefully made her wear a garland of slippers. They then humiliated her in public by parading her, a senior police officer said. In the video purportedly of the incident, the woman can be seen being paraded by a group of people, including women who were abusing her. While she was being paraded on the street, people were also heard whistling in the background. Condemning the attack on the woman, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was really shameful. “How did the criminals get so much courage? I request the Union Home Minister and the LG to direct police to take strict action and pay attention to the law and order situation. Delhiites won't tolerate such heinous crimes and criminals at any cost,” he tweeted in Hindi. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma, in her letter to DCP Asthana, asked him to file a case under Sections 376 D, 506, 352 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code. “The Commission is distressed with the abysmal alleged incident,” Sharma wrote, asking for compensation to the victim under section 357A of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  The Delhi Commission for Women said it has sent a notice to Delhi Police seeking strict action against the accused after several videos of the woman being paraded were circulated on social media platforms. “All criminals, including women, should be arrested and the woman and her family should be given security,” DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal said in a tweet in Hindi. Maliwal also met the young woman and said she had wounds all over her body. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-assaulted-and-paraded-in-delhi-street-4-arrested-1075160.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||SC grants 10 days protection to BJP MLA Nitesh Rane; asks him to surrender for regular bail||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted ten days protection from arrest to Maharashtra BJP MLA, Nitesh Rane in connection with an alleged attempt to murder case lodged against him in Sindhudurg district last month. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana, and Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli, however, directed him to surrender before the trial court to seek regular bail. Rane, the son of Union Minister Narayan Rane, challenged the January 17 Bombay High Court's order which rejected his pre-arrest in the case. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Rane, contended that this is a completely cooked up case and allegations against him are completely bogus. It was a case of "political rivalry" as a complainant is from the other party, he said. "This is also a completely cooked up case on the eve of an election to District Cooperative Bank. I am a sitting MLA. A complainant is a person belonging to the opposite party. The allegation is that the complainant was stabbed by a paper cutter. A paper cutter! The conspiracy was to kill this man with a paper cutter at 11 am in public. And the charge is an attempt to murder," Rohatgi said.  The case was in retaliation to the "catcall" incident in the Assembly, he claimed.  Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Maharashtra government, opposed the plea, saying call detail records of the accused, which have been seized, showed their regular communications among the accused before the crime. He also claimed that the victim identified one of the accused in the Test Identification Parade. Singhvi also submitted the catcalling incident in Assembly premises against minister Aditya Thackeray that happened on December 23 after the crime on December 18.  Senior advocate, Siddharth Luthra, also appearing for Rane, said that the victim was seen roaming around freely a day after the injury and there are no direct phone calls connecting Rane and the attacker.  The court, however, said it was not sitting in trial and the petitioner should surrender to seek regular bail. Rane represents the Kankavli Assembly seat in the Sindhudurg district.  The case against Nitesh is related to an alleged road rage incident on December 18, last year, The complainant, 44-year-old Santosh Parab, claimed that his bike was hit by an Innova car without a number plate. Parab alleged that he was assaulted by the car occupants and heard one of them tell another person that they “should inform Gotya Sawant and Nitesh Rane”. Nitish, for his part, claimed the FIR had been registered to prevent him from participating in the Sindhudurg District Co-operative Bank elections, which were to be held on December 30, 2021.  He also contended that the whole thing was a fallout of the catcalling incident that took place outside the Vidhan Bhawan on December 23. At that time, Shiv Sena leaders had said Nitesh would be taught a lesson. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-grants-10-days-protection-to-bjp-mla-nitesh-rane-asks-him-to-surrender-for-regular-bail-1075161.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Supreme Court asks Punjab govt not to arrest SAD leader Majithia in drugs case till Jan 31||The Supreme Court on Thursday told the Punjab government not to take any coercive action against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader, Bikram Singh Majithia in a drug case. The top court granted him interim protection from arrest, before putting his anticipatory bail plea for consideration on Monday. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana, and Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli passed the order as the matter was mentioned by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi on behalf of Majithia. The counsel said the case was a fall out of political vendetta. "We don't know if this was election fever or election virus. Everyone is rushing to the court now," the bench observed. Senior advocate P Chidambaram appearing for the state of Punjab, opposed the plea, saying that the order was passed on January 24, and thereafter he went into hiding.  "Tell your state (Punjab) not to do anything, We will hear the case on Monday," the bench told Chidambaram. Majithia is the brother-in-law of Sukhbir Badal, the former deputy Chief minister of Punjab.  In his submission, Rohatgi said the present case is blatantly political in nature and has been registered in in view of the upcoming Assembly elections, with the malafide objective to target Majithia, who is a leader of the opposition party.  The counsel said Majithia was granted interim protection from arrest by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which expired on Thursday. The High Court had on January 24 rejected plea for anticipatory bail filed by Majithia in connection with an FIR registered under various provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on December 20, last year at police station S A S Nagar by Punjab State Crime. The petitioner claimed that the FIR was gross abuse of the process in law and vindictive in nature as it was lodged in 2021 against the incident on the basis of some statements made to the Enforcement Directorate in 2014. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-asks-punjab-govt-not-to-arrest-sad-leader-majithia-in-drugs-case-till-jan-31-1075177.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi eases Covid-19 restrictions; schools to remain shut||With Covid-19 cases coming down, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday decided to ease restrictions in the capital by lifting the weekend curfew, allowing all shops in markets to open as well as re-opening of bars, restaurants and cinema halls with 50% capacity. While governments will also start functioning with 50% staff, officials said a decision on reopening of schools will be taken later.  Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal said it was decided to gradually ease restrictions while ensuring adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in view of the decline in positive cases. While the LG had last week rejected a Delhi government decision to lift weekend curfew, the DDMA meeting chaired by Baijal decided to ease the restriction on Thursday following further decrease in cases.  Similarly, the meeting also decided to remove the restrictions on opening of shops in markets. Earlier, an odd-even scheme was followed in the opening of shops. Restaurants, bars and cinema halls will be allowed to open but with 50% capacity.  Marriage related gatherings are allowed to be held with 50% capacity of the venue, subject to  a maximum of 200 persons. The meeting also advised the Health Department to enhance vaccination coverage with special focus on vulnerable sections and also to undertake necessary epidemiological analysis of hospitalised patients.  It also asked agencies to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and to continue to be vigilant without lowering the guard. The meeting was attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Ministers Satyendar Jain and K Gahlot, NITI Ayog member Dr V K Paul, ICMR head Prof Balram Bhargava, NCDC chief S K Singh and Krishna Vatsa of NDMA among others. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-eases-covid-19-restrictions-schools-to-remain-shut-1075178.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Kejriwal unfurls 115-ft high tricolour in Timarpur to mark 75th year of independence||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday unfurled a 115-ft high tricolour in Timarpur constituency and said such high-mast national flags were installed at 75 locations across the city to mark the 75th year of India's Independence. He said he will get it examined if this qualifies for a Guinness world record. “It is a matter of pride for the country that 75 tricolours on 115-ft high flagpoles have been installed today in Delhi to mark the 75th year of our independence. The target is to install a total of 500 in the next few months," he said at the ceremony organised near the Delhi University campus in Timarpur assembly constituency. "I have been told that in no city, tricolours (national flags) on flagpoles of this height have been installed on such a large scale. We will get it examined if it qualifies for a Guinness world record,  Kejriwal said. These high-mast national flags are being set up at public places like parks, big school buildings, market complexes, residential complexes, grounds, road roundabouts, among others.   Some of the locations where the 115 ft high tricolours have been installed include AIIMS roundabout, near Signature Bridge, Dhaula Kuan Enclave-2, Mall Road, Outer Ring Road, Pitampura, Delhi Cantonment, Rajiv Gandhi Stadium, near the Azadpur Metro Station, among others. Till August 15, 2021, the PWD had installed high-mast national flags at five locations in the city, that is, at East Kidwai Nagar, Rani Bagh, Patparganj, Kalkaji and Dwarka. The total number of high-mast tricolours in the city is now 80.  The chief minister said the aim behind the move is that the national flag is visible to every citizen two to three times a day when they step out for work. “Many times, we are caught up in our daily lives to an extent that we forget our country and the society. This tricolour will make us remember those who sacrificed everything for the independence of the country. This will instil a sense of patriotism among people,” he said.  The installation of high-mast national flags is being done by the Public Works Department (PWD) under the Delhi government's 'Deshbhakti Budget' to celebrate India's 75 years of Independence. Under the project, installation of high-mast tricolours at 500 locations is to be done.  Kejriwal said all these 500 flags were to be set up by this Republic Day, but due to the ban on construction activities owing to rising pollution and coronavirus pandemic, the project was delayed.  “Remaining tricolours will be set up in next few months,” he said. He said these tricolours will be erected in a way that those are visible at every 2-3 kilometres. In March last year, the Delhi government had announced its annual budget themed on patriotism and named Deshbhakti budget under which Rs 45 crore were set aside to install high-mast tricolours at 500 locations across the national capital. Later in September last year, the AAP government had increased the budget and approved an amount of Rs 104.37 crore for the project. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-unfurls-115-ft-high-tricolour-in-timarpur-to-mark-75th-year-of-independence-1075208.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Will beat Yogi in Gorakhpur, says Chandra Shekhar Aazad of ASP||Undaunted by the prospect of taking on Yogi Adiyanath in his stronghold, Azad Samaj Party president Chandra Shekhar Aazad says the people of Gorakhpur will repeat the history of 1971 when a chief minister of Uttar Pradesh lost elections from the assembly constituency. Confident that victory will be his, Aazad, whose party is heading the Samajik Parivartan Morcha of 36 small outfits, also pitched himself as a chief ministerial candidate from the alliance that is contesting 403 seats in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls beginning next month. "We need to go back to the history of Gorakhpur… In 1971, a sitting chief minister, T N Singh, was defeated by the people of Gorakhpur. Similarly, Adityanath is the CM now and is responsible for the destruction of UP and Gorakhpur in the last five years," Aazad, who is popularly called 'Ravan', told PTI. After talks of an alliance with the Samajwadi Party failed, the Azad Samaj Party (ASP) decided to forge a coalition of small parties based on its not-so-good experiences with big and established parties. "I wanted to forge an alliance (with SP) to stop the BJP so that there is no division between opposition. When they did not want to give us our share, we refused," Aazad said. He also rejected allegations of being a vote cutter and cleared the air about his fallout with the Akhilesh Yadav-led party. "I am saying SP is also doing its job and so are we. I have no problem with the SP," said the 36-year-old who has emerged as a prominent Dalit face. On being dubbed a "vote cutter" party by some quarters, Aazad retorted, "Who stood up for the youth when ‘lathis’ rained on them for seeking employment, when injustice was done against sisters…. who raised real issues of the people?" According to him, people in Uttar Pradesh saw the SP rule from 2012 to 2017 and the BJP from 2017 to 2022. “After being disappointed with the SP government, people voted for BJP. So, the BJP came to power because of them (SP)." People will not make the same mistake again, the ASP chief said. Asked if he has a realistic chance against the incumbent chief minister in his pocket borough of Gorakhpur, Aazad said he is confident of his chances. “When people can make Prime Minister Narendra Modi an MP despite not being from the state, I at least belong to Uttar Pradesh.” "I will defeat him (Adityanath), we need organisational strength for it and we have that. Their failures are plenty… inflation, Covid handling, unemployment recruitment scams, law and order and women's security, this government has failed on all counts," he said. There was talk of Adityanath fighting from Ayodhya but this was later "changed" to Gorakhpur Urban. He knew Chandra Shekhar Aazad will contest against him so he returned to a so-called "safe seat", the ASP chief said. “If Adityanath had done good work why would he return to Gorakhpur?” "People of Gorakhpur are not afraid of him nor will they abide by his 'Tughlaqi farmans'. People of Gorakhpur will repeat the history of 1971 when they defeated a sitting CM," he said. Asked about contesting from a seat in eastern Uttar Pradesh when his influence is considered to be more in the western part of the state, Aazad said this is a "media creation" and his party has influence all over. Born in Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur district, Aazad launched the Bhim Army in 2014 to fight for the welfare of the Dalits. He later formed the Azad Samaj Party, a political front of the Bhim Army. The party contested elections for the first time in the by-poll to the Bulandshahr Sadar seat in 2020. Its nominee Mohammed Yameen lost but secured 13,000 votes. Polling for the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Assembly is scheduled to be held in seven phases from February 10 to March 7 and the counting of votes will be taken up on March 10. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-beat-yogi-in-gorakhpur-says-chandra-shekhar-aazad-of-asp-1075216.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Pushkar Singh Dhami files nomination from Khatima||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami filed his nominations on Thursday from the Khatima Assembly seat for the February 14 polls. Dhami offered prayers at a local temple and held a door-to-door campaign in Khatima before filing his nominations.   He is pitted against PCC working president Bhuwan Chandra Kapri once again in Khatima. Dhami had defeated him in the 2017 assembly polls by a margin of 2,709 votes. He has been winning the seat since the 2012 assembly elections, when he had defeated Devendra Chand of the Congress by more than 5000 votes. Dhami also faces the challenge of breaking the trend of incumbent chief ministers losing the polls in Uttarakhand. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pushkar-singh-dhami-files-nomination-from-khatima-1075222.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Prominent 'Jat khap chaudharies' remained away from Amit Shah meeting||Many prominent 'khap chaudharies' (panchayat chiefs) from the electorally influential 'Jat' community stayed away from Union minister Amit Shah's meeting with the community members in Delhi on Wednesday despite being invited. According to the sources, invites had been sent to the prominent 'chaudharies' from 'Baliyan Khap' of which senior Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait was also a member, but very few of them chose to attend the meeting with Shah. Sources said that some of the powerful khap leaders said that they had no knowledge about the meeting in Delhi. ''No one knows who were invited from our khap.....we have no idea why the meeting was called and what assurances were given by Amit Shah,'' said Surendra Singh, who was a' chaudhary' of the 'Tomar Khap'. BKU national president Naresh Tikait, who represents the 'Baliyan Khap' questioned the Delhi meeting saying that Shah was nowhere to be seen when the farmers and the members of the 'Jat' community were sleeping on the roads during the farmers' agitation. ''Why is it that the BJP remembers the Jats only at the time of the elections?.....All I know is that some BJP leaders from the community were called at the meeting,'' Naresh Tikait said on Thursday. All India Jat Mahasabha president Jitendra Chaudhary also said that he had no information about the meeting. ''We were not called as the BJP would have to answer some tough questions,'' he added. State president of the National Jat Mahasangh Rohit Jakhar said that the BJP had only 'cheated' the 'Jat' community.  Shah, who met the leaders from the community, reportedly assured them that the government would consider the demand for reservation for the 'jats' after the assembly polls. The BJP leader had also extended an olive branch to the RLD president Jayant Chaudhary, who hailed from the community, and said that Jayant was free to join the BJP alliance. Jayant, however, rebuffed Shah and said that he was not someone who would go back on his words. ''I am not a chavanni (25 paisa coin) which will easily flip,'' he said while addressing a meeting at Khatauli in Muzaffarnagar on Thursday. Barely a few days back union minister Sanjiv Baliyan had met Naresh Tikait at the latter's residence in Muzaffarnagar. According to the sources the BKU leader had then refused to issue any appeal to the farmers in favour of the BJP in the forthcoming assembly polls.  Earlier Naresh Tikait had not only made an appeal to the people to ensure victory for the SP-RLD alliance in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state but also handed over the symbol authority letters to two alliance nominees though he later said that BKU was an 'apolitical' organisation and that the farmers were free to vote according to their preferences. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prominent-jat-khap-chaudharies-remained-away-from-amit-shah-meeting-1075288.html
27-01-2022||North and Central||Can't be straitjacket formula for premature release of convicts: Uttar Pradesh government tells SC||The Uttar Pradesh government has told the Supreme Court that there can't be a straitjacket formula for premature release of convicts and the prisoners can't claim a right for it as the State has to scrutinise each case under the power granted under Article 161 of the Constitution. "The State has always taken a lenient view in considering the case of convicts but certainly the leniency should not impair the path of justice and the victims' rights and agonies have also to be taken into consideration," it said. The state government maintained that the prisoners can't claim a right for premature release. The state government has power under Article 161 to scrutinise the cases of convicts on the parameters of the nature of the offence, the manner of crime, and the situation of area where the offence took place and all other relevant factors, including the impact of the release on the society, the agony suffered by victims' family and the present situation of the families affected by the crime. In an affidavit, the state government said, "It is the paramount constitutional duty of the government of the state to control the crime situation in the state and to take all necessary steps required to maintain law and order situation." It also asserted that all the convicts can't be treated equally. For example, there are cases where a person has committed a crime under sudden and grave provocation and there are convicts who committed the offence in a pre-planned manner. There are also convicts who are involved in a gang war and organised crimes and then, there are offenders of crimes against women and children. The UP government also said the power conferred on the Governor under Article 161 cannot be circumscribed by any rule or regulation. "The Governor is free to frame policy within the ambit of Article 14 of the Constitution. The policy made by the Governor is not subject to judicial review unless it is shown that hostile discrimination is being given to the convicts," the affidavit said. Responding to a writ petition filed by Bhura and others, the state government said it has decided to consider a plea for premature release of about 100 prisoners undergoing life imprisonment as per its previous policy of August 1, 2018. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-be-straitjacket-formula-for-premature-release-of-convicts-uttar-pradesh-government-tells-sc-1075289.html
27-01-2022||Oasis||The three jewels of Buddhism||Once a devotee asked Sri Aurobindo if he believed in God. ‘No,’ replied the Maharishi. “I don’t believe in God. I know God.” Believing, he explained, is accepting what others say. It is a substitute for knowing. You don’t believe that the Sun is the source of heat and light. You know it as a fact. You don’t believe that water is made up of Hydrogen and Oxygen. It is proven Science.  For most of us, God is a belief. One could call it a default setting. We accept it without ever giving it much of a thought. The axioms in our belief system are that God is the creator of the Universe, He is omniscient, omnipotent and omnipresent. However, at the functioning level, is the strong belief that God is listening to my prayers and He would align His will with my will and provide immunity against misfortunes. A direct fallout of this belief is that our faith glows and dims, rises and falls with life’s ups and downs. “I have lost faith in God” is a line we often declare or get to hear when life delivers an unexpected blow. “I have been praying sincerely every day. If God has not protected me and my family, why should I continue with my faith?” That is a fair question, especially when the loss that one has suffered is far too much for human endurance. But again, in time, when favourable events happen or when one has been saved from misfortunes, we rejoice with a spontaneous “Thank God!”, and show our gratitude in the form of offerings at our favoured places of worship. Spiritual teachers say that the trick to being steadfast in one’s faith is in surrendering; Surrender to God and seek His grace; don’t dwell on the specifics. It calls for the belief that God is listening, will respond favourably and provide grace. The Buddhist sharanam or refuge is not about surrendering to an external God. When one takes refuge in the three jewels of Buddhism, the necessary inner transformation will happen in our ability to face life situations. The three jewels are the wisdom of the Buddha, who is any person who has attained full enlightenment; Dhamma, the technique for self-transformation and self-liberation; and Sangha, the community of ordained monks who will show the right direction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-three-jewels-of-buddhism-1074991.html
27-01-2022||Opinion||BJP losing the narrative in UP||In election-going Uttar Pradesh, candidates and campaigners of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are being chased away by the people and their campaign vehicles attacked. These unprecedented incidents are not limited to western Uttar Pradesh, the area most impacted by the farmers' agitation. In eastern UP, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was heckled in his home borough of Sirathu in the Kaushambi district. Women were seen slamming doors on him, and he faced hostile sloganeering. The video of a BJP campaigner, allegedly a sitting legislator in UP, threatening the people stoning his car with a pistol, has gone viral. Union Minister Smriti Irani was heckled in her parliamentary constituency of Amethi, UP Sugarcane Minister, Suresh Rana, was abused by farmers in his home constituency Shamli, legislator Suresh Pasi from Amethi faced an irate mob, the BJP's campaign carcade was attacked, and some windscreens broken in Baghpat, sitting BJP MLA Pooran Prakash was chased away by the locals in Mathura's Baldev constituency and the cars of BJP canvassers in Meerut stoned. Similar incidents have been witnessed in Vrindavan, Siwalkhas (Meerut district), Khatauli, Chhaprauli, Sambhal and Bulandshahr. In the face of local anger, Devendra Singh Lodi, the sitting legislator from Syana constituency in Bulandshahr, issued a video appeal to his constituents, saying, "… for all the mistakes I have committed up to now, I seek your forgiveness by bowing my head at your venerable feet. I promise not to commit such mistakes in the future." Political observers believe that instances of taking down BJP candidates in western UP could have a copycat effect in other parts of the state, turning into a free for all that would damage the electoral prospects of the party. There are signs of panic in the party. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had to station himself in the Kairana constituency directing door-to-door campaigning - a constituency where he has made considerable effort to communalise the out-migration of some Hindu families. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not addressed a single rally, real or virtual, in the three weeks since he abandoned the Ferozepur rally. One reason for abandoning it, it is said, was the dismal attendance at Ferozepur. The banning of roadshows and rallies by the Election Commission of India till January 31, citing the Covid pandemic, may have given the BJP's chief campaigner some much-needed respite. Meanwhile, youth protests which started in Patna against alleged irregularities in the Railway Recruitment Board – Non-Technical Popular Categories (RRB-NTPC) examination have spilled over to UP. In Prayagraj, after protesting students tried to stop a train, the UP police resorted to baton-charging and raided hostels and lodges where they suspected some protesters were hiding. After political parties backed the students "protesting unemployment", the Union Railway Ministry has stayed new exams of NTPC categories and Level 1 of the RRB. A committee will hold discussions with the previous examinees and submit a report to the ministry. Whether this will be sufficient to contain the despondency of the student protesters remains to be seen. What is clear, however, is that the BJP seems to have lost the narrative in UP. While its campaigners, including Union Home Minister Shah and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, are campaigning to polarise the voters along religious lines, they have not met with much success. Going by the viral videos posted on social media, the protests against the BJP candidates in western UP constituencies are about the lack of "vikas" (development) and jobs. Clearly, the millions of tax-payers money that the Adityanath government has spent on propaganda about its developmental efforts have benefited only the media recipients of his largesse. There seem to be few takers for UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh's claim that the Adityanath government had created 2.64 crore jobs in 4.5 years. Sceptics scoff that this figure even exceeds the less than two crore jobs created in the entire country under Prime Minister Modi. India's former Chief Economic Advisor Kaushik Basu, in a tweet, presented a more realistic picture: "In Uttar Pradesh between 2016 and 2021 working-age population rose 146.9 mill(ion) to 169.2 mill(ion) and the number of people with jobs fell from 56.4 mill(ion) to 55.8 mill(ion). Much of this loss had occurred before the pandemic - a result of policy focus being on grand projects rather than human welfare." Youngsters stare at a bleak future, apprehensive of going past the age of qualifying for government jobs. They were at one point the main supporters of Prime Minister Modi because of his promise of job creation. UP voters are also angry because of price rise, falling incomes exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic, the menace of stray cattle exacerbated by the government's restrictions on the cattle trade and the non-payment of sugarcane dues from previous harvests. These economic issues are neutral across caste, community and religion. While the main Opposition, Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Lok Dal, are busy converting the election into a caste election, the BJP is trying to draw this discontent into a communal discourse. It has not been successful in doing so up to now because of the acuteness of economic woes. If there is negative voting in UP, it is the SP-RLD alliance that would be the main gainer despite its caste-based approach. However, the alliance, it is understood, is wary of communal occurrences that might yet polarise the UP election, pushing livelihood issues to the background. Even if such an incident were to take place in some other state, it might be played to the BJP's advantage in the UP campaign. Their fears may rest on no more than the adeptness of the BJP to play the communal card in every election. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-losing-the-narrative-in-up-1075155.html
27-01-2022||Panorama||Bommai’s Karnataka plays Hanuman To UP’s Ram||Karnataka is finalising a masterplan to develop the Anjanadri Hill in Koppal, the fabled birthplace of Hanuman, into a global tourist destination that will be ready just in time for the unveiling of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is personally supervising the project, has said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be invited for the inauguration.   “The birthplace of Hanuman is famous as ‘Kashi of the South’,” Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle said. “We have started work on the comprehensive development of Anjanadri Hill into a grand Kashi. The master plan will be finalised soon.”  Jolle added that she has received a proposal to acquire 13.34 acres of private land for the development of the temple located in the Anegundi village of Gangavathi taluk.  The Anjanadri project will be Karnataka's link to Ayodhya, which has been the BJP's most effective poll plank on the national stage. In fact, the Centre has planned a Ramayana Circuit for tourism that spans multiple locations across nine states: Ayodhya, Nandigram, Shringverpur and Chitrakoot (Uttar Pradesh); Sitamarhi, Buxar and Darbhanga (Bihar); Chitrakoot (Madhya Pradesh); Mahendragiri (Odisha); Jagdalpur (Chhattisgarh); Nashik and Nagpur (Maharashtra); Bhadrachalam (Telangana); Hampi (Karnataka) and Rameshwaram (Tamil Nadu).  The Anjanadri Hill overlooks Tungabhadra river. On the other side of the river stands Hampi, the world heritage site that is believed to be ‘Kishkindha’, the mythological kingdom of vanaras or monkeys. Anjanadri Hill and Hampi are some 20 km apart.  There are mythological references to Anjanadri, the birthplace of Hanuman, and the reference to Kishkindha in Ramayana. With many places in and around Hampi that have references in the epic, it is believed that Kishkindha and Hampi are the same. Bommai’s push for the Anjanadri Hill project comes even as the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) claimed last year that Hanuman was born in the Anjanadri Hill in Tirumala, which Karnataka clearly disagrees with.   The plan to develop Anjanadri Hill was first announced by Bommai’s predecessor B S Yediyurappa in the 2020-21 state budget. He earmarked Rs 20 crore for the development of the hill temple, which is an ‘A’ category Muzrai shrine.   “Footfalls at the temple has increased considerably in the last two years,” Koppal Deputy Commissioner Suralkar Vikas Kishor told DH. “Numbers touch 25,000 on Saturdays.”   Kishor said he received a phone call from Bommai, who gave oral instructions to arrange for the required land for the development of Anjanadri Hill. “We have sent a proposal to the Muzrai department for land to be acquired in order to provide amenities for devotees,” he said. In his letter to the Muzrai department, Kishor has pointed out the importance of the site in that the Centre has prepared a plan to link it with Ram Janmabhoomi. “Because of this, the site’s popularity has increased and pilgrims are visiting in large numbers. But the region lacks roads, accommodation and other basic infrastructure,” he stated.   The Anjanadri Hill falls under the Hampi World Heritage Area Management Authority (HWHAMA). “There are regulations. So, getting relaxation is an issue. We have sent a proposal on this as well. For example, we’d like locals themselves to take up development works,” Kishor said.   Bommai’s keenness on this project, political pundits say, is in line with the BJP’s Hindutva agenda, which he has pushed ever since he took charge six months ago. As Home Minister earlier, Bommai was unabashed in cracking down against anti-CAA protesters; he even defended a sedition case that was booked against a school in Bidar.   As Chief Minister, Bommai justified moral policing by right-wing groups, oversaw the passage of a law that gives protection to shrines that are illegally occupying public spaces, and another to regulate religious conversion (anti-conversion bill). He has also announced a law to free Hindu temples from State control, a long-pending demand of the Sangh Parivar. Bommai's 'communal' stance on issues has given rise to speculation that he is doing so to keep his position safe. There is no denying that the BJP’s performance has been rather underwhelming in four elections Karnataka has seen after Bommai took over.  “Undoubtedly, given the CM’s position and stakes, it may be important for him to align himself with the larger developments the BJP is pursuing at the national level,” political scientist Sandeep Shastri said. “The Ram temple is becoming a place to showcase as an achievement. And, you have a site for Hanuman to celebrate down in the south. It’s a very interesting strategy where you showcase an action as promoting tourism destinations. And, over the last few years, we’ve seen an increasing national focus on cultural tourism,” Shastri explained.   He further said that the Congress is merely countering the BJP’s narratives rather than building one of its own. “If you're setting the narrative yourself, then you also define the boundary.”   Senior Congress leader B L Shankar admitted, and defended, what Shastri suggests is his party’s weakness. “We can’t compete with the BJP (on emotional issues), however advantageous it is for them, because we have a commitment to the people. We may end up losing elections because of our stand, but we can’t compromise on constitutional values,” he said, adding that the BJP has been playing with people’s emotions for almost a decade. “It works since 99% of people are believers.”   The tell-tale sign is that whenever the BJP can’t solve people’s problems — unemployment, price rise and so on — they divert attention, Shankar pointed out. “When a party gets elected into government, the role of the leaders becomes different, and they have to act in line with the Constitution. But, this Lakshman rekha has been erased, he said. “The PM inaugurates temples and does pujas, something that should be left to priests to do.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bommai-s-karnataka-plays-hanuman-to-up-s-ram-1074985.html
27-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Emergence of the New Indian||After independence, till about a decade or two ago, introductory conversations between strangers always began with queries of the caste that one belonged to, or the archetypal ‘native place’. If it happened to be common or if they had geographical proximity of a few miles, they often struck a chord of familiarity and congenial bonding. In the metros and progressive towns, this is passé. Now, the connecting point for youngsters is the university/educational institution they have attended or their place of work. I am what I am due to various influences — the Hindu ideology of my roots, Sikh leanings due to a grandmother of the pre-partition era, Protestant teachings in school, Catholic values in college and a large number of Muslim friends, all of which have created in me a deep respect and tolerance for all religions. My head bows in equal reverence to the sound of bells from temples as well as churches; the voices singing the Sukhmani as well as those calling out the azaan; the Buddhist chants or recital of Pratikraman by Jains. In my friend Nagineh’s well-decorated drawing room, besides a copper embossed plate of the sayings from the Koran that holds pride of place, there is a Buddha idol and a sandalwood ‘Geetopadesha’ in a glass case gifted by her husband’s colleagues. Paintings of Yashoda and baby Krishna reminiscent of her J J School of Art days, adorn her wall. She and her family never fail to make the rounds of pandals during Navratras. She attributes her secular upbringing and lifestyle to her father’s service in the army. An Air Force officer I know set the stage for an ideally integrated family when he opposed his family’s attempts to convert his Christian bride and years later, he got a Gowda daughter-in-law and half Muslim-half Anglo-Indian son-in-law. Diyas during Diwali and decorations of Christmas are a common sight within houses where there are children, irrespective of the religion they belong to. On Rakshabandhan, rakhis adorn wrists of all races. I know of a few people who fast during Ramadaan even though they’re not Muslims. This and many such examples give a rosy picture of a truly secular, new-age Indian. Who knows, if our country had just a North, South, East, West and Central division of states, the lingual divide would have faded out too. Can we be optimistic enough and hope for a future that will have all the forms in our country without the ‘caste’ and ‘religion’ columns to be filled? Hopefully, increasing urbanisation, inter-caste marriages, ascendance in literacy rates and the spread of education will pave a smoother path for the emergence of a new age Indian who will rise above all divides to establish and strengthen his or her national identity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/emergence-of-the-new-indian-1074987.html
27-01-2022||Second Edit||A win for women’s property rights||The Supreme Court’s ruling that daughters are entitled to inherit the self-acquired and other properties of a male Hindu who dies intestate (without leaving a will) is yet another recognition of women’s property rights. The court ruled that the property would then go to the daughters by inheritance in preference to other members of the family. It also made it clear that daughters would have equal rights to their father’s property even prior to the enactment of the Hindu Succession Act of 1956. Male members of the family have often laid claim to the property of a man who died intestate and taken it. The ruling has made inheritance rights prior to the period before 1956 clear. It was given in an appeal against a Madras High Court judgement that had rejected a woman’s claim to the property of her father who had died intestate before 1956.  The court has been progressively interpreting laws to ensure that women are not denied their rightful claim to property in their families. In the present case, it quoted old Hindu customary laws and earlier judgements to show that even before the enactment of the succession law in 1956, wives and daughters had equal rights with sons to a man’s self-acquired property or property acquired by share in a joint estate. These rights had greater validity than the claims of other male members in the family and superseded them. It was the patriarchal practices and mindset that prevailed in society that resulted in depriving women of their rights.  While the courts have done much to interpret the laws and to settle fairly the cases that come before them, the situation on the ground is not fair and just for women in property matters, as on many other issues concerning them. The right to property and actual possession of the property is an indicator of social status and power. But women hold much less property than men in the country. Even when they hold property, many of them don’t control it. There is resistance to the registration of property in the name of women. There are conflicting laws on inheritance that work against women in states like Punjab, Haryana and UP. Married women are not considered legitimate inheritors of property even now. In most places, the dowry given at the time of marriage is considered as a full and final settlement of all claims to family property. Women need to be made aware of their rights and of the court rulings that support their case for equal rights to property.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-win-for-women-s-property-rights-1074981.html
27-01-2022||South||Classes 10-12 likely to resume in Tamil Nadu from February||The Tamil Nadu School Education Department is contemplating resuming in-person sessions in schools for classes 10 to 12 from February, with an eye on the board exams scheduled for May. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, in a virtual meeting with school principals, teachers, and bureaucrats on Tuesday, discussed this possibility. The department has already announced board exams for the month of May and two revision tests for January and March. However, with schools currently closed due to pandemic, the revision tests were cancelled. The minister said, "We have already recommended the reopening of school for students of classes 10 to 12 as the board examinations for these classes commences in May 2022. Teachers have also recommended that classes are reopened so that students get to cover the portions properly before the board examination is on." The state is expecting an announcement on the reopening of school for classes 10 to 12 in the next round of relaxations the state is expected to bring out in the near future.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/classes-10-12-likely-to-resume-in-tamil-nadu-from-february-1075130.html
27-01-2022||South||Actor Dileep's anticipatory bail plea in alleged abduction case moved to February 2||Actor Dileep's fate on his anticipatory bail plea which has been hanging for a few weeks now will be taken up on February 2 (Wednesday), said the Kerala High Court, after the prosecution sought more time. The court also ruled that the actor should not be arrested till then. Things have been hotting up for the actor ever since a revelation made by Balachandrakumar, a movie director who was once close to the actor but now has fallen out with him, said that Dileep had conspired to do away with the investigating officers in the actress abduction case, in which he is presently out on bail after cooling his heels for two months in jail way back in 2017. And since then things have turned wary for the actor and a fresh case was registered by the Crime Branch and a marathon 33 hours of questioning of actor Dileep and his four aides took place which ended on January 25. When the case was posted for Thursday, the prosecution sought for more time to put things in order and the court agreed to it and posted it for Wednesday and directed that the actor and his aides should not be arrested till then. Apart from Dileep, his brother Anoop, brother-in-law Sooraj, aide Appu alias Krishnadas, and close friend Byju Chengamanad are those who were interrogated and have sought anticipatory bail. Popular because of the comic characters he plays on screen, Dileep has been in the news for the wrong reasons after a frontline South Indian heroine complained that she had been abducted and sexually assaulted by a gang of goons in 2017 and certain scenes were filmed to blackmail her. After the main accused Sunil was arrested and questioned, the prosecution charged Dileep with being the main conspirator in the case. Dileep was arrested and jailed. He spent two months in prison before getting bail and the trial has been going on. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actor-dileeps-anticipatory-bail-plea-in-alleged-abduction-case-moved-to-february-2-1075182.html
27-01-2022||South||Urban local body polls: First popularity test for DMK government||The Nine-month-old DMK government will face its first major popularity test on February 19 when 649 urban local bodies in Tamil Nadu will go to the polls for the first time since 2011. This is the first state-wide election that is being held in the state after the DMK trounced the AIADMK and stormed to power after a decade.  With the DMK dispensation not amending the law passed in 2016 enabling indirect elections to elect leaders of urban local bodies, elections will be held for 12,838 seats/wards in 21 corporations, 138 municipalities, and 490 town panchayats. The newly-elected members will choose mayors, deputy mayors, chairpersons and deputy chairpersons, and presidents and vice-presidents for corporations, municipalities, and town panchayats.   While the elections to the ward members will be held in a single phase on February 19, the counting of votes will be taken up on February 22. Almost a fortnight later, the indirect elections for the heads of local bodies will be held on March 4.  For the DMK, the elections to urban local bodies is a “prestige issue” as it hopes to replicate the success of the assembly elections held in April 2021. The DMK feels the party’s sweep in the rural body elections in nine districts in October 2021 and the “popularity” of Chief Minister M K Stalin and his government would come in handy in the elections.  Though the DMK has over half-a-dozen alliance partners, the party is unlikely to part “significant number” of seats to them as it would like to keep a majority of the seats for its cadre. Despite this, the alliance will not face many problems, political analysts said.  On the other hand, the AIADMK, which is still smarting under the assembly election loss, will be utilizing the elections to “show its strength” in its strongholds at least if not across the state. The party believes the tardy distribution of Pongal gift hampers sans financial component and several other issues will help the AIADMK in the election. Party insiders say many district secretaries, including former ministers, are yet to begin work for the local body elections even as many are busy fighting cases filed against them by the new government.   The AIADMK alliance with BJP is likely to continue for the local body elections, though another partner PMK has walked away from the combine a few months back. As the filing of nominations for the elections begins on Friday, the DMK and AIADMK are busy finalizing candidates for the crucial election. Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH that the results of the local body elections will have a “bigger impact” on the AIADMK and its future than the ruling DMK. “The DMK is placed in a better position and the party can run through urban areas without any trouble. The ruling party is poised very well. And clearly, it is the DMK that has an edge. As far as the AIADMK alliance is concerned, differences between the AIADMK and BJP will come out in the open as the national party might want to contest more seats in urban areas,” Prof. Manivannan said.  Tamil Nadu Urban Local Body Elections: Polling Date: February 19, 2021 Counting of votes: February 22, 2021 Elections to elect heads of local bodies by elected members: March 4, 2021 Total seats/wards: 12,838  No of wards in 21 corporations: 1,374 No of wards in 138 municipalities: 3,843  No of wards in 490 town panchayats: 7,621 No of posts for indirect elections: 1,298 No of polling stations: 31,029 No of EVMs to be used: 1,06,121 units Total No of voters: 2,79,56,754 Male: 1,37,06,793 Female: 1,42,45,637 Transpersons: 4,324||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/urban-local-body-polls-first-popularity-test-for-dmk-government-1075287.html
27-01-2022||South||UP Police mull Tirupati-like security system in Ayodhya, Varanasi||The Uttar Pradesh Police is mulling Tirumala-Tirupati like security, pilgrim rush management in Ayodhya and Varanasi. A team of top UP police officials were in the temple town in Andhra Pradesh studying the Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanam security model, in order to spruce up their infrastructure. A grand Lord Ram temple is under construction in Ayodhya, expected to be opened for devotees by the end of next year. Kashi, the abode of Lord Shiva since ancient times, is also undergoing a major makeover. Prime minister Narendra Modi had, last month, inaugurated the Rs 700 crore Kashi Vishwanath corridor project. Apart from decongesting the temple surroundings, the corridor has beautified the complex, providing direct access for pilgrims between the Vishwanath temple and River Ganga. “As the pilgrim numbers are expected to become larger at these popular spiritual centres, the UP police officials are here to see how we are managing about 80,000 footfalls on average daily into the Lord Venkateshwara temple,” Gopinath Jatti, chief vigilance and security officer, TTD told DH. The devotee numbers go up to one lakh on special occasions and double during the annual Brahmotsavams. (The pilgrim inflow is low now because of the Covid-19 restrictions). The hill shrine is regularly visited by VVIPs like the President, PM. However, the temple has been free of any unwanted, untoward events like stampedes, threats, thanks to its multi-level checking, time-slotted and compartmental movement of pilgrims in the queue lines. TTD security arrangement consists of close to 3000 CCTVs and about 3000 personnel including an Andhra Pradesh Special Police company and an anti-terror commando unit called Octopus. Another 1400 CCTVs are planned for installation soon. The TTD vigilance and security wing not only manages the famed Lord Balaji temple in Tirumala but over 50 devasthanam run temples in Tirupati and elsewhere. “We have robust surveillance set up, with a state of the art command control centre. Our baggage scanning is on par with the standards in international airports. Our response to flutter or fire is also technology-based, in addition to the constant watch kept by our personnel,” Jatti said. The UP team, which included two DIG and three SP level IPS officers, were given a PowerPoint presentation on TTD security on Wednesday. The team visited the Alipiri toll plaza, footpath entry points, Kalyana-katta (tonsure centres), anna prasadam etc complexes and examined the sanitation aspects too. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/up-police-mull-tirupati-like-security-system-in-ayodhya-varanasi-1075296.html
27-01-2022||South||Two language policy will continue in Tamil Nadu: Minister||Tamil Nadu on Thursday reiterated that it will continue to follow the “two language” policy of using Tamil and English and reinforced its opposition to “imposition” of Hindi, in response to Governor R N Ravi’s statement that depriving students of knowledge of “other Indian languages was unfair to all”.  In a two-page statement, Minister for Industries, Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture, Archaeology, Thangam Thenarasu, asserted that the two language policy followed in Tamil Nadu since 1967 has not impacted people from the state in their educational qualification or accessing “high positions.” The minister also took a subtle dig at the Governor on the issue of NEET by reminding him that legislation passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly seeking exemption from the exam was pending before him for the past four months. He said as many as 579 students from the CBSE stream had figured in the list of students who scored the first 1,000 ranks, implying that the NEET exam puts students from the state board stream at a disadvantageous position.  “The only way to ensure social justice in medical admissions is to admit students into medical colleges based only on their plus-two marks. The bill is pending before the Governor. I hope that the Governor will respect the sentiments of students of Tamil Nadu by approving the Bill and sending it to the President for his assent,” Thenarasu said. Thenarasu’s statement came two days after Ravi in his Republic Day message highlighted the importance of the Tamil language while stressing that students from Tamil Nadu also learn other Indian languages like students in other states. “Depriving our students of knowledge of other Indian languages is unfair to all,” Ravi had said.  His statement was interpreted as his batting for Hindi in an indirect manner by the DMK government. Thenarasu, in his statement, said those who are aware of the language struggle in Tamil Nadu would understand that other Indian languages automatically points to Hindi.  “It is only to respect the sentiments of the people of Tamil Nadu that the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru (in 1963) announced that Hindi will be imposed on states that do not like to speak the language,” Thenarasu said.  As a continuation, Thenarasu said, the then Chief Minister C N Annadurai had in 1967 announced that Tamil Nadu will follow “dual language policy.” “I would like to point out to the Governor that the Tamil Nadu government that has been the policy of the state administration since then,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-language-policy-will-continue-in-tamil-nadu-minister-1075298.html
27-01-2022||South||TN girl suicide: BJP demands transfer of case to CBI as another video emerges||Another video of the 17-year-old student who died by suicide emerged on Thursday in which she makes no mention of “forced conversion” by her warden who allegedly made her do all chores at the hostel, even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded transfer of the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).  The BJP, which is alleging that forced conversion was the reason behind the suicide, sought to take the issue national with party president J P Nadda constituting a four-member team led by Sandhya Ray, Lok Sabha MP from Madhya Pradesh, to visit Thanjavur and submit a report on the incident.  Separately, BJP Mahila Morcha chief and Coimbatore (South) MLA Vanathi Srinivasan demanded that the case be transferred to the CBI alleging that the ruling DMK and its alliance partner Congress are “protecting” the accused the Church.  In the fresh video purportedly shot by BJP functionary Muthuvel, the girl said she consumed pesticides as she was worried about performing in the plus-two exam due to pressure exerted on her by the warden to do all chores at the hostel like closing and opening the gates and ensuring that the motor is switched on and off every day.  “I had always secured the first rank. Due to my family situation, I came to the hostel late this year. But the sister (warden) asked me to write the accounts (of the hostel) and did not allow me to study. I was not able to concentrate on my studies,” the girl, who died on January 19, said in the video.   The girl also replied in the negative to a question whether she was disallowed to wear a bindi in the Christian school. In a video shot by Muthuvel which was shared by Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai last week, the girl had said that she was asked to convert to Christianity by the warden two years back that her family refused to do so.  Armed with the video, the BJP had alleged that “forced conversion” was the reason behind the girl’s suicide and demanded implementation of anti-conversion law and took to the streets. Muthuvel, who shot the video, appeared before the police and handed over the phone used to record the girl’s statement at the orders of the Madras High Court.  Thanjavur District Police had debunked the “forced conversion” theory, maintaining that “mistreatment” by the warden had forced the student to take the extreme step. They also said religious conversion did not figure in the initial complaint filed by the girl’s father.  In a statement recorded before police and a judicial magistrate, the girl, sources said, did not mention forced conversion. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh had also said a probe conducted by his department has made it clear that “forced conversion” as being alleged by BJP was not the reason for the suicide of the 17-year-old student. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, the Minister had said police has informed him that the girl in her dying declaration recorded before government authorities did not speak anything on forced conversion (to Christianity) by the warden of a hostel managed by a Christian missionary in Thanjavur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-girl-suicide-bjp-demands-transfer-of-case-to-cbi-as-another-video-emerges-1075303.html
27-01-2022||South||Schools to reopen for classes 1 to 12 from Feb 1 in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu will reopen schools from February 1 for classes 1 to 12 even as it decided to lift the night curfew imposed from 10 pm to 5 am from Friday and announced that there will be no Sunday lockdown on January 30.  Colleges, barring those functioning as Covid-19 care centres, will also resume physical classes from February 1, the government announced and imposed restrictions on cinema theatres and shopping malls.  After a meeting with experts on Covid-19 restrictions, Chief Minister M K Stalin announced that classes for those studying in standard 1 to 12 will resume from February 1. He also announced a slew of restrictions from February 1 to 15, like a ban on classes for LKG and UKG, 50 per cent occupancy for restaurants, theatres, amusement parks, textile and jewellery showrooms, and seminar halls. While the maximum number of people allowed for marriage is 100, the number for funerals has been fixed at 50.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-1-to-12-from-feb-1-in-tamil-nadu-1075308.html
27-01-2022||South||Jagan launches AP Seva Portal 2.0 for better, transparent delivery of services||The Andhra Pradesh government has launched an improved version of the citizen service portal intended for better delivery of various services to the people. All the officials right from the village/ward secretariat level to the top authorities shall be using the AP Seva Portal, a digitised platform to provide citizen services in a transparent manner. The public can track the status of their applications themselves by logging in without any hassle. Updates are provided through SMSes too. The portal is also enabled with payment gateways to access paid services. Speaking during the launch of AP Seva Portal 2.0 on Thursday, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy said the initiative would “make governance much closer to people.” “Even those in remote villages can avail citizen services right from their doorstep, without running from pole to post,” the CM said. The newly updated portal offers over 30 services under Revenue and Land Administration, 25 services of Municipal Administration, six services of Civil Supplies, three services of Rural Development and over 53 services of Energy departments. The improved portal allows approval of all applications online and officials can also provide certificates and documents online with a digital signature. The portal services can be availed from any secretariat across the state. The Chief Minister said that the village/ward secretariats, with a volunteer system, was brought in to ease public service delivery at the local level. “About four lakh people are part of this delivery mechanism, offering over 540 services directly to the people. Since January 2020, as many as 3.46 crore government services were provided to the public through village/ward secretariats,” Reddy said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-launches-ap-seva-portal-20-for-better-transparent-delivery-of-services-1075311.html
27-01-2022||South||RBI regrets incident over Tamil Thai Vazhthu ||Reserve Bank of India on Thursday regretted certain officers of its Chennai branch refusing to stand up for Tamil Thai Vazhthu, the state’s official anthem, and making “unnecessary statements” regarding the song.  A row erupted on Wednesday during Republic Day celebrations at the RBI office in Chennai when a few officials refused to stand up when the anthem was played. Some of them said the song did not require them to stand up leading to the commotion at the event – a short clip of the argument between two sections went viral on social media.  As the issue snowballed into a major controversy, RBI Regional Director S M N Swamy led a senior-level delegation on Thursday to Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and explained their position vis-à-vis Tamil Thai Vazhthu.  Hours later, the RBI said in a statement that Tamil Thai Vazhthu was sung on the occasion of Republic Day as a mark of deference for the Tamil culture and language.  “However, subsequently, in the commotion that ensued, certain unnecessary statements concerning the song had been made, which were uncalled-for and regrettable. We are aware that Tamil Thai Vazhthu is the state song of Tamil Nadu. We wish to reiterate that, as a regulatory body, we respect the customs and practices followed in each region of the country,” the RBI said in the statement.  The Tamil Nadu government had in December declared the song penned by renowned scholar Manonmaniam Sundaranar as the State Song of Tamil Nadu. While making the announcement, Chief Minister M K Stalin had said all should remain standing when the song is sung.  Meanwhile, an advocate with the Madras High Court filed a complaint with the Chennai Police for “disrespecting the anthem”.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rbi-regrets-incident-over-tamil-thai-vazhthu-1075313.html
27-01-2022||South||TTD promotes panchagavya products under brand name 'Namami Govinda'||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has opened a panchagavya products manufacturing unit in Tirupati. Officials said that 15 products of panchagavya branded as "Namami Govinda" are being made available to devotees at affordable prices. With the products, TTD aims at promoting gau-puja and improving the health of devotees across the country, TTD Chairman Y V Subba Reddy said after the inauguration on Thursday. The unit has been set up with technical support from Ashirwad Ayurveda Pharmacy, Coimbatore. All the raw materials for panchagavya products are sourced from the TTD-run Goshalas. Reddy said that TTD had earlier begun the production of incense sticks from flowers used in the TTD temples. "After receiving good response from devotees, we are planning to double the incense sticks production.” TTD officials highlighted the various other programs and schemes of TTD like the use of desi cow products in Srivari temple, kainkaryas and cow-based organic products for preparing Naivedyam, etc. Officials said that they had entered an MoU with the Andhra Pradesh government in the organic farming sector, to utilise organic manures made from cow urine, etc. The TTD proposes to develop two modern Goshalas in each district of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and train youth in the manufacturing of panchagavya products. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-promotes-panchagavya-products-under-brand-name-namami-govinda-1075352.html
27-01-2022||State||Dip in new Covid cases at 38,083 in Karnataka||Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, which dipped to 38,083 in Karnataka on Thursday taking the tally to 36,92,496. The death toll climbed to 38,754, with 49 more deaths recorded. The state had yesterday reported 48,905 new infections. There were 67,236 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 33,25,001, a bulletin said. Of the new cases, 17,717 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 43,997 people being discharged and 12 virus-related deaths. The total number of active cases across the state is now at 3,28,711. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 20.44 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.12 per cent. Of the 49 deaths, 12 are from Bengaluru Urban, Ballari and Mysuru (5), Dakshina Kannada and Hassan (4), Mandya, Raichur, Thumakuru, Udupi and Uttara Kannada (2), followed by others. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru recorded the second highest with 2,587, Mandya 1,802,Tumakuru 1,584, Hassan 1,452, and Dharwad 1,155. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 16,66,475 cases, Mysuru 2,14,013 and Tumakuru 1,49,807.  According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 14,60,075, followed by Mysuru 1,97,633 and Tumakuru 1,34,876. Cumulatively, a total of 6,12,54,454 samples have been tested, of which 1,86,313 were on Thursday alone.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dip-in-new-covid-cases-at-38083-in-karnataka-1075318.html
27-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Statue of Sangolli Rayanna in Delhi soon: CM Bommai||The state government has written to the Union government authorities to install a statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna in New Delhi, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Wednesday. There is a statue of Kittur Chennamma in the national capital. Rayanna statue should be installed close to it, he said. Responding to a letter by MP P C Mohan to rename Bengaluru roads after freedom fighters, he said that a suitable decision would be taken soon. The government would issue orders to display the portrait of Sangolli Rayanna in all schools and colleges, he said. Construction of the school will be completed this year. The Ministry of Defence would be requested to adopt the school, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/statue-of-sangolli-rayanna-in-delhi-soon-cm-bommai-1075042.html
27-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||House panel begins inspection of elite clubs in Karnataka||A House Panel constituted by the Legislative Council, which seeks to look into discrepancies in the functioning of the elite clubs in the state, has begun inspections of these clubs.  According to the committee chairperson and BJP MLC Ravikumar, the members visited two clubs in Bengaluru this week and more visits will follow each week, with the next visit scheduled for January 31.  The panel, which has nine MLCs in all, was constituted last year. However, owing to the pandemic, it had not begun visits until now. Speaking to DH, Ravi Kumar said the primary aspect the committee probing was how these clubs were functioning on government lands leased out for nominal amount. “The government is giving them electricity and water supply. However, the clubs take exorbitant membership fee and have also become commercial,” Kumar explained, adding that there was a need for the government to revise the lease amount for these clubs. The second issue the panel will look into is that of exclusive practices such as the dress code. In many clubs, to this day, people wearing slippers are not allowed inside, reflecting colonial practices, the MLC said.  Congress MLC U B Venkatesh, who is among the members of the committee, added that some legislators themselves were shunned on some occasions by these clubs for not meeting their dress code. With the membership fee running into tens of lakhs of rupees, it’s beyond the affordability of common people. “They must show social accountability by adopting a few government schools, for instance,” he said, adding that there were also allegations of financial misappropriation in some clubs.  There have been three house committees in the past and the clubs have always obliged and provided all the necessary documents, said Shrikanth H S, President of the Federation of Clubs, Karnataka, and the secretary of Bowring Institute. The Federation has 68 registered clubs across the state. “Last year, we were invited for meetings in the Legislators’ Home in this regard. The committee visited Bowring Institute this week along with government officials and we have provided all the details sought from us. As for the dress code, senior citizens, women and girls are exempted from it. There is no regulation against Indian attire for anyone,” he explained.  The committee will submit a set of recommendations to the government in six months from now, according to the members. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/house-panel-begins-inspection-of-elite-clubs-in-karnataka-1075045.html
27-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||34 personalities write to CM Bommai, MLAs over alleged violence against religious minorities in Karnataka||A group of 34 people, including writers, academicians, scientists, environmentalists and artists, among others, have written a letter to Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and legislators expressing concern over what they called deteriorating governance and frequent violence against religious minorities in the State. The signatories of the letter include historians Ramachandra Guha and Prof. Janaki Nair; environmentalists Nagesh Hegde, Almitra Patel; sociologists A R Vasavi and Prof. Satish Deshpande; scientists Prof. Sharadchandra Lele, Prof. Vinod Gaur and Prof. Vidyanand Nanjundiah; writers Vivek Shanbhag, Purushottam Bilimale and K P Suresha, and activist Bezwada Wilson, among others. They have said that in the last few months, the State has witnessed brutal killings in several districts, hate speeches, threats and attacks on places of worship belonging to religious minorities, honour killings, moral policing, misogynistic statements by legislators, and incidents of hostility and discord between religious groups. "Un-constitutional statements made by legislators and the inability of the State machinery to rein in anti-social groups have encouraged such incidents," they have stated. Stating that such incidents have put a blot on the long history of Karnataka as a progressive State, which always facilitated social harmony of a plural society, the signatories said it is now losing its identity on multiple fronts. "On the financial, administrative, and political fronts, Karnataka is losing its federal strength." Further pointing at recent legislations such as the ‘cow protection’ and ‘anti-conversion’ Acts, they said they are anti-minority and infringes on the economic and cultural rights of religious minorities. "No longer are harmony, peace, and tolerance the hallmarks of the State." Warning that if these issues are not addressed Karnataka's reputation as a destination for investment and industries might also get affected, they said economic activities can thrive when there is social harmony and cordial atmosphere. Urging the Chief Minister and the legislators to seriously review these negative incidents in the State and to ensure that the rule of law, the principles of the Constitution, the rights of citizens, and the basic sense of humanity is re-established, the signatories said, “your abilities to address these challenges will be the yardstick that will assess you in the future." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/34-personalities-write-to-cm-bommai-mlas-over-alleged-violence-against-religious-minorities-in-karnataka-1075061.html
27-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government flooded with applications for guest faculty posts||The state government, which was initially apprehensive of its plans to recruit over 10,000 guest lecturers this fiscal, has now been flooded with 60,000-plus applications. This comes as a surprise, especially at a time when the government is fearing backlash, with thousands of existing guest lecturers already on an indefinite stir. According to sources in the Higher Education Department, applications were invited for 10,636 posts and the online counselling for the appointment was scheduled to be held from Thursday for a period of four days. Pradeep P, Commissioner of the department, said that 7,225 guest lecturers for 47 subjects will be appointed with full workload (15 hours/week) and another 3,411 with partial workload. The highest number of applications was received for commerce, followed by Kannada, computer science and English. Hike in honorarium Senior officials in the department said that the government's decision to increase honorarium has resulted in the influx of applications. A day before the Sankranti festival, the government had increased the honorarium in three slabs — Rs 32,000, Rs 30,000 and Rs 26,000 — based on the experience and qualifications set by the UGC. But the Karnataka Guest Faculties Association had decided to continue with the protests, demanding a cap on workload. The association felt that the increase in workload would have a cascading effect, resulting in job losses for at least 70,000 guest lecturers who are currently working in various colleges. "Candidates were allowed to choose 10 colleges and now, during the counselling, they can pick the college based on seniority," said Pradeep. They need to report for work in the instructed colleges within two days. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-flooded-with-applications-for-guest-faculty-posts-1075066.html
27-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: State-run hospitals propose expansion plans in budget||Hospitals have given a slew of proposals to the government for beefing up health infrastructure ahead of the state budget likely to be presented in the first week of March. Following the losses suffered by the government due to the pandemic, the government hospitals are also conservative and realistic about their proposals. The state-run Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology (KMIO), for instance, has proposed new oncology branches of 350 beds each in Mysuru and Hubbali. While the tender process needs to be initiated in Shivamogga, at Tumakuru, civil work is in progress for a 100-bedded hospital. While there is a need for an MRI scanning facility at two centres of Kidwai, a cost of Rs 350 crore for each facility is dissuading the hospital from submitting a proposal to the state and instead it is exploring CSR options. Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research (SJICR) has also proposed a new branch at Hubballi spread over 10 acres of land with 350 beds costing Rs 220 crore. The governing council, headed by the CM, has given its approval for the same and it will be announced in the state budget. Dr C Ramachandra, director, KMIO, told DH, "We have proposed new Kidwai hospitals in Mysuru and Hubbali at a cost of Rs 350 crore each. For the Mysuru branch, Rs 50 crore was sanctioned last year. A 200-bedded Shivamogga branch has been sanctioned Rs 110 crore last year. The government is cash-strapped due to Covid."  "We are operating our PET scan facility on a PPP model. There is a need for MRI facilities but two facilities at two centres themselves will go up to Rs 700 crore so we are exploring CSR funds." SJICR has so far been established in three revenue divisions of Bengaluru (1,000 beds), Mysuru (400 beds) and Kalaburagi (350 beds). "The only revenue division bereft of an SJICR is the Belagavi division. Hence, the proposal to set up a branch at Hubballi. This division's hospital will cater to seven districts of Hubbali, Dharwad, Haveri, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Bagalkot, and Vijayapura. This will be announced in this year's state budget session."  "The civil works will cost Rs 160 crore and the essential medical equipment will cost Rs 55 crore. The total cost will be Rs 220 crore. The project will be spread over two to three years so the money won't be required immediately. In the first year, only Rs 25 crore to Rs 30 crore may be required. So there won't be a pinch," SJICR director Dr C N Manjunath said. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters, "People naturally have big expectations from the budget. We are in an unprecedented situation where we have to categorise the entire economy into pre-Covid and post-Covid periods. I am confident that both Union and state Budgets will be people-friendly and will provide the necessary stimulus for overall development." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-state-run-hospitals-propose-expansion-plans-in-budget-1075165.html
27-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt set to crack down on illegal Bangladeshi immigrants: Jnanendra||The Karnataka government plans to crack down on illegal Bangladeshi immigrants who work in the State, with Home Minister Araga Jnanendra flagging concerns that they pose a danger to the country's internal security. The Minister said a survey is underway by police to track down such illegal immigrants. He said police have information about their presence in parts of the State, especially in coffee plantations in Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru districts working as labourers. "Special efforts and preparations are on to track them and apprehend them," Jnanendra told PTI in an interview on Thursday. He alleged that Bangladeshi immigrants manage to get ration cards, voter ID cards and Aadhaar cards in Assam and West Bengal after they sneak into India. It's a big racket and there is a need to crack down on this network. "It poses a danger to our country's security", the Minister said. Jnanendra also said cybercrime cases have been going up sharply in recent times in the State, adding, police are in touch with bank management to address the issue. The Karnataka government has inked an MoU with its Gujarat counterpart on training state personnel to tackle cyber crimes. "We are sending 60 police personnel working in our cyber cell to Gujarat for training", the Minister said. On drug menace, Jnanendra said Karnataka police are in touch with Central agencies, and coordination with neighbouring States to curb such activities is being strengthened. Referring to the "anti-conversion bill" which was cleared by the Legislative Assembly but is yet to be passed in the Council, where the ruling BJP lacks a majority, the Minister said the government intends to promulgate an ordinance. But at the same, the government is also mulling to get it passed in the upper House in the coming Budget session. "We have increased our numbers (in the Council) after the recent elections. There may be one or two differences (short by one or two members). But we will manage. There are members in other parties who want this to become law", he said. The Minister also said that the government has proposed to revise the prison manual. There are acres of unutilised land within the premises of jails, and the government has proposed to promote agriculture and industrial activities there which would generate income and give work opportunities for inmates who otherwise sit idle. The government is also giving a major thrust to "beat policing" system in the State to promote greater involvement of constables. According to him, Naxal activities have come down substantially in the State. There are a few Naxals operating in areas bordering Kerala, but there is a feeling among Naxals that "Karnataka is not safe" for their activities. On completion of six months in office of the Basavaraj Bommai government this week, Jnanendra praised the leadership of the Chief Minister saying he has given good administration, and freedom for Ministers to work. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-set-to-crack-down-on-illegal-bangladeshi-immigrants-jnanendra-1075229.html
27-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai completes bitter-sweet 6 months as Karnataka CM, more challenges await||Friday marks the completion of six months of Basavaraj Bommai taking charge as the chief minister. January 28 also happens to be his 62nd birthday. These last six months have been a bittersweet journey for Bommai. In July 2021, as the stage was set for replacing former chief minister Yediyurappa, the BJP had the challenge of finding an alternative without hurting the party’s prospects in the 2023 Assembly polls. Bommai, a Lingayat leader from North Karnataka and a close aide of Yediyurappa, emerged as that safe alternative, without antagonising Yediyurappa or disturbing political and caste equations in the state’s politics. The past six months were the “honeymoon period” for Bommai, observed political analyst Sandeep Shastri. “He has been able to ensure Yediyurappa’s goodwill, while also taking into account the vision of the central leadership as he moves forward,” he said. However, he has been unable to quell discontent in the party. Take for instance the ongoing demand for cabinet expansion. Leaders such as Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, M P Renukacharya and G H Thippareddy have openly expressed displeasure that certain ministers get multiple opportunities, while the others remain sidelined. Speaking to DH, Renukacharya said the Bommai government could benefit from fresh faces in the Cabinet, especially with the BBMP elections round the corner and the 2023 Assemblyelections. The recent appointment of district in-charge ministers has also caused heartburn, with many aspirants not getting districts of their choice. Besides, repeated talk of a change of leadership continues to hinder smooth administration.  According to one BJP MLA, the Bommai administration has failed to take the legislators into confidence and hear their grievances. “It’s difficult to come out of the political shadow of Yediyurappa. But administratively, Bommai could have been more robust. There has been no development work on the ground,” the MLA lamented. The party’s loss in the bypoll Hangal in Bommai’s home district Haveri, a setback in Council elections, especially in Belagavi where BJP has a strong presence and the Congress gaining upper hand in the recent ULB polls have also come as a dampener for the BJP. Party’s internal politics aside, Bommai had his hands full with the alleged Bitcoin scam and allegations of 40 per cent commission by the contractors’ association, which grabbed the headlines. The Congress making noise over the Mekedatu issue and the JD(S) taking up the larger issue of pending water projects across the state, the relapse of the pandemic and continued financial strain on the exchequer are other challenges confronting him. Now that the honeymoon period is over, the public will look for development indicators in the state. Karnataka has fallen back on several governance indicators, be it the Niti Ayog or the Public Affairs Centre indicators, Shastri pointed out. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-completes-bitter-sweet-6-months-as-karnataka-cm-more-challenges-await-1075361.html
27-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to release vision document outlining healthcare reforms on Friday||The state is set to release a vision document on Friday, with reforms suggested for the overhaul of the public healthcare system across all medical specialities. DH caught up with heads of major tertiary care government hospitals who spoke about the deficits in cancer care, child care and stroke management. One of the major requirements in child care is decentralising tertiary care as state-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH) is perhaps the only single-speciality hospital that has no branches as opposed to Jayadeva for cardiac care or Kidwai for cancer care. Dr Basavaraj G V, professor, paediatrics, IGICH, told DH, "Setting up government children's hospitals in backward districts will reduce the burden on the Bengaluru centre. Treating kids affected by pneumonia, diarrhoea, and vaccine-preventable diseases like measles, diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus should be a priority." With respect to oncology, peripheral cancer centres are needed apart from regular cancer screening camps to detect tobacco-linked cancers and cancers of the breast and cervix in women.  Dr C Ramachandra, director, Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, said, "Incidence of breast cancer is the highest among women in urban areas. We had suggested installing ten mammogram machines in the whole of Karnataka in 2017. It has not yet been implemented. All women above 40 years of age should undergo a mammogram screening." Nimhans has already proposed to the Centre to consider setting up a hub and spoke model for stroke management, the success of which is dependent on bringing the patient to a health facility in the golden hour.  Dr Prathima Murthy, director, Nimhans, told DH, "For stroke care and acute neurological trauma, we have already made a proposal recently to the central government to have specialised centres not just in Bengaluru, but other districts too. There is a lot of delay in bringing patients from remote parts of Karnataka to Nimhans." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-release-vision-document-outlining-healthcare-reforms-on-friday-1075362.html
27-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet approves Rs 488 crore for elevated corridor in Bengaluru||Works on an elevated corridor at Varthur, costing Rs 488.14 crore, received administrative approval from the Cabinet on Thursday. Briefing reporters, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said that the Cabinet approved to extend the length of the 100-feet wide corridor from the existing 1.3 km to 1.92 km. The Cabinet also granted approval for Rs 287 crore for the SVAMITVA project – the drone-based agriculture and urban property survey. The funds will be used to either add drones for the project or for an aerial survey, he said. The Central government has provided five drones to conduct surveys under SVAMITVA. The state government is planning to add more drones to speed up the survey process, he said. A decision to hand over 66.17-acre government land in villages of Yelahanka constituency to Bangalore Development Authority for Dr Shivaram Karanth Layout was also taken during the meeting. Though the proposal was to hand over around 400 acres of land, the government has decided to transfer only 66.17 acres of litigation-free land, Madhuswamy said. The government also decided to release Rs 11.21 crore for setting up drinking water facilities at the IIT-Dharwad campus, which was part of the infrastructure commitment of the government for the institute. The Cabinet also permitted the recruitment of veterinary doctors to Animal Husbandry Department. “There were 800 vacancies for veterinary doctors. The department will appoint 400 doctors,” he said. The government also approved Rs 97 crore to set up 6,500 smart classes in 430 first grade colleges, 14 engineering colleges and 87 government colleges, the minister said. A decision to merge Karnataka State Forest Development Corporation Limited, Karnataka State Forest Industrial Corporation Limited and Karnataka Cashew Development Corporation Limited was cleared by the Cabinet. Inmates’ release The Cabinet also decided to release 166 prisoners facing life term sentences for good behaviour. Among other decisions of the Cabinet were Rs 93.27 crore for free uniforms for students in class 1 to 10, under Vidya Vikas Yojana, Ra 10.52 crore for a fishermen’s jetty near Udyavar, Udupi district, Rs 75 crore for a silk market at Ramanagara, Rs 92.81 crore to provide basic facilities for devotees at Chamundeshwari temple, Mysuru and Rs 165 crore for a lake-filling project in Gurumitkal constituency, Yadgir district. On absorbing candidates of the controversial 2011 batch, he said that a decision will be taken after discussion in the houses of the legislature in the upcoming session. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-approves-rs-488-crore-for-elevated-corridor-in-bengaluru-1075367.html
27-01-2022||West||Gujarat town remains tense as VHP holds bandh over murder on 'religious' comments||Tension prevailed in Dhandhuka town in Ahmedabad district with Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Thursday observing a bandh to protest against the murder of a 30-year-old and demanding the arrest of the suspects. Police said that the youth, who had uploaded an objectionable social media post against a religion sometime back, was gunned down on Tuesday by two unidentified bike-borne men, which has sparked the tension. On Tuesday, the youth Kishan Boliya was shot dead in Dhandhuka town, about 100 km from Ahmedabad city, at around 5.30 pm. He was travelling on a motorcycle with his brother as a pillion rider when two masked gunmen shot at them from behind.  "I couldn't see the assailants as I was riding. I tried to dodge them but they kept firing at us. One of the bullets missed my head. My brother, who was sitting behind me, got hit in the back and died," said Bhaumik, who has filed the FIR with Dhandhuka police. The police have registered FIR against unidentified persons for murder (IPC 302), attempt to murder (IPC 307) and Arms Act to be read with criminal conspiracy (IPC 120B). When asked whether Kishan was murdered for his social media post hurting religious sentiments, Ahmedabad District Superintendent of Police Virendrasinh Yadav told DH, "It is too early to say anything. We are investigating''. However, the VHP has alleged that the reason behind the killing is "Kishan's social media post". "There is no other reason behind the incident. Police may say anything they like. It is a fact that Kishan's post had angered certain people and despite apologising for the post, he was killed in a Talibani manner as if there is no space for law and order in this country," said Hintendrasinh Rajput, Gujarat VHP's spokesperson. He said that bandh is being forced to pressurise the police to immediately arrest the suspects and put them to trial before a fast track court. Bhaumik, meanwhile, said that following the incident, his family left the town and moved to their ancestral village in the neighbouring Surendranagar district. "My brother had apologised. He even shot a video apologising for his post, still he was brutally killed," Bhaumik told DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-town-remains-tense-as-vhp-holds-bandh-over-murder-on-religious-comments-1075176.html
27-01-2022||West||MVA political quake in Malegaon||The  Maha Vikas Aghadi allies - the Congress and Sharad Pawar-led NCP - seem to be on a collision course in Malegaon in Nashik district of Maharashtra.  Malegaon is a Muslim majority town and is a hub of powerlooms and textiles. Thanks to the development in Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) the political arithmetic has changed.  All the 28 Congress corporators including mayor Tahira Shaikh joined the  NCP formally on Thursday.  Her husband and senior corporator Shaikh Rashid too has joined the NCP. Last year, Rashid had tendered his resignation as Malegaon town Congress president.  The corporators joined the NCP in presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state NCP president and water resources and command area development minister Jayant Patil, food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik.  This has left the Congress fuming. “Some people from Congress have joined NCP…similarly some people from NCP will soon be joining us…I am not revealing the details are now….we may be in alliance but after all its politics,” state Congress president Nana Patole said.  The MMC comprises 84 seats - and according to the results of elections conducted in 2017, Congress had 28 seats, NCP 20, Shiv Sena 12, BJP 9, AIMIM 7 and JD(S) 7.  Now Congress is reduced to nil while NCP’s strength is now 48.  Patil said once the Covid-19 situation normalises, NCP president Sharad Pawar would address a meeting in Malegaon. "The NCP is committed to the overall development of Malegaon and completely change its face," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-political-quake-in-malegaon-1075233.html
27-01-2022||West||Helpless tribal carry body of son on a bike||In a shocker, a tribal couple had to ride around 35 to 40 kms on a motorcycle carrying the dead body of their minor son just on the eve of the Republic Day in Palghar district near Mumbai.  While available ambulances refused to go and there was no hearse available. The dead boy was identified as Ajay Pardhi, a six-year-old, who was admitted to the government sub-district hospital - Patangshah Kutir Rugnalaya - at Jawhar in Palghar district after a bout of pneumonia.  The boy died around 9 pm on Tuesday, the eve of the Republic Day.  After completing the formalities the parents took the body and drove to their home at Sadakwadi village, nearly 35 to 40 kms from the hospital. The hospital does not have a hearse and some of the ambulances refused to go. The ambulances are on contract and action is being taken against them, according to district surgeon Dr Sajay Bodade.  The boy’s father Yuvraj Pardhi said that since they did not have the kind of money that was asked, the ambulances drivers refused to carry the bodies. “This is a shocking incident. In tribal areas there is always a lack of health infrastructure, doctors, nurses, staff and ambulances,” said veteran activist Vivek Pandit, a former MLA, who works in the Thane-Palghar belt.  The parents first wrapped the body and covered themselves with blankets as it was quite cold in the area and then drove the distance in the motorcycle.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/helpless-tribal-carry-body-of-son-on-a-bike-1075301.html
27-01-2022||West||Wine to be available in supermarkets in Maharashtra||The Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra has approved the sale of wine in supermarkets.  The size of such shops should be over 1,000 sq ft, according to the decision taken at the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The BJP, however, has opposed the move with leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis saying that it would not allow Maharashtra to transform into “Madyarastra”.  “The government will allow sale of wine in supermarkets of over 1,000 sq ft and there would be a dedicated area or showcase for sale of wine,” state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik told reporters. “There are several wineries in Maharashtra…the decision would give a boost to it,” he said, adding that it would also benefit farmers who supply fruits to wineries. Reeling out decisions on liquor industry taken by MVA government since it came to power, Fadnavis said: “Liquor is cheaper than petrol and diesel in Maharashtra, prohibition removed (Chandrapur), decision to give new liquor licences, and now wine to be available in supermarket and kirana shops…we will not allow Maharashtra to be converted into Madyarastra,” Fadnavis said.  Majority of wines have very low content of pure spirits as compared to other liquors. Also, a large number of restaurants and bakeries use wine for food making. The state has over 50 wineries and the majority of them are located in Nashik, which is also referred to as wine capital of the state. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wine-to-be-available-in-supermarkets-in-maharashtra-1075309.html
