28-01-2022||Comment||BJP is losing the narrative||In election-going Uttar Pradesh, candidates and campaigners of the BJP are being chased away by the people and their campaign vehicles attacked. These unprecedented incidents are not limited to western Uttar Pradesh, the area most impacted by the farmers’ agitation. In eastern UP, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was heckled in his home borough of Sirathu in Kaushambi district. Women were seen slamming doors on him, and he faced hostile sloganeering.  The video of a BJP campaigner, apparently a sitting legislator in UP, threatening the people stoning his car with a pistol, has gone viral. Union Minister Smriti Irani was heckled in her parliamentary constituency of Amethi, UP Sugarcane Minister Suresh Rana was abused by farmers in his home constituency Shamli, legislator Suresh Pasi from Amethi faced an irate mob, the BJP’s campaign carcade was attacked and some windscreens broken in Baghpat, sitting BJP MLA Pooran Prakash was chased away by locals in Mathura’s Baldev constituency, and the cars of BJP canvassers in Meerut were stoned.  Similar incidents have been witnessed in Vrindavan, Siwalkhas (Meerut district), Khatauli, Chhaprauli, Sambhal and Bulandshahr. In the face of local anger, Devendra Singh Lodi, the sitting legislator from Syana constituency in Bulandshahr, issued a video appeal to his constituents, saying, “…for all the mistakes I have committed up to now, I seek your forgiveness by bowing my head at your venerable feet. I promise not to commit such mistakes in the future.”  Political observers believe that instances of taking down BJP candidates in western UP could have a copycat effect in other parts of the state, turning into a free for all that would damage the electoral prospects of the party.  There are signs of panic in the party. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had to station himself in Kairana constituency, directing door-to-door campaigning -- a constituency where he has made considerable effort to communalise the out-migration of some Hindu families. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not addressed a single rally, real or virtual, in the three weeks since he abandoned the Ferozepur rally. One reason for abandoning it, it is said, was the dismal attendance at Ferozepur. The banning of roadshows and rallies by the Election Commission of India till January 31, citing the Covid pandemic, may have given the BJP’s chief campaigner some much-needed respite.  Meanwhile, youth protests that started in Patna against alleged irregularities in the Railway Recruitment Board – Non-Technical Popular Categories (RRB-NTPC) examination have spilled over to UP. In Prayagraj, after protesting students tried to stop a train, the UP police resorted to baton-charging and raided hostels and lodges where they suspected some protesters were hiding. After political parties backed the students “protesting unemployment”, the Union Railway Ministry has stayed new exams of NTPC categories and Level 1 of the RRB. A committee will hold discussions with the previous examinees and submit a report to the ministry. Whether this will be sufficient to contain the despondency of the student protesters remains to be seen.  What is clear, however, is that the BJP seems to have lost the narrative in UP. While its campaigners, including Amit Shah and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, are campaigning to polarise the voters along religious lines, they have not met with much success. Going by the viral videos posted on social media, the protests against the BJP candidates in western UP constituencies are about the lack of “vikas” (development) and jobs. Clearly, the millions of taxpayers’ money that the Adityanath government has spent on propaganda about its developmental efforts have benefited only the media recipients of his largesse. There seem to be few takers for UP minister Siddharth Nath Singh’s claim that the Adityanath government had created 2.64 crore jobs in the last five years. Sceptics scoff that this figure exceeds even the less than two crore jobs created in the entire country under Prime Minister Modi.  In a tweet, Kaushik Basu, a former Chief Economic Adviser to the Union government, presented a more realistic picture: “In Uttar Pradesh, between 2016 and 2021, the working-age population rose 146.9 mill(ion) to 169.2 mill(ion) and the number of people with jobs fell from 56.4 mill(ion) to 55.8 mill(ion). Much of this loss had occurred before the pandemic — a result of policy focus being on grand projects rather than human welfare.”  Youngsters stare at a bleak future, apprehensive of going past the age of qualifying for government jobs. They were at one point the main supporters of Prime Minister Modi because of his promise of job creation. UP voters are also angry because of price rise; falling incomes, exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic; the menace of stray cattle, exacerbated by the government’s restrictions on the cattle trade; and the non-payment of sugarcane dues from previous harvests. These economic issues cut across caste, community and religion. While the main Opposition, Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Lok Dal, are busy converting the election into a caste election, the BJP is trying to draw this discontent into a communal discourse. It has not been successful in doing so up to now because of the acuteness of the state’s economic woes. If there is negative voting in UP, it is the SP-RLD alliance that would be the main gainer despite its caste-based approach. However, the alliance, it is understood, is wary of communal occurrences that might yet polarise the UP election, pushing livelihood issues to the background. Even if such incidents were to take place in some other state, it might be played to the BJP’s advantage in the UP campaign. Their fears may rest on no more than the adeptness of the BJP to play the communal card in every election.  (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/bjp-is-losing-the-narrative-1075343.html
28-01-2022||First Edit||Chief Minister, what shall Karnataka be?||In response, Bommai has said that the rights of minorities were protected in the state, and action taken in case of any excesses against them. He said his government was committed to the education, employment and empowerment of minorities. But he has been inconsistent in his public utterances and inaction on the concerns raised. Only recently, he had defended right-wing vigilante groups who had indulged in moral policing, dismissing it as inevitable “action and reaction.” In addition to getting the anti-conversion bill, drafted to give right-wing vigilantes licence, passed in the Assembly, his government resorted to what amounted to intimidation of the Christian community by ordering profiling of churches, residential prayer houses and priests. As Home Minister, Bommai had backed the police when they registered a false case of sedition against a school in Bidar and subjected schoolchildren to interrogation by officers carrying weapons. He remained mum when Bengaluru (South) MP Tejaswi Surya called for Hindu seers to establish “annual targets” to convert Muslims and Christians to Hinduism. Unlike his predecessor, B S Yediyurappa, he is seen to be going along with the agenda of converting Karnataka into the next ‘Hindutva laboratory’ state.   Karnataka is the land of social reformers such as Basavanna. People of different communities and cultures have been living here in harmony. Its progressive edifice has been built over centuries, by both its social reformers and its rulers. It is one of the major reasons why those wanting to establish eminent institutions and world-class companies have always made a beeline to the state. Karnataka cannot afford to lose this hard-earned reputation. Bommai must decide what his legacy ought to be – a state that built on its progressive legacy and glory during his reign or one that he let descend into a communal cauldron under his watch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/chief-minister-what-shall-karnataka-be-1075346.html
28-01-2022||In Perspective||The headscarf in focus – once again!||What women wear. This is something that has been the target of rules, diktats, sly comments and harsh punishments for much of recorded human history. And this continues right up to the present day. Of late, there has been conflict in Karnataka’s Udupi over the wish of some young women students to wear a headscarf in class. They have faced resistance to this from authorities and their own college mates. This is not the first time that this has happened in the state. Back in August 2009, I travelled to the Dakshina Kannada district to meet a young woman, Ayesha, who was facing the same pressure for the same reason. Ayesha was then a first-year student at SVS College in Bantwal, near Mangaluru. She was not allowed to enter her class wearing a headscarf. She kept returning each day — hoping that she would be allowed to attend classes in her chosen attire. But that didn’t happen, and in an increasingly difficult atmosphere, Ayesha left the college. In 2022, over 12 years on, the Udupi students who want to wear the headscarves in class are facing a similar situation to the one faced by Ayesha in 2009. The authorities in Ayesha’s college indicated that they personally had no issue with a student wearing the headscarf in class but that “rules were rules”. The SVS College Principal at that time, Sitaram Mayya, said, “It is one rule for all students. She is the only one not following the rule.” Ganesh Prabhu, who was then Correspondent of SVS College, said, “We admire Ayesha’s rebellious spirit; we just wish it had been used for nation-building instead.” Maybe even harder to deal with for these students is the opposition from their peers. For Ayesha, too, over a decade ago, many of her college mates were against the headscarf she wanted to wear. She said that they had told her “If you wear the scarf, we will wear saffron shawls.” This saffron shawl angle has surfaced in 2022 also. Back in 2009, a non-Muslim student at the college told me why they were against wearing of the headscarf in the classroom. “They look different from the others when they wear burkhas. You should not display religion.” I spoke to other Muslim girl students from the college on that visit -- many of whom came to college in burkhas which they took off after entering the college. Some of them said they also wanted to wear their headscarf to class and had not told their families that they needed to remove them once on the college campus. The coastal region of Karnataka does have an unfortunate history of communal tensions. But adding to the complicated situation, these incidents are also mixed inextricably with gender. Dress codes for women students are not that unusual. Colleges in big cities like Bengaluru and other towns like Mysuru — even colleges that admit only girls — have at various stages told their day scholars and hostelites what they can and cannot wear. In some colleges, jeans were banned as well as sleeveless and ‘short’ tops. Tops were not supposed to be tucked into trousers. The objective here was to make sure the young women students were covered up enough for ‘modesty,’ to make sure their clothes were not ‘too revealing.’ But girl students who want to cover themselves even further with the hijab are also facing criticism. Opposition to the headscarf in countries like France — which has lately seen objections to the wearing of headscarves by sportswomen too — is ostensibly because the coverings are seen as oppressive to women and part of too conspicuous a display of religious symbols in public. Others demand the right to wear these headscarves while playing sport — or indeed anywhere they choose. They see the opposition to headscarves as part of religious intolerance, particularly against Muslims. The same debate had surfaced when some places in France banned the burqini -- swimwear that covered far more of the wearer’s body than other swimsuits of the day. The common thread connecting those who tell women to cover up or not to cover up quite so much is the belief that they have the right to tell a girl or a woman what she can or cannot wear. Bring religion into the mix against a backdrop of growing intolerance, and a simple headscarf stands for so much more. A hope – that another 12 years down the line, this story is still not being played out in our colleges. And that women can peacefully wear whatever they feel comfortable wearing. (The writer is a senior journalist with NDTV)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-headscarf-in-focus-once-again-1075340.html
28-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 cases reach peak in Dharwad district, plateau to continue for a week||From just nine Covid-19 cases on the first day of the year to a a whopping 1,155 on January 27, infections appear to have peaked in Dharwad district. No other district in the Kittur-Karnataka region is recording such a huge number of fresh cases. The district had on Wednesday (January 26) reported a record 1,532 new cases. Such a sharp rise in cases was never seen in the previous two waves, but hospitalisation rate (5 per cent) and deaths in the third wave have fortunately been very less. Though the Omicron variant is said to be the reason for the rapid spread of the infection, the authorities concerned feel that the type of variant has lost importance now, as symptoms in most of the cases are mild. The peak of the third wave in the district is considered to have begun around a week back when daily numbers reached around 1,000 – and now it is in the mid-peak. ‘At peak now’ According to Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, the third wave is at its peak in the district this week, and it would be in the plateau-type with slight changes in the numbers for the next one week or 10 days. The numbers are estimated to come down by the start of February, and it is expected to be negligible by February-end. Just like the rise, the decline of cases is also likely to be rapid, he noted. The case positivity rate in the district is currently at 23 per cent, which is more than that of Bengaluru. "Cases have started coming down in Bengaluru, and we are one week behind Bengaluru," he said. An average of 5,500 tests are being conducted in the district daily, and treatment protocol is the same irrespective of suspicion about the type of the Covid-19 variant. Based on some criteria, labs send some samples for genome sequencing in Bengaluru, which is a lengthy process, Patil added. Only 208 cases were reported in the district in the whole month of December with three deaths. In January so far, the district has seen a record 13,579 cases, and five deaths, having 6,063 active cases, including 21 ICU cases. ‘Rising trend now’ State-level Covid Clinical Expert Committee member G B Sattur observed that the Covid numbers in the district may rise for at least one more week, and peak cannot be at present, though it can be considered as heading towards the peak. The numbers may be fluctuating, he noted. "The Covid cases may come down after February first week. Of late, we are seeing a few comorbidity patients with less oxygen saturation, probably having a combination of Delta and Omicron variants," he said. Mild symptoms As most Omicron patients with very mild symptoms recover fast, such cases may go unidentified, and therefore, the previous mathematical models related to waves may not work out this time, Dr Sattur added. The third wave’s peak may end by February first week, and the declining trend would begin from then on, he predicted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-cases-reach-peak-in-dharwad-district-plateau-to-continue-for-a-week-1075424.html
28-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||MCC zonal office in Surathkal to get new building||President of Taxation, Finance and Appeals Standing Committee Shobha Rajesh said that the new building of the MCC zonal office at Surathkal will be developed at a cost of Rs 2 crore sanctioned by the government under Mahathma Gandhi Nagara Vikasa Yojana. The work order for the building work will be issued shortly and the new building will be ready by next financial year.  Presenting the budget for 2022-23, she said that there are 2,05,003 properties in the MCC limits and the MCC is expecting revenue of Rs 80 crore from property tax under the self-assessment scheme (SAS) during 2022-23. Priority will be given to collect service fees from the educational institutions that are exempted from paying property tax. Steps will be taken to mobilise the resources by checking on those who failed to pay taxes through a vigilance squad monitored by Deputy Commissioner (Revenue).  She said to control the unauthorised advertisements and hoardings, new rules will be framed and an advertisement bylaw will be prepared. The MCC is expecting Rs 7 crore revenue from the advertisements and hoardings during the year. Following the suggestions from the public, without inconveniencing the common man, the building license fee will be reviewed and likely to be revised in the next financial year.   Shobha Rajesh announced that an action plan for Rs 20.24 crore has been prepared for the development of SC/ST colonies in the MCC limits under Mahathma Gandhi Nagara Vikasa Yojane and has been submitted to the government for approval. Financial assistance of Rs 35,000 will be given to the repair of houses under Kuteera Bhagya Yojana in the MCC limits.  Restrooms The MCC will construct restrooms for the UGD employees working in all the wet wells coming under MCC limits. Priority will be given to the safety of the employees. To make wet wells and STP eco-friendly, 30 saplings will be planted in and around each wet well and STPs. By placing a tree guard, the saplings will be maintained by the MCC. A commendation letter 'Swacchateya Sainika' will be handed over to the building owners who install septic tanks in the private buildings.  The Presidents said that the work on Kadri commercial complex and Kankanady market will be completed by the next financial year. Rs 1.50 crore has been earmarked for the development of parks and Rs 2 crore has been earmarked for the development of crematorium. Mayor Premananda Shetty presided.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-zonal-office-in-surathkal-to-get-new-building-1075635.html
28-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Elephant near Nagarhole killed as farmers open fire||A female jumbo died after a few farmers opened fire at a herd of jumbos to chase them away at Sulagodu village in Anechowkuru reserve forest area near Nagarahole national park in the taluk on Friday.  A herd of jumbos came out of the forest area for food during early hours. The ill-fated jumbo, aged around 20 years, collapsed as a bullet hit and died instantly at an agricultural land of Revanna after the farmers opened fire, according to Assistant Conservator of Forest Sathish. “The incident occurred about 500 metres away from the forest area. A complaint has been lodged and a search operation is on to trace the suspects,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-near-nagarhole-killed-as-farmers-open-fire-1075705.html
28-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Student falls to death while posing for picture on rock||A 19-year-old nursing student died after he reportedly fell into River Kaveri near Hogenakkal Falls in the district.  The incident occurred when Umashankar, a student of JSS Nursing College in Kollegal, was reportedly posing for pictures on a rock on January 26. He lost balance and slipped into the river when his two friends were shooting his picture, according to the police. “The body was traced about 50 metres away from the crime spot on Friday,” M M Hills police station inspector Basavaraju told DH. The victim, a second-year student from Thayuru village in Nanjangud taluk, stayed at the BCM hostel in Kollegal. Umashankar and his two friends had gone to Hogenakkal without informing the authorities in the college or the hostel. They entered the river near Palamedu bridge close to the state’s border, clicked several pictures and then headed to the Hogenakkal falls to click more pictures, added the police. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/student-falls-to-death-while-posing-for-picture-on-rock-1075708.html
28-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||DG (BCAS) reviews security preparedness at Mangaluru airport||Director-General, Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) Jaideep Prasad, during his visit to Mangalore International Airport (MIA) convened a special security meeting in the presence of Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar. MIA Chief Airport Officer Nirav Shah gave a detailed presentation on the airport’s vision. Jaideep advised MIA to give utmost importance to security in future with a focus on security and related technological interventions. He said BCAS is focusing on the security of cargo operations to avoid any untoward incidents in the future. Jaideep said BCAS was also committed to the easing of doing business and granting security clearance to stakeholders who comply with norms. Krishna Prakash, Chief Airport Security Officer (CASO) and Deputy Commandant of Aviation Security Group of CISF, station managers of airlines, submitted their suggestions in the open session that followed.  Later, Jaideep visited the various facilities at MIA and gave suitable instructions to the officials. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dg-bcas-reviews-security-preparedness-at-mangaluru-airport-1075736.html
28-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka government to develop app for sand supply in transparent manner: Minister||Minister of Mines and Geology Halappa Basappa Achar said ‘Maralu Mitra’ app is being developed to supply sand in a transparent manner as per the demand across the state. Already, a few districts had taken steps to supply sand in a transparent manner through an app. A uniform app for the entire state will be developed, he told reporters after chairing a review meeting with officials in DC hall on Friday. The app will be connected to the GPS of sand trucks. This will check the sale of sand in the black market, he added. The new sand policy was framed to ensure that sand is supplied as per the demand without complications. The people should not feel overburdened in order to avail the sand. The new sand policy will allow the traditional method of sand extraction in the coastal area, he clarified. As per the new sand policy, sand extraction is allowed in six different categories of sand blocks. Sand will be mined from small blocks in GPs. The GPs can supply sand at Rs 300 per tonne. In DK, nine blocks in River Nethravathi and five sand blocks in Phalguni river in the CRZ area were identified and sent to the government for approval. The minister said that as per the new sand policy, out of five sand blocks identified in water bodies in GP jurisdiction, the work order was given for four blocks for sand extraction. Karnataka State Minerals Corporation Limited had identified three sand blocks in backwater areas of the dams in the district. According to the minister, authorities had allowed the mining of 4,72,090 metric tonnes of sand. E-tender was invited for 10 sand blocks in non-CRZ areas in the district. As many as 314 cases pertaining to illegal laterite stone quarry, illegal sand mining/transportation/stock have been booked in the district and fines were collected, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-to-develop-app-for-sand-supply-in-transparent-manner-minister-1075739.html
28-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Davangere police nab three inter-state thieves, recover valuables worth nearly Rs 23 lakh||Though the three school friends from Pune of Maharashtra, involved in many house theft cases in various parts of the State, were able to escape from the police till now, they were at last nabbed by the police team led by Circle Police Inspector Harihar Satish Kumar U. The police also recovered valuables worth Rs 22.92 lakh including gold and silver ornaments, and a car from their possession. Sagar Sankone Kole, Sanni Mahesh Kumar Taneja, and Sachin, aged between 25 and 30 years, are the arrested persons. They had been friends since class 3. They used to target isolated houses and enter them by breaking the front and back doors, and decamp with valuables including cash. They are involved in around 10 house-break cases reported in Nippani, Sankeshwara, Khanapura, Haveri, Ranebennur, and Harihar towns of Karnataka. But, they always managed to escape from the police. At last, the Davangere police succeeded in nabbing the inter-State thieves.    Speaking to media persons here on Friday, SP C B Rishyanth said, the seizure of valuables include gold ornaments worth Rs 16.84 lakh, silver ornaments worth Rs 2.16 lakh, Rs one lakh cash, an expensive Fossil watch worth Rs 7,000, and a car worth Rs 2.85 lakh.  The trio used to sell the stolen valuables in Maharashtra. Though they were caught in Maharashtra with regard to the cases registered there, they were not held here in the past.  The police team comprising Sunil B Theli, Latha V Thalekar, Majunath Kalledevaru, Yasin Ullah, Nagaraj Sunagara, Hanumantha Gopanal, Shivaraj M S, Raghavendra, Umesh Bisnal, Siddaraju S B, Siddesh H, Satish T V, Shantaraj, Akthar, Nagaraj Kumbar, Veeresh and Maruthi were part of the investigation team. Additional SP Ramagonda Basaragi, Assistant SP Kannika Sikriwal DySPs Basavaraj B S, and Rudresh guided the team. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-police-nab-three-inter-state-thieves-recover-valuables-worth-nearly-rs-23-lakh-1075756.html
28-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Kumaraswamy meets Ibrahim day after MLC decides to quit Congress||A day after Congress leader CM Ibrahim announced his intention to quit Congress, JD(S) Legislature Party leader HD Kumaraswamy met the senior leader and held discussions. His meeting comes in the wake of speculations that Ibrahim will join JD(S). Speaking to mediapersons after the meeting, Kumaraswamy said Ibrahim was yet to take a call on whether or not to join the party. The relationship between JD(S) Supremo HD Devegowda and Ibrahim precedes Siddaramaiah’s entry to politics. They have known each other from 1972, Kumaraswamy said. Further, alleging that Siddaramaiah never allows anyone else to grow, Kumaraswamy said he could have fought for Ibrahim and gotten him a good position in the state but didn’t do it. Meanwhile, speaking to mediapersons, HD Revanna criticised Congress for trying to hijack JD(S) leaders. “The Congress is acting like a bus without passengers and is inviting people to join them. Congress leaders keep criticising JD(S) and downplaying its strength. Why is the Congress obsessed with our party if we are no match to them?” he sought to know. It is pitiful that a national party with a hundred years’ history is trying to hijack people from another party, Revanna said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kumaraswamy-meets-ibrahim-day-after-mlc-decides-to-quit-congress-1075718.html
28-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Suraj Revanna takes oath as Karnataka MLC||JD(S) leader Suraj Revanna, who recently won the Legislative Council election from Hassan Local Authorities’ seat, officially took oath as MLC on Friday. Suraj took oath in Vidhana Soudha in the name of God, in the presence of Legislative Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti, who administered the oath to him. His father H D Revanna, mother Bhavani, state president H K Kumaraswamy were present on the occasion. While the swearing-in ceremony was held on January 6 for all the newly-elected MLCs, Suraj had skipped the event that day. It is believed that the Gowda family did not consider that day auspicious enough for his oath taking. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/suraj-revanna-takes-oath-as-karnataka-mlc-1075724.html
28-01-2022||National||95% of India's adult population given first dose of Covid vaccine, 74% fully inoculated: Health ministry||95 per cent of India's eligible adult population has been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine while 74 per cent are fully inoculated, the Union health ministry said on Thursday as the total vaccine doses administered has crossed 164.35 crore.  Till 7 pm, 49,69,805 vaccine doses have been administered. As many as 1,03,04,847 precaution doses have been administered to healthcare and frontline workers and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities. Also, 4,42,81254 adolescents in the 15-18 years age group have been given the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late tonight.  Meanwhile, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya congratulated the nation for the remarkable achievement. In a tweet, he said that India has achieved the record of administering the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to more than 95 per cent of its eligible population. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, hard work of health workers and public participation, the country is continuously moving forward in this campaign, he said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase.   India began administering precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers, frontline workers including personnel deployed for election duty and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities from January 10 amid the country witnessing a spike in coronavirus infections fuelled by Omicron variant of the virus. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/95-of-indias-adult-population-given-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-74-fully-inoculated-health-ministry-1075390.html
28-01-2022||National||Mandaviya to review Covid situation in 8 states, UTs on Friday||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will on Friday review the Covid situation and the public health preparedness to tackle the omicron spread in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The review meeting, to be held through video conferencing, is scheduled at 2.30 pm on Friday. Earlier this week, the Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortia INSACOG said that Omicron is in the community transmission stage in India. It has become dominant in multiple metro cities where new cases have been rising exponentially, with BA.2 lineage, an infectious sub-variant of Omicron, found in a substantial fraction in the country, INSACOG said. As many as 9,672 Omicron samples were found in January in genome sequencing constituting 75 per cent of the total sequenced samples of Covid-19, a huge rise from 1,292 in December, the government said on Thursday. At a press conference, National Centre for Disease Control Director Dr S K Singh said sub-lineages of Omicron — BA.1 and BA.2 — were found in sequenced samples while BA.3 has not been found yet. "We were getting more samples of BA.1 earlier mostly in travellers. But now we are seeing that BA.2 has become more prevalent in the community," Singh said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-to-review-covid-situation-in-8-states-uts-on-friday-1075391.html
28-01-2022||National||Honour to receive Padma Bhushan: Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella||Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella on Thursday said it is an honour for him to receive the Padma Bhushan, the third-highest civilian award and he looks forward to continuing to work with people across India to help them use technology to achieve more. On the eve of its 73rd Republic Day, India conferred the Padma Bhushan on Nadella, Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Chairperson of Tata Group Natarajan Chandrasekaran. “It’s an honour to receive a Padma Bhushan Award and to be recognised with so many extraordinary people. I’m thankful to the President, Prime Minister, and people of India, and look forward to continuing to work with people across India to help them use technology to achieve more,” Nadella tweeted. Hyderabad-born Nadella, 54, was named CEO of Microsoft in February 2014. In June 2021 he was also named the company’s Chairman, an additional role in which he will “lead the work to set the agenda for the board.” India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu during a virtual celebration of the country's 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday, said this year, three of the distinguished diaspora members have been conferred the Padma Bhushan – Madhu Jaffrey for popularising Indian cuisine, Satya Nadella and Sundar Pichai for their leadership in the technology sector. "This is a matter of pride for all of us, as well as a testament to the strength of the community," Sandhu said on Wednesday from the lawns of India House, the official residence of India's Ambassador to the US, in Washington DC. The Padma Awards are one of the highest civilian honours of India announced annually on the eve of Republic Day. The Awards are given in three categories: Padma Vibhushan (for exceptional and distinguished service), Padma Bhushan (distinguished service of higher order) and Padma Shri (distinguished service). The award seeks to recognise achievements in all fields of activities or disciplines where an element of public service is involved. The Padma Awards are conferred on the recommendations made by the Padma Awards Committee, which is constituted by the Prime Minister every year. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/honour-to-receive-padma-bhushan-microsoft-ceo-satya-nadella-1075417.html
28-01-2022||National||NRAI hails Delhi's decision to lift weekend curfew; 'will provide survival support to restaurants'||The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) welcomed the decision to lift the weekend curfew in Delhi and said it will provide much-needed survival support to the restaurant industry in the national capital. However, it urged the Delhi government to lift the night curfew and allow full operating hours to revive the beleaguered restaurant sector and reduce overcrowding while preventing further job losses. "On behalf of the industry, I profusely thank Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal for allowing restaurants to reopen with 50 per cent capacity and lifting the weekend curfew in Delhi. "This will definitely provide the much-needed oxygen support to the restaurant industry in Delhi for survival," NRAI President Kabir Suri said. He also urged the Delhi government to lift the night curfew and allow full operating hours "which would not only revive the beleaguered sector but also reduce overcrowding and prevent further job losses". The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday decided to lift weekend curfew and the odd-even system of opening non-essential shops in the city besides allowing restaurants, bars, cinema halls and theatres to reopen with 50 per cent capacity, given the improving Covid-19 situation. The decisions were made at a DDMA meeting headed by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nrai-hails-delhis-decision-to-lift-weekend-curfew-will-provide-survival-support-to-restaurants-1075423.html
28-01-2022||National||DH Toon | Saving Rahul Gandhi's Twitter page more important than saving nation?||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has written to Twitter complaining that his follower count has not increased since his account was temporarily suspended in August 2021 for a tweet about meeting the family members of a Dalit rape victim. In the letter that he wrote to Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal on December 27, Gandhi said that he found the matter perplexing and he believed that the “unwitting complicity” of Twitter was curbing free and fair speech in India. Gandhi said that since he raised the issue of the Dalit girl who died after she was raped, his average monthly follower count has “fallen to nearly zero”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-saving-rahul-gandhis-twitter-page-more-important-than-saving-nation-1075427.html
28-01-2022||National||India probes illegal immigration after family of four from Gujarat dies near Canada border||Indian police have detained six people in a crackdown on illegal immigration after four Indians were found frozen to death near the border between the United States and Canada last week, officials said on Thursday. On the same day, India's High Commission in the Canadian capital of Ottawa confirmed the identities of the deceased as 39-year-old Jagdish Baldevbhai Patel, 37-year-old Vaishaliben Jagdishkumar Patel, 11-year-old Vihangi Jagdishkumar Patel and 3-year-old Dharmik Jagdishkumar Patel. Their family has been informed, the High Commission said in a statement, highlighting the need "to ensure that migration and mobility are made safe and legal and that such tragedies do not recur." The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said they believe the family came to Canada on Jan. 12, arriving in Toronto, and travelled to Emerson, Manitoba, around Jan. 18. No vehicle was abandoned near the border, suggesting someone dropped them off and left, said Criminal Operations Officer Rob Hill. The six people detained by Indian police were running a travel and tourism company in the western state of Gujarat, said police official A.K. Jhala in the state capital of Gandhinagar. "We are now trying to nab the human traffickers who managed to send this family and others abroad via illegal channels," he added. US authorities have charged a Florida man, Steve Shand, with human trafficking after the four were found dead in Manitoba, a few yards north of the frontier with Minnesota. A US court granted Shand conditional release on Monday. The four were among four families from the same village who had travelled to the border this month. Officials said they got separated from the group of 18 people and were probably caught in a blizzard, resulting in a tragedy Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau described as "mind-blowing." The situation came to light only when US authorities intercepted the group and found one of them carrying a backpack with baby supplies, although there was no infant among them. "The nexus of human trafficking runs deep, often involving local politicians too," said police official Jhala, adding that people even sell their land and homes to fund efforts to get to the United States or Canada. Canada is a sought-after destination by Indians facing massive unemployment at home. A foreign ministry official in India's capital New Delhi said authorities were coordinating with US and Canadian border officials to investigate the illegal immigration case. Crossings like this, into the United States from Canada, are relatively rare: US Customs and Border Patrol apprehensions of migrants trying to cross between ports of entry along the US-Canada border dropped from 6,806 in 2009 to 916 in 2021. US Customs and Border Patrol apprehended 339 Indians trying to cross into the United States at the northern border in 2019, 129 in 2020 and 41 last year. By contrast, the RCMP apprehended 16,503 asylum-seekers crossing north between border crossings in 2019. The seven Indian migrants US authorities apprehended last week may be eligible for visas if they cooperate in Shand's prosecution, said Veena Iyer, executive director of the Immigration Law Center of Minnesota. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-probes-illegal-immigration-after-family-of-four-from-gujarat-dies-near-canada-border-1075435.html
28-01-2022||National||India boosts naval patrols to catch China in crowded global seas||By Sudhi Ranjan Sen, India is carrying out more warship patrols than ever before as concerns grow about the country’s ability to remain dominant in the Indian Ocean as China’s naval power quickly increases. The waters off India haven’t seen this many naval vessels together since World War II as both China and Western allies deploy more warships in the area, according to senior Indian naval officials familiar with the matter. They estimated about 125 foreign naval vessels were in the Indian Ocean at any given time, roughly three times the number deployed in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks when the US invaded Afghanistan.  While Indian officials are confident they can manage the threat for now, a lack of funding threatens the country’s ability to keep pace with China and other nations. Most Indian submarines critical to controlling the oceans are about two decades old, and plans to increase the warship fleet to 200 -- including a third aircraft carrier -- keep getting delayed. India now has about 130 warships, roughly a third of China’s naval fleet comprising 350 ships and submarines -- the largest in the world. Despite that, last year the navy saw the biggest gap among India’s three military services between requested and actual funds, prompting a parliamentary panel to ask the government to stop making further reductions. The navy’s budget will be in focus on Feb. 1, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government presents its annual spending plan in parliament. In the last five years, the shortfall between what the Indian Navy requested and what it got ranged from 5 per cent to 41 per cent, the panel of lawmakers said in a 2020 report to the government. In the latest report submitted last month, they said the navy’s allocation was “less than half the amount” it wanted. Defense Ministry spokesman Bharat Bhushan Babu and Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. “Over time as the region gets more militarized, tension in the area is bound to increase,” said Anit Mukherjee, associate professor at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies who wrote a book on India’s military. “The solution for India is to develop the navy if it wants to address its growing diplomatic and strategic needs.” Chinese warships have been present in the Indian Ocean since 2008, and India is constantly watching three to eight of them that are continuously on patrol, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral R. Hari Kumar told reporters in December. “I want to assure you the Indian Navy is confident of defending India’s maritime interests,” he said. India has permanently deployed warships at five choke points in the Indian Ocean, stretching from the Gulf of Aden in the west to the Malacca Strait in the east. The waters carry some of 40 per cent of the world’s oil from fossil-fuel producers in the Middle East to some of Asia’s biggest economies.  Last year the Indian Navy carried out an all-time high of 50 joint exercises with friendly navies, including one with Japanese warships around the Malacca Strait, said a senior naval official.  Still, India has been cautious to avoid antagonizing Beijing as the two countries battle along their contested Himalayan borders. Modi’s government has turned down requests from friendly navies to jointly patrol the South China Sea, another naval official said.  India’s navy has sought to demonstrate its reach with humanitarian missions. In 2015, more than 26 countries, including the US, turned to India to help evacuate their citizens when civil war in Yemen intensified. Half a dozen Indian warships were able to rescue 4,000 Indian citizens as well as 1,200 foreigners before Port Aden was bombarded.  In the last two years, the naval ships have sailed 40,000 nautical miles -- or twice around the earth -- carrying food, medicines and weapons to Indian Ocean countries. On Dec. 26, an Indian warship sailed into Mozambique for the first time carrying weapons and humanitarian aid.    Overall leaders in India’s capital have become “more aligned with the Indian Navy’s view of the country’s interest in the maritime domain,” said Nilanthi Samaranayake, a director of the Strategic and Policy Analysis Program at CNA, a US-based research organization. “Especially if it relates to the safety of Indian citizens working overseas and remittances to the national economy.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-boosts-naval-patrols-to-catch-china-in-crowded-global-seas-1075440.html
28-01-2022||National||India logs 2.51 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 627 deaths||India on Friday reported 2,51,209 new Covid-19 infections and 627 deaths, according to the Union Health Ministry.  The active cases now stand at 21,05,611, while the toll is at 4,92,327.   The daily positivity rate is at 15.88 per cent.  The ministry also observed that 75 per cent of the samples sequenced in January were of the Omicron variant that drove away the more virulent Delta from all states barring Odisha, Maharashtra and West Bengal, but cautioned the unvaccinated or people with comorbidities to watch out as majority of Covid-19 deaths and serious diseases during the third wave occurred in such populations. The active cases decreased by 96,861 to reach 21,05,611 -- 5.18 per cent of the total infections -- while the country's recovery rate stands at 93.60 per cent, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 15.88 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was 17.47 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,80,24,771, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.21 per cent, the ministry said After the Friday update, the total number of infections stands at 4,06,22,709, it said. Meanwhile, the cumulative number of anti-Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 164.44 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. (With PTI inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-251-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-627-deaths-1075449.html
28-01-2022||National||Illegal Indian nationals processed for removal from US||Seven Indian nationals, who entered the US illegally and were arrested near the US-Canada border last week, have been released from Border Patrol’s custody and processed for removal from the country. “All seven migrants who illegally entered the United States last week were administratively processed for removal and/or placed into removal proceedings as per the Immigration and Nationality Act,” a statement read. It stated that six of the seven Indian nationals were placed under an Order of Supervision and one was released on an Order of Recognisance for humanitarian purposes. “All the migrants have been released from Border Patrol’s custody” and ordered to report to US Immigration and Customs Enforcement at a later date, it said. The seven Indian nationals were apprehended last week by US authorities near the US-Canada border, with one Steve Shand, 47, charged with human smuggling. Shand was arrested on January 19 less than a mile south of the border in a rural area between the official ports of entry located at Lancaster, Minnesota and Pembina, North Dakota. He was driving a 15-passenger van and was transporting two Indian nationals, who were in the US illegally. While Shand and the two passengers were being transported to the Pembina Border Patrol Station in North Dakota, law enforcement encountered five additional Indian nationals approximately a quarter mile south of the Canadian border walking in the direction of where Shand was arrested. All seven Indians were then arrested by border authorities. The five Indian nationals told authorities that they had walked across the border from Canada expecting to be picked up by a contact. The group said it had been walking around for over 11 hours. One of the group members was carrying a backpack that did not belong to him. He told authorities that he was carrying the backpack for a family of four Indian nationals that had earlier walked with his group but had separated during the night. The backpack contained children’s clothes, a diaper, toys, and some children’s medication. Later during the day, on January 19, Canadian authorities found the bodies of the four Indian nationals near Emerson, Manitoba, approximately 12 metres from the Canada-US border. The deceased were identified as Jagdish Baldevbhai Patel, 39, Vaishaliben Jagdishkumar Patel, 37, Vihangi Jagdishkumar Patel, 11 and Dharmik Jagdishkumar Patel, 3. Identities of the victims were confirmed by Canadian authorities and autopsies were completed on January 26. The Office of the Chief Medical Examiner of Manitoba confirmed that the cause of death was due to exposure, a statement from Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said Thursday. The criminal complaint against Shand stated that two of the seven Indian nationals arrested “sustained serious injuries.” “A male adult and female adult were taken to the hospital for suspected frostbite. The male was later released from the hospital, but the female was life-flighted to a larger hospital and will likely require partial amputation of one hand from exposure to extreme cold weather conditions. The female also stopped breathing several times while being transported by Border Patrol,” the complaint said. Authorities have said the weather in the area was severe, with high winds, blowing snow and temperatures well below sub-zero. “The area is also known by Border Patrol as a high incident area for human smuggling.” Shand is charged with one count of knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that an alien had come to, entered, or remained in the United States in violation of law, having transported, and moved or having attempted to transport and move such aliens. The complaint said that all the seven nationals arrested “spoke Gujarati, a language spoken in Gujarat in western India. Most had limited or no English language speaking ability.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illegal-indian-nationals-processed-for-removal-from-us-1075457.html
28-01-2022||National||PM Modi pays tribute to Lala Lajpat Rai||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to noted freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai on his birth anniversary. Remembering the 'Punjab Kesari', as Rai was known, Modi said his story of bravery, struggle and dedication in the freedom struggle will always be memorable for the countrymen.  Born in 1865, Rai was a fervent nationalist who also worked for social reforms and wrote regularly, inspiring revolutionaries like Bhagat Singh. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-lala-lajpat-rai-1075495.html
28-01-2022||National||Bharat Biotech gets DCGI nod for phase 3 trials of nasal Covid-19 booster dose||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech said that its nasal Covid-19 vaccine has been approved by the drug regulator for phase 3 clinical trials in the country. Bharat Biotech is developing the vaccine administered through the nose, in a licensing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. The intranasal vaccine - BBV154 - is based on the novel chimpanzee adenovirus. “The trials will evaluate the nasal vaccine for both the two-dose primary schedule and booster dose schedule,” a company representative said on Friday. Booster dose is in the case of people who were administered with the first and second dose of intramuscular Covid-19 vaccines. Intranasal vaccines are easier to administer in mass immunisation campaigns and help reduce transmission, a company representative said on Friday.   Phase-2 clinical trials were conducted in September last year. “Unlike other Covid-19 vaccines in development, this vaccine is delivered via the nose, often the initial site of infection. Researchers found that the nasal delivery route created a strong immune response throughout the body, but it was particularly effective in the nose and respiratory tract, preventing the infection from taking hold in the body,” Bharat Biotech had said while announcing its partnership with Washington University School of Medicine in September 2020. “An intranasal vaccine will not only be simple to administer but also reduces the use of medical consumables like needles, syringes, thus significantly impacting the overall cost of a vaccination drive,” Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Biotech, said earlier. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-gets-dcgi-nod-for-phase-3-trials-of-nasal-covid-19-booster-dose-1075523.html
28-01-2022||National||After Russia nod, India inks deal to supply BrahMos to Philippines to help it bolster defence against China||The Philippines on Thursday signed a contract worth about $ 370 million to procure the BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles manufactured in India in collaboration with Russia. Manila decided to procure the shore-based anti-ship version of the missiles made in India as the Southeast Asian nation moved to step up its defence capabilities in the face of growing belligerence of China. Moscow gave New Delhi its go-ahead to clinch the deal with Manila, even as Russia and China moved closer to each other even as the relations of both nations with the United States worsened over the past few weeks. This is the first time that India will be exporting the missiles designed, developed and manufactured by the BrahMos Aerospace Private Limited, a joint venture of its Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) and the NPO Mashinostroyeniya (NPOM) of Russia. Atul Dinkar Rane, the director general of the BrahMos Aerospace Private Limited, signed the contract with Delfin Lorenzana, the Defence Secretary of the Government of the Philippines, to procure three batteries of the supersonic cruise missiles manufactured in India. Shambhu S Kumaran, New Delhi’s envoy to Manila, was present in the signing ceremony at Camp Aguinaldo, the headquarters of the Department of Defence of the Government of the Philippines at Quezon City in Manila. The contract is an “important step forward” for implementation of the policy of the Government of India to promote “responsible defence exports,” according to an official press-release issued in New Delhi shortly after the contract was signed in Manila. The deal is expected to give a boost to New Delhi’s endeavour to reach the target of exporting “Made-in-India” military hardware worth $ 5 billion by 2025. The Philippines is bolstering its defence capabilities to counter China’s growing belligerence over the disputed islands in the South China Sea. The delivery of the missiles is expected to start within a year, the Philippines News Agency (PNA) reported. “As the world's fastest supersonic cruise missiles, the BrahMos missiles will provide deterrence against any attempt to undermine our sovereignty and sovereign rights, especially in the West Philippine Sea,” Lorenzana was quoted by the PNA, the official news agency of the South-East Asian nation, on Thursday. Manila officially refers to the eastern part of the South China Sea as the “West Philippine Sea” – a part of the Exclusive Economic Zone of the nation. The South China Sea is a major waterway and the sea lanes in this region account for over US $ 5 trillion of international trade. It has been at the centre of a territorial conflict between China and many of its maritime neighbours, like Vietnam, Brunei, Malaysia and the Philippines. Though an arbitral tribunal constituted under the 1982 United Nations Convention on Law of Sea (UNCLOS) ruled in favour of the Philippines and rejected China’s expansive claims on South China Sea on July 12, 2016, Beijing has been steadfastly refusing to adhere to it. New Delhi and Manila have been discussing the deal for export of the “Made-in-India” BrahMos missiles to the Philippines since 2017. President Rodrigo Duterte’s government, however, dilly-dallied on the deal, as it pursued a policy of warming up to China and moving away from the United States. China’s belligerence against the Philippines and other nations staking claim on the South China Sea, however, continued to grow over the past few years. This forced the Duterte Government to review its policy and focus on stepping up defence capabilities of the nation, including by acquiring the BrahMos missiles, which is likely to provide the Armed Forces of the Philippines a deterrent against any aggressive move by China. New Delhi was engaged in hectic negotiation with Manila over the past few months as it was keen to clinch the deal for exporting the “Made-in-India” missiles to the Philippines before the May 9 presidential polls in the South-East Asian nation as Duterte’s successor might again chose to put on hold plans to bolster the nation’s military capabilities in order to avoid irking China. India has been trying to step up its defence cooperation with the South East Asian nations, particularly after China’s aggression along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations resulted in a military stand-off, which started in April-May 2020 and could not be resolved completely so far. The deal inked in Manila on Thursday covered delivery of the three batteries of the “Made-in-India” BrahMos missiles to the Philippines, training for operators and maintenance personnel as well as the necessary Integrated Logistics Support package, according to the PNA. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-russia-nod-india-inks-deal-to-supply-brahmos-to-philippines-to-help-it-bolster-defence-against-china-1075531.html
28-01-2022||National||Comforting to know China returned Arunachal teen, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi when will India's land "occupied by China" be returned. His tweet came after China returned missing Arunachal teen Miram Taron to India. "It was comforting to know that China has returned Miram Taron. When will India get back its land occupied by China, Prime Minister ji," Gandhi asked on Twitter. The teenager from Arunachal Pradesh had gone missing a few days ago and the Chinese located him later. The China's People's Liberation Army handed him over to the Indian Army in Thursday. Gandhi has been attacking Modi and his government on the standoff in Ladakh and has accused the prime minister of "surrendering" India's land to China. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/comforting-to-know-china-returned-arunachal-teen-says-rahul-gandhi-1075538.html
28-01-2022||National||Railways recruitment protest: Bihar bandh evokes mixed response||Bihar bandh was called on Friday by student bodies, and supported by all parties in the opposition and some in the ruling dispensation, against alleged irregularities in the Railway Recruitment Board's Non-Technical Popular Categories examination process evoked a mixed response. Citizens woke up to chanting of slogans by bandh supporters against the RRB which has conducted a staggered and allegedly botched up selection process, the Centre which intervened not before the crisis snowballed, and the government in the state which has booked many students and teachers for the large-scale arson and vandalism that took place in the past few days. In Patna, bandh supporters burnt tyres on Ashok Rajpath throwing out of gear traffic on the busy street which leads to the state's largest government hospital, its most esteemed schools and colleges and shops dealing in medicines, books and stationery. At Dak Bungalow crossing in the heart of the city, they staged a demonstration and recited impromptu verses, to the beats of tambourines, urging RRB, the Centre and Bihar government to come to their senses. They clashed with police personnel upon being stopped from marching towards the Raj Bhavan, which is a couple of kilometres away. In the Samastipur district across the Ganga, a demonstration by AISA members stood out on account of participation by a noticeable number of young women. Legislators and cadres of opposition parties, most notably the RJD and the CPI-ML, led the protests in Buxar, Jehanabad, Bhagalpur, Katihar, Begusarai and Munger. In many places, tyres were set afire on highways, causing the traffic to come to a standstill. Former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, who heads Hindustani Awam Morcha and minister Mukesh Sahani, founding chief of Vikassheel Insaaan Party, have also expressed "moral support" to the bandh even though they are aligned with the NDA. Major constituents of the ruling coalition like BJP and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) have also expressed their sympathy for the cause being espoused by the bandh supporters. JD(U) national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan has come out with tweets blaming the unrest on the RRB's sloppy work and demanding an early resolution of the issue by the high-powered committee set up for the purpose. He has also demanded "immediate withdrawal of the FIRs by Railways and police" at various places in connection with the violent protests which hit the headlines earlier this week. Former deputy chief minister and veteran BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi has also come out with an impassioned plea for calm and the declamation that "Narendra Modi government will not allow any injustice".  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-recruitment-protest-bihar-bandh-evokes-mixed-response-1075539.html
28-01-2022||National||At Rs 4,847.78 crore, BJP's assets more than all parties' wealth put together: ADR||The BJP has assets -- cash, bank investments, movable and immovable properties, vehicles etc -- worth Rs 4,847.78 crore, which forms 53.16 per cent of what seven national parties and 44 regional parties together held in 2019-20. The report by private election watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms showed that BSP came second with Rs 698.33 crore while Congress was third with Rs 588.16 crore, CPI(M) Rs 569.51 crore, Trinamool Congress Rs 247.78 crore, CPI Rs 29.78 crore and NCP Rs 8.20 crore. The seven national parties together hold Rs 6,988.57 crore while 44 regional parties have Rs 2,129.35 crore. All these parties together hold assets worth Rs 9,117.95 as on 2019-20. Among the regional parties, the assets of the top 10 parties worth Rs 2,028.715 crore accounted for 95.27 per cent of the assets held by 44 parties. Samajwadi Party topped the list with Rs 563.47 crore followed by TRS Rs 301.47 crore and AIADMK worth Rs 267.61 crore. Fixed Deposits or Fixed Deposit Receipts topped the list of assets among all the parties --  Rs 5,970.59 crore or 65.48 per cent of total assets.  BJP has declared highest assets under FDR/Fixed Deposits at Rs 3,253 crore. BSP (Rs 618.86 crore) and Congress (Rs 240.90 crore) also declared the highest assets under FDR/Fixed Deposits. Among the regional parties, Samajwadi Party topped the list with FDR/Fixed deposits of Rs 434.219 crore. When it comes to liabilities, all these parties declared Rs 134.93 crore. The liabilities declared come under 2 major heads -- borrowings and sundry creditors and other liabilities. Parties declared Rs 34.55 crore under borrowings and Rs 100.38 crore under other liabilities. Congress has declared the highest total liabilities of Rs 49.55 cr (66.72 per cent of the total followed by Trinamool Congress Rs 11.32 crore (15.24 per cent). BJP has a liability of Rs 8.81 crore. The total Capital/Reserve Fund (funds in the hands of party) set aside by national and regional parties during 2019-20 was Rs 6,914.30 crore and Rs 2,068.72 crore respectively. According to the report, the BJP declared the highest capital of Rs 4,838.97 crore followed by BSP Rs 698.33 crore and CPI(M) Rs 566.32 crore. The lowest capital was declared by NCP at Rs 7.45 crore. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-rs-484778-crore-bjps-assets-more-than-all-parties-wealth-put-together-adr-1075549.html
28-01-2022||National||PNB looking to further dilute its stake in UTI Mutual Fund||State-owned Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Friday said it is looking to further monetise its stake in UTI Mutual Fund as part of its non-core asset sale plan to shore up its capital base. The bank has categorised non-core assets into two heads -- real estate and investment assets. "We have sold 3 per cent stake in UTI AMC, where we have earned an amount of about Rs 180 crore in October 2020...we had the investment of 18 per cent in UTI AMC which we have brought down to 15 per cent. There is still scope to monetise that," S S Mallikarjuna Rao said at a virtual media briefing. PNB is one of the sponsors of the country's oldest mutual fund company. Besides PNB, State Bank of India, Life Insurance Corporation of India, Bank of Baroda and US-based T Rowe Price are other sponsors. The bank also intends to divest its stake in Canara HSBC OBC Life Insurance Co Ltd, an associate of the bank, within the regulatory guidelines to monetise it, he said. The city-headquartered bank had acquired a stake in the life insurer post amalgamation of the erstwhile Oriental Bank of Commerce (OBC) into itself last fiscal year. The erstwhile OBC held a 23 per cent stake in the life insurer, which by virtue of amalgamation has come to PNB. Besides, he said, the bank is also looking to divest a stake in asset reconstruction companies during 2022-23. With regard to real estate assets, Rao said, the bank has one of the floors in Bhikaji Cama place at Delhi and other floors are in line. Asked about the outlook for the current quarter, he said, the bank expects recovery of about Rs 5,000 crore from both NCLT and non-NCLT cases in the January-March period. "At a conservative level, we are confident of getting gross non-performing assets (NPAs) below 12 per cent by March 2022. We shall definitely get net NPAs below 4.5 per cent by March 2022 because we are expecting the recovery to the extent of Rs 5,000 crore during the quarter," he said. On the bottom line, he said, the current financial year would close with a net profit of over Rs 4,000 crore. For the 9 months, the profit is about Rs 3,250 crore, he said, "so we are properly in line with the guidance given that the profit at the end of March 2022 would be more than Rs 4,000 crore." Net interest margin would also see improvement at 2.75 per cent at the end of March 2022, he said. As far as credit growth is concerned, he said, it should rise to around 6 per cent and further improve to 8 per cent in the coming financial year 2022-23. The bank has enough capital to meet the rise in credit growth, he said, adding, the bank has already raised Rs 6,000 crore through bonds which should take care of business growth for the next financial year. However, he said, the capital position would be assessed after the first half. When asked about the interest rate, Rao said, it is expected to harden after February as the RBI has started liquidity tightening. It may see a rise of up to 25 basis points in the near future, he added. With regard to recovery from Air India, he said, the bank has recovered its entire dues of Rs 4,900 crore. The bank got Rs 4,000 crore in December while Rs 900 crore during the month.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pnb-looking-to-further-dilute-its-stake-in-uti-mutual-fund-1075560.html
28-01-2022||National||3 feared trapped as roof of factory collapses in UP’s Bulandshahr||Three workers are feared to be trapped under debris after the roof of a ceramic insulator manufacturing unit collapsed here on Friday, police aid. According to police, the incident took place early Friday in Khurja Industrial Area apparently due to some heavy material kept on the roof of the unit named ‘Mahashakti’. District Magistrate Chandra Prakash Singh and senior superintendent of police have reached the spot and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel are conducting rescue operations, they said. Singh told PTI that two workers have been rescued and sent to a nearby hospital while at least three are still trapped under the debris. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-feared-trapped-as-roof-of-factory-collapses-in-up-s-bulandshahr-1075569.html
28-01-2022||National||Must take Indian music to the world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged people to take Indian music to the world and called for bringing in technology in this sector by setting up startups based on music. Speaking at an online event marking the launch of the Pandit Jasraj Cultural Foundation on the 92nd birth anniversary of the Indian classical vocalist, Modi said technology has entered the world of music in a big way globally. "My request to the cultural foundation is that it should focus on two things specifically. We hear about globalisation but its definitions and talk surrounding it is centred around the economy. In today's times of globalisation, it is our responsibility that Indian music makes its mark and has an influence globally," he said. "Indian music has the capacity to revolutionise the depth of the human mind. It also strengthens the experience of the oneness of nature and the divine," Modi said. Pointing to the popularity of the International Yoga Day, Modi said the whole world has benefited from this heritage of India. "Every person in the world has the right to know, understand and learn Indian music and benefit from it. It is our responsibility to fulfil this noble work," he said. "My second suggestion is that when there is an effect of technology on every aspect of life then there should be a revolution of technology and IT in the music sector as well," Modi said. Startups fully dedicated to music should come up in India, he said. The startups should be based on Indian musical instruments and traditions, Modi stressed. "Our guru-shishya tradition should be maintained but there should be value addition through technology," he added. Pandit Jasraj passed away in 2020 following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey. The doyen of Indian classical vocal music was a recipient of various prestigious awards and honours, including Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/must-take-indian-music-to-the-world-pm-modi-1075571.html
28-01-2022||National||Fresh review of Mullaperiyar Dam’s safety now due, required to be undertaken: SC told||A “fresh review” of the safety of 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam is now due and is required to be undertaken, the Central Water Commission (CWC) and the supervisory committee have told the Supreme Court. The apex court is seized of pleas raising issues pertaining to the dam, which was built in 1895 on the Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala. In a status report filed in the top court, the CWC and the supervisory committee have said that aspects pertaining to the safety of dam were carried out during 2010 to 2012 by the empowered committee constituted under the directions of the apex court in 2010. It said the empowered committee, based upon the investigations, tests and studies carried out by apex national organisations and specialist expert agencies, had arrived at a conclusion that Mullaperiyar dam was found to be safe in all respects -- hydrologically, structurally and seismically. The status report said that in addition to the study conducted by the empowered committee, the supervisory committee had also visited the Mullaperiyar dam during the annual meetings held at the project site. Till date, 14 meetings of supervisory committee have been held, the last one being on February 19, 2021, it said. “In the minutes of meeting of 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th meetings of supervisory committee, it has been recorded that overall condition of the dam and its appurtenant structure, based upon visual inspection, is found to be satisfactory,” the status report said. “However, a fresh review of the safety of the Mullaperiyar Dam is now due and is required to be undertaken,” it said. The status report said that in a recent meeting of the supervisory committee held on December 8, 2021, Kerala had expressed displeasure on the “erratic spillway shutter operation” at the Mullaperiyar reservoir and the release downstream by the state of Tamil Nadu. “Tamil Nadu submitted that as the rainfall data was made available to them by Kerala on daily basis and not on an hourly basis as envisaged from installing telemetry system, they don’t have sufficient time for making decisions in advance,” it said. The report said the supervisory committee, at its level, has requested Kerala to expedite the installation of requisite number of such telemetry stations so as to facilitate Tamil Nadu to provide timely inflow forecast which is used to release water from Mullaperiyar dam by opening gates. “However, Kerala has not yet acted on its commitment to install the telemetry stations,” it said. On January 11, the apex court had said that litigation pertaining to the dam is not “adversarial” as this is a public interest litigation in the sense that safety, security and health issues of the people staying around the dam are involved in the matter. The top court had told the advocates appearing for the respective parties in the matter that they should assist it in identifying the “core issues” which needs to be addressed by the court. It had posted the matter for hearing in the second week of February. In the Mullaperiyar dam matter, the Kerala government had earlier told the apex court that "no amount of rejuvenation" can perpetuate the dam and there is a limit to the number of years one can keep dams in service through maintenance and strengthening measures. It had said the only permanent solution for removing the "eternal threat owing to the safety concerns" of the dam and for protecting the safety of lakhs of people living the downstream of Mullaperiyar dam is to build a new dam in the downstream reaches of the existing dam. In an affidavit filed before the apex court, the Kerala government had urged that the proposal to fix the upper rule level of Mullaperiyar dam at 142 feet on September 20 as formulated by Tamil Nadu may be avoided. In its response to the affidavit filed by Kerala, the state of Tamil Nadu had said that “repeated assertion” of Kerala and petitioners from there in the pleas filed from time-to-time seek to decommission of the existing dam and construction of a new dam, which is “wholly impermissible” in the light of the apex court verdict on the safety of the dam. "The dam has been found to be hydrologically, structurally, and seismically safe,” Tamil Nadu had said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-review-of-mullaperiyar-dam-s-safety-now-due-required-to-be-undertaken-sc-told-1075574.html
28-01-2022||National||High time to restore glory, standard of debates in House: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said it is disheartening that Parliament and Legislative Assembly are becoming more and more intransigent place, and it is high time that corrective steps are taken to restore the glory and the standard of intellectual debates of the highest order over there. The top court said members of the House, emulated by their ardent followers, are expected to show statesmanship and not brinkmanship as the philosophical tenet, one must agree to disagree, is becoming a seldom scene or a rarity during the debates. In its 90-page judgement declaring suspension of 12 BJP MLAs from Maharashtra Assembly for one year as unconstitutional, a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said there can be no place for disorderly conduct in the House much less “grossly disorderly”.    "Such conduct must be dealt with sternly for ensuring orderly functioning of the House. But, that action must be constitutional, legal, rational and as per the procedure established by law," the court said.   The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar, said this case has thrown up an occasion for all concerned to ponder over the need to evolve and adhere to good practices befitting the august body; and appropriately denounce and discourage proponents of undemocratic activities in the  House, by democratically elected representatives.   "For becoming world leaders and self-dependant/reliant, quality of debates in the House ought to be of the highest order and directed towards intrinsic constitutional and native issues confronting the common man of the nation/States, who are at the crossroad of semi sesquicentennial or may we say platinum or diamond jubilee year on completion of 75 years post¬independence," the bench said.    The court further said aggression during the debates has no place in the setting of country governed by the Rule of Law.   "Even a complex issue needs to be resolved in a congenial atmosphere by observing collegiality and showing full respect and deference towards each other.  They ought to ensure optimum utilisation of quality time of the House, which is very precious, and is the need of the hour especially when we the people of India that is Bharat, take credit of being the oldest civilisation on the planet and also being the world’s largest democracy (demographically)," the bench added. Referring to the popular sentiment gaining ground amongst the people, the court said it has become common to hear that the House could not complete its usual scheduled business and most of the time had been spent in jeering and personal attacks against each other instead of erudite constructive and educative debates consistent with the highest tradition of the august body.    Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-time-to-restore-glory-standard-of-debates-in-house-supreme-court-1075587.html
28-01-2022||National||78 days in jail gave opportunity to introspect: Congress candidate in Punjab||Seventy-eight days in jail gave me an opportunity to introspect, to understand yourself and spare time for self-reflection that helped improve mental and physical health. Of course, he lost seven kgs weight also. These were the observations of the two-time legislator and Congress firebrand candidate from Bholath assembly constituency, Sukhpal Singh Khaira, on Friday, who a day earlier got regular bail from the Punjab and Haryana High Court and was released from a Patiala jail. He was arrested in connection with a money-laundering case registered by the Enforcement Directorate on November 11, 2021. After being released from jail, Khaira blamed the BJP-led central government for putting rivals behind bars owing to a 'political vendetta'. "I was booked in the money-laundering case that is a 'shocking abuse of power and authority by subverting' the process of law," Khaira told the media on his release. He said he was booked as part of a "political vendetta" and a "witch-hunt" as he was vocal during the year-long agitation of farmers against the now-repealed three central agricultural laws. "I also took my stand aggressively against the UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act)," he added. He said his inspiration to raise his voice against injustice was his father Sukhjinder Singh. "Akali leaders like Gurcharan Singh Tohra had spent much more time in prison than (Parkash Singh) Badal, who actually did not spend more than four years if we trace the history," Khaira said. "I ask Badal to prove the total period he spent in jails. Most of his jail term was in comfort zones but my father (Sukhjinder Singh) was kept in isolated cells ranging from one year to one and a half years in various jails of Tripura, Odisha and also Delhi's Tihar Jail," he said. Sukhjinder Singh was an Akali leader and became Education Minister but died a Congressman. Khaira started his political career as a panchayat member from Ramgarh village in Kapurthala in 1992 but rose to fame when he defeated Akali senior leader Bibi Jagir Kaur from Bholath in the 2007 Assembly elections. In 2017, Khaira was elected as an AAP candidate. He resigned from the Aam Aadmi Party citing the "dictatorial" attitude of party chief Arvind Kejriwal in January 2019 and floated his own outfit, the Punjab Ekta Party. Last year he rejoined the Congress. The Congress candidate said in jail he lost seven kgs. "I lost weight due to playing badminton for at least two hours daily. I also managed to improve my eating habits and eat healthily." The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has again pitted Bibi Jagir Kaur, the first woman to be elected SGPC president, against Khaira in the February 20 Assembly polls. Earlier in March last year, the central probe agency had carried out searches at eight locations linked to Khaira in Chandigarh, and also at the property of his son-in-law in Delhi, in connection with the case. According to sources, the probe agency has unearthed a Rs 3.5 crore money trail in this connection. In his 25-page order, Justice Sureshwar Thakur observed that it could not, prima facie, be concluded at this stage that the bail applicant-petitioner (Khaira) had committed an offence under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. He said no evidence had been adduced by the prosecution that there was a likelihood of Khaira fleeing from justice and tampering with the prosecution evidence, in the event of him being granted bail. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/78-days-in-jail-gave-opportunity-to-introspect-congress-candidate-in-punjab-1075631.html
28-01-2022||National||India to convert 150 villages into 'Villages of Excellence' with technical help from Israel: Tomar||The Centre on Friday said it has decided to convert as many as 150 villages into 'Villages of Excellence' in 12 states with technical assistance from the Israeli government. Already, the Israeli government has established 29 Centre of Excellence (CoEs) in 12 states, which are producing more than 25 million vegetable plants, over 3,87,000 quality fruit plants and can train more than 1.2 lakh farmers per year. The 150 villages that are located around CoEs will be converted into 'Villages of Excellence.' "Out of which, 75 villages are being taken up in the first year to commemorate the 75th year of India's independence, where India and Israel will work together," Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar conveyed in a meeting with the new Israeli Ambassador to India Naor Gilon on January 27 here. The minister expressed joy over the completion of 30 years of diplomatic relations between India and Israel and said that the government is satisfied with the functioning of 29 CoEs, according to an official statement. The Ambassador of Israel, Gilon, said these CoEs are a great example of cooperation between the two countries and proposed the certification of CoEs to further enhance the standards and quality of services being provided to the farmers. He also evinced interest in further collaboration with agri-research body ICAR and making available the latest technologies available with Israel. Gilon also invited Tomar to visit Israel. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-convert-150-villages-into-villages-of-excellence-with-technical-help-from-israel-tomar-1075643.html
28-01-2022||National||India closely following developments relating to Ukraine, calls for peaceful resolution of situation||India on Friday said that it is closely following the developments relating to Ukraine, including ongoing high-level discussions between Russia and the US, and called for a peaceful resolution of the situation for long-term peace and stability in the region and beyond. The Indian Embassy in Kyiv is also monitoring local developments, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said while replying to a query on the Ukraine situation. In recent weeks, the build-up of tens of thousands of Russian troops on Ukraine's borders has stoked fears of an invasion. Russia denies it is planning an attack. "We have been closely following the developments relating to Ukraine including ongoing high-level discussions between Russia and the US. Our Embassy in Kyiv is also monitoring local developments," he said. "We call for a peaceful resolution of the situation through sustained diplomatic efforts for long-term peace and stability in the region and beyond," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-closely-following-developments-relating-to-ukraine-calls-for-peaceful-resolution-of-situation-1075644.html
28-01-2022||National||Indian-origin experts urge UK to back patent waiver for vaccine parity||Several Indian-origin scientists are among hundreds of worldwide experts to urge the UK to back a temporary waiver of intellectual property rules for Covid-19 vaccines, tests, and treatments at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to achieve greater vaccine parity worldwide. India and South Africa had introduced a proposal at the WTO for such a patent waiver for fairer vaccine access for the developing world, but the issue remains deadlocked in the multilateral arena. Epidemiologists Professor K. Srinath Reddy of the Public Health Foundation of India and Dr Deepti Gurdasani of London’s Queen Mary University, Bioengineer Manu Prakash, Associate Professor at Stanford University, Professor Amitava Banerjee of University College London, and Professor Harish Nair of the University of Edinburgh are among 320 scientists calling on technology sharing for global vaccination coverage to boost the fight against variants of concern. “Allowing huge numbers of people in low- and middle-income countries to remain unvaccinated is a reckless approach to public health that creates conditions where new SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) variants of concern are more likely to develop,” reads a letter addressed to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson at 10 Downing Street this week. The experts point out how the Omicron variant was first identified in Botswana and South Africa, countries on a continent in which fewer than one in 10 are fully vaccinated. “Thanks to remarkable scientific innovations, we have a number of vaccines that remain highly effective against all known Covid-19 variants. Yet, unless we share this technology with the world and increase global vaccination coverage, vaccines will not be effective at stopping new variants of concern,” the experts say. They add: “We must use and expand domestic vaccine manufacturing and distribution capacity within low and middle-income countries. However, intellectual property rules and trade secrets remain a major barrier to this task. “We call on the UK government to support the temporary waiver of intellectual property rules under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement for Covid-19 vaccines, tests, and treatments at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to scale up and diversify production of the tools needed to end this pandemic.” The UK and European Union (EU) are among the countries not in favour of such a waiver, while the US expressed support last year. “We also call on the British government to use all means at its disposal to pressure pharmaceutical companies to share their technology and know-how with the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Covid-19 Technology Access Pool (C-TAP) and its mRNA technology transfer hub in South Africa. This way, we can accelerate production and supply in low and middle-income countries and prevent further variants of concern from emerging,” the scientists urge. The UK has maintained that it is doing its bit and making "significant" contributions through the WHO's COVAX initiative for vaccine supplies by donating excess doses. "We recognise and share concerns regarding the level of vaccination in some parts of the world, and we are working on tackling the underlying issues including manufacturing and supply constraints, pressure on health systems, and vaccine confidence," a UK government spokesperson said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-experts-urge-uk-to-back-patent-waiver-for-vaccine-parity-1075659.html
28-01-2022||National||Maharashtra NCC directorate bags PM banner at Republic Day Camp||The Maharashtra Directorate of National Cadet Corps (NCC) has won the Prime Minister’s banner at the Republic Day Camp.  The prestigious PM banner has been won by the State Directorate after seven years. The last time the state won the banner was in 2014. Cadets from 17 NCC Directorates from various States participated in the month-long RDC Camp this year.    Maharashtra State Directorate had also fielded a Contingent of 57 Cadets, both Boys and Girls, drawn from various districts. The RDC 2022 for the NCC during the year commemorating Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav and Swarnim Vijay Varsh culminated with the PM’s Rally at Cariappa Parade Ground, Delhi Cantonment on Friday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, presented the prestigious PM Banner to Maj Gen Y P Khanduri, Additional Director General, NCC Directorate Maharashtra.  Senior Under Officer Siddhesh Jadhav was the Banner Bearer and Cadet Capt Nikita Khot was the Trophy bearer. In the month-long Camp, the Cadets did their best in various competitions like Drill, Rajpath Marching, Guard of Honour to PM, PM’s Rally Line Layout, Flag Area briefing and Cultural Event. The consistent excellent performance of the contingent throughout the Camp in all events saw the NCC Directorate Maharashtra being adjudged the best directorate.   Brig R K Gaikwad, Commander NCC Group Pune complimented the contingent that was led by Lt Col Anirudh Sinh, assisted by Maj Arusha Shete and S/O Manoj Phirange and the Cadets for their outstanding performance.  Noting the young profile of the cadets, who are mostly born in this century, the Prime Minister underlined their role in taking the country towards 2047. “Your efforts and resolve and the fulfilment of those resolutions will be the achievement and success of India”, he said.  The Prime Minister said no power of the world can stop the country whose youth starts moving ahead with the thinking of nation first. India's success in the playfield and the startup ecosphere exemplify this very clearly, the Prime Minister said.  The Prime Minister talked about the steps being taken to strengthen the NCC in the country in a period when the country is moving forward with new resolutions. For this, a high-level review committee has been set up in the country. In the last two years, 1 lakh new cadets have been created in the border areas of the country, he said. The Prime Minister elaborated on the steps being taken to open the doors of the defence establishments for girls and women. He noted the presence of a large number of the girl cadets and termed it to be a symbol of changing attitude of the nation. “Country needs your contribution and there are ample opportunities for that”, he told the girl cadets. He said now the daughters of the country are taking admission in Sainik Schools and women are getting major responsibilities in the army. The daughters of the country are flying fighter planes in the Air Force. “In such a situation, it should be our endeavour that more and more daughters should be included in NCC”, he added. The Prime Minister also underlined the major role that today’s youngsters can play in the ‘vocal for local’ campaign. “If today’s youth resolves to use only those goods that have been created with the labour and sweat of an Indian, India’s destiny can be transformed”, he emphasised. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-ncc-directorate-bags-pm-banner-at-republic-day-camp-1075670.html
28-01-2022||National||‘Notice’ saying pension halted frightens retirees, Kolkata mayor orders probe||A ‘notice’ that left hundreds of employees of Kolkata Municipal Corporation shocked, as it allegedly declared halting of pension for the recent retirees of the government body due to a fund crunch, is being probed. The corporation has declared that no notice with the consent of the municipal commissioner or of the civic body was put up. Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim on Friday clarified that those who have put up the notice have done injustice and the municipal commissioner has been asked to investigate how such notice was put up.  “We are looking into it. Whoever did it, did an injustice. The commissioner has been asked to investigate… we will search, and disciplinary action will be taken,” the mayor said. The Kolkata mayor added that those who have been receiving pensions so far will continue to get. Those, who are in process of availing pension, will have a slight delay. A notice put up on Thursday for the civic employees had stated, “Payments of pension and pensionary benefits (to the retired employees who have been superannuated from September 2021) are not currently released due to (the) crisis of fund.” The unsigned notice created panic, and soon rumours of the Kolkata civic body having gone bankrupt were in circulation. The mayor, however, accepted the fact (as already stated by him) that the corporation has Rs 1,000 crore liability in its accounts. Attempts are on to instil financial discipline. The Bengal BJP, meanwhile, took a dig at the Trinamool government, saying that the way expenditures are incurred doesn’t reflect an economic crisis, and if there is a crisis in the civic body, then who created it in the first place. A BJP councillor also protested with a banner, “No pension, no KMC”, at the venue of the corporation’s routine meeting, that took place at the Town Hall in the city. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/notice-saying-pension-halted-frightens-retirees-kolkata-mayor-orders-probe-1075675.html
28-01-2022||National||Soon, no fuel without valid pollution-under-check certificate in Delhi: Govt||Having a valid pollution-under-check certificate will soon be made mandatory for refuelling vehicles at fuel pumps in the national capital. The city government will put a draft policy in this regard in the public domain for inviting suggestions and objections. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that the policy will help ensure that polluting vehicles do not ply in Delhi and residents enjoy cleaner air. Reena Gupta, the advisor to the minister, said the policy affirms the commitment of the Kejriwal government towards ensuring clean air for all citizens of Delhi. "Vehicle owners will have to carry their PUCC to the fuel pump. In case the PUCC is found invalid, they will have to get it reissued at the pump," a statement said. "This is a very ambitious policy. North India including Delhi faces grave air pollution, particularly in winter. With this policy in place, vehicles will be mandated to have their PUC certificate with them at the fuelling station. Thus, pollution levels of vehicles in the state will be kept in check from time to time," the statement quoted Rai as saying. The government is also working on technology-based measures for effective implementation of the policy to ensure those vehicle owners, as well as petrol pump owners, do not face any inconvenience and there are no long queues because of checking of PUC certificates. While the exact mechanisms are being worked out, these methods can also include technologies like radio-frequency identification systems. Earlier this month, the Delhi government had issued a draft Motor Vehicle Aggregators Scheme, 2021, calling on online passenger and commercial vehicle operators to increasingly adopt electric vehicles. In August 2020, the government had introduced the Delhi Electric Vehicles policy which aims at increasing the EV share in total vehicle sales to 25 percent by 2024. In October last year, the city government launched a massive drive to check PUC certificates and deployed around 500 teams at petrol pumps for this purpose. Under Section 190(2) of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1993, vehicle owners not having a valid PUC can be fined up to Rs 10,000, or imprisoned for up to six months or both. The owners are required to get their vehicles tested to ascertain if they meet emission standards for pollutants such as carbon monoxide, nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide. There are 966 authorised pollution checking centres in the city. The city government had earlier announced that it will deregister all diesel vehicles which completed 10 years on January 1, 2022, and issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) so that they can be re-registered in other places. However, no NOC will be issued for diesel vehicles that have completed 15 years or more on the date of applying for it, according to an order issued earlier this month. The government also implements the "Red Light On, Gaadi Off" campaign during winter to cut down on vehicular pollution. Under the campaign launched on October 16, 2020, drivers are encouraged to switch off their vehicles while waiting for the traffic light to turn green. As per government estimates, the transport sector accounts for 28 per cent of the PM2.5 emissions in Delhi. The vehicular contribution also makes up 80 per cent of nitrogen oxide and carbon monoxide in Delhi's air. A total of 1.33 crore vehicles are registered in Delhi currently. The count of vehicles in the national capital more than doubled to 643 per thousand population in 2019-20 from 317 in 2005-06. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soon-no-fuel-without-valid-pollution-under-check-certificate-in-delhi-govt-1075704.html
28-01-2022||National||PLI scheme for textiles: Govt extends deadline for applications till Feb 14||The government has extended the deadline till February 14 for submitting applications for the Rs 10,683 crore-Production Linked Incentives scheme for textiles. "Earlier, the date of submission of online application under PLI Scheme for Textiles was up to 31st January 2022," the textiles ministry said in a statement on Friday. As per the prescribed norms, the scheme will be in operation from September 24, 2021 to March 31, 2030 and the incentive under the scheme will be payable for five years. Any company/firm/LLP/trust willing to create a separate manufacturing firm under the Companies Act, 2013, and invest a minimum Rs 300 crore, excluding land and administrative building cost, to manufacture notified products will be eligible to get the incentive. This is subject to the entities achieving a minimum of Rs 600 crore turnover by the first performance year. Under the scheme, FY 2024-25 will be considered as the first performance year. Any company/firm/LLP/trust willing to create a separate manufacturing company and invest a minimum Rs 100 crore, excluding land and administrative building cost, to manufacture notified products will be eligible to get incentive when they achieve a minimum of Rs 200 crore turnover by the first performance year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pli-scheme-for-textiles-govt-extends-deadline-for-applications-till-feb-14-1075710.html
28-01-2022||National||Cleric held for supplying weapons to murder youth who 'hurt religious sentiment'||The Ahmedabad police on Friday apprehended a cleric for allegedly supplying pistol and cartridges which were said to have been used by two persons for shooting down a 30-year-old youth for uploading an objectionable religious post on Facebook in Dhandhuka town, about 100 km away from Ahmedabad city. Police said that it has apprehended the cleric (Maulvi) Mohammed Ayub Y Jabrawala, 51, a resident of Jamalpur, in Ahmedabad city for allegedly supplying the pistol and five cartridges to Shabbir Chopda alias Saba Dadabhai, 25. Police have alleged Chopda and co-accused Imtiaz Pathan, 27, both residents of Dhandhuka, Ahmedabad district of killing Kishan Boliya, 30, at 5:30 pm on January 25, for his post "insulting" Islam. They have been booked for murder, attempt to murder, arms act to be read with criminal conspiracy. Boliya was riding pillion with his brother Bhaumik when the two bike-borne men started chasing them. The investigation has found that Pathan was allegedly riding the motorcycle while Shabbir shot at Boliya. The FIR quotes Bhaumik as saying that one bullet barely missed his ear. The second one hit Boliya in his right chest forcing him to fall from the moving bike. FIR stated that the bike-borne men too got down, shot Boliya in his head and ran away. Bhaumik has stated in the FIR that he couldn't recognise the assailants. "We have arrested two persons- Shabbir and Imtiaz. Shabbir, who is a little radicalized, had fired at Boliya while Imtiaz was riding the bike. It has come to our notice that Shabbir has been in touch with two maulvis giving radical speeches. He met the first maulvi in Mumbai and through him, he came in contact with maulvi Ayub who is a resident of Jamalpur. It was Maulvi Ayub who supplied the weapons to Shabbir," Ahmedabad district superintendent of police Virendra Singh Yadav told media persons. Ayub will formally be arrested after his covid-19 test result. Yadav said that Shabbir, who is facing a separate criminal case of robbery in Botad district, met the two religious priests-Ayub and one from Mumbai whose identity hasn't been revealed, at Shah-e-Alam in Ahmedabad some four months ago, where the trio allegedly discussed to take on everyone commenting against Islam. Police said it was under these circumstances when Shabbir decided to kill Kishan Boliya against whom an FIR for hurting religious sentiments had been registered on January 6 at Dhandhuka police station following a complaint filed by a group of men from the Muslim community. Shabbir is alleged to have decided to kill Boliya after he was released on bail by a local court. He allegedly met Ayub and procured the weapons. Sources said that Shabbir is said to have been upset over the late lodgement of FIR and the quick bail of Boliya. Meanwhile, the minister of state for home Harsh Sanghavi met Boliya's family and assured them of justice. He said that it was a case of criminal conspiracy.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cleric-held-for-supplying-weapons-to-murder-youth-who-hurt-religious-sentiment-1075732.html
28-01-2022||National||Andhra Pradesh welcomes IAS cadre rules change with a rider||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing his reservations about the proposed changes to the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954. While his counterparts in Telangana and other states, viewed the amendments as “militating against the federal structure of the constitution,” Reddy wants the PM to consider the family ties of the officers ordered to report for central deputation “suddenly.” “Sudden deputation orders to an officer without his/her willingness will affect the personal lives of such officer considering their families, children and their education and he/she may not be able to deliver to the best of his/her abilities in such circumstances,” Reddy said while asking Modi to reconsider the proposal and retain the existing process of state's NOC's for AIS officers' central deputation. Unlike the other CMs, Reddy said he appreciated the need to “ensure the central government departments are manned by able officers from the Indian Administrative Service.” “I strongly believe that states would benefit immensely from such well functioning departments in the government of India,” Reddy said in the letter sent on Friday. Reddy further opined that more IAS officers from the state cadre in different levels at the centre will help the state pursue various issues pertaining to the state. But while extending his “complete support regarding the proposal” Reddy pointed out his apprehensions to the amendment allowing central deputation of a chosen officer within a stipulated period, irrespective of the state's or the officer's willingness. IAS officers, based on their skillset and experience, are asked to lead various departments and projects in the state. The NOC given to officers requesting central deputation, as of now, Reddy said, gave some flexibility to the state “to carefully plan such deputation without adversely affecting the state's interests while duly meeting the requirements of central deputation reserve.” Reddy feared the proposed amendment “may take away such an important flexibility". “The state may have to immediately relieve an officer upon the central government orders and such an untimely leadership change in a department would derail critical projects in the state,” the CM said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-welcomes-ias-cadre-rules-change-with-a-rider-1075734.html
28-01-2022||National||India vibrant democracy, don't need certificate from others: MEA to Hamid Ansari, US lawmakers||The external affairs ministry on Friday reacted strongly to comments by former vice-president Hamid Ansari and four US lawmakers over the human rights situation in the country, saying India is a robust and vibrant democracy and does not require certification from others and attacked them for their "biases and political interests." "The track record of the event organisers is as well known as the biases and political interests of the participants," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said while responding to queries regarding the comments made by Ansari and others during a virtual panel discussion organised by the Indian American Muslim Council on Wednesday. During the event, Ansari had said, "emergence of trends and practices that dispute the well-established principle of civic nationalism and interpose a new and imaginary practice of cultural nationalism", triggering a controversy with Union ministers and the BJP attacking the former vice-president,also a former diplomat. "We have seen reports on this event. India is a robust and vibrant democracy. It does not require certification from others, " Bagchi said and asserted that the claim that others need to protect our constitution is "presumptuous and preposterous". During the panel discussion, Democratic Senator Ed Markey, who has a history of taking anti-India stands, had said, "As the Indian government continues to target the practices of minority faiths, it creates an atmosphere where discrimination and violence can take root. In recent years, we have seen an uptick in online hate speeches and acts of hate, including vandalised mosques, torched churches, and communal violence." Participating in the discussion from India, Ansari expressed his concern over the rising trend of cultural nationalism. "In recent years, we have experienced the emergence of trends and practices that dispute the well-established principle of civic nationalism and interpose a new and imaginary practice of cultural nationalism... It wants to distinguish citizens on the basis of their faith, give vent to intolerance, insinuate otherness, and promote disquiet and insecurity," he alleged. The three other Congressmen who spoke during the panel discussion -- Jim McGovern, Andy Levin and Jamie Raskin -- have traditionally taken anti-India stands irrespective of the governments in power in New Delhi. Hitting out at Ansari for his remarks, the BJP said the "madness of bashing Prime Minister Narendra Modi has turned into a conspiracy for India bashing". Law Minister Kiren Rijiju also hit out at the former vice-president, saying what he has said is "wrong" and as a member of the minority community, he can proudly say that India is the safest nation.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-vibrant-democracy-dont-need-certificate-from-others-mea-to-hamid-ansari-us-lawmakers-1075746.html
28-01-2022||National Politics||With Padma to Azad, Modi government puts Congress in a spot||The Congress leadership has been caught unawares and is in a dilemma by a surprising decision of the Modi government. The move to confer Padma Bhushan award on senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has resulted in the BJP shooting many birds with one stone. One may not be wrong if one thinks that the BJP has risen above narrow party identities and bestowed the award on Azad, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and former Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. But many, declining to be quoted, say this is a ploy to embarrass the Congress, a party which is in a serious disarray ever since it lost power in 2014. This gesture may have also made Azad to be sympathetic to the BJP (don’t forget the praise heaped on him by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Rajya Sabha during the farewell speech for the Kashmiri leader). Many aver that Azad would be a good bet for the BJP in the troubled state of J&K where Assembly elections may be held this or next year. The BJP, by this move, has put its main rival Congress in a hopelessly embarrassing position. The party has, three days after the announcement, failed to come out with its reaction, either praising it or asking Azad to reject it. If the intention of the BJP was to put the Congress in an awkward position, one can say it has succeeded in this bid. Not just that, with the schism created, the party is badly divided on this front. As regards party seniors, Jairam Ramesh is critical of the move while Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari etc, while congratulating Azad, have taken on the party leadership for not welcoming it. The party leadership’s discomfort in this needs to be seen from a different perspective too. Azad is the leader of the G23 grouping which has rebelled against the high command; in other words, against the leadership of the mother-son duo of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. Sibal, Sharma, Tewari are part of the G23 pack. The Padma award came a day after the party nominated Azad as one of the 'star campaigners’ for the elections to the five state assemblies. Azad himself, unlike Marxist veteran and former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadev Bhattacharjee, has not rejected the award, which means, in all probability, he will accept the same. Of course, he has not made any statement specifically regarding this. This has given rise to speculation that Azad may leave the Congress, form a party of his own and, after the elections in J&K, have an alliance with the BJP if the need arises. The Congress, on its part, had been generous towards Azad all through his career. Since 1980s, he was almost always a member of either the Lok Sabha or the Rajya Sabha till 2021, except for nearly three years when he was made chief minister of J&K. He helmed various portfolios during his many years as minister at the Centre; his last position was Leader of the Opposition in the RS. In sum, with the move, the BJP has trapped the Congress, its leadership, its senior leaders and Azad on a sticky wicket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-padma-to-azad-modi-government-puts-congress-in-a-spot-1075410.html
28-01-2022||National Politics||Congress to launch booklet highlighting how BJP govt 'compromised' interests of armed forces||The Congress will launch a booklet on Friday to highlight how the BJP government "compromised" with the interests of armed forces and soldiers while seeking votes in the name of their valour, party sources said. This comes a few days after the party launched a booklet to highlight the farmers' plight under the Modi government. The booklet will highlight how 1.22 lakh posts in the armed forces have remained vacant under the Modi dispensation and how ex-servicemen have been "cheated" in the name of "one rank, one pension", the sources said on Thursday. They also alleged the BJP government imposed tax on the disability pension of soldiers and that soldiers were discriminated against in the 7th Pay Commission recommendations. The Congress is also alleging in its booklet that the Modi regime has sought to "weaken" the morale of the forces and describes how it hit the re-employment of former servicemen, they said. While Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala will launch the booklet in Dehradun, Harish Rawat will launch the same in Haldwani and Sachin Pilot will do so in Chandigarh, the sources said. Karnataka PCC chief D K Shivakumar will launch the booklet in Goa, while Deepinder Hooda will launch the same in Meerut and former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan will launch it in Lucknow. Boxer Vijender Kumar and party leader Supriya Shrinate will launch the booklet in Varanasi and Praveen Davar, who heads the party's ex-servicemen cell, will launch it in Almora, they added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-launch-booklet-highlighting-how-bjp-govt-compromised-interests-of-armed-forces-1075421.html
28-01-2022||National Politics||Cong believes power belongs to people but for other parties it lies with PM, CM: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused rival political parties of concentrating power in the hands of the PM or the CM while according to his party’s ideology, it belongs to people. Gandhi said because of the centralisation of power as was being done by the BJP-led Centre, the country and states suffer. Because of demonetisation and the GST implementation, small shopkeepers and medium enterprises suffered the most while only two-three billionaires were benefited, he said. "Be it Narendra Modiji, BJP or other parties, including AAP. All these parties concentrate power. They give power to the CM and the PM," he said. "According to the Congress ideology, power belongs to people and we want to give it to people," he said. Recalling that his father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi had talked about the Panchayati Raj system, Gandhi said power should be given to sarpanches and leaders of local bodies. "Punjab should not be run by bureaucracy," he said. He also attacked the BJP-led Centre for bringing farm laws, which were later repealed after protests by farmers. He said the main aim of the legislations was that what belonged to farmers, labourers and small shopkeepers be given to the country's five to six billionaires. He lauded farmers of Punjab for forcing the Centre to repeal the laws. He also flayed the Centre over unemployment. "The country today has the highest unemployment," he said. Lauding the Channi government, he said it brought down fuel prices and power tariff. The government did a historic work, which does not happen in other states, he said. "Why we did it? Because we understand that the poor are today bearing the maximum burden," he said. The entire burden has been put on the poor in the country, he said, adding, "we want to lessen that burden." Gandhi also spoke about mobilising resources from mining, transport and cable TV sectors for the welfare of the state. "How to decentralise power in Punjab? Question arises. First of all, your money is in four areas, which are liquor, mining, transport and cable TV. Thousands of crore is in these system and they do not reach you," he said. "We have made a beginning but we do not need evolution. We need revolution and we want to give your money to you and in these four areas, we will not do evolutionary job but revolutionary," said Gandhi. He also spoke about business clusters and hubs. The money mobilised from alcohol, mining, transport and cable will be used to turn these hubs into world-class centres of excellence, he said. "The whole world should see 'made in Punjab', '' Gandhi said as he emphasised on boosting local industry. He also promised that around 160 government will be provided to people on the internet if his party’s government returns to power in the state. Gandhi stressed the most important thing in Punjab is peace and brotherhood. "The Congress is the only party which belongs to everyone. You all are ours," he said. "Our experience is that thousands of Congress workers gave their blood," he said. "No matter what happens, the Congress will never allow peace to be disturbed in Punjab. We will die but will never allow it to be disturbed," he said. “We know how it is to be done and we have done it,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-believes-power-belongs-to-people-but-for-other-parties-it-lies-with-pm-cm-rahul-1075422.html
28-01-2022||National Politics||Varun Gandhi tweets on unemployment, says situation getting dire||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Friday shared a BBC video of a youth airing his views on unemployment referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's controversial remarks on selling pakora, saying turning attention away from the "dire situation" is like covering fire with cotton. "Unemployment is emerging as the biggest problem in the country today. The situation is getting dire. Turning away from it is like covering fire with cotton," Varun, who has been critical of the BJP-led government on issues like economy, agriculture and unemployment, tweeted.  The critical tweet comes at a time when youth in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are on a warpath on the railway recruitment process. Several job aspirants were arrested during the protest. Uttar Pradesh is going to polls in seven phases between February 10 and March 7 while the counting of votes will be on March 10. In the video he shared, a youth is heard talking about joblessness and criticising the way the protest over railway recruitment was handled. He also said that they will have to change those in power if their concerns are not addressed. The youth went on to ask whether he had got a degree to sell pakoras. In January 2018, Modi had said that people earning Rs 200 a day by selling pakoras cannot be called unemployed. "If a person selling pakoras (snacks) earns Rs 200 at the end of the day, will it be considered employment or not?" Modi had said in an interview. Modi's remarks in an interview attracted criticism from the Opposition ranks with leaders describing it as a "cruel joke". The 'pakora' analogy was later used by the Opposition to attack Modi and his government on the job front. Varun has been critical of the BJP in the recent past over the farmers' issue and had demanded action against Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, who was linked to the killings of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. In an interview, Varun told DH earlier this week had said that identity politics – for example, identity ones with a focus on ethnicity, religion – takes centre-stage only when the government of the day, whether at state or the Centre, is unable to deliver on more important issues.  "Sadly, the media has also helped the government of the day reinforce this narrative. It remains sad that select policymakers continue to consider policies and view elections as one of discord instead of amity; pursuing the 80% instead of the 100%," he had said. His comments came against the backdrop of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath saying that the Assembly elections is a fight between the 80% vs 20%, in an apparent reference to the majority community and minority community. Muslims account for around 20% of UP's population.  Check out latest DH videos on UP elections here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/varun-gandhi-tweets-on-unemployment-says-situation-getting-dire-1075654.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Supreme Court relief for 12 suspended Maharashtra BJP MLAs||The Supreme Court on Friday declared the July 5, 2021 resolution passed by the Maharashtra Assembly suspending 12 Opposition BJP MLA for one year as unconstitutional, grossly illegal and irrational, by holding that there can't be suspension of a House member beyond the remainder of the session. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar ruled that in case of suspension beyond the period of the remainder of the Session or sixty days or six months, even though it is not a case of disqualification incurred by the member, it would entail in undue deprivation of the constituency. "It is, therefore, a drastic measure trenching upon imposing penalty more than disciplinary or corrective measure, beyond the limited inherent powers of the House," the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar, said.  Suspension beyond the Session would be bordering on punishing not only the member concerned, but also inevitably impact the legitimate rights of the constituency from where the member had been elected, it added. "Anything in excess than for a day or the remainder of the ongoing Session, would not be necessary much less rational exercise of the inherent power of the Assembly. Even, Rule 53 bestows authority in the Speaker to take action against the member-only for ensuring orderly functioning of the House. The same logic must apply to the exercise of inherently limited power by the House," the bench said. The top court allowed a writ petition filed by the BJP MLAs led by Ashish Shelar, who contended that a motion for unruly behaviour in the House can never be a subject matter of voting since it would enable the political party in power to virtually wipe out the opposition for some trivial acts. The decision of suspension, therefore, must rest with the Speaker and not the House, they said. The bench said, "We have no hesitation in concluding that the impugned resolution suffers from the vice of being unconstitutional, grossly illegal and irrational to the extent of period of suspension beyond the remainder of the concerned Session." The court held that this was not a case of mere procedural irregularity committed by the Legislature within the meaning of Article 212(1) of the Constitution. The concerned Session having concluded long back in July 2021, the petitions ought to succeed, the bench said, adding suspension was a nullity, unconstitutional grossly illegal and irrational. "It cannot be given effect... and must be regarded as non-est in the eyes of law," the court said.   The court noted that in case of expulsion of the member by the House in terms of Section 151A of the Representation of People Act 1951 Act, the Election Commission would move into action to fill in the vacancy. Moreover, the expelled member would be free to contest the mid¬term election and get re¬elected from the same constituency. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-relief-for-12-suspended-maharashtra-bjp-mlas-1075472.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||BSP's Dalit candidates to poll against SP's Akhilesh, Shivpal||In a shrewd political move, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has fielded Dalit candidates against Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav, the chief of Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia (PSPL). BSP's Kuldeep Narayan will contest against the SP president from the Karhal seat in Mainpuri while Brajendra Pratap Singh will contest against the PSPL chief from the Jaswantnagar Assembly seat in Etawah. Both Karhal and Jaswantnagar are unreserved seats and considered strongholds of the Samajwadi Party. The SP has been winning Karhal and Jaswantnagar seats since 1993. A BSP leader said, "Narayan and Singh will be contesting the Assembly elections for the first time. Both belong to the Jatav community and have been working for the party at the grassroots level, strengthening the support base of the party in Mainpuri and Etawah." BSP chief Mayawati decided to field Kuldeep Narayan and Brajendra Pratap Singh against the political heavyweights in order to give a message to party cadres that committed workers will be given preference in the Assembly elections. The BSP hopes to mobilise the younger party cadres at a time when most of the senior leaders have deserted the party. Mayawati, on Thursday, released the party's list of 53 candidates for the third phase of UP Assembly elections where polling will be held on February 20 in 59 Assembly constituencies in 11 districts. Among the 11 districts, Mainpuri, Etawah, Firozabad, Etah, Hathras, Kasganj, Kannauj, Farrukhabad and Aurraiya are considered the strongholds of the Samajwadi Party. Of the 53 candidates, 18 belong to the other backward classes (OBCs), 17 are Dalits, 15 belong to the upper caste and three are Muslims. The 11 districts (under third phase) have a large backward and Dalit population. Keeping caste equations in consideration, the BSP chief has fielded maximum candidates from both communities. Under the social engineering formula, Brahmin and Rajput candidates have also been fielded in the upper caste majority seats, said the BSP leader. Mayawati will launch the party's election campaign from Agra on February 2 by addressing a public meeting. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsps-dalit-candidates-to-poll-against-sps-akhilesh-shivpal-1075474.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Ayodhya saints yearn for a political career||Apparently inspired by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, it is now the saints of Ayodhya who want to take the political plunge. Mahant Raju Das, one of the priests of the Hanuman Garhi temple, and Mahant Paramhans Das of Tapasvi Ji Ki Chhawani are among the prominent saints who want to contest the polls from the Ayodhya (Sadar) Assembly seat, which is considered a VIP constituency. The BJP's Ved Prakash Gupta, is the sitting MLA from this seat and also a contender for the 2022 ticket. The Ram Janmabhoomi, where a grand Ram temple is under construction, is in this constituency. Mahant Paramhans Das said, "I have decided to contest the polls from the Ayodhya Assembly seat. I am seeking a ticket from the BJP. If the party denies the ticket, then I will file my nomination as an independent candidate." Talking about his agenda, he said, "If maulvis get salary, then seers must also get salary." Paramhans Das has often been in the news for staging protests and making controversial statements. A year before the Supreme Court's verdict on the Ayodhya title suit in November 2019, Paramhans Das had announced he would immolate himself by sitting on a funeral pyre if the Central government failed to bring an ordinance for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Mahant Raju Das is also said to be keen on a parallel political career and has even spoken to top BJP leaders in this regard. However, Acharya Satyendra Das, head priest of Ram Lalla temple, is against saints entering active politics. "There are two 'nitis' (policies) - 'rajniti' (politics) and 'dharamniti' (religion). Those who are into 'dharamniti' must not take part in Rajniti. These are two different fields," he said. Satyendra Das, 82, is a former Sanskrit lecturer and has been performing puja of Ram Lalla at the makeshift Ram Janmabhoomi temple for the past 28 years. He had recently said that it was a good decision that Yogi Adityanath did not contest the Ayodhya seat. Swami Avimukteshwaranand, earlier this week, had said that saints should not become chief ministers. "No man can abide by two pledges. A saint can be a 'mahant' but not a chief minister or prime minister. This is possible in the 'khilafat' system of Islam in which the religious head also happens to be the king," the seer said, in an apparent reference to Yogi Adityanath. Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, who is chairman of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, is also against saints contesting the election. The Ayodhya district has five Assembly seats, namely Ayodhya (Sadar), Rudauli, Mulkipur, Bikapur and Gosaiganj. The BJP won all of them in the 2017 polls. Ayodhya goes to polls in the fifth phase on February 27. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-saints-yearn-for-a-political-career-1075475.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Can't lay down new yardstick: Supreme Court on reservation in promotion to SCs/STs in government jobs||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to lay down yardstick for determining adequacy of representation but made it clear that State is obligated to collect quantifiable data, before providing for reservation in promotion for SC/ST employees. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai also held that collection of information regarding inadequacy of representation of SCs and STs cannot be with reference to the entire service or ‘class’/‘group’ but it should be relatable to the grade/category of posts. The bench said said, "Determination of inadequate representation of SCs and STs in services under a State is left to the discretion of the State, as it depends upon myriad factors which this court cannot envisage." Moreover, it would curtail States' discretion, so no yardstick can be laid down by this court for determining the adequacy of representation of SCs and STs, the bench said. The bench, however, said that collection of quantifiable data is mandatory for assessment of inadequacy of representation after a periodic review.  "Data collected to determine inadequacy of representation needs to be reviewed periodically. The period for review should be reasonable and is left to the Government to set out," the bench said. The court declined Attorney General K K Venugopal's plea to hold that the proportion of SCs and STs to the population of India should be the test for determining inadequacy of representation in promotional posts.  "We are not persuaded to express any opinion on this aspect. It is for the State to assess the inadequacy of representation, by taking into account relevant factors," the bench said. The court rejected a contention that lion’s share of reservation for members of SCs and STs accrued to the benefit of a select few within these categories. "We are not inclined to express any view on discontinuation of reservations in totality, which is completely within the domain of the legislature and the executive," it said. The top court also declared the M Nagaraj judgement which had laid down conditions like collections of quantifiable data, adequacy of representation and overall impact on efficiency of administration, for granting reservations in promotion in government jobs, would be applied prospectively. Otherwise it would be detrimental to the interests of a number of civil servants and would have an effect of unsettling the seniority of individuals, it added. The top court also declared the B K Pavitra II judgment in 2019, passed by a bench led by Justice D Y Chandrachud, is contrary to law laid down in 2006 judgment in the M Nagaraj case and 2018 judgement in Jarnail Singh case. The Pavitra II judgement had allowed collection of data on the basis of group and not on cadre. "Collection of quantifiable data... is a basic requirement, as laid down by this court in Nagaraj case. The unit for the purpose is a cadre, according to Nagaraj and Jarnail Singh. The entire service cannot be taken to be a unit and treated as a cadre," the bench said. Pavitra II had then upheld a 2018 law by Karnataka to provide consequential seniority to reserved category employees.  The top court's Friday judgement would reopen the legal questions with regard to reservation in promotion in Karnataka. The Centre and several States had asked the top court to settle the confusion with regard to quota norms. The top court put the matters related to different States and Centre's plea against the various High Court's judgement quashing the decision on reservation in promotion, for consideration on February 24, 2022.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-lay-down-new-yardstick-supreme-court-on-reservation-in-promotion-to-scs/sts-in-government-jobs-1075477.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Schoolchildren in UP made to praise PM Modi, CM Yogi; probe ordered||A probe has been ordered into an incident in which schoolchildren were allegedly made to raise slogans hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, by their principal and teachers on Republic Day. A video of the event, held on Wednesday at a primary school in Sohratgarh Block of Siddhartha Nagar district, has gone viral. In the video, students, after singing the national anthem, are seen raising slogans in the name of freedom fighters as well as of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the directions of teachers, violating the model code of conduct currently in place in the state. District Magistrate, Siddhartha Nagar, Deepak Meena, told reporters that he came to know about the video through social media. "We have taken cognisance of the matter and directed the BSA (Basic Shiksha Adhikari) to investigate it. Action will be taken against whosoever is found guilty," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schoolchildren-in-up-made-to-praise-pm-modi-cm-yogi-probe-ordered-1075486.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||38-year-old man shot dead in north Delhi's Alipur||A 38-year-old man was shot dead by unidentified assailants in north Delhi's Alipur, police said Friday. The deceased was identified as Pramod Kumar, a resident of Hiranki Village, who was facing attempt to murder and Arms Act cases. The Alipur police station received information around 10.45 pm on Thursday about the incident. Police shifted to the Max Hospital in Haidarpur but he was declared brought-dead, Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer north) Brijendra Kumar Yadav said. The spot was inspected by a crime investigation team and nine empty cartridges were recovered. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/38-year-old-man-shot-dead-in-north-delhis-alipur-1075488.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||BJP doesn't respect OBCs, Dalits, claims SBSP's Om Prakash Rajbhar||The Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar said that the BJP had no respect for backward classes and Dalits, claiming it had committed atrocities on students demanding jobs amid growing unemployment. Rajbhar is fighting the polls in alliance with the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party. Rajbhar said, "The BJP has not been able to deliver jobs to the youth, and it has deprived backward students of reservation. When students demand reservations, they are showered with police batons. The question paper of recruitment exams of 16 departments was leaked, today, 34 lakh positions are lying vacant in the state. In Prayagraj, when students raised their voice, they were beaten up mercilessly. The youth want a change and to see Akhilesh Yadav as their next chief minister." He further said that 85 per cent of people in Uttar Pradesh were with the SP-led alliance as the BJP had snatched their rights. Rajbhar, a former minister, accused the BJP of harbouring "the likes of Ajay Mishra Teni", accused of killing four farmers during the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. He said, "Amit Shah did not get time to visit farmers when over 700 of them died during the farmers' protest. The farmers were protesting for almost a year, having braved the cold, rain and intense heat. But the BJP ignored them and instead, used force to stop the farmers from taking part in the protest against the three black farm laws. Now, when elections are here, the BJP is going from door to door distributing pamphlets. "Why didn't Amit Shah remove Ajay Misra Teni who was involved in mowing down four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri? If the vehicle used in the incident had belonged to any backward, Dalit or Muslim, the owner would have been in jail today. Ajay Misra Teni should have been in jail ideally, but the BJP is giving him political shelter." "Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and people belonging to his caste sit on chairs, but a deputy chief minister from a backward caste is given a stool to sit on. This is the kind of respect they give to the backwards. Yogi Adityanath sits on a sofa, but UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh is made to sit on a chair. There are 1,700 police stations, but the BJP is silent when it comes to the number of OBC and Dalit police personnel posted there," he said.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-doesnt-respect-obcs-dalits-claims-sbsps-om-prakash-rajbhar-1075491.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Drugs recovered along Indo-Pak border, BSF jawan injured||A BSF jawan was injured in an exchange of fire with Pakistani smugglers along the Indo-Pak border in Punjab's Gurdaspur district on Friday, and the force recovered 47 kg heroin, two pistols and some ammunition, police said. The incident took place at 5:15 am in an area falling under border outpost Chandu Wadala. Gurdaspur Senior Superintendent of Police, Nanak Singh, told PTI over the phone that 47 kg of heroin, two pistols, some live ammunition and seven packets of opium have been recovered. The jawan suffered a bullet injury in his head during the exchange of fire between the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel and Pakistani smugglers, the SSP said, adding that he has been rushed to a hospital. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drugs-recovered-along-indo-pak-border-bsf-jawan-injured-1075497.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Outspoken J&K politicians maintain silence over controversy of Padma award to Ghulam Nabi Azad||At a time when Padma Bhushan award to veteran Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has stirred up a hornet’s nest across the political-spectrum of the country, outspoken mainstream politicians of Jammu and Kashmir have surprisingly maintained silence over the issue. Azad, who was given India’s third highest civilian award, by the Modi-government on Republic Day, is part of Congress’ group of 23 leaders (G-23), that wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi in 2020, seeking internal reforms. There has been no word from any politician from J&K neither in favour nor against Azad so far. Even usually outspoken J&K Congress unit politicians -- both belonging to pro-Azad and anti-Azad camp -- have not made their views public over the subject. A senior J&K Congress leader said that they were in a fix as it was difficult to comment on the emerging situation. “Both the BJP and Azad do politics intelligently. The fluid political situation in J&K for the last three years is such that it is difficult for anybody to either come in support or oppose the move,” he told DH. “We know that central leadership, including Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, have not greeted Azad which is a clear indication as to what it (Padma Bhushan award) means for the overall interests of the party. But yet nobody in J&K Congress is in a position to come out openly like several central leaders have,” he said and added Azad, as a shrewd politician, wants his bread to be buttered from both sides. However, another J&K Congress leader while defending Azad for accepting the award said, “Those who advise Azad should have returned the award like former Bengal Chief Minister Buddhdeb Bhattacharjee should first understand the politics of J&K. We have been caught in a different situation for the last three years and Azad sahib is the only hope who can bring people of J&K out of the current mess,” he said. “If he (Azad) would have declined the award, it would have been a direct confrontation with the Centre which would not have been in the best interests of J&K.A few voices have also resonated like Karan Singh, a senior Congress leader and son of the last ruling Maharaja of the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir. “If one of our colleagues is honoured, he should be greeted with warm appreciation rather than snide remarks,” he remarked. Azad is the second Congressman to receive a Padma award. In 2008, former President of India Pranab Mukherjee was given Padma Vibhushan by the government where he was a minister. He received the Bharat Ratna award in 2019.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/outspoken-jk-politicians-maintain-silence-over-controversy-of-padma-award-to-ghulam-nabi-azad-1075519.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Congress will be a force to reckon with in UP, says state party chief Ajay Kumar Lallu||Unfazed by the exodus of senior Congress leaders, candidates and office bearers in the midst of the poll campaign, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) President Ajay Kumar Lallu said that the party will emerge "as a force to reckon with in the 2022 elections". Talking to select journalists, he said, "We are fighting a do-or-die ideological battle. Those who are not committed eventually leave. The reason is perhaps related to the fact that 30 years of having stayed away from power has left Congress with a handful of workers and a basketful of generational leaders who are more interested in individual aspirations than taking to the streets to revive the party. Also, the 'elitists' cannot digest a poor man's son rising to the level of party president." He also denied that the exit of leaders like Jitin Prasada and R P N Singh will demoralise the cadres. "It may have an impact on the minds of some but our leader Priyanka Gandhi's warmth and motivation fill in for it." Ajay Kumar Lallu claims that he has strengthened the party organisation like never before. "When I was appointed in 2019, we started with not more than 15,000 people with different levels of commitment. Today, we have a trained and committed workforce of more than 1 lakh workers representing our ideology," he said. He further said that the Congress has been the main opposition each time the people needed it. "The BJP vs SP contest scenario has been created by businessmen friends of both parties having a stake in media houses. The results will speak for our position," he said. Talking about the BSP, the UPCC President said, "BSP is a scared political entity. Their leader did not come out even when people of the Dalit community, like the girl in Hathras or the worker in Agra, were in trouble. It is, in fact, doing free service to the BJP. New players like AAP and Azad Samaj Party will take years to gauge the depth of Uttar Pradesh's political landscape." He further said that the Congress is well prepared to campaign amid the pandemic. "Separate teams are manning social media, campaign design, content and field activities. All work is divided into digital and house to house visits because of the Covid-19 protocol. In areas where the internet does not work well, teams are distributing handbills," he said. Ajay Kumar Lallu is contesting from his Tankuhi seat and hopes to achieve a hat-trick this time. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-will-be-a-force-to-reckon-with-in-up-says-state-party-chief-ajay-kumar-lallu-1075540.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Pottery factory roof collapses in UP's Bulandshahr, six feared buried||The roof of a pottery factory in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district collapsed on Friday and about six persons are feared buried under the debris. A woman has been admitted to a hospital in critical condition. The incident took place at the R K Insulator Pottery unit. Sources said that the roof collapsed because of excessive weight placed on it. A police spokesman said that the rescue work was on and debris was being cleared. He said that the incident would be probed and action would be taken accordingly. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pottery-factory-roof-collapses-in-ups-bulandshahr-six-feared-buried-1075544.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Man gets death sentence for raping six-year-old in Bihar||A special POCSO court in Bihar's Araria district sentenced a man to death after convicting him of raping a six-year-old girl. Judge Shashikant Rai passed the order on Thursday, two days after convicting Mohammad Major, aged 48, for the crime. An FIR was lodged at Bhargama police station of the district on December 2 last year following a complaint by the girl's mother, a day after the minor was raped, an officer said. The police submitted its charge sheet on January 12 and the court took cognisance of it on January 20. Major was also held guilty under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-gets-death-sentence-for-raping-six-year-old-in-bihar-1075547.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Over 76% eligible teenagers in Delhi vaccinated against Covid-19||Delhi has vaccinated more than 76 percent of the teenagers aged between 15 and 18 against Covid-19, with northwest district inoculating the maximum number of beneficiaries in this cohort.  According to data from the Centre's CoWIN dashboard, 7.74 lakh beneficiaries in this age group received their first dose of Covid vaccine by January 26. There are around 10.18 lakh teenagers aged between 15 and 18 in Delhi. The central government had rolled out vaccinations for adolescents on January 3. Southwest Delhi has administered first dose to 1,03,921 adolescents. As many as 1,02,425 have taken jabs in northwest Delhi, 78,107 in northeast Delhi, 77,532 in west Delhi and 73,070 in Southeast Delhi. Authorities in east Delhi have inoculated 68,887 teenagers, while 66,228 have taken their first dose in north Delhi, 55,324 in Shahdara, 54,385 in South Delhi, 48,940 in Central Delhi and 45,646 in New Delhi. Northeast Delhi has the maximum number of 33 vaccination centres for this cohort, followed by West Delhi (30) and Southwest Delhi (24).  Overall, over 2.94 crore doses have been administered in Delhi (till Friday afternoon) since the inoculation exercise started on January 16 last year. As many as 1.22 crore people have received both the doses. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-76-eligible-teenagers-in-delhi-vaccinated-against-covid-19-1075552.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Registration deadline for participating in PM's 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' extended till Feb 3||The deadline to register for participating in the fifth edition of 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' with Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been extended till February 3, officials said Friday. The deadline has been extended for a second time. "The last date to participate in the fifth edition of Pariksha pe Charcha has been extended till February 3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi conceptualised the unique interactive programme, wherein students, parents and teachers from across the nation and also from overseas interact with him to discuss and overcome the stress emerging out of examinations in order to celebrate life," a Ministry of Education official said. The first edition of the prime minister's interactive programme 'Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0' was held at the Talkatora Stadium here on February 16, 2018. "The format of this programme (this year) is proposed to be in the online mode like in 2021. An online creative writing competition is being conducted on various topics to select the participants. The questions asked by the selected winners will be featured in the Pariksha Pe Charcha programme,” the official said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/registration-deadline-for-participating-in-pms-pariksha-pe-charcha-extended-till-feb-3-1075554.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||L-G, Centre defend before HC appointment of SPPs in 2020 riots, R-day violence cases||Delhi Lieutenant Governor and the Centre have told the Delhi High Court that the LG appointed Special Public Prosecutors (SPP) for last year's Republic Day violence and 2020 riots cases in the interest of efficient, fair and just trial as the two sets of cases are of “grave national concern”. In their common response to the petition by the Delhi government challenging the appointment of Delhi Police chosen lawyers as SPPs by the LG, they said that since both the cases arose directly from laws of the Parliament i.e. the citizenship amendment and farm laws, the LG, being a delegate of the President, has the “responsibility to have a more active role in those matters”. They further claimed that the cases are “highly sensitive nature” and relate to “public order” which is excluded from the purview of the Delhi government. Merely because the incidents took place within the geographical jurisdiction of the national capital, it would not suffice to treat those matters as falling under the direct control of the Delhi government, they argued. Their affidavit stated that while the riots challenged the secular character of the nation, and thus warranted a direct involvement of the Union government in the interest of the nation's unity and integrity, the farmers' protests spanned the entire country and attracted a lot of international attention. “The unfortunate incidents of violence did lead to disturbance of public order and a loss of life and property (in the Northeast Delhi communal riots case) and the then continuing farmers agitation and unfortunate incident of violence has prompted a need for efficient, fair and just prosecution (of cases) to retain the faith in the country's law and order machinery,” said the common affidavit filed by the Special Secretary to LG. “The 'public order' expressly involves cognizance of offences, search, seizure and arrest, followed by registration of FIRs, investigation, prosecution and trial. The wide amplitude provided to the meaning of this term includes the appointment of special prosecutors for an efficient and just prosecution of the cases so registered,” it added. In its petition, the Delhi government has challenged the LG order appointing Delhi Police chosen lawyers as SPPs to appear and conduct prosecution in cases relating to violence during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26 last year and northeast Delhi riots cases of February 2020, saying that it results in a serious conflict of interest. In their response, the LG and Centre assured that the appointment has no bearing on the competence or independence of the prosecutor who has to act in a manner that is fair to the court, to the investigating agencies as well as to the accused in accordance with the guiding principles of law. “The appointment of additional SPPs have been recommended by the answering respondent No.1 (LG) for an efficient, speedy and just prosecution of the cases which are highly sensitive in nature,” the affidavit said. “The two sets of cases involve matters of grave national concern. The Lieutenant Governor while acting as the administrator of the Union Territory of Delhi is in the position of a delegate of the President. Hence, in matters where issues have arisen directly from laws enacted by the Parliament, the Lieutenant Governor i.e the answering respondent No.1 has the responsibility to have a more active role in those matters,” it added. The affidavit also asserted that the rules allowed both the central and the state governments to appoint SPP for specific cases and the “timeline of processing of appointment of SPPs” in the present case would show that the LG while abiding by the mandate of the Supreme Court and the Transaction of Business Rules 1993, made sufficient efforts to resolve the difference of opinion with the Council of Ministers and exercised powers under Article 239 AA (4) proviso of the Constitution to refer the issue to the President. The Delhi government, in its plea, contended that 'appointment of SPPs' is a routine matter and not an exceptional matter for which reference to the President can be made and that the LG had no sound reason for referring the matter to the President when the government had agreed to appoint independent SPPs. It has been said the SPPs are taking charge of the matters by displacing the regular public prosecutors and therefore, urgent directions are required from the court to enable them to continue so as to not jeopardise fair trial in the cases. On August 27 last year, the court had issued notice on the Delhi government's plea asked the LG and the Centre to file a response to the petition as well as an application seeking stay on the decision. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/l-g-centre-defend-before-hc-appointment-of-spps-in-2020-riots-r-day-violence-cases-1075559.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||No one can stop nation whose youth works with spirit of nation first: PM Modi at NCC rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded the strength of India's young population in fields ranging from start-ups to sports, and said no one can stop a nation whose youth works with the spirit of "nation first". Speaking at the National Cadet Corps PM Rally at Cariappa ground here, Modi said efforts are being made to strengthen the organisation with a high-level review committee formed in this regard. Over one lakh new NCC cadets have been added in border areas in the last two years, he said while pitching for the induction of more girls in the organisation. He noted that women are getting more and more responsibilities in the armed forces. The prime minister also highlighted the menace of drug abuse and asked NCC members to work to keep themselves and their campuses free from this and also help those who are not in the NCC in getting rid of this. Noting that in an era of possibilities relating to digital technology and the information sector there are also dangers of misinformation, he said NCC members can run an awareness campaign for this. The young population can also play a big role in "vocal for local" to help India become self-reliant, the prime minister said, adding that more demand for local products will boost production and subsequently employment. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-one-can-stop-nation-whose-youth-works-with-spirit-of-nation-first-pm-modi-at-ncc-rally-1075589.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||'Girl not property....': Bombay HC observes after father 'donates' daughter to godman||A girl is not a property that can be given in donation, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court observed, while taking strong objection to a case wherein a man had given his 17-year-old daughter in "daan" to a self-styled godman. A single bench of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi made the observation earlier this month while hearing a bail application filed by the godman Shankeshwar Dhakne and his disciple Sopan Dhanke, arrested for allegedly raping the minor girl. The two accused lived in a temple at Badnapur in Jalna district along with the girl and her father. The girl on August 2021 filed FIR against the duo for allegedly raping her, following which they were arrested. Justice Kankanwadi in her order took note of the prosecution's case that in 2018, a document styled as "danpatra" on a stamp paper of Rs 100 was executed between the girl's father and the Dhakne. “It is stated that the father of the girl has given his daughter on donation (daan) to the baba and it is stated that the said 'kanyadan' has been made in the presence of God. When the girl as per her own statement is minor, then why the father, who is in all respect guardian, to the girl, give the girl as Daan?” the court said in its order. “A girl is not a property, which can be given in donation,” Justice Kankanwadi said, adding that this was a disturbing fact. The court noted that it was concerned about the future of the minor girl and “cannot shut its eyes”. This was a fit case where directions needed to be given to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) of Jalna district to hold an inquiry on an expeditious basis and find out if the girl was fit to be declared as a child in need of care and protection. “This is in view of the future of the girl and she should not be driven to do any illegal activities,” the court said, directing the CWC to hold its inquiry and submit its report to the court. The court granted bail to the duo on a bond of Rs 25,000 each and posted the matter for further hearing on February 4.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/girl-not-property-bombay-hc-observes-after-father-donates-daughter-to-godman-1075629.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Congress to work with like-minded parties in Budget session to raise border row, price rise issues||Congress on Friday decided to reach out to like-minded parties to raise issues in Parliament during the upcoming Budget Session and corner the Narendra Modi government issues like farmers’ distress, price rise, the India-China border row, relief package for Covid-19 victims and sale of Air India among other things. The meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Strategy Group was chaired by party president Sonia Gandhi and attended by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury among others. The first leg of the Budget Session is starting on January 31 with the address of President Ram Nath Kovind to a joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs followed by Budget the next day, at a time five states are going to Assembly elections from February 10. The first leg of the session will end on February 11 while the second leg will start on March 14, four days after the counting of votes. Both the Houses are likely to see most of the MPs from poll-bound states remaining absent in the first leg of the Budget Session. Congress sources said the first leg may not see disruptions as there will be scheduled discussions on the address of the President and the Budget. Sources also said the Opposition would try to corner the Modi government on the protest by Railway job aspirants in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Kharge, who has been given the charge of coordinating with other parties, is likely to call meetings of Opposition parties regularly in his office like in the past but it is to be seen whether parties like Samajwadi Party and AAP, which were attending such deliberations, will attend during an election season. Trinamool Congress did not attend such meetings during Winter Session. During the Winter Session in November-December last year, Parliament witnessed disruption by the Opposition, especially in Rajya Sabha where MPs were suspended, on a variety of issues. The meeting was also attended by senior Congress leaders AK Antony, KC Venugopal , Anand Sharma, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh , Jairam Ramesh, Manickam Tagore and Manish Tewari. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-to-work-with-like-minded-parties-in-budget-session-to-raise-border-row-price-rise-issues-1075634.html
28-01-2022||North and Central||Shweta Tiwari apologises after MP police lodge FIR||Hours after the Madhya Pradesh Police registered an FIR against television actress Shweta Tiwari for allegedly referring to God while making a statement about her innerwear, she apologised on Friday. In a statement by her spokesperson, Tiwari said that it was a statement referring to one of her colleague's previous roles which has been taken out of context and has been misconstrued. Tiwari added that the 'bhagwan' she was referring to was her co-star Sourabh Raaj Jain, who has played the role of Lord Krishna on TV earlier. "When put in context, one will understand that the statement in reference to 'Bhagwan' was in context with Sourabh Raj Jain's popular role of a deity. People associate character names with actors and hence, I used that as an example during my conversation with the media," Tiwari said. "However, it has been completely misconstrued which is saddening to see. As someone who has been a staunch believer in 'Bhagwan' myself, there is no way that I would intentionally or unintentionally hurt feelings of people," her statement read. "Please be assured that it has never been my intention to hurt anyone, with my words or actions. Hence, I would humbly apologise for the hurt my statement has unintentionally caused to a lot of people," her statement concluded. The apology came after the Madhya Pradesh Police on Friday lodged an FIR against Tiwari for her alleged controversial remarks during the launch of a web series at an event organised in Bhopal on Wednesday. During the conversation at the event, while replying to one of her colleagues, Tiwari had said, "Mere bra ki size bhagwan le rahe hai (God is measuring my bra)." Her statement created a controversy and the Madhya Pradesh Home Minister on Thursday directed the police to lodge an FIR against the actress for hurting people's sentiments. As per the police, an FIR against Tiwari was lodged in the Shyamla Hills police station on Friday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shweta-tiwari-apologises-after-mp-police-lodge-fir-1075671.html
28-01-2022||Oasis||Developing a good self-image||‘As a man thinketh in his heart so is he’ says a proverb, which means ‘what you think is what you are’. ‘What you see is what you get,’ is another popular phrase. This is apt for individuals who know who they are and know what they are doing. In the light of these stories, one can conclude that he has to evaluate himself for what he is today and what could be the next day. It should be getting good out of the bad. If you are honest in your approach, you need not be frustrated about others’ views towards you. Self-evaluation is the best thing. You think that you are ‘bald and beautiful’. You have to live as you are, and not for others. One could be authentic about him/herself. The presentation should be pleasing and self-assuring rather than negative or monotonous. Do not belittle yourself. We should not lower our self-image by putting ourselves down. A child, when grown without proper encouragement, develops a negative image of himself. Your attire should add to your positive image. As a saying in Kannada goes, ‘eating is for oneself and dressing is for others to see’. One cannot go in a full suit to a temple or to a swimming pool. Apt dressing puts a person in high esteem. Attitude is another asset or hindrance to a good self-image. ‘I cannot do’ attitude readily brand a person as a man of negative attitude. Experts assert that the subconscious mind or the heart completely controls our deeds and actions. ‘Success is imminent for the person who says ‘I can do it’ and then he will have no afterthoughts of doubt. A person with a good self-image is a hard worker. He goes the extra mile to ensure complete satisfaction in the work he has performed. Tough times will come but keep your goal in view. There is another saying in Kannada which says ‘Eesa beku, iddu jaisa beku’. No matter what your occupation, your status in society or your personal ambitions a good self-image will keep you going when circumstances say “STOP”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/developing-a-good-self-image-1075342.html
28-01-2022||Opinion||Do the math for Budget and you have a job crisis||By Andy Mukherjee When it comes to the focus of its February 1 annual budget, the government of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi faces a stark choice: between $200 billion and 200 million. The first figure refers to the size of the budget deficit. Amid rising inflation and hardening global interest rates, is it wise to have a bloated shortfall for a third year? The second number should help with a possible answer: 200 million jobs are missing from the economy — they’ll be hard to revive without fiscal policy playing a supportive role. Two years of Covid-19 have deepened the dichotomy in India’s production networks. Informal activity, which supports 90 per cent of jobs, was under pressure to come into the fold of taxation and social security even before infections and lockdowns. Since March 2020, it has retreated into a shell. Organised activity has stepped into the breach and lifted output back to pre-pandemic levels, though not yet to its previous growth path. The revival of jobs is proving to be even more challenging because the same output can be produced in the formal sector with less labour. Hiring is muted outside of a few white-collar pockets like computer software. For India’s employment-to-population ratio to be at the global average, nearly 600 million people need to be at work. Currently, only a few more than 400 million are. Of late, this pandemic-exacerbated "formalisation" has led to a fiscal mirage. New Delhi’s tax bounty — net of what it shares with state governments — has swelled by 26 per cent in the fiscal year ending on March 31, according to projections by Bloomberg Economics. India Inc and a small, salaried middle-class are contributing generously to the exchequer from their profits, incomes and consumption. Producer-price inflation at a three-decade high has stretched nominal gross domestic product by 17.6 per cent, giving a further boost to the value of activity that can be taxed.  Still, despite the sale of Air India, the loss-ridden national carrier, revenue from the disposal of state assets is falling short of target. Public expenditure, meanwhile, is tracking higher than during the first year of the pandemic because of food and fertiliser subsidies and a rural employment guarantee. All three are elevated because of deficient incomes in the informal sector, including farming. At 15 trillion rupees ($200 billion), or 6.5 per cent of GDP, the current fiscal year’s deficit would be broadly on target. To the extent some of it would result from ramped-up capital spending, it should support jobs, especially in construction. Aiming for a similar-sized deficit for the coming year, however, may bump up against funding constraints. The current year’s shortfall was bridged by the central bank’s purchases of government bonds. The money it printed in the process flowed into stock markets and created wealth for a tiny section of the society. But now the Reserve Bank of India has begun withdrawing its stimulus amid stagflation concerns. It’s selling bonds to soak up excess liquidity. The yield on the 10-year government note has firmed up to its pre-pandemic level of 6.75 per cent, even though short-term interest rates are still nearly 150 basis points lower. Frothy Indian stock markets have joined a global selloff. To prevent a steep rise in long-term borrowing costs, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman may be tempted to pare back the deficit. Premature fiscal consolidation might backfire, though. As long as the informal economy continues to languish, households’ wage incomes — and, therefore, private consumption — may be tepid. Firms may not put up new factories and generate more jobs, not when they’re sitting on underused capacities. And if global growth were to slow because of tightening monetary conditions in advanced economies, a thinning cushion of export demand could exaggerate the demand funk.  India’s 28 state governments have a closer connection to households, and could have helped. But Covid-19 has ravaged their finances even more than New Delhi’s, forcing them to cut back on education and nutrition to accommodate the surge in healthcare expenses. Plus, they’re on the hook for their power distribution utilities’ $80-billion debt. Should the federal government fail to step up its investment in physical infrastructure, it would be hard to get money flowing to casual labourers and small proprietors. In all likelihood, Team Modi would aim for light trimming of the deficit and fill what will still be a wide resource gap partly by coaxing banks to invest more in public debt and partly by pushing for India’s inclusion in global bond indexes so that funds buy the rest. It would try to solve the jobs problem within the ambit of the formal economy — for instance, by doubling down on its $1.3-trillion national infrastructure pipeline and a $27-billion rupee package of production-linked incentives for the private sector. A flip side of those 'Make in India' subsidies has been a disturbing increase in India's import tariffs, going against the grain of the gradual opening up of the economy in the previous three decades. Foreign investors may be wary of a further protectionist tilt in the budget as tariff increases, particularly on parts and components, would keep the country out of global supply chains and make its underemployment challenge worse. India can’t create 200 million missing jobs overnight. But if New Delhi is taking the risk of keeping its $200 billion fiscal spigots open, then it must aim to give the pandemic-scarred working class a fair shake.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/do-the-math-for-budget-and-you-have-a-job-crisis-1075441.html
28-01-2022||Opinion||'Abide with me' and the idea of India||For a country that's been independent for 75 years, a parliamentary democracy held up as a model till a few years ago, why have we become so insecure? What else explains the changes we've made over the last few years, the latest of which include changing the name of Agra's historical localities and dropping the hymn 'Abide With Me' from the closing ceremony of our Republic Day celebrations? "Symbols of slavery" and "colonial past" are the reasons given for these changes. Surely, 75 years is more than enough for us to have got over our colonial hangover? The majority of Indians are aged between 15 and 50. Does the thought that we were once ruled by the British torment them? More and more, it seems like the one suffering the most from an inferiority complex about our past is the party making these changes. The reason probably lies in the embarrassing fact that few from its parent organisation participated in the struggle against the British, unlike most of our opposition parties, which have a rich legacy of having fought the British, and hence do not display the same insecurity in accepting the past. If 'Abide With Me' is to be viewed as a symbol of our colonial past, then the Beating The Retreat ceremony itself should be dropped; its origin is British. Ironically, the man who led the fight against our colonial masters included 'Abide With Me' in the bhajans played every evening in his Sabarmati Ashram. But anything loved by Gandhi has to be rejected by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).  As for the other official reason - "a limited few understand its lyrics" - how many understand the lyrics of all 26 tunes played at the ceremony? These "limited few", incidentally, include our Christian minority. Don't they matter? Or is it that a Christian hymn, which has two lines from the Bible, can't be accepted in `new' India's official ceremonies? Similarly, can Mughal Road, Sultanganji ki Puliya, and Ghatiya Azam Khan (from ghaati, i.e. valley) - each name rich with history - no longer be tolerated, even in a city known across the world for a Mughal emperor's monument? Uttar Pradesh's chief minister has already said he doesn't consider the Taj Mahal part of his heritage. Given that this `eighth wonder of the world' brings in tons of revenue, his government is forced to tolerate it. But apparently, the same grudging acceptance need not be shown to names seen as "symbols of slavery". Wasn't it Narendra Modi himself who decried, in his first speech in Parliament as PM, our "1200 years of slavery"? If Indians were slaves of the Mughals, were they free and equal citizens under the reign of Chandragupta II, which was taught in school as `the Golden Age of India'? Or under Emperor Harsha Vardhana or Ashoka the Great? We are free and equal citizens now, whatever our religion, a reality the ruling party just can't accept. When Pakistan was born, among the first things cities such as Karachi, which was overrun by Muslims fleeing India amid the violence of Partition, did was to change names that linked them to their Hindu past. Since the idea of Pakistan revolved around its Muslim identity, these changes could be understood as a newly formed nation asserting its identity. But the idea of India never revolved around any religious identity. Hence our leaders didn't feel it necessary to erase India's Muslim heritage, even at a time when Hindu-Muslim killings were at their peak. That the BJP, 75 years after Partition, itches to exclude everything Muslim from spaces that it controls, reveals that more than any other political grouping, it is the Sangh Parivar that believes that Hindus and Muslims constitute two distinct nations that cannot coexist. The irony is that even till today, this poisonous theory that divided India keeps getting invalidated.  Just last month, Bangladesh celebrated 50 years of its victory over Pakistan, a separation that disproved forever the theory that religious identity makes a nation. This month, two Punjabi brothers, tearfully meeting each other for the first time after Partition made one an Indian and the other a Pakistani, vowed to keep meeting. Between these two events that negated the meaning of Partition, the BJP reinforced its meaning by renaming Ghatiya Azam Khan after Ashok Singhal, a leading light of the Babri Masjid demolition campaign, who personified the politics of hate that characterises the party. And, to celebrate the adoption of our Constitution, which guarantees equal rights to all faiths, the BJP-ruled Centre excludes an integral part of the celebrations only because it's Christian. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/abide-with-me-and-the-idea-of-india-1075543.html
28-01-2022||Panorama||Mekedatu: Don't kill the forest for the water||Mekedatu balancing reservoir and drinking water project envisages the construction of a dam across the River Cauvery at Mekedatu that submerges 53 sq km of the rich forest area of Cauvery Sanctuary. The project’s objective is to provide drinking water to Bengaluru city and adjoining areas, regulate the flow of water to Tamil Nadu and simultaneously generate 400 MW of power. Series of Protected Areas of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu starting from Bannerghatta National Park and all along Cauvery Sanctuary, MM Hills Sanctuary, BRT Sanctuary, Satyamangala Sanctuary and Mudumalai Tiger Reserve of Tamil Nadu, Bandipur and Nagarhole Tiger Reserves, Wayanad Sanctuary of Kerala are connected. The connectivity goes further northwards all along the Western Ghats and the coast of Karnataka right up to Kali Tiger Reserve in Uttara Kannada district and beyond. Cauvery Sanctuary is the important constituent of the connectivity necessary for the movement for long-ranging animals starting from Mahsheer fish (T Rama Devi) to elephants and tigers; the schedule-I species under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The question often asked by those in favour of the project is, why not sacrifice some more forests for another project when the forests have already been diverted for several projects in the long chain of Protected Areas (PAs). Some others ask, how can conservation of forests and wildlife take precedence over the need of the human being? We have already lost 14,000 hectares of forests in Saravathi Linganmakki submersion, 6,800 hectares for the Varahi project, 1,000 hectares for Talkalale reservoir, 1,880 hectares for Chakra dam, 2,000 hectares for Karnataka Power Corporation Township, 800 hectares for Saravathy tailrace project, 800 hectares for KPTCL projects and several thousand hectares for rehabilitation of evacuees from these projects. Our future contemplated plans for forest ‘Aposhna’ appear too rosy for some and disastrous for the environment and society. The author who belongs to an era of pre-independence to post-independence was enamoured by the words of Jawaharlal Nehru, the charismatic Prime Minister who announced that our projects are ‘Modern temples’. I am one of those who cleared Sharavathy, Kali, with great vigour and enthusiasm. By the time I came down to the felling of trees for the Harangi project in 1973, my conscience started pinching me. In 1976, I published a booklet in Kannada Karnataka Vanya Sampatthu, in which I projected that the frenzy felling and neglected afforestation will drag us to a doom’s day. After studies, I projected that by 2002, we have to face the scarcity of firewood followed by other forest products and announced that the existing scarcity conditions prevailing in 76 taluks will increase. There were many who did not accept my recommendations and among them were a few foresters who felt our forests were immense and like ‘Akshayapatre’ lasting forever. Visionary political leader Devaraja Urs read my booklet and discussed with me and stressed in his speeches that “if you continue to fell the trees in this indiscreet way, we have to go and commit suicide in the Arabian sea”, how prophetic he was. Now farmers are ending lives, the scarcity taluks have increased to a shocking 135. There was another statesman politician K H Patil, who was willing to surrender his ministership when his conservation efforts started losing their grip. I hope that there will be Devaraja Urs' and K H Patils among the present politicians, who will help implement Mekedatu and other such projects after rectifying the mistakes committed by us in the name of ill-conceived development. Let us not dig our own graves. There are many options available through which we can find practical solutions. (The writer is former Environment Secretary to Govt of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/mekedatu-dont-kill-the-forest-for-the-water-1075344.html
28-01-2022||Panorama||Karnataka’s startup symphony is here to stay||Winning 30% of the total startup awards instituted by the Government of India recently is an icing on the cake for us at the Government of Karnataka. The National Startup Awards 2021, announced as part of the Startup India Innovation Week, seeks to recognise and reward outstanding startups and ecosystem enablers contributing to economic dynamism by spurring Innovation and injecting competition. A range of startups from innovative products/solutions, scalable enterprises with high potential of employment generation or wealth creation, demonstrating measurable social impact have been recognised through these awards. Sectors ranged from Agriculture and Animal Husbandry to education, space and Transport and Travel.  Karnataka showed an impressive performance with the highest number of nominations at 459. The State's startups won 14 Startups of the total 46 awards, thereby notching up 30% of the awards. We are also proud of the fact that three of 14 award winners - Tinkerbell, Steradian, and Tagboxare - are won by ELEVATE 100 winners.   When it comes to Karnataka and startups, one can keep dishing out statistics and data at a rapid speed. For instance, India has more than 70 Unicorns, and most of them are from the State. Bengaluru more than doubled its venture capital funding to $21.3 billion in 2021 across 551 companies, more than all other cities in India put together. Our state capital has produced the first Unicorn – Inmobi and the largest one, Flipkart and the Fastest one, Mensa. There are several other such interesting data points.   It is also a fact that Karnataka has served as India's technology capital for several decades now. With a robust ecosystem of R&D centres, academic institutions, leading technology companies and our flourishing startup ecosystem, the State has significantly contributed to India's Innovation and growth trajectory.  Our journey in the last few years has been incredible. We have progressed way ahead in nurturing exceptional companies. We will stay on this path to create businesses that strengthen the Digital India narrative.   While there are several things we have done right in our State, what stands out as unique to me is coming together of the Industry and the Government in perfect harmony. The IT, BT & ST Department Industry and Vision Group are the three pillars on which we have built a robust startup environment that promotes Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Disruptive Technologies.  Here are a few lessons I have learnt through this perfect public-private partnership.  First, do not be afraid of seeking external help. It is practically impossible for the government to have solutions to all problems. Government administration and teams bring in unique skills, and the industry brings in distinctive subject matter knowledge and experience. Marrying both is essential for building a conducive economic environment. This lesson has made us grow Karnataka's tech and startup ecosystem from strength to strength. It has helped us cultivate the mindset of 'collaborate, innovate, improvise, stay relevant and excel.' We have built policies to encourage product development, IP creation and R&D. Our Global Innovation Alliance (GIA) is proof of our ever willingness to collaborate. We have more than 30 GIA partner countries that share strategic relationships and agreements. Second, staying relevant is fundamental. When we live in an intensely competitive world, resting on laurels is a definite no-no. Past achievements do not guarantee future success. It is not just the industry. The governments also need to reinvent, recalibrate and reskill to stay relevant and competitive.   With this intent, we set up The Karnataka Digital Economy Mission, a non-profit organisation, as a knowledge bridge between the state government and industry. KDEM's goal is to speed up the growth and investment in Karnataka's IT, BT, and S&T sectors. We are the only state in the country and second to Singapore globally to do so. In the last two years, because of the pandemic, we have understood the significant role science and technology can play in solving issues of society and people. We need to encourage more such solutions, and KDEM can play the role of a catalyst in Karnataka. Specific to startups, we have seen the landscape grow and expand across fintech, agriculture, latest technologies like EV, data security, biotechnology, healthcare and many more.   Lastly, stay on course with the purpose. The government's intent is to provide the youth with enough knowledge and opportunities to pursue their dreams and compete globally. Our goal is set not just on leading the Technology path of the Country. We are harnessing our strength in technology, education, and skill development to make Karnataka a futuristic state where the youth can chase their dreams and make them a reality. Our purpose is deeply tied to our nation's aim of becoming a five trillion-dollar economy by 2025. Our PM has redefined and reimagined the economic engine with a specific focus on startups. We want Karnataka to play a vital role in achieving it. Startups are our backbone. We are always scouting for opportunities to innovate that further job generation and improve our people's standard of living. In the past few years, Karnataka has taken up Innovation as a collective and strategic mandate and approached it in a planned manner to build an even more robust ecosystem. One of our key focus areas is taking the startup and tech ecosystem Beyond Bengaluru. We are taking measures to strengthen telecom, electricity, and other infrastructure to support the growth of the innovation ecosystems in cities beyond Bengaluru — Mysuru, Mangaluru, Tumakuru, Shivamogga, Hubbali-Dharwad, and Kalaburagi clusters of the state. Such concerted and consistent efforts from all three pillars — government, industry and Vision Group — has made us the top-performing state for the second consecutive year in 2020 as per DPIIT's States' Startup Ranking. We are also the 'Most Innovative State' in India Innovation Index 2020 by Niti Aayog for the second consecutive year. Karnataka has the highest number of Agtech startups and is fast emerging as the FinTech capital of the country with the largest number of FinTech unicorns.  Such recognitions are both an endorsement of the effort we have put in and a reminder for us to stay on course to achieve more. It gives us confidence that the state's technology sector has a bright future for decades to come.   (The writer is Minister for Higher Education, IT, BT, & ST, Skill Development, Entrepreneurship & Livelihood, Govt of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/karnataka-s-startup-symphony-is-here-to-stay-1075341.html
28-01-2022||Right in the Middle||What’s in a name?||"What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet", quipped none other than the great Bard, Shakespeare.  We have names for everything – animate and inanimate, but do they matter?  Starting with my own, lovingly bequeathed by my Ajji (grandmother) who upon her quest of completing religious pilgrimages, one being to Tirupati to pay homage to Goddess Padmavati. Preceding that was a trip to Rameshwar that named my brother Ramesh and continued to my younger brother Badri, after a visit to the holy shrine of Badrinath. My sister, possibly because my Ajji’s appetite for pilgrimages had been fully satiated, had nicknames in lieu of a name until, my father claims, was warranted for registration to admit her into kindergarten. Sighting a freshly minted new magazine, my parents lovingly bestowed her name, Sudha.   Names as such, seemed entirely inconspicuous until I started noticing that I shared my namesake not with kids my own age, but their mothers and aunts, sometimes even grandmothers. So did my siblings. It didn’t take long to dawn on me that my name lagged those of my contemporaries by a couple of decades. In fact, several years later, my life partner's confession disclosed his strong doubts about even going on a blind date with a girl that shared the name of his old aunt, presenting a picture of an old fashioned girl, braids twirled with flowers hanging by her ears, proficient in Carnatic music and shy. None appealed to him for a future wife until we met in real. Names follow you, like shadows. As a pre-teen, my best childhood friend Sandhya and I were in an English medium school where nothing but English was to be spoken once we were inside the school campus. As if that were not enough, we were avid readers of Enid Blyton, and imagined ourselves in Malory Towers and deemed that our names were not quite “English” enough. Eschewing our given names and renaming ourselves as Paddy and Sandy, we peacocked for quite some time speaking in the best British accent two local Bengaluru kids ever could. This was not to persevere as we grew up and eventually bowed to the more flamboyant Bollywood influence renaming ourselves, Bindu and Sindhu.  Names, seemingly, ruled us. As a teenager, my fascination with names, I have to confess – has carried vehement likes and dislikes. My father would often in jest, dare me of the possibility of inheriting an undesirable last name, through legitimate matrimony. While growing up, I prayed that this would not turn true. Fortune by my side, evidently I never ran into such a man, thus averting a possible disastrous marital life. What’s in a name? Indeed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/what-s-in-a-name-1075349.html
28-01-2022||Second Edit||Padma awards: A very political turn||The Padma awards have frequently generated controversy, especially in recent years. The main criticism has been that they have been given to undeserving persons or that deserving persons are left out. It is not without basis. Political, personal and other considerations have weighed with governments in the selections. No government has been able to resist that temptation. Politics has influenced the choice of persons even in areas like the arts. Politicians have also got unfair and excessive representation in the awards list and have often been conferred the higher categories of the awards. Two eminent artists — percussionist Anindya Chatterjee and musician Sandhya Mukherjee — have rejected this year’s awards as they think they should have got them much earlier. No list has been free of criticism in any year, though many of the government’s choices have been received well in the past. It would be difficult to find fault with the selection of many of the 128 persons who were awarded this year. Scientists, doctors, social workers, artists, sportspersons and businessmen have found a place in the list, along with some who played key roles in the country’s fight against Covid, like vaccine-makers and health administrators. But the eye on politics is clear. Questions have been raised about the inclusion of Sundar Pichai, CEO of Alphabet, and Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, who have not made any direct contribution to the country. The explanation is that their positions at the head of world-class companies attest to India’s high managerial talent. But honouring Kalyan Singh, who was the Chief Minister of UP when Babri Masjid was demolished, sends out a brazen political message, especially when the state is heading for elections. The award for Gen Bipin Rawat, who was seen as being close to the government and the ruling party, has also raised eyebrows. But the most controversial choices were Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya. Bhattacharya has rejected it, in keeping with the CPM’s policy and precedents. But the award for Azad has greater mischief in it, especially because he is seen as a rebel in the Congress party and has not rejected it. It may have been meant to create disquiet within Congress and alienate Azad further from it. Governments have honoured Opposition leaders in the past and they have earned praise for that. But the politics behind the award for Azad is cynical and the honour is meant more to hurt than to honour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/padma-awards-a-very-political-turn-1075345.html
28-01-2022||South||Kerala govt denies permission for student police cadet to wear hijab, says will affect secularism||After some schools in Kerala implemented gender-neutral uniforms, the southern state is now witnessing a row over a student uniform. The Kerala government has declined the plea of a girl student seeking permission to wear head covering scarf (hijab) and full sleeve dress as part of the uniform of Student Police Cadet, a project initiated by the Kerala Police on the lines of the National Cadet Corps. An eighth-standard student of a government school at Kuttyadi in Kozhikode district came up with the plea citing her religious beliefs and constitutional rights. But the state government declined it on the grounds that the uniform should ensure the dignity of a dress code of police force and is envisioned so that children can work towards gender justice and also non-racial and non-religious discrimination among children.  Combining religious matters with uniforms in the present situation would raise the same demands in other similarly functioning forces, which would question the discipline and secular survival of the forces. Also, if such a waiver is considered in the Student Police Cadet project, similar demands will be made on other similar forces, which will significantly affect the secularism of the state, said a government order issued after hearing the minor girl, her guardian and other government departments concerned. The student had earlier approached the Kerala High Court with the plea and the court directed that the matter be taken up with the state government. The row began with the student, who is a member of the Student Police Cadet team of her school, sent a picture to the faculty in-charge wearing the uniform. She was wearing hijab and full sleeve dress. The faculty in-charge said that the hijab and full sleeve dress could not be allowed as it was against SPC dress code. The petitioner maintained that according to their beliefs it is a religious obligation to wear hijab and full sleeve dress and is also her fundamental right. The SPC authorities pointed out that from the implementation of the project in 2010 the cadets have been wearing gender-neutral uniforms with no religious obligations. It is estimated that about 10 to 12 per cent of children in the project belong to the Muslim community and no one has ever raised such a demand. In NCC or Scouts and Guides too religious dress code is not allowed, it was pointed out. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-denies-permission-for-student-police-cadet-to-wear-hijab-says-will-affect-secularism-1075375.html
28-01-2022||South||BJP may snap AIADMK ties for Tamil Nadu urban body polls||After the PMK, which represents the powerful Vanniyar community, snapped ties with the AIADMK during the October 2021 rural local body polls, a large section of the Tamil Nadu BJP leaders is also putting pressure on the party's national leadership to follow suit. BJP leader in Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, Nainar Nagenthran, recently came out strongly against the AIADMK state leadership indicating that the BJP wanted to go to polls alone. However, the state president of the BJP, K Annamalai was trying hard to mend fences and downplay Nagenthran's statements. A large section of the BJP leadership in Tamil Nadu is of the opinion that AIADMK's lower-level cadres and the BJP cadres are not gelling and that even in the 2021 Assembly elections, the AIADMK did not transfer votes to BJP candidates. Some senior leaders of the BJP are of the opinion that while the DMK is a tight coalition with a grassroots presence, the AIADMK has reduced itself into a party that comes together during the elections only. It may be noted that the AIADMK has been drawing criticism from several corners over the party not being able to carry out many agitations against the DMK government on issues, including the poor quality of materials supplied in Pongal gift hampers. The AIADMK leadership has, however, dismissed the charges stating that Covid-19 and its restrictions have hampered the party's efforts to organise the grassroots agitations against the DMK government. BJP leaders, who vouch for snapping ties with the AIADMK are of the opinion that if the party breaks its ties during the Urban local body elections, it could get some leverage in the grassroots and could develop its cadre base. The BJP is also miffed at the fact that the AIADMK had maintained a studied silence on several issues that the party brought forward, including conversion at schools and slums by Christian groups and the attack on BJP and RSS workers by the Islamist groups. A senior leader of the AIADMK from Theni told IANS, "The BJP as a political party does not have any grassroots support in Tamil Nadu and it will be like this even for the next 50 years. It's a Brahmanical party that is not accepted in South India, at least not in Tamil Nadu, and the BJP got a semblance of respect only with the alliance it has had with us at the grassroots. Let them contest the urban local body elections on their own and we can see the results." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-may-snap-aiadmk-ties-for-tamil-nadu-urban-body-polls-1075476.html
28-01-2022||South||After medical treatment, Pinarayi Vijayan arrives from US on Saturday||All eyes are on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who arrives here on Saturday morning from the US after a nearly two-week medical treatment at the prestigious Mayo Clinic. Vijayan, though he left the country for treatment, did not hand over the charge to any and instead presided over the biweekly cabinet meetings with the aid of technology. It is to be seen whether he joins office the same day or follows the Covid protocol of a week's quarantine at his official residence. However, one big issue, which he will have to tackle, is tweaking the powers of the Lokayukta through an Ordinance, which was cleared at the first online cabinet meeting he presided last week from the US. Vijayan has a case against him, which is expected to come up before the Lokayukta in the first week of February. There is another case before the 'judicial body', which is against State Higher Education Minister R.Bindhu. The Congress-led UDF has attacked Vijayan over the Ordinance move. The party on Thursday met Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and briefed him on the issue and told him that the government's move is to make the Lokayukta a toothless body. A media critic on condition of anonymity said Vijayan's present strategy is to stay away from the media. "No other Chief Minister in Kerala has used the media like Vijayan. When the Covid pandemic struck, all were glued to the TV sets and after he won a second term and Kerala becoming the Covid headquarters in the country, he disappeared. And never did he make a statement when the vexed issues like the Mullaperiyar Dam, Kannur University VC re-appointment, appointment of his private secretary's wife to a teaching post and a few other issues," said the critic, who did not wish to be identified. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-medical-treatment-pinarayi-vijayan-arrives-from-us-on-saturday-1075483.html
28-01-2022||South||Train services disrupted as goods train derails near Aluva in Kerala||Train services were partially affected through Aluva route on Friday after a goods train derailed at Aluva station, resulting in the cancellation of at least 10 trains. Senior Railway officials rushed to the spot to oversee the traffic restoration process at Aluva. Railway sources said the 42-wagon train that originated from Yerraguntla station in Andhra Pradesh derailed at Aluva Railway Station yard late Thursday. "Divisional Railway Manager, Thiruvananthapuram has rushed to the spot along with senior railway officials, to oversee the restoration of traffic and traffic is partly restored through single line working at 02.20 hrs. Restoration work is in full swing and the traffic is expected to be restored shortly," Railways said in a release. The release also said that the Thiruvananthapuram–Tiruchchirappalli Intercity Express, Guruvayur–Thiruvananthapuram Express, Ernakulam–Kannur Express, Kottayam–Nilambur Express, Palakkad - Ernakulam MEMU Express special among others were cancelled. A total of 11 trains have been cancelled. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/train-services-disrupted-as-goods-train-derails-near-aluva-in-kerala-1075522.html
28-01-2022||South||HC reserves order on petition seeking probe into girl’s suicide||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday reserved its order on a case filed by the father of a 17-year-old student who died by suicide seeking a CB-CID investigation (now CBI) into the incident, after hearing the girl’s family, the prosecution, and the school where she studied for five years.  Justice G R Swaminathan reserved the orders at the end of an hour-long hearing during which the three sides presented their arguments. The Sacred Heart Higher Secondary School, where the student studied and stayed in a hostel run by it, impleaded itself in the case on Friday. The petitioner (the girl’s father) demanded a CBI probe into his daughter’s suicide after expressing that he has “no faith” in the investigation being conducted by the Thanjavur district police. “The case has to be transferred to the CBI for a fair investigation,” the petitioner’s counsel said.  He also suggested that the police and the Tamil Nadu government were trying to give a clean chit to the school even before the investigation comes to a close. The counsel pointed to a statement by Thanjavur district SP that “forced conversion” was not the reason for the girl’s suicide while the School Education Minister (Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi) went on record to say recording a video with the girl was “improper.” The government counsel said that the initial complaint filed by the father did not mention the “religious conversion” angle and alleged that Muthuvel, who recorded four videos of the girl before her death, was not cooperating with the police in investigations.  The counsel appearing for the school argued that “step-motherly” treatment at the girl’s home had forced the student to stay at the hostel even during holidays and alleged that the issue was being politicised.  The girl, who consumed pesticides on January 9, died 10 days later on January 19 at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital.  While the police and education department officials say the girl died due to ‘torture” at the hands of the warden, the BJP has been alleging forced conversion for the student’s death. The suicide has made national headlines with the BJP demanding a CBI probe and planning to send a four-member team to visit the village for a spot inquiry.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-reserves-order-on-petition-seeking-probe-into-girl-s-suicide-1075636.html
28-01-2022||South||TN girl suicide: Villagers meet collector; seek protection from 'vested interests'||A section of residents from the village where the school of the 17-year-old who died by suicide is located, on Friday, petitioned the Thanjavur District Collector complaining about “vested interests” trying to disturb “communal harmony” in the hamlet and demanded protection from them.  Over 30 men from Michaelpatti, which is home to the Sacred Heart Higher Secondary School, near Thirukkaatupalli handed over a letter to District Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver in which they explained that people from different faith were living in the village in harmony for decades and alleged that they are being pressurised to “speak against the school.” They also claimed that “religious conversion” had nothing to do with the suicide of the 17-year-old student of the school who was staying in a hostel run by a Christian missionary. The girl, who consumed pesticides on January 9, died 10 days later on January 19 at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital.  While the police and education department officials say the girl died due to ‘torture” at the hands of the warden, the BJP has been alleging forced conversion for the student’s death. The suicide has made national headlines with the BJP demanding a CBI probe and planning to send a four-member team to visit the village for a spot inquiry.  The villagers, who spoke to the media after meeting the district collector, said the school has been functioning in the hamlet for the past 150 years and that they have not heard of anyone being forced to convert to Christianity.  In the letter, the villagers claimed that unidentified persons are “forcing us” to speak against the school and are making an attempt to foment trouble.    “The village has Hindus, Muslims, and Christians. We are all living in harmony. We don’t think forced conversion is the reason for the girl’s suicide. Our children also studied at the same school and they never faced any issues,” one of the villagers who met the collector said.  While seeking protection from “people coming from outside”, the villagers also sought a ban on visits by different kinds of groups. The development comes a day after a fresh video of the 17-year-old student in which she makes no mention of “forced conversion” emerged.  In the fresh video purportedly shot by BJP functionary Muthuvel, the girl had said she consumed pesticides as she was worried about performing in the plus-two exam due to pressure exerted on her by the warden to do all chores at the hostel like closing and opening the gates and ensuring that the motor is switched on and off every day.  The girl also replied in the negative to a question whether she was disallowed to wear a bindi in the Christian school. In a video shot by Muthuvel which was shared by Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai last week, the girl had said that she was asked to convert to Christianity by the warden two years back that her family refused to do so.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-girl-suicide-villagers-meet-collector-seek-protection-from-vested-interests-1075651.html
28-01-2022||South||Protests in Andhra Pradesh over reshaping of districts; local sentiments disregarded, people say||The Jaganmohan Reddy government's move to carve 13 new districts is met with protests in several parts of Andhra Pradesh. While people in some areas are agitated over their long-standing demands being ignored, some are opposed to their region attached with far off district headquarters. Emotions are running high especially in Reddy's home turf Rajampeta. A rally was taken out in the town on Thursday, with sizable participation of students, opposing their inclusion in the newly proposed Annamayya district with Rayachoti as headquarters. According to a gazette notification issued on Wednesday, Rajampeta revenue division from existing Kadapa and Madanapalle from existing Chittoor districts would form part of Annamayya district. Rajampeta people are also agitated as the name – Tallapaka Annamayya, a 15th-century saint and composer of hymns in praise of Lord Venkateshwara – has closer association with them. Tallapaka village is just a few kms away from Rajampet. People in Madanapalle are also protesting, demanding that their town be made the district HQ. While there is a demand to make Markapuram a separate district, the revenue division was retained in the Prakasam district. Penamaluru, Gannavaram people, who are closer to Vijayawada, are furious that they are clubbed with far off Machilipatnam. Such objections are being raised in north coastal Andhra too. Actor turned politician and Hindupur MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna stated that Hindupur should be made the centre of Sri Satyasai district. Vijay Kumar, secretary, AP planning department said that the districts were reshaped keeping aspects like population, area, distance from headquarters and future development potential in view. Objections can be brought to the government notice within 30 days from Wednesday. Meanwhile, the opposition Telugu Desam Party described the district reorganisation as ruling YSRCP's “political game,” to divert attention from public resentment over various issues and problems in the state. TDP leaders said that notifications were issued overnight with total disregard for the sentiments of the people concerned. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/protests-in-andhra-pradesh-over-reshaping-of-districts-local-sentiments-disregarded-people-say-1075668.html
28-01-2022||South||AIADMK's Rajya Sabha MP relieved from party post||AIADMK on Friday sacked Rajya Sabha MP A Navaneethakrishnan as secretary of the party’s legal wing, a day after he lavished praises on his parliament colleagues from arch-rival DMK at a wedding event.  In a joint statement, party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami said that Navaneethakrishnan was being relieved from the post of legal wing secretary with immediate effect.  The action comes a day after Navaneethakrishnan, whose Rajya Sabha term ends this July, attended the family wedding of DMK Rajya Sabha MP T K S Elangovan. In his speech at the wedding event presided by Chief Minister M K Stalin, Navaneethakrishnan had praised Elangovan and Kanimozhi for helping him make his “speeches better.” He also spoke about how the two DMK MPs had helped me raise issues in Parliament. Navaneethakrishnan represented the AIADMK when DMK leader T R Baalu led an all-party delegation to Union Home Minister Amit Shah last week regarding issues concerning the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmks-rajya-sabha-mp-relieved-from-party-post-1075672.html
28-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu BJP leader booked for 'fake news'||Tamil Nadu BJP Yuva Morcha chief Vinoj P Selvam was on Friday booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly posting “fake news” on social media with an intention to create “fear and hatred” among people.  Central Crime Branch’s Cyber Crime Wing said in a press release that Selvam has been booked based on a complaint filed by one Elangovan, a resident of Kilpauk in Chennai. In the complaint, Elangovan alleged that Selvam posted content on his verified Twitter page that is intended to create fear and hatred among people.  In the post, Selvam alleged that over 130 temples have been demolished in Tamil Nadu after the DMK came to power in May 2021.  Selvam, who lost the assembly elections from Harbour constituency, has been booked under sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 505(1)(b) (with intent to cause fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquillity) and 505 (statement conducting to public mischief). Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-bjp-leader-booked-for-fake-news-1075691.html
28-01-2022||State||BS Yediyurappa's granddaughter found hanging at Bengaluru apartment||A 30-year-old granddaughter of former chief minister BS Yediyurappa has allegedly killed herself by hanging in her flat in an apartment in Vasanth Nagar in the Central Business District of Bengaluru.  The deceased has been identified as Soundarya, daughter of BSY's daughter Padmavathi. The police said that the incident came to light around 10 am when one of the domestic helpers of the house called her husband Dr Neeraj and informed him that they were ringing the call bell and also knocking on the door, but there was no response. Dr Neeraj tried reaching her on her mobile phone, but there was no response. Hence he rushed to the house and opened the door with the help of a spare key to find her in the hanging state. He, with the help of others, rushed her to a private hospital where the doctors declared her to have been brought dead.  The High Grounds police have taken up the case and her body autopsy is being carried out in Bowring hospital. Dr Soundarya was living with her nine-month-old baby and her husband Neeraj, who is also a doctor. The police said they have learned that she was married to Neeraj in 2018. As of now, police have not found a death note. She was suffering from depression post pregnancy.  A senior officer said so far we are not able to question her husband or any other family members about the marital life or other issues faced by Soundarya as all of them are in the state of shock. Once the procedure of final rights are performed we will start probing in detail into the case. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bs-yediyurappas-granddaughter-found-hanging-at-bengaluru-apartment-1075532.html
28-01-2022||State||Mere pasting of circular doesn’t mean it’s widely circulated: Karnataka HC tells Canara Bank||The High Court of Karnataka has said that mere pasting of a circular about rate of interest on the notice board of the bank does not mean it is widely circulated among the customers. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi observed this while dismissing an appeal filed by Canara Bank challenging the order of the single judge. The single judge had directed the bank to give benefit of the circular dated June 30, 2010, to the petitioner (bank’s customer) and collect interest at the rate of 8.25 per cent. The customer had availed a housing loan in 2007 at 11.75 per cent rate of interest while the bank reduced it to 8.25 per cent in 2010. On the application filed by the customer seeking revised rate of interest, the bank applied it with effect from 2017, the year when the customer had filed the application. The bank claimed that the notice regarding reduction in rate of interest was put up on bank’s notice board and the customer had not availed it at that time by switching over to the new scheme. The single-judge bench had stated in its July 29, 2021, order that the bank is owned by the central government and the change in rate of interest from time to time should be made applicable uniformly. The court had directed the bank to extend the benefit of reduced interest from June 30, 2010, the date of the circular issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The division bench noted that the stand taken by the bank cannot be appreciated. The bench said that mere pasting of the circular does not translate into wider circulation or communicating to the customers. The division bench dismissed the appeal filed by the bank holding that there was no infirmity in the order passed by the single-judgebench. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mere-pasting-of-circular-doesn-t-mean-it-s-widely-circulated-karnataka-hc-tells-canara-bank-1075711.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Employees flag anti-labour policies, graft in Karnataka RTCs||The collective losses of the four state road transport corporations (RTCs) have reached Rs 4,540 crore due to maladministration and corruption, a union of the workers of the corporations said and flagged the Rs 1,288 crore dues in gratuity and other payments as of March 2021. The KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation made a representation in this regard to a one-man committee set up by the government to reform the BMTC, KSRTC, NWKRTC and KKRTC. Five members from the federation also held a discussion on the issues faced by the RTCs. It said the impact of Covid has worsened the financial condition of the corporations which are already suffering due to administrative issues. The morale of the workers, it said, was affected by anti-labour policies and approaches in the four RTCs. It listed the losses, the high expenditure for the top-level officials, corruption, disillusion among workers due to delay in payments and creation of unnecessary posts as some of the reasons for the downfall of the corporations. The federation told the committee that RTCs were paying huge amounts of taxes and spending significant money on providing concession passes but the state government doesn’t support them in the annual budget. It suggested a merger of the four corporations and streamlining the accounts and audit sections of the corporation as the first steps in reforms. It also demanded budgetary support, subsidy for city bus services, support in diesel purchases, government taking over the salary expenditure of the employees, cancellation of toll fee for buses and formation of a committee for fare revision. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/employees-flag-anti-labour-policies-graft-in-karnataka-rtcs-1075387.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government transfers nine IPS officers||The state government on Thursday transferred nine IPS officers, including Ravi D Channanavar, with immediate effect.  Channannavar, who was superintendent of police (SP), Criminal Investigation Department (CID), has been posted as Managing Director, Karnataka Maharshi Valmiki Schedule Tribe Development Corporation, Bengaluru.  Dr Bheemashankar S Guled, SP, CID, is posted as Deputy Commissioner of Police, East Division, Bengaluru City; Abdul Ahad, who was SP (2), Anti Corruption Bureau, Bengaluru, is now Director (Security and Vigilance) KSRTC.   T Sreedhara, SP, Koppal, is transferred as SP, Directorate of Civil Rights Enforcement (DCRE).  T P Shivakumar, SP, Prisons (Headquarters) Bengaluru, is transferred as SP, Chamarajanagar. Divya Sara Thomas, SP, Chamarajanagar is now Deputy Director, Karnataka Police Academy, Mysuru.  Dekka Kishore Babu, who was awaiting posting is posted as SP, Bidar. Arunangshu Giri is transferred as SP, Koppal. Nagesh D L, SP, Bidar is transferred as SP, CID. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-transfers-nine-ips-officers-1075389.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Joint session of state legislature from February 14, Budget session in March: Bommai||The joint session of the Karnataka state legislature would be held from February 14-25 and the Budget session would be held in the first week of March, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Speaking to the media persons after the cabinet meeting, Bommai said many vital issues were discussed after the cabinet meeting. "Covid situation and management, problems being faced by schools and colleges... the petitions from schools, colleges and organisations have been placed before the expert committee. Suitable decision would be taken based on the report from the experts," Bommai said. The Chief Minister said that BBMP elections too came up for discussion. A handbook on the six months' achievements of the government would be released at a function on Friday as it completes 6 months in office. Instructions have been issued to ministers to present the achievements of their respective ministries through print and electronic media by holding media conferences so that the performance could get wide publicity to reach the people, Bommai said. The BJP state president would soon convene a meeting to brainstorm on the issues related to party organisation and foster better coordination in the days ahead between the party and the government, Bommai said. Reacting to objections raised by Congress leaders about huge gatherings at the Derby races violating Covid guidelines, Bommai said: "There is no permission for large gatherings Covid guidelines should be strictly followed. Suitable action will be taken if the guidelines have been violated." Replying to a question about Congress' allegations of discrimination in allocation of funds and the BBMP meetings being held with a motive to help BJP in BBMP polls, Bommai said: "The very purpose of Congress is to make allegations. Let them recall what they did when they were in power." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/joint-session-of-state-legislature-from-february-14-budget-session-in-march-bommai-1075439.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron dominates Covid third wave in Karnataka: Sudhakar||Hours after tweeting on Friday that the Delta variant dominated the Covid third wave in Karnataka, State Health Minister K Sudhakar clarified that it was both Omicron and the Delta strains. "Which strain is dominating which wave in Karnataka? As per the genome sequencing sample, the following are the dominant strains: Second wave: 90.7% Delta Third wave: 67.5% Omicron and 26% Delta," the minister tweeted. Which strain is dominating which wave in Karnataka? As per the genome sequencing sample, the following are the dominant strains: 🔹Second wave: 90.7% Delta He deleted his previous tweet, where he had said, "Which strain is dominating the third wave in Karnataka? As per the 6,000 samples that were genome sequenced, Delta and it's sub lineages make up for 3/4th of the cases followed by Omicron." According to the data gathered using genome sequencing activity for a sample of 5,659, up to December 2021, there were cases of 4,027 Delta and its sublineages, 156 Alpha cases, 66 Omicron cases and 184 cases of ETA, BETA, Kappa and Pango. However, during January 2022 where 1,853 samples were taken for genome sequencing, there were 1,049 Omicron cases, 404 Delta and its sublineage and 102 cases of ETA, BETA, Kappa and Pango. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-dominates-covid-third-wave-in-karnataka-sudhakar-1075660.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai chants 3E mantra, vows to push welfare||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday assured to work for the "education, employment and empowerment" of weaker sections of society at an event held to mark the completion of six months of his government. Likening his government to a football team that knows how to "dribble, defend and attack", Bommai said his administration is working towards a "very strong" Karnataka. He said that the government would allocate Rs 3,000 crore for the Kalyana Karnataka region from the next financial year. "Comprehensive development of the people of Karnataka is our aim. Our objective is not to make people beneficiaries, but partners (in development projects). We will empower them to build the state," Bommai said, adding that he would work 24x7 for the state. Bommai said the state, over the last two years, faced problems on two fronts - Covid-19 and floods - pushing the state towards financial distress. "I wish we could help students, farmers, people from SC/ST communities more. But, the lack of financial resources (for the purpose) is depressing," he said. Yet, the state government has spent Rs 24,000 crore for various development projects over the last six months, Bommai said. Elaborating on the football analogy, Bommai said: "Administration is like a game of football. Nobody can keep the ball for too long. You should pass the ball at the right time and score the goal." Investments Karnataka has continued to attract investment over the past year. Of the Foreign Direct Investment attracted by the country, around 45 per cent of it was for Karnataka, Bommai said. On the development of Kalyana Karnataka region, Bommai said that many of the announcements made after the special status was granted were not realised. "Funds allocated for the region were not spent fully," he said, adding that overall development of the state can be ensured only by developing such regions. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-chants-3e-mantra-vows-to-push-welfare-1075664.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP MLA fights with Hoysala cop, HM seeks report||Mudigere BJP legislator MP Kumaraswamy was involved in an altercation with an on-duty police constable at the Legislators Home near Vidhana Soudha late on Thursday night. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Friday sought a report on this incident. It is said that the altercation got physical as Kumaraswamy was angry at the constable. However, Kumaraswamy denied having hit the constable. The incident took place between 10.30 and 11 pm, well into the night curfew. "Last night, I went to a hotel for dinner and it was around 10.30 pm when I returned to the Legislators Home. There was a Hoysala patrol car parked near the portico blocking my way. I honked, but no one stepped out from the police car. I got out and asked him the move the car. Maybe he didn't realize I'm an MLA and called for back-up, accusing me of obstructing his duty," Kumaraswamy said. "He even tried to take my photo. I snatched his phone. What hurt me was that he held my hand. The police personnel who arrived there apologized to me. Even that constable said sorry. I asked him he should say sorry to the police department t. That's all. It's not true that I hit him," the MLA said. Reacting to this, Jnanendra said he has asked Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant to look into this. "The information I have is that Kumaraswamy was stopped by a constable. I have asked the commissioner to inquire," he said. Inquiry panel Jnanendra, the home minister, said he has appointed an inquiry committee to look into allegations of royal treatment being given to some prisoners at the Parappana Agrahara penitentiary. "I held a meeting with officials on reports of royal treatment to inmates at Parappana Agrahara. I have appointed an inquiry committee. Officials say nothing happened of late and the videos doing the rounds are old. Still, taking note of media reports, I have sought an inquiry report," he said. Some videos have emerged showing gangster JCB Narayana chilling in his cell with a television, snacks and other facilities. Another video allegedly shows a uniformed prison staff selling provisions to inmates. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-mla-fights-with-hoysala-cop-hm-seeks-report-1075692.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre extends deadline for PG dental admission||Over 600 candidates who had opted postgraduate dental (MDS) seats in the state during the current academic year have got a relief with the union government deciding to consider their admissions which were made after the deadline. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on January 27 granted permission to the state government to complete the admission process within a week. A copy of the letter written to principal secretary of Health and Family Welfare department, government of Karnataka, reads, "Considering the repeated requests of the government of Karnataka as well as pending Writ Petition before the Supreme Court, as an exceptional circumstance, approval is hereby granted to the state government to complete the process of MDS counseling for the academic year 2021-22 within a period of one week from the date of issue of this letter." It can be recalled that the earlier requests by the state government were turned down by the Union government following which over 600-plus students who have got admissions for MDS courses were worried as the state government had conducted the admissions even after the deadline. A few days ago, Dr K Sudhakar had written to the Union health minister requesting the extension of the date of MDS counselling. He requested the Centre to reconsider the decision in view of the future of thousands of students as they might lose an academic year for no fault of theirs. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-extends-deadline-for-pg-dental-admission-1075707.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Women & child Dept seeks TAC guidance on reopening creches||The state’s 544 Shishu Paalana Kendras (government-run creche for children of working mothers) have been shut since March 23, 2020. The Kendras took care of children aged six months to three years and three years to six years, while their parents were at work. However, even though working mothers are back at work, the continued closure of these Kendras have caused hardships for them. At a recent meeting, the state’s Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) discussed a letter from the women and child development department. The letter said after the dip in Covid-19 cases, anganwadis reopened, but the Kendras remained shut. The department sought the guidance of the TAC in this regard. TAC chairman Dr M K Sudarshan told DH, “The Kendras can be opened as ACE-2 receptors are fewer in children compared to older children and adults. Children younger than five years old need not wear masks. However, social distancing and hand hygiene should be maintained. Parents should have received two doses of the vaccine, apart from the staff being jabbed with at least two doses.” SARS-CoV-2 (the virus causing Covid) enters host cells via the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor, which is expressed in various human organs. Asked if schools can be reopened, he said, “We cannot apply the same rationale to schools as the ACE-2 receptors will be higher in number in secondary and high school students. Primary school children are at lesser risk than older children. We will give our opinion once the CM calls for a meeting.” Women and child development department director Priyanka Mary Francis said, “We have not received any specific go-ahead for these creches from the TAC yet. We had reopened anganwadis on November 8, 2021, for two hours a day, as per TAC recommendation. After the third Covid wave hit, we were again asked to close anganwadis in Bengaluru Urban.” “Subsequently, the decision of keeping them open in the rest of the state and Bengaluru Urban was left to the concerned DCs, depending on caseload,” she said.  State Covid-19 war room head Munish Moudgil has time and again said, “When compared, month by month (April to December), infections reported among children aged 0-10 years is the lowest among all age groups.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-women-child-dept-seeks-tac-guidance-on-reopening-creches-1075709.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 31,198 new Covid infections, 50 deaths||Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, which further dipped to 31,198, in Karnataka on Friday. New cases swelled the tally to 37,23,694. With 50 fresh fatalities, the toll climbed to 38,804 on Friday. The state on Friday reported 71,092 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 33,96,093. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 15,199 fresh infections. The state capital also saw 44,866 recoveries. Mysuru recorded 1,877 fresh cases, Dharwad 1,500, Tumakuru 1,315, and Hassan 1,037. There are 2,88,767 active carriers of the virus in the state as on January 28. The positivity rate for the day was 20.91 per cent, the case fatality rate 0.16 per cent. Of the 50 deaths reported in the last 24 hours Bengaluru and Mysuru recorded eight each followed by Hassan five, Dakshina Kannada and Tumakuru saw four fatalities each in the day while Belagavi and Shivamogga registered three each. A total of 1,49,174 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the day, taking the state’s tally to 6,14,03,628. On Friday, 2,72,489 Covid vaccine doses were administered in the state as the tally swelled to 9,47,92,635. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-31198-new-covid-infections-50-deaths-1075712.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt extends carryover to all subjects for Diploma courses||In view of the pandemic, the carryover provision for the academic year 2021-22 for Diploma students, has been declared as applicable to all the subjects. C N Ashwath Narayan, Minister for Higher Education, in a press release on Friday said that earlier, there used to be a provision of carryover for a maximum of four subjects for Diploma courses. “But, considering the surge in the pandemic it has been extended to all the subjects for the current academic year,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-extends-carryover-to-all-subjects-for-diploma-courses-1075713.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka may have to revisit quota in promotion policy after SC order||Karnataka may have to revisit its existing policy of reservation in promotion in the wake of the Supreme Court’s stress on quantifiable data to justify such a quota. This is likely to affect thousands of SC/ST employees.  Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said he is not immediately aware of the top court’s stand. He said he would get more details and discuss with officials on the way forward.  In February 2017, the Supreme Court had struck down reservation in promotion accorded to SC/ST employees since April 1978. This resulted in the demotion of over 3,700 employees, promotion of nearly 5,000 employees and alteration in the seniority of nearly 65,000 employees. To circumvent this, the Karnataka Extension of Consequential Seniority to Government Servants Promoted on the Basis of Reservation (To the Posts in the Civil Services of the State) Act, 2017 was passed in November 2017. The 2017 law was upheld in May 2019 by a Supreme Court bench led by Justice D Y Chandrachud. Karnataka was the first state to benefit from the SC ruling, which said a state’s view on the adequacy or inadequacy of SC/STs in jobs would not be questioned. Now, however, another Supreme Court bench has called this 2019 order as bad in law for having breached the principles laid down in the 2006 judgement of the M Nagaraj case.  “What the Supreme Court has now said is that quantifiable data has to be cadre-wise and not for the entire strength of employees,” said Nagaraj, who is the president of an association of employees belonging to the minority, backward classes and general categories. He added that the 2017 law was flawed in the way it calculated the inadequacy of SC/STs. Explaining further, Nagaraj said, “Karnataka has five lakh employees. There’s an 18 per cent reservation for SC/ST. That makes it 90,000. So, if there are 85,000 SC/ST employees, it was deemed inadequate and argued that reservation in promotion should continue. The Supreme Court has now said that inadequacy should be calculated cadre-wise. For example, if there are 100 chief engineers, 18 per cent of that should be 18. If there are 12 SC/STs in this cadre, then only six more people should be given reservation in promotion to ensure adequacy.”  Nagaraj said the association will submit a representation to the state government seeking compliance with the latest Supreme Court order. “The government now has to revisit the basis on which it gave reservation in promotions,” he said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-may-have-to-revisit-quota-in-promotion-policy-after-sc-order-1075714.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Bommai adopts 11 cows on birthday||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who turned 62 on Friday, adopted 11 cows from the Rashtrotthana Gau Shala. Bommai, along with his wife Chennamma, performed puja to a cow and calf on Friday morning. They later took the cow and calf inside their residence and fed them. Bommai also visited the Maruti temple near the Balabrooie Guesthouse where he prayed for the well-being of people of Karnataka, his office said. According to Bommai’s office, he received birthday wishes on phone from President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, BJP national president J P Nadda, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, UP CM Yogi Adityanath, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy and many others. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bommai-adopts-11-cows-on-birthday-1075716.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||PM, others express solidarity with Yediyurappa over granddaughter's death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up veteran BJP leader B S Yediyurappa to express condolence over the death of his granddaughter Dr Soundarya V Y on Friday. Besides Modi, Yediyurappa received condolence messages from former prime minister and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, sources said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who lost his son in 2016, tweeted an emotional condolence to Yediyurappa. “I am pained at the news of the death of the granddaughter of my long-time political companion B S Yediyurappa. I have seen and experienced the pain when grown-up children, family members pass away. I pray to God for strength to bear the pain of Soundarya’s death,” he said in a tweet. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pm-others-express-solidarity-with-yediyurappa-over-granddaughters-death-1075720.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||7 days special casual leave for Karnataka govt staff with Covid||Government employees affected by Covid-19 will be eligible to get a special casual leave of seven days, the Finance Department has said. "Any government employee or family member infected with Covid-19 and those who live in a containment zone where there are curbs on public movement can be granted special casual leave of up to seven days," the Finance Department said in a note. "During such leave, the government employee will be bound to carry out emergency office work based on the instructions issued by (higher-ups) on phone or online." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-days-special-casual-leave-for-karnataka-govt-staff-with-covid-1075725.html
28-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Expected Azad to reject Padma award: Ex-minister B K Chandrashekar||Former minister B K Chandrashekar has expressed surprise that senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has not yet announced his decision to reject the Padma award given to him by the Modi administration. "I personally expected [Azad] to reject the Padma award coming as it did from a government whose clear authoritarian decisions (especially in J & K) he has opposed consistently," he said in a statement. "To describe the award to Azad as a 'national honour' is misleading, except in a geographical sense. The agenda behind the award being pretty obvious it is somewhat surprising that Azad has not yet announced his decision to reject it!" Chandrashekar hailed Azad for his "unmatched ability to be extremely friendly with grassroots party workers, respecting their opinions and motivating them." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/expected-azad-to-reject-padma-award-ex-minister-b-k-chandrashekar-1075727.html
28-01-2022||West||Gujarati family found dead on US-Canada border identified||Four persons found frozen to death on the Canada-US border last week were from Gujarat's Dingucha village in Kalol taluka of state capital Gandhinagar district. They are from the same family who had left for Canada on visitor visas and were exposed to extreme cold while trying to cross the border to the United States in what is believed to be a case of human smuggling. "Further to the report of the tragic death of four people, including an infant, whose bodies were recovered near the Canada-US border in Manitoba on January 19, 2022, Canadian authorities have confirmed the identifies of the four deceased as;  (i) Jagdish Baldeshbhai Patel, male, 39, (ii) Vaishaliben Jagdishkumar Patel, female, 37, (iii)Vihangi Jagdishkumar Patel, female, 11, and (iv) Dharmik Jagdishkumar Patel, male, 3. All were Indians and next of kin of the deceased have been informed," High Commission of India, Ottawa (Canada), said in a statement posted on its Twitter handle. The statement also said, "...this tragedy has brought into focus the need to ensure that migration and mobility are made safe and legal and that such tragedies do not recur." Meanwhile, Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), Manitoba province also released a statement on its official website where it said that the deceased are from the same family. The website also released a photo of the Patel family. "They are from the same family and are all Indian nationals. The Office of the Chief Medical Examiner of Manitoba has confirmed that the cause of death was due to exposure." According to several reports, the family was trying to cross into the US on foot in -35c temperature.  "We can confirm that on January 12, the Patel family arrived in Toronto, Canada. From Toronto, the family made their way to Emerson (the border town) on, or about January 18, 2022. There was no abandoned vehicle located on the Canadian side of the border. This indicates that someone drove the family to the border and then left the scene," the Canadian police said in the statement. It added, "With what we know so far of their activities in Canada, along with the arrest that occurred in the United States, we believe this to be a case of human smuggling. We know the Patel moved around Canada for a period of time and we are looking for anyone that may have had encounters with them." In Dingucha, Jaswant Patel, cousin of Jagdish Patel, confirmed that the family was informed by the government officials late on Thursday night. The sleepy village with urban facilities has nearly 3,300 population as per 2011 census, out of which a majority of them are from the Patidar community. Nearly 50 per cent of Patidar households have migrated to the United States and Australia. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarati-family-found-dead-on-us-canada-border-identified-1075442.html
28-01-2022||West||Fire breaks out at furniture godown in Thane's Bhiwandi area; no casualties||A furniture godown was gutted in a major fire at Kasheli in Bhiwandi tehsil of Maharashtra's Thane district in the wee hours of Friday, but nobody was injured in the incident, an official said. The fire broke out around 1.40 am at the godown located in Chamunda Compex, he said. Chief of the Thane civic body's Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), Santosh Kadam, said that after being alerted, two fire engines - one each of the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) and Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) - along with a team of the RDMC rushed to the spot and launched a firefighting operation. The cause of fire is being ascertained, he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-furniture-godown-in-thanes-bhiwandi-area-no-casualties-1075446.html
28-01-2022||West||TMC's Luizinho Faleiro withdraws nomination in Goa||TMC leader Luizinho Faleiro on Friday withdrew his nomination in the upcoming Goa Assembly elections and said that the ticket will go to a 'professional woman' Advocate Seoula Avilia Vas will replace Luizinho Faleiro as Goa TMC candidate from Fatorda Assembly constituency. Voting for 40 members of Goa Assembly will be held on February 14 and counting of votes will take place on March 10. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmcs-luizinho-faleiro-withdraws-nomination-in-goa-1075490.html
28-01-2022||West||SC decision over suspension of 12 Maharashtra BJP MLAs 'tight slap' on MVA govt, says Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday welcomed the Supreme Court's judgement, in which it termed the suspension of 12 BJP MLAs from the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly as "unconstitutional" and "irrational". The Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly said the apex court's decision is "another tight slap" on the face of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress for its "unconstitutional, unethical, unfair, illegal and undemocratic actions". The Supreme Court on Friday held that a resolution suspending the 12 BJP MLAs beyond the period of the remainder of the session held in July 2021 is "unconstitutional" and "irrational". The top court delivered its verdict on the pleas filed by the 12 legislators, who had challenged their one-year suspension from the state assembly. They were suspended on July 5 last year from the Assembly after the state government accused them of misbehaving with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber. Reacting to the apex court's judgement, Fadnavis said in a tweet, "Satyameva Jayate. We welcome and thank the Supreme Court for the historic decision of quashing suspension of our 12 BJP Maharashtra MLAs, who were fighting for the cause of OBCs in Maharashtra Legislative Assembly during the monsoon session." Apart from Ashish Shelar, the BJP's chief whip in the Assembly, others who were suspended were Sanjay Kute, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Parag Alavani, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawal, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangdia. Fadnavis said the SC decision will save the democratic values and it is yet another tight slap on the face of MVA government for it's unconstitutional, unethical, unfair, illegal and undemocratic actions and activities. "I congratulate our BJP Maharashtra 12 MLAs for getting justice," he added. "Since the beginning, we were saying that it was completely unconstitutional and gross misuse of power to suspend our MLAs for such a long period to create artificial majority & that too for no valid reason & the Hon SC has upheld our stand," the former chief minister said. It was not only a question of these 12 MLAs, but of more than 50 lakh citizens in these 12 constituencies, he said. Speaking about the development, state minister Nawab Malik, who is also the chief spokesperson of the NCP, said, "The speaker of the legislative assembly will take a decision once the Supreme Court's written order is available. The decision to suspend 12 MLAs of BJP was taken by the speaker and not by the government." The secretariat of the Maharashtra Assembly will study the SC decision after which the speaker decide on that, he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-decision-over-suspension-of-12-maharashtra-bjp-mlas-tight-slap-on-mva-govt-says-fadnavis-1075535.html
28-01-2022||West||David Sassoon Library to be restored||The iconic David Sassoon Library and Reading Room - a heritage structure in the art district of Kala Ghoda in Mumbai - is being restored.  More than one-and-a-half-century-old Venetian Gothic styled structure in Fort was built in memory of Baghdadi-Jewish banker and philanthropist David Sassoon. It is a Grade-1 heritage structure and was completed in 1870. JSW Foundation, the social arm of JSW Group, has joined hands with Hermes, Kala Ghoda Association, the Consulate General of Israel in Mumbai and others to raise funds for this restoration project.  The restoration of David Sassoon Library is expected to be completed in 2023. JSW Foundation chairperson Sangeeta Jindal tweeted about the development.  “Restoring our rich heritage! MoU signing for restoring David Sassoon Library Mumbai. During the last two decades, the David Sassoon Library has welcomed me and millions of people, especially during the Kala Ghoda Arts Festival. This restoration MOU is our way to reciprocate and give this iconic library its due as a primary institution of learning in the heart of Mumbai’s art and heritage precinct,” Jindal said.  The David Sassoon Library is located near Elphinstone College, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya, Jehangir Art Gallery, Army and Navy Building, Esplanade Mansion and it makes it the fulcrum of Mumbai’s educational and cultural movement.  “We have been waiting for this day for a long time. We are happy that the library building will be restored to its original glory,” said Hemant Bhalekar, president of the David Sassoon Library and Reading Room Committee. JSW Foundation would be collaborating with conservation architect Abha Narain Lambah for this restoration project. “The David Sassoon Library is among the oldest landmarks in the UNESCO World Heritage Site of the Victorian & Art Deco Ensembles of Mumbai. The conservation plan will comprehensively cover architectural and interior design of the library for restoring its interiors and exteriors,” said Lambah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/david-sassoon-library-to-be-restored-1075548.html
28-01-2022||West||MVA cautious after SC revokes suspension of BJP MLAs||Hours after the Supreme Court quashed the suspension of 12 BJP MLAs of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, the tri-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government seems to tread cautiously.  The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress dispensation led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, meanwhile, has raised the issue of governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari not yet clearing the nomination of 12 MLCs from the governor’s quota - which has been pending for over a year.  The BJP, however, described it as a tight slap on the face of the government. “It is a tight slap on the face of the government,” leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said. “It was not only a question of 12 MLAs but of more than 50 lakh citizens in these 12 constituencies. Since the beginning, we were saying that it was a completely unconstitutional and gross misuse of power to suspend our MLAs for such a long period to create an artificial majority and that too for no valid reason and the Supreme Court has upheld our stand,” he said thanking the apex court.  On 5 July 2021, during the monsoon 12 MLAs were suspended for “abusive language” and “misbehaving” with Bhaskar Jadhav, who was the Presiding Officer chair, during a discussion on political reservations to the OBCs. The MLAs are Ashish Shelar, Parag Alavani, Ram Satpute, Sanjay Kute, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkalkar, Shirish Pimple, Jaykumar Rawal, Yogesh Sagar, Narayan Kuche, Kirtikumar Bagadia. Shelar, who is BJP’s chief whip, moved the Supreme Court.  The MVA, however, were guarded in their response. “The Vidhan Sabha has the power to suspend MLAs…or for that matter, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha can suspend MPs…it is well within its powers,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said, and raised the issue of MVA government’s request of MLCs nomination pending with governor.  “It is now an issue of jurisdictions of court and jurisdictions of legislative bodies…it is now a matter concerning Assemblies across the country and Parliament,” NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said, adding that the Legislature secretariat would study the order after which the Speaker would take a call.  State Congress president Nana Patole, who is a former Speaker, said that the Legislature secretariat would study the order first. “Let them first look and study the order,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-cautious-after-sc-revokes-suspension-of-bjp-mlas-1075579.html
28-01-2022||West||IIT team develops method to detect Covid-19 from x-rays||Researchers at IIT Jodhpur have developed an explainable Artificial Intelligence solution to predict Covid-19 from chest x-rays, a move that may help countries struggling with a dearth of testing kits and processing centres in remote areas.  Since the symptoms of Covid-19 are visible on a chest x-ray, it has become one of the modalities that have gained acceptance as a screening technique. A research paper on this project has been published in the journal “Pattern Recognition (Volume 122)”.  The research is part of the RAKSHAK project under NM-CPS DST and iHuB Drishti at IIT Jodhpur. Researchers aim at developing a full-scale prototype through the knowledge learnt in this project. The team has proposed a deep learning-based algorithm called COMiT-Net, which learns the abnormalities present in the chest x-ray images to differentiate between a Covid-affected lung and a non-affected lung.  The developed AI algorithm not only predicts whether the CXR has Covid-19 pneumonia or not, but it is also capable of identifying the infected regions in the lungs, thus making them explainable. The uniqueness of this research is that the proposed study can visually showcase the region which is infected, the technique interprets only from the lung region, the Artificial Intelligence solution used in this research is explainable from both algorithmic and medical points of view. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iit-team-develops-method-to-detect-covid-19-from-x-rays-1075586.html
28-01-2022||West||Absconding for nine months, late SSR's neighbour finally arrested||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested Dubai-based drug lord Sahil Shah alias Flacko in connection with the drugs case involving late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. According to the officials, NCB was on the lookout for Sahil who was absconding for the last nine months. Notably, the name of Sahil Shah, an immediate neighbour of late Sushant Singh Rajput, first came to light when the agency arrested the first two accused -- Karan Arora and Abbas Lakhani -- in connection with supply of drugs. Sources said that Sahil Shah used to supply drugs to many famous people in Bollywood, including Rajput, through drug peddlers. They further said that Sahil Shah surrendered before the NCB on Wednesday. According to NCB, he will be probed in connection with the seizure of 310 gm marijuana from two other accused arrested in April 2021. Following the arrest of two men -- Ganesh Shere and Siddhant Amin -- the NCB had raided Sahil Shah's flat, but he went missing. Rajput was found dead under mysterious circumstances on June 14 at his Bandra flat in Mumbai. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/absconding-for-nine-months-late-ssrs-neighbour-finally-arrested-1075656.html
28-01-2022||West||Daily Covid-19 deaths cross 100-mark in Maharashtra||Amid the stabilisation of Omicron-triggered third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, there seems to be a cause of concern in Maharashtra - the deaths seem to be increasing and on Friday, it crossed the 100-mark, the first time since September.  During the last 24 hours, 24,948 new Covid-19 cases and 103 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 76,55,554 and 1,42,461, respectively.  The active cases in the state now stand at 2,55,586, according to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department.  Since mid-January, the deaths seem to be increasing, averaging over 50.  On Monday, 36 deaths were reported, Tuesday (86), Wednesday (79) and Thursday (42).  However, on Friday, it crossed the three-figure mark for the first time since September 1, when 183 deaths were reported.  Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government, while responding to PILs alleging improper Covid-19 management, told the Bombay High Court on Friday that the situation was under control.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/daily-covid-19-deaths-cross-100-mark-in-maharashtra-1075696.html
