29-01-2022||Comment||Wanted: A policy direction||Think of a title for India’s current economic policy. Is today’s policymaking guided by a strong push towards manufacturing? ‘Make in India’ does suggest it is. Or, are we moving towards self-reliance? ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ promises us that. A third way of looking at India’s policy direction is to see how the RBI is keeping interest rates low and easing our monetary policy to push for increased production and growth. Or, could we refer to our policy as expansionary, where the government spends more than it taxes, thus deepening the fiscal deficit to ensure consumption gets a boost? At another level, is India’s economic policy being led by its large and bustling service sector, or are we leveraging nearly half our workforce that is engaged in agriculture? We have promulgated some really brave labour laws, but withdrawn the controversial farm laws that sought to reform agriculture. On the trade front, are we sustaining our exchange rate at its lowest ever to boost exports and discourage imports? Or, as some analysts have said, are we even now keeping the exchange rate higher than its real and effective value to make imports cheaper? If not any of these, then does our policy aim at employment generation, given the huge youth population in the country? Or is it guided by the Prime Minister’s constant encouragement to the citizenry to stop being job-seekers and become job-creators instead? Are we moving towards disinvestment, as indicated in the process of privatising Air India, BSNL and LIC? Or are we nationalising when we invest public money into Vodafone or merge our banks into larger State-owned entities? The answer to all these questions could very well be ‘yes’ and, at the same time, ‘no’. Truth is, we do not have any clarity anymore. While we have seen some remarkable labour law reforms recently to boost manufacturing (although not put into effect yet), we also have been hesitant on the bankruptcy code. We moved towards a GST regime hurriedly, but are not even discussing GST reform, timely refunds and the inclusion of alcohol and fuel in the list. Corporate taxation was slashed even as the fiscal deficit kept mounting. We have a quaint situation where even with low taxation, there is little capital formation and capacity utilisation, while consumption demand is sliding down month after month. Where does this leave us now? Soon after Independence, we were clear that we wanted a large public sector, and the State built big factories and even bigger dams. In the 1960s, India’s economic policy was clearly guided by agriculture and the Green Revolution. The 1970s saw an unapologetic move towards nationalisation and self-reliance. The 1980s saw a major push on technology, telecom and education. The 1990s were dedicated to opening up the economy, both domestically and globally. The turn of the century saw us strongly push for foreign investments and focus almost completely on the pace of GDP growth. Each decade can thus be clearly demarcated by a major policy direction. The last decade, however, broke ranks. It is difficult to give it any caption. That is why some of us are eagerly waiting for the Budget speech. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has been quiet for some time, and understandably so as she prepares the Budget from which so many stakeholders anticipate her leadership in giving India’s economic policy a clear direction. Last year, we expected her to make healthcare the centrepiece of investment in infrastructure and service sector growth. While announcing that healthcare would indeed be centre-stage, rather shockingly, the Finance Minister allocated Rs 71,269 crore for the health ministry, down from the Rs 78,866 crore the ministry had actually spent in the previous year. The education budget, too, was cut by more than Rs 6,000 crore. All this left most experts puzzled. What was the government signalling? In what direction was economic policy headed in a country that was struggling with a colossal breakdown of the already broken healthcare system? The education system, closed for two years now, with minor windows when it struggled in getting to a hybrid model, needs large amounts of money to get back to where it was. It needed a strong push to reach the lofty goals that the New Education Policy has prescribed by way of multi-disciplinary, skill-based and experiential learning for all. On top of all these were the distressing visuals of millions of migrant workers helplessly walking hundreds of miles back to their hometowns as the lockdown rendered them unemployed and vulnerable to hunger and homelessness. Never was the absence of social security felt as it was when these hapless workers, left to fend for themselves overnight, went back to villages they had left years and decades ago. In this backdrop, will we see some clarity from the Union government now? What are expected are bold moves that signal a return to consistent growth in production and employment. The fiscal deficit will mount to nearly 7% while government debt is set to cross 80% of the GDP this year. However, these unprecedented amounts, if handled well, will only deliver a strong message of an expansionary policy that will seek to increase jobs and wages and lift up consumption demand, which has been sliding down since 2016. What we need is an end to the policy confusion and a movement towards an unambiguous push to an economy that must go back to double-digit growth quickly. The Economist has called the last decade a “lost decade” for India. The next one cannot be surrendered to multiple objectives that are in conflict with each other. It will have to be a decade in which the policy will be remembered as one that created millions of jobs for a young population. This youth bulge that India’s demographic transition has produced must be targeted with a clear policy that brings in mobility, new skills and higher wages that will in turn induce demand and bring in fresh investments, both foreign and domestic. All eyes on February 1 now. (The writer is a Professor of Economics at MCRHRDI, Government of Telangana, and teaches Public Policy at ISB and TISS)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/wanted-a-policy-direction-1075680.html
29-01-2022||First Edit||Bihar: A wake-up call from India’s youth||The violent protests that took place in UP and Bihar against the Railways’ recruitment process are a sign of the rising anxieties in the country over unemployment. The protests are continuing in Bihar and a bandh has been called. Though the grievance of the protesters is mainly about the recruitment procedure and the alleged irregularities in the conduct of a test held by the Railways, the real issue is the lack of jobs in the economy. The tests are being held for non-technical popular categories of posts which have always invoked much interest in UP and Bihar. The demand for the jobs can be seen from the fact that about 1.25 crore candidates, which is about one out of every 100 Indians, applied for 35,281 jobs. One main demand of the protesters is that candidates with higher qualifications should not be allowed to compete for jobs that demand lower qualifications. Of all the serious problems faced by the economy, unemployment is the most serious. It has social as well as economic consequences. It is not just the Covid effect on jobs. There have been bleak signals from the employment scene ever since demonetisation. The National Sample Survey Office had reported – but the government did not make it public until after the 2019 elections – that in 2017-18, India’s unemployment rate was 6.1%, the highest since 1972-73. That situation only worsened with the pandemic. According to the CMIE’s estimates, labour market participation has fallen to about 40%. With joblessness rising, employment rate at the national level fell from 43% in December 2016 to 37% in December 2021. The fall has been sharper in UP. Large numbers of people have dropped out of the job market, and not many fresh jobs have been created. There is also a shift from regular jobs to casual jobs, which affects the wages, welfare and job security of workers. The job situation has naturally affected the youth more than others. The situation in states like Bihar and UP is more serious because job opportunities are fewer there, and job aspirants -- especially the young -- more. The concern and the unrest seen in these states should open the eyes of the government. The Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014 promising development, jobs and increase in the incomes of people. Its record speaks of a massive failure in this regard. The annual income of the poorest 20% households dropped by 53% between 2015-16 and 2020-21 even as the income of the richest segment rose by about 40%. The job situation is the worst among the low-skilled population, and the Bihar and UP protests show that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bihar-a-wake-up-call-from-india-s-youth-1075678.html
29-01-2022||In Perspective||A heroic fight for free speech||The history of printed newspapers in India began to unfold on January 29, 1780. Behind the historic venture was James Augustus Hicky, a gritty but eccentric Irish businessman who had arrived in Calcutta (now Kolkata) in 1776 with a fond hope of achieving success in the shipping trade. His trading venture turned out to be a fiasco. As he could not repay the capital borrowed for the shipping business, he ended up in jail for about two years. While in prison, he conceived of setting up a printing press to publish a newspaper. After his release, he launched a four-page weekly titled Hicky’s Bengal Gazette or the Calcutta General Advertiser on January 29, 1780, from Calcutta, the headquarters of the East India Company. It was the first printed English-language newspaper to be published in the Indian sub-continent as well as in all of Asia. He described the motto of the publication in its masthead as a “Weekly political and commercial paper open to all parties but influenced by none.” The road ahead in his journey as editor and publisher was bumpy and hazardous. In the absence of any local institution to monitor or evaluate the East India Company’s affairs, the officials had a field day misusing their authority. Several officials of the company were indulging in fraudulent practices. Writing about the scandalous activities of the company officials wasn’t free of risk for Hicky. But that was no deterrent to packing his weekly with a variety of content ranging from news from England, local news, trade, and business news such as the arrival and departures of ships, business notifications, and advertisements. He used to present a summary of the developments in Europe also. Hicky devoted ample space for letters from readers that reflected their views and feelings about the prevailing conditions. He highlighted the poor road conditions, sanitation problems and the living conditions of the deprived sections of the city. Issues relating to the salary and promotions of soldiers, which Hicky brought to the notice of the authorities, earned their appreciation. As he was close to the European settlers in the city, he published gossip on the social elite, which was liked by the readers. A report published in his weekly on the dismal conditions of the city roads resulted in the passing of a law to collect additional taxes to improve roads. This encouraged Hicky and he became more outspoken about the administration. In the Pollilur war in September 1780 near Kanchipuram, in which more than 3,000 British soldiers were killed by the Mysore king Hyder Ali, infuriated Hicky. He fervently opposed wars against Indian rulers. The reports of wars in India published in Hicky’s weekly were widely reproduced by leading publications in Europe. He did not mince words while writing about the corrupt practices prevalent among the officials in the military and general administration. He was the first one to raise a voice against the working style of the top officials of the East India Company. A rival weekly to Hicky’s Bengal Gazette emerged in Calcutta in November that year. The new weekly, named India Gazette, was the brainchild of two East India Company employees, Bernard Messink and Peter Reed. Moreover, it had the support of Governor-General Warren Hastings, who had allowed its free distribution through the post office, much to the chagrin of Hicky. Expectedly, India Gazette published the official version of events and issues. This made Hicky more ferocious, and he began to attack Warren Hastings, Madam Hastings and Elijah Impey, the Chief Justice. Hicky’s malicious ridicule of Hastings’ wife landed him in jail more than once and the government issued an order banning his paper’s circulation through the General Post Office. Though this was a big setback for Hicky, he remained undeterred and hired 20 delivery boys to distribute his weekly in the city. The wrath of the government remained unabated. Several suits were brought before the court against Hicky, and in one case, he was made to pay a huge sum as security. Though jailed in other cases, he managed to bring out the paper and continued to criticise the Governor-General and the Chief Justice. The authorities seized the printing press and Hicky was jailed again. After about two years of its existence, the first Indian publication was driven out of business and ceased its publication on March 23, 1782. Innumerable mercy petitions by Hicky were never considered sympathetically by the authorities. Thus ended the story of the first printed newspaper in India 240 years ago. Hicky practised provocative journalism and fought for free expression. Many British and Indians, including Raja Ram Mohan Roy, were inspired to publish newspapers by Hicky’s effort. The fighting spirit exemplified by Hicky was pursued by Indian journalists during the freedom struggle. (The writer is a former chairman of the Department of Mass Communication and Journalism, Karnatak University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-heroic-fight-for-free-speech-1075679.html
29-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Rising hate speeches behind Muslim teen's lynching in Nargund, say activists||Hindu right-wing groups are behind the recent lynching of 19-year-old Sameer Shahpur in Gadag’s Nargund, human rights activists have said, flagging a spate of attacks on Muslims in the northern Karnataka town since November 2021.  “From all accounts, the mob allegedly has allegiance to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Bajrang Dal. Police have arrested four people, including Sanju Nalvade, a member of the Bajrang Dal,” a group of six academics and activists said in a report.  The report is based on interviews conducted with various stakeholders by Akash Bhattacharya, Mohammad Irshad, Rajendran Narayanan, Shabeer Ahmad, Shaikh Zakeer Hussain and Siddhart Joshi.  Shahpur was beaten to death on January 17 while returning home on a motorcycle with a friend named Shamsher Khan. Khan was stabbed near the chest and is in a hospital.  According to the report, although Nargund did witness sporadic and minor incidents of Hindu-Muslim tensions in the past, “the last two years have seen a steady rise in hate speeches and the harassment of Muslims, with the intensity peaking since November 2021.”  The report also cites the cases of Azim, a college student who was assaulted and later named an accused in an FIR; the assault on Zyed, a 17-year-old student at Siddheshwar Government College, and the brutal attack on one Arbaaz at Maulana Azad School.  The report further says that Muslims are facing trumped-up charges and cites the incident when an armed mob of 200 threatened the community in Nargund’s Lodigalli area on January 14. “The police came to the spot and four people — all belonging to the Muslim community — were arrested. "An FIR was filed against some members of the community on fabricated grounds of defaming Hindu gods. However, nobody from the 200-odd mob of the Sangh Parivar was arrested,” the report states.  The report called communal incidents the “consequence of systematic forms of atomised and targeted violence against Muslims fuelled by hate speeches”.  The report has demanded a fair and free investigation into Shahpur’s murder, adequate compensation to his family and strong police action against hate speeches. It also demanded the end of political patronage to organisations and individuals delivering hate speeches and committing hate crimes. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rising-hate-speeches-behind-muslim-teens-lynching-in-nargund-say-activists-1075795.html
29-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||25 Anganwadi centres in Dakshina Kannada to get Rs 1L each||Minister for Women and Child Development Halappa Basappa Achar said Rs 1 lakh each under the Amrith scheme has been released for 25 Anganwadi buildings in Dakshina Kannada district. He said there are 1,49,400 kids enrolled in Anganwadi centres, getting nutritious food. Nutritious food is also supplied to 13,380 pregnant women and 13,793 lactating women in the district. Applications have been invited for filling the posts of 25 Anganwadi workers and 55 Anganwadi assistants in the district, he said. He added that the district has 41 children suffering from acute malnutrition. As many as 2,067 children with average weight have been identified. Malnourished and average weighing kids are being treated for improving their health condition, said the minister. Achar said that Sukanya Samriddhi accounts have been opened in the name of 3,432 beneficiaries of Bhagyalakshmi Yojane in 2021-22 in Dakshina Kannada district. The district has 4,058 Sthree Shakthi Groups. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/25-anganwadi-centres-in-dakshina-kannada-to-get-rs-1l-each-1075840.html
29-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Speaker bats for electoral reforms||Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Saturday urged the Election Commission to proactively bring electoral reforms that can end the clout of caste, muscle, money and defections. Addressing a news conference, Kageri lamented the declining values in the democratic setup. He said the tendency to pin politicians for this trend should stop and called upon senior leaders from various walks of life to speak up. “Now, the feeling is that with caste, money, muscle and a new trend of defections, election is one system that will not respond to the sentiments of the people,” Kageri said. He also urged media and litterateurs to support electoral reforms. Kageri pushed for discussions and debates on this matter. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-speaker-bats-for-electoral-reforms-1076039.html
29-01-2022||National||Split by partition, Indian man gets Pakistan visa to meet brother||Sika and Siddique will finally be able to spend a few days together – almost seven-and-a-half decades after the 1947 partition of India and birth of the new nation of Pakistan separated the two brothers. The High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi has issued a visa to Sika Khan so that the 76-year-old can travel from Punjab in India to the neighbouring country, where his 84-year-old brother Muhammad Siddique has been living since 1947. “I am delighted that I have got the visa. I will now travel to Pakistan to meet my brother and other family members,” Sika said in a video tweeted by the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi, after a brief meeting with the neighbouring country’s acting envoy to India, Aftab Hasan Khan. He also smilingly posed for photograph showing on his passport the visa that would allow him to spend a few days with his brother Siddique. The siblings were separated just days before India attained independence and Pakistan was born as a new nation in August 1947. The children were at their maternal village Phulewala in Punjab just days before India attained independence on August 15, 1947. So were their parents. But just before the partition of the country, their father took Siddique to his ancestral village Bogran, which soon became the part of Punjab in Pakistan. Sika, then just two-year-old, remained with her mother in India. As the partition triggered a mass migration and communal riots, the family’s plan for an early reunion did not turn into a reality. The father of Sika and Siddique died in Pakistan, while their mother committed suicide a few days after hearing about her husband’s death across the newly drawn border. The two brothers grew up and greyed separately on two sides of the border. They, however, came to know about each other in 2019 when Pakistani YouTuber Nasir Dhillon visited the village where Siddique was living and posted online a video of him talking about his long lost sibling Sika. A rural medical practitioner Jagsir Singh from Phulewala in India contacted Dhillon and they arranged a video-call between the two separated brothers. Sika and Siddique met each other personally in Kartarpur Corridor a few days back. The “Kartarpur Corridor” was formally opened in November 2019 to facilitate the pilgrims from India to cross over to Pakistan and visit the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur without any hassle. The meeting between Sika and Siddique in Kartarpur Corridor was brief. But with Sika now set to travel from India to Pakistan and meet Siddique, the two siblings can at least partially make up for the years they lost while growing up on the two sides of the border. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/split-by-partition-indian-man-gets-pakistan-visa-to-meet-brother-1075796.html
29-01-2022||National||First round of 'productive' India-UK FTA talks concluded; next round in March||India and the UK on Friday announced the conclusion of a 'productive' first round of free trade agreement (FTA) talks, held virtually between officials of both governments. The Department for International Trade (DIT) said during the course of the two-week round, which began earlier this month following the visit of UK Trade Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan, technical experts from both sides came together for discussions in 32 separate sessions covering 26 policy areas. The DIT reiterated an end of the year timeline for the negotiations, saying that both teams maintain a "shared ambition" to conclude negotiations by the end of 2022. “The negotiations were productive and reflected our shared ambition to secure a comprehensive deal to boost trade between the 5th and 6th largest economies in the world. The positive discussions in round one have laid the groundwork for the UK and India to make positive and efficient progress,” the DIT said. The policy areas covered in this round included trade in goods, trade in services including financial services & telecommunications, investment, intellectual property, customs and trade facilitation, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, technical barriers to trade, competition, gender, government procurement, small and medium enterprises (SMEs), sustainability, transparency, trade and development, geographical indicators and digital. The officials highlighted the importance of ensuring that the first round could proceed virtually, despite the challenges presented by the Covid pandemic. The second round of negotiations is due to take place on March 7-18. As part of the efforts on both the sides to secure a comprehensive agreement, the Chief Negotiators will continue to consider the benefits of an Interim Agreement, the UK government said. An India-UK FTA is billed in the UK as creating huge benefits for both countries, with the potential to boost bilateral trade by up to £28 billion a year by 2035 and increase wages by up to £3 billion across the UK. A deal with India is also pegged as a “big step forward” in the UK’s post-Brexit strategy to refocus trade on the Indo-Pacific, home to half of the world’s population and 50 per cent of global economic growth. The DIT has previously said the UK wants an agreement that slashes barriers to doing business and trading with India’s £2 trillion economy and market of 1.4 billion consumers, including cutting tariffs on exports of British-made cars and Scotch whisky. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-round-of-productive-india-uk-fta-talks-concluded-next-round-in-march-1075797.html
29-01-2022||National||DH Toon | Air India says 'Tata' to ineptitude, mismanagement||Air India is finally back to its original home, 68 years after it was nationalised, as the Narendra Modi government formally handed over the airline to the new owner Tata Sons, completing the privatisation process of a public entity for the first time in 20 years. The takeover by the salt-to-software conglomerate comes three months after it won the bid quoting Rs 18,000 crore -- which includes taking over of Rs 15,300 crore of Air India's debt and a payment of Rs 2,700 crore in cash. Air India was founded by JRD Tata and was nationalised by the Jawaharlal Nehru government in 1953.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-air-india-says-tata-to-ineptitude-mismanagement-1075807.html
29-01-2022||National||India clocks 2.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, 871 deaths||With 2,35,532 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of cases increased to over 4.08 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,93,198 with 871 fatalities reported during the 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases decreased by 1,01,278  to reach 20,04,333 -- 4.91 per cent of the total infections -- while the country's recovery rate stands at 93.89 per cent, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 13.39 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was 16.89 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,83,60,710, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.21 per cent, the ministry said. After the Saturday update, the total number of infections stands at 4,08,58,241, it said.     Meanwhile, the cumulative number of anti-Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 165.04 crore. India's surpassed the one-crore mark in the number of cases on December 19, 2020. It crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-clocks-235-lakh-covid-19-cases-871-deaths-1075824.html
29-01-2022||National||Delhi women's commission hits out at SBI's guidelines for pregnant women, seeks withdrawal||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Saturday issued a notice to SBI seeking withdrawal of its new rules wherein a woman who is over three months pregnant will be considered "temporarily unfit" and may be allowed to rejoin within four months after delivery. State Bank of India (SBI), the country's largest lender, could not immediately be reached for comment. "State Bank of India seems to have issued guidelines preventing women who are over 3 months pregnant from joining service & have termed them as ‘temporarily unfit’. This is both discriminatory and illegal. We have issued a Notice to them seeking withdrawal of this anti women rule," DCW Chief Swati Maliwal tweeted. In the notice, the panel sought a copy of the new guidelines as well as a copy of the similar rules operational before this. It has also sought an action taken report in the matter. The bank's move has elicited criticism from some quarters, including from the All India State Bank of India Employees' Association. In its latest medical fitness guidelines for new recruits or promotees, the bank said a candidate would be considered fit in case of pregnancy which is less than 3 months. "However, if pregnancy is of more than three months, she will be considered temporarily unfit and she may be allowed to join within four months after delivery of child," as per the medical fitness and ophthalmological standards for new recruits and promotees dated December 31, 2021. Earlier, women candidates with up to six months of pregnancy were allowed to continue working in the bank, subject to various conditions. The conditions include furnishing a certificate from a specialist gynaecologist that her taking up bank's employment at that stage is in no way likely to interfere with her pregnancy or the normal development of the foetus, or is not likely to cause her miscarriage or otherwise to adversely affect her health. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-womens-commission-hits-out-at-sbis-guidelines-for-pregnant-women-seeks-withdrawal-1075843.html
29-01-2022||National||Risk persists even though Covid cases starting to plateau in parts of India: WHO||Even though some cities or states in India may be beginning to see plateauing of Covid-19 cases, the risk persists and focus must be on reducing transmission and implementing situation-specific measures, senior WHO official Poonam Khetrapal Singh said. The Health Ministry said on Thursday that early indications of Covid cases plateauing have been reported in certain geographies in the country but the trend needs to be observed. Responding to a question that coronavirus cases have started plateauing in India, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region said the risk of Covid-19 remains high and no country, irrespective of their current transmission scenario, is "out of the woods" yet. "Hence, even though some cities or states may be beginning to see plateauing of cases, the risk persists. We need to continue to remain vigilant. Our focus must be on reducing transmission. Implementing situation-specific public health and social measures and increasing vaccine coverage  - that's the way forward for all countries in the ongoing pandemic," Singh told PTI in an interview. On January 21, the country reported a total of 3,47,254 new Covid-19 cases after which the daily infection count has been reducing. A decline in Covid cases and positivity rate has been especially observed in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Odisha, Haryana and West Bengal. Asked if the pandemic is entering in endemic stages, Singh said, currently "we are still in the midst of the pandemic and the focus should be to curtail the virus spread and save lives". "By becoming endemic doesn't mean that the virus will not be a cause of concern," she said. Compared to the Covid-19's Delta variant, she said Omicron is able to more rapidly infect the tissues of the upper respiratory tract rather than the lungs, which may also help the spread of this variant. "There appears to be a lower risk of severe disease and death following Omicron infection as compared to other variants. However, due to the very high numbers of cases, many countries have seen a significant increase in the incidence of hospitalization, putting pressure on healthcare systems," she said. Data suggests that infection with Omicron may be associated with a lower risk of hospitalization compared to infection with Delta, Singh said, but noted that the severity of illness increases with age and in the presence of underlying medical conditions and among people who are not vaccinated. She stressed the need to rapidly accelerate efforts to vaccinate all at-risk populations in all countries. "There is growing evidence on vaccine effectiveness for Omicron, but we still have a lot to learn. So far, we think that vaccines are less effective against Omicron infection and symptomatic disease compared to Delta. Having a booster shot seems to increase protection," she said. However, vaccines still seem to remain highly effective at protecting people against serious illness, hospitalization, and death, she said, adding that vaccines remain an effective method to reduce the likelihood of severe disease caused by the Omicron variant. Singh said the emergence of Omicron means that the protective behaviours remain critical such as keeping a safe distance from others, avoiding crowds, wearing a well-fitted mask covering mouth and nose, cleaning hands regularly, keeping indoor spaces well ventilated, and covering coughs and sneezes. India is presently battling the third wave of Covid-19 driven by the Omicron variant. On Saturday, 2,35,532 people tested positive for the coronavirus infection. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/risk-persists-even-though-covid-cases-starting-to-plateau-in-parts-of-india-who-1075854.html
29-01-2022||National||Pegasus spyware and missile system 'centrepieces' of $2-billion deal between India and Israel: Report||A massive controversy erupted last year when the NSO Group hit the headlines over the alleged use of its Pegasus software by some governments to spy on journalists, human rights defenders, politicians and others in a number of countries, including India, triggering concerns over issues relating to privacy. The NYT, in a report titled The Battle for the World’s Most Powerful Cyberweapon, said that the Israeli firm NSO Group had for nearly a decade been “selling its surveillance software on a subscription basis to law-enforcement and intelligence agencies around the world, promising that it could do what no one else -- not a private company, not even a state intelligence service -- could do: consistently and reliably crack the encrypted communications of any iPhone or Android smartphone.” The report also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Israel in July 2017 - to become the first Indian prime minister to visit the country. “For decades, India had maintained a policy of what it called “commitment to the Palestinian cause,” and relations with Israel were frosty. The Modi visit, however, was notably cordial, complete with a carefully staged moment of him and (then Israeli) Prime Minister (Benjamin) Netanyahu walking together barefoot on a local beach,” it said. “They had reason for the warm feelings. Their countries had agreed on the sale of a package of sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear worth roughly USD 2 billion -- with Pegasus and a missile system as the centrepieces. Months later, Netanyahu made a rare state visit to India. And in June 2019, India voted in support of Israel at the UN’s Economic and Social Council to deny observer status to a Palestinian human rights organisation, a first for the nation,” the report said. PTI has reached out to the government for a reaction to the NYT report, but there was no immediate response. Last year, a row erupted over Israeli spyware Pegasus allegedly being used for targeted surveillance in India. The government, however, dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people, saying it "has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever." In October last year, the Supreme Court set up a three-member independent expert panel to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for targeted surveillance in India, observing the state cannot get a "free pass" every time the spectre of national security is raised and that its mere invocation cannot render the judiciary a "mute spectator" and be the bugbear it shies away from. The NYT report said that the FBI too had bought a version of Pegasus, “NSO’s premier spying tool.” It was around last summer that the FBI “decided not to deploy the NSO weapons. It was around this time that a consortium of news organisations called Forbidden Stories brought forward new revelations about NSO cyberweapons and their use against journalists and political dissidents. The Pegasus system currently lies dormant at the facility in New Jersey.” An international investigative consortium had claimed that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were potentially targeted by the NSO Group's phone hacking software. The report said that since 2011 when NSO “introduced” Pegasus to the global market, it had “helped Mexican authorities capture Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the drug lord known as El Chapo.” European investigators have quietly used Pegasus to thwart terrorist plots, fight organised crime and, in one case, take down a global child-abuse ring, identifying dozens of suspects in more than 40 countries, it said. “In a broader sense, NSO’s products seemed to solve one of the biggest problems facing law enforcement and intelligence agencies in the 21st century: that criminals and terrorists had better technology for encrypting their communications than investigators had to decrypt them. The criminal world had gone dark even as it was increasingly going global,” according to the report. However, over the years, "the many abuses of Pegasus had also been well documented”. “Mexico deployed the software not just against gangsters but also against journalists and political dissidents. The United Arab Emirates used the software to hack the phone of a civil rights activist whom the government threw in jail. Saudi Arabia used it against women’s rights activists and, according to a lawsuit filed by a Saudi dissident, to spy on communications with Jamal Khashoggi, a columnist for The Washington Post, whom Saudi operatives killed and dismembered in Istanbul in 2018,” the NYT report said. The report said that its year-long investigation, which included interviews with government officials, leaders of intelligence and law-enforcement agencies, cyberweapons experts, business executives and privacy activists in a dozen countries, “shows how Israel’s ability to approve or deny access to NSO’s cyberweapons has become entangled with its diplomacy.” “Countries like Mexico and Panama have shifted their positions toward Israel in key votes at the United Nations after winning access to Pegasus,” the report stated. Amidst a raging controversy worldwide, Israel established a committee in July to review the allegations of misuse of the NSO group's surveillance software and hinted at a possible "review of the whole matter of giving licences". NSO's then chief executive, Shalev Hulio, had then welcomed the move saying would be "very pleased if there were an investigation so that we’d be able to clear our name”. Hulio also claimed that there was an effort “to smear the whole Israeli cyber industry".  Israel, in November last year, distanced itself from the controversy triggered by the NSO Group after the US blacklisted the technology firm, which had developed the Pegasus spyware, saying that it is a private company and it has nothing to do with the policies of the Israeli government. The US sanctioned the Herzliya-based company over alleged misuse of its phone-hacking spyware in countries across the world, including in India. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-spyware-and-missile-system-centrepieces-of-2-billion-deal-between-india-and-israel-report-1075856.html
29-01-2022||National||Modi govt hijacked democracy, deceived Parliament, duped SC: Opposition on Pegasus row||With the New York Times reporting that India bought the controversial Israeli spyware Pegasus, the Opposition on Saturday mounted an attack on Narendra Modi government with the Congress calling it a "brazen hijack of democracy" and "act of treason", besides claiming that they "duped the Parliament and misled the Supreme Court". Not just the Opposition, the Modi government also came under the radar of BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy who said the NYT report implied that the government misled the Supreme Court and Parliament and asked whether it was another 'Watergate' scandal. "Modi government must rebut New York Times revelations today that It did indeed subscribe by payment from tax payers money of ₹ 300 crores to spyware Pegasus sold by Israeli NSO company. This implies prima facie our Govt misled the Supreme Court and Parliament. Watergate?" Swamy said.  Modi government must rebut New York Times revelations today that It did indeed subscribe by payment from tax payers money of ₹ 300 crores to spyware Pegasus sold by Israeli NSO company. This implies prima facie our Govt misled Supreme Court and Parliament. Watergate ? Top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the Modi government bought Pegasus to spy on the primary democratic institutions, politicians and public. "Government functionaries, Opposition leaders, armed forces, judiciary all were targeted by these phone tappings. This is treason. Modi government has committed treason," he tweeted. Modi Govt bought Pegasus to spy on our primary democratic institutions, politicians and public. Govt functionaries, opposition leaders, armed forces, judiciary all were targeted by these phone tappings. This is treason. Modi Govt has committed treason.   Trinamool Congress termed it state-sponsored surveillance and said the BJP government was blatantly abusing the rights of Indians. “PM Narendra Modi’s little secret is out in the open after reports show that the Pegasus Spyware was the centrepiece in the USD 2 billion deal with Israel in 2017. SHAME!” Trinamool tweeted. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said Pegasus has been procured on public money to destroy India's democracy. "Spying on the Election Commission, political leaders, Supreme Court and Officers conducting sensitive investigations is a serious subversion of democracy. Unacceptable. This government must go," he tweeted. Yechury also said that the government should explain in an affidavit why it bought this cyber weapon, who gave the permission for its usage, how were the targets selected and who got these reports. The NYT claimed in its report that the Indian government bought the Pegasus spyware in 2017 as part of a deal with Israel, alleging that the government indulged in illegal snooping using the spyware which amounts to "treason". It also said the Israeli spyware Pegasus and a missile system were the "centrepieces" of a roughly $ 2-billion deal of sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear between India and Israel in 2017. Addressing a press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that it is now clear that the Modi government led by the Prime Minister himself "purchased the software, duped the Parliament, misled the Supreme Court, used public money to spy and snoop upon its own people, hijacked democracy in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and committed treason". Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge asked why the Modi government acted like the enemies of the country and used a warfare weapon against Indian citizens.  Why did Modi Govt act like the enemies of India and use a warfare weapon against Indian citizens? Surjewala claimed that the "shocking new expose" has now confirmed what the Congress has long asserted that Modi government is the "deployer and executor of the illegal and unconstitutional snooping and spying racket through Israeli surveillance spyware Pegasus and the Prime Minister is himself involved." Referring to Information and Technology Minister Ashwani Vaishnaw telling the Parliament that the reports of India’s Pegasus use as “baseless” and “highly sensational”, he said the government has "duped" the Parliament. He also cited responses to questions denying the purchase of Pegasus. He alleged that the Modi government misled the Supreme Court by claiming in an affidavit that the government “unequivocally deny any and all of the allegations made against the (Government)”.  Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge asked why the Modi government acted like the enemies of the country and used a warfare weapon against Indian citizens.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-hijacked-democracy-deceived-parliament-duped-sc-opposition-on-pegasus-row-1075858.html
29-01-2022||National||Tiger found dead; leopard dies during rescue in MP's Bandhavgarh reserve||A tiger was found dead, while a leopard died while being rescued in Madhya Pradesh's Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve, an official said on Saturday. The carcass of a tiger was found in the buffer area of Dhamokhar range on Friday and the leopard died in the core area of Panpatha range of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve, the official said. The exact cause of death of the big cat will be ascertained once the post-mortem report arrives, the reserve's field director B S Annigeri said. The officials had on Thursday night received information that a leopard was trapped in a fence in Panpatha range, he said. At that time, the doctors were away in Nauradehi Sanctuary to escort an elephant translocated there, the official said. The leopard was healthy, but it died while being released into the forest after the rescue, he said, adding that the animal might have died due to damage to the internal organs. Following post-mortem, the carcasses of both animals were disposed of as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tiger-found-dead-leopard-dies-during-rescue-in-mps-bandhavgarh-reserve-1075871.html
29-01-2022||National||Sonu Dariyapur gang member nabbed from north Delhi||A 22-year-old member of the infamous Sonu Dariyapur gang was arrested from north Delhi's Bawana after a brief exchange of fire with police, which left him injured, officials said on Saturday. Kuldeep alias Aslam, a resident of Pooth Khurd, was arrested based on a tip-off, they said, adding he was wanted in two cases of robbery and theft registered at the Bawana police station. The police said a country-made pistol, a live and an empty cartridge and a motorcycle, allegedly robbed, were recovered from his possession. A senior police officer said that based on the secret information a trap was laid in Bawana Sector-3 where the accused was intercepted on his motorcycle. As he saw the police, he fired a bullet which was retaliated by the forces with five rounds of fire before he was nabbed, the official said. Kuldeep has received a bullet injury in his leg and his condition is stated to be out of danger, the officer said. Kuldeep was previously involved in nine other cases and currently working on the direction of the Sonu Daryipur gang, facilitating it with stolen bikes, arms etc, they added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonu-dariyapur-gang-member-nabbed-from-north-delhi-1075891.html
29-01-2022||National||NGO urges Delhi CM to ensure proper arrangements for homeless||At least 106 homeless people have died in Delhi between January 1-19 due to the biting cold, an NGO has claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and urged him to make proper arrangements for them during winters. Citing official data, NGO Centre for Holistic Development (CHD) said the number of homeless people far outstrips the capacity of existing night shelters in Delhi. As per the latest Shelter Homes Occupancy Report of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), with the onset of the Covid pandemic, the total capacity of the shelter homes has been revised to 9,330 from the original capacity of 19,964. This has forced the homeless to spend the nights on the streets bearing the harsh weather, it said. “We are distributing sleeping bags and arranging accommodation for the homeless. We take them to the nearby rain baseras (night shelters),” said Sunil Kumar Aledia, founder of CHD. He suggested government departments like the Women and Child Development Department and Social Welfare Department should work in coordination with the DUSIB to ensure the welfare of the homeless people. Delhi based Wishes and Blessings is another NGO active in providing winter essentials to the underprivileged. The NGO distributes winter relief items to the homeless in three states -- Delhi/NCR, Jharkhand and West Bengal – and launched the eighth phase of its annual Winter Relief Project on December 20 last year. In the last seven years, it has reached out to more than 20,000 homeless and underprivileged people and provided them with shawls, blankets, jackets/sweaters, gloves and mufflers, socks and food. “We have increased the number of drives and the number of winter essentials. I made sure to personally visit some of the drives and always get overwhelmed witnessing the smiles on the faces of our beneficiaries. It is extremely important for all of us as fellow human beings to look after those who cannot afford warmth,” said Dr Geetanjali Chopra, Founder and President of Wishes and Blessings. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngo-urges-delhi-cm-to-ensure-proper-arrangements-for-homeless-1075894.html
29-01-2022||National||Disqualification proceedings against Sisir Adhikari, Raju gather pace||Disqualification proceedings against Sisir Adhikari and K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju have picked up pace with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla referring petitions against them by Trinamool Congress and YSR Congress respectively to the Privileges Committee. Adhikari, Lok Sabha MP from West Bengal's Kanthi, had quit Trinamool Congress to join the BJP in March 2021 in the run up to the West Bengal Assembly elections and party's Trinamool leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay petitioned Birla to disqualify him under the anti-defection law. Raju, a Lok Sabha member from Narasapuram in Andhra Pradesh, too had rebelled against the YSR Congress. He was speculated to join the BJP, prompting YSR Congress to move the Speaker for his removal in July 2020. A bulletin issued by Lok Sabha Secretariat on Friday said that the petition submitted by Bandyopadhyay, floor leader of Trinamool Congress in Lok Sabha against Adhikari, under paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution of India and Rule 6 of the Members of Lok Sabha (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules, 1985 was referred by the Speaker to the Committee of Privileges on January 11 for a preliminary enquiry. A similar petition submitted by YSR Congress Chief Whip Margani Bharat against Raju was referred to the Committee on January 27 for a preliminary inquiry. Adhikari and his son Suvendhu Adhikari had quit Trinamool Congress. Suvendu went on to defeat Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram and became the Leader of Opposition of West Bengal. Mamata, who went on to become the Chief Minister despite her loss, had to win in a bypoll to continue in the post, which she did. Post the elections, the relationship between the Adhikaris and the Trinamool has not been on good terms. With the senior Adhikari not resigning, Trinamool invoked the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution that deals with defection of MPs and their disqualification. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disqualification-proceedings-against-sisir-adhikari-raju-gather-pace-1075918.html
29-01-2022||National||Priyanka Chaturvedi calls SBI's pregnancy guideline discriminatory, writes to Sitharaman||The Shiv Sena on Saturday described State Bank of India guidelines which lay down that three-month pregnant candidates will be considered temporarily unfit and will be allowed to join work four months after delivery as discriminatory and demanded that they be revoked. In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the party's spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said the guidelines debilitated the progress made to empower women. She said the present guidelines, which allow the appointment of candidates up to six months' pregnant provided she furnishes a certificate from a special gynecologist, was brought forward in 2009. "The new proposed guideline delays the process of recruitment and promotion for women. This comes at a time when the state of India's female workforce has worsened. Such regressive and sexist guidelines will exacerbate the exclusion of women as well as the inequality faced by them," Chaturvedi said. As per the leading bank's guidelines for recruitment, candidates whose pregnancy is three months or more will be considered temporarily unfit and will be allowed to join within four months after delivery of the child. She said Sitharaman should direct SBI to recall the guidelines and also ensure such detrimental policies are not brought forward. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-chaturvedi-calls-sbis-pregnancy-guideline-discriminatory-writes-to-sitharaman-1075919.html
29-01-2022||National||‘Padma Shri’ Acharya Chandna: Jain sadhvi who walks non-conformist path towards spirituality||Religion is not just about taking god’s name and preaching compassion but about serving people, says Acharya Chandna, Jain sadhvi, change-maker and thinker who helped force a revolution by introducing the concept of “compassion in action” to those who have renounced the material world. Chandna, 86, was the first Jain woman to receive the title of Acharya in 1987 and is also the first first Jain sadhvi to be conferred the Padma Shri.       “I have always felt religion is not just about taking god's name and that is why sadhus and sadhvis could not physically contribute in making a difference to society. For me, religion is about striving to resolve the everyday challenges of people and bringing peace to their lives. It is about serving people rather than preaching about compassion," Chandna told PTI in a phone interview from Rajgir in Bihar. She embraced diksha (renunciation of the material world) when she was just 14 and has since broken many stereotypes, adding to the traditional Jain school of thought and also helping it evolve. Belonging to a small village in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district, Chandna is the driving force behind Veerayatan, a philanthropic organisation based in Rajgir with centres in several parts of the world, including the US, Kenya, United Arab Emirates, UK and Singapore. Veerayatan operates hospitals, schools, colleges and vocational training programmes. It has also initiated rehabilitation and emergency relief programmes in the wake of calamities such as the 2004 tsunami, the 2006 Surat floods and the Covid pandemic. Referring to her award, Chandna said, “This award is not for me alone. There are thousands of doctors, teachers, volunteers and people who have been working tirelessly to serve humankind, whether in the form of education or medical treatment or taking care of the poor and underprivileged.” “I am just part of the movement called Veerayatan,” added the spiritual guru who has been instrumental in transforming lives by providing education and medical care and has faced numerous challenges, including financial constraints and an attack by dacoits. Recalling the details, her colleague, Sadhvi Yasha said a group of women monks, including Chandna, were beaten and burgled by a group of 15-20 musclemen in the early days of Veerayatan. When police asked for details, Chandna refused to divulge any, saying they are the followers of Mahavir and have forgiven their attackers. Chandna, who once took a ‘maun vrat’ (a vow of silence) for 12 years to study Jain sculptures and different religions, chose Rajgir as the headquarters of Veerayatan in 1973.        “Dharma is incomplete without satkarma (good deeds).Religion accepts life in its entirety. To work towards getting rid of any physical or mental suffering is true religion. Service is no different from spirituality, service is spirituality,” she said. Explaining her non-conformist way of thought, Chandna added,“If a boy has fallen in front of me and I do not lend him a helping hand thinking that touching a boy is prohibited in my religion… I don’t believe in such a thought.” Humanity for her, she stressed, is the biggest religion and she will work for humankind till her last breath. “My vision has not changed and never will,” she asserted.            Chandna is at equal ease, delivering lectures on spirituality or Jainism in the US or working in the dusty grounds of Bihar surrounded by the poor and sick. Her day begins at 4 am and she works till late at this age too.        “I am happy with my life journey so far as I could bring a little change in people's life. I want to keep working hard till I am alive and want to inspire others too. I am 86 and I am so tied up that I don’t feel my age," said the sadhvi.       “I have never felt disappointed or let the magnitude of our work affect me or put me under pressure. I never lost my confidence and courage and people supported me in a big way," she said.        Chandna leads a dedicated team of highly educated sadhvis who have been assigned different duties or projects. Being a woman, was it very difficult to choose a nontraditional path being a woman? “I don’t think that women are inferior to men in any sense. Today, women are scaling new heights. Yes, initially I had to alter mindsets and gain the confidence, trust and belief of people to justify my work for the greater good. But gradually everyone supported us in our endeavour,” she said.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-shri-acharya-chandna-jain-sadhvi-who-walks-non-conformist-path-towards-spirituality-1075941.html
29-01-2022||National||Amit Shah to unveil mural of Mahatma Gandhi made from 'kulhad' cups in Gujarat||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will inaugurate a grand wall mural of Mahatma Gandhi made from 2,975 clay kulhads (earthen cups) at Sabarmati Riverfront here on Sunday, the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) said. The mural, commissioned by the KVIC, was put together by 75 potters brought here from across the country, a KVIC official said on Saturday. The event, which will mark the 74th Martyrs' Day, will also be attended by Union MSME Minister Narayan Rane and Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel. The KVIC has undertaken Kumbhar Sashaktikaran Programme for empowering potters, he said. Shah will also distribute electric pottery wheels to members of the potter community from his Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency on this occasion. The mural, measuring 100 square meters, has been created by arranging kulhads on an aluminum sheet to form the Mahatma's visage, said the official. It will be only the second of its kind in the country, the KVIC official said, adding that the first one is installed at Palika Kendra in New Delhi. In 2018, the KVIC had installed a large stainless steel `charkha' (spinning wheel) at Sabarmati Riverfront, which too was inaugurated by Shah.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-unveil-mural-of-mahatma-gandhi-made-from-kulhad-cups-in-gujarat-1075944.html
29-01-2022||National||Drone show at Beating Retreat ceremony marks end of Republic Day celebrations||A week of military pageantry ended on Saturday with a synchronised drone display showcasing India's homegrown tech industry, in patriotic celebrations marking a milestone in the country's independence history. A thousand aircraft flew in formation in the night skies above the capital New Delhi, flashing the saffron, white and green of the national flag, before rearranging themselves into a silhouette of independence hero Mahatma Gandhi. The light show closed a series of extravagant sunset troop manoeuvres for India's Beating Retreat, a music-filled drill ceremony for soldiers returning to base that has its origins in 17th-century British military tradition. It is staged each year three days after the country's annual celebrations to mark the anniversary of India's 1950 republican constitution. The event has special significance this year as the nation of 1.4 billion people prepares to mark 75 years since the end of British colonial rule in August. This year's Beating Retreat sparked a minor local controversy over the decision by PM Narendra Modi's government to drop the Christian hymn "Abide With Me" from the ceremony's featured songs. The hymn, said to be a favourite of Gandhi, was dropped because it was a sign of the country's colonial past, media reports said, quoting government sources. The song had been a permanent fixture of the ceremony since 1950. It has been replaced by a patriotic song dedicated to Indian soldiers who died in a brief border war with China in 1962. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drone-show-at-beating-retreat-ceremony-marks-end-of-republic-day-celebrations-1075966.html
29-01-2022||National||Externment an extraordinary measure, to be used sparingly, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has said that no order for externment can be passed against an individual for a maximum two year period without recording subjective satisfaction by the competent authority or it would result in imposing unreasonable restrictions on fundamental right of free movement.  In a judgment, a bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka said there cannot be any manner of doubt that an order of externment is an extraordinary measure and it must be used sparingly. "The effect of the order of externment is of depriving a citizen of his fundamental right of free movement throughout the territory of India. In practical terms, such an order prevents the person even from staying in his own house along with his family members during the period for which this order is in subsistence," the bench said. "In a given case, such an order may deprive the person of his livelihood. It thus follows that recourse should be taken very sparingly keeping in mind that it is an extraordinary measure," it added. The top court quashed an order of externment passed against Deepak from district Jalna on December 15, 2020, and set aside a Bombay High Court's order rejecting his plea against it. Petitioner Deepak here claimed the order of externment was a mala fide act at the instance of Narayan Kuche, a local Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) and his maternal uncle with the object of settling family disputes.  He also pointed out no reasons were assigned for externing him for a maximum period of two years under Section 56(1)(a)(b) of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951. The state counsel defended the order saying it was not necessary to pass a detailed reasoned order for it. The court, while allowing the plea of the petitioner, noted the order was passed an application of mind and recording of subjective satisfaction by the competent authority. "The order appears to have been passed casually in a cavalier manner," it said, adding the petitioner was not shown to be involved in any objectionable activity previously. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/externment-an-extraordinary-measure-to-be-used-sparingly-says-supreme-court-1075968.html
29-01-2022||National||Need to be vigilant despite fall in Covid cases: Mandaviya to eastern states||There is still a need to be vigilant and not lower the guard even though the active cases of Covid-19 in most of the states and the positivity rate have shown a fall in the last two weeks, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in an interaction with five eastern states on Saturday. State health ministers, principal secretaries/ additional chief secretaries and information commissioners of Odisha, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and West Bengal participated in the meeting, according to an official release. Mandaviya urged them to monitor the case positivity rate on a daily basis and increase the RT-PCR testing rate as most of the states exhibited a lower share of such tests. “While the active cases in most of the states and the positivity rate have shown a fall in the last two weeks, we still need to be vigilant and not lower our guard,” he stated. The states were also advised to keep a close watch on the number of hospitalisations and deaths. “It is important to analyse at the state level the proportion of vaccinated and unvaccinated of the hospitalised cases, the deaths and those on ventilators and oxygen support”, he advised them. Mandaviya said that irrespective of the Covid variants, 'test-track-treat-vaccinate and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour' continue to remain the tested strategy for Covid-19 management. He reiterated his advice for all states to fully and effectively utilise the ECRP-II funds for strengthening the existing healthcare infrastructure and create new as per requirement. As the located funds under ECRP-II shall lapse on March 31, 2022, states were requested to review the progress on a regular basis, as this healthcare infrastructure will not only be utilised during the present pandemic, but will serve the people in the future too. He reminded them to complete installation and commissioning of the PSA plants, LMO storage tanks and MGPS expeditiously. Noting that vaccination is a critical tool for pandemic management, Mandaviya advised the states to accelerate vaccination of all eligible populations, especially of the 15-17 age group and those whose second dose is due. Highlighting the importance of teleconsultation through platforms such as eSanjeevani, he suggested establishing teleconsultation hubs in every district hospital. He also mooted ramping up the creation of Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centers (AB-HWCs) at the earliest as it will help the masses and enable healthcare access to the remote areas of the country. These can be used not only during the ongoing pandemic but also for non-Covid healthcare, he said. There was a comprehensive and detailed discussion on various aspects of Covid management including ramping up of hospital infrastructure; increased testing, stress on Covid-appropriate behaviour and stringent restrictive measures for breaking the chain of transmission. The states shared their best practices at the review meeting. Jharkhand informed about collecting data of migrant workers for vaccination. Chhattisgarh mentioned that a proper analysis of vaccinated and non-vaccinated people who tested positive is being made, while Bihar highlighted their initiative of doorstep delivery of medicines to Covid-19 positive patients in home isolation through Speed Post. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-be-vigilant-despite-fall-in-covid-cases-mandaviya-to-eastern-states-1075976.html
29-01-2022||National||Rakesh Tikait opposes FSSAI's regulation on GM food||FSSAI's draft regulation on genetically modified foods found another opponent on Saturday with Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Rakesh Tikait rejecting the same and demanding prohibition of GM foods. Tikait's letter rejected GM technology in food and farming systems and asked FSSAI to withdraw the regulations came a fortnight after the RSS-affiliated Swadeshi Jagran Manch flagged its objections to the draft calling it a prescription for public health disaster.  SJM co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan had even alleged that the FSSAI's draft is "designed to create markets for the global GMO (Genetically Modified Organisms) and processed food industry" at the cost of public health. In the past SJM as well RSS's farm wing Bharatiya Kisan Sangh had opposed clearance to GM Mustard. A Parliamentary committee had dealt with the GM food issue in detail in 2017-18 and appearing before it ICMR had said that while GM crops are safe, it needs to be assessed case by case.  Bt Cotton is the lone GM crop under cultivation in India while Bt Brinjal had failed to get the government's clearance. In his missive to the CEO of FSSAI, Tikait said, "on behalf of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, we write to you to express our serious objections to the draft regulations on GMOs put out by the FSSAI.  After farmer unions and other citizen groups, as well as state governments, ensured that no GM food crops are allowed to be cultivated in India, and that risky field trials are stopped, we find that the regulations being proposed by FSSAI are just one more attempt to bring in unsafe and unwanted GMOs and GM foods into India." It alleged that the weak regulations allow for backdoor entry of GMOs and held that the draft regulations proposed by the FSSAI are certainly inadequate to ensure food safety. FSSAI had two months back sought public comments on the draft regulation on manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and import of any food or food ingredient derived from genetically modified organisms (GMOs). "Basing decisions in India on approvals given elsewhere is a complete mockery of the regulator’s responsibility to evolve regulation as per our own needs and requirements. The draft regulations have no mention of any independent and long term impact studies, that too in a comprehensive fashion. No market surveillance mechanisms have been proposed, nor is it clear who will be making decisions and with whose interests were kept in mind", the letter by BKU said. The letter further added, "We are aware of the scientific evidence on the health, environmental, and economic risks posed by GM technology. This is why GMOs have been rejected by India’s citizens, led by farmer unions such as ours, as we saw in the case of both Bt Brinjal and HT Mustard. Most of our state governments have also rejected GM technology. For farmers, the threat of corporate capture of our food system is too great. We see GM foods as a ploy by the biotech industry, especially when we have successfully managed to stall the commercial cultivation permission for GM crops in India. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakesh-tikait-opposes-fssais-regulation-on-gm-food-1075977.html
29-01-2022||National||Noted social activist Bandukwala passes away||Noted human rights activist and former professor of physics J S Bandukwala passed away in Vadodara on Saturday following a prolonged illness. He was 77.  A member of the People's Union For Civil Liberties (PUCL), Bandukwala, was known for fighting for justice for marginalised communities. He is remembered for taking up the cause of rehabilitating hundreds of Muslim and Dalit families in mixed localities in Vadodara against ghettoisation.  Despite having suffered in 2002 post-Godhra communal violence, he continued to stay in a mixed neighbourhood amidst Hindus and Muslims. The riots had led to a massive increase in segregation between both communities. A mob had attacked the locality and burnt his house in the riots.  "He had a massive cardiac arrest at his house when he was alone. He had age-related ailments," said Zuber Gopalani, a Vadodara-based social activist. He said that Bandukwala is survived by a son and a daughter who live in the United States. "He was a courageous, emphatic and a man of great integrity and empathy," a friend of Bandukwala described him.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noted-social-activist-bandukwala-passes-away-1075986.html
29-01-2022||National||Centre aims at industry integration with east, SE Asia: Official||The Centre seeks to ensure that industries, especially those located near the Bay of Bengal, become a part of the regional value chains that are in operation in the east and south-east Asia, a Ministry of External Affairs official said on Saturday. Such an integration is the best way to leverage the advantage of the North-eastern part of the country and foster rapid industrialisation, he said. “You are aware that economic integration with dynamic economies of ASEAN and East Asia region is the key pillar of the government's Act East Policy,” Joint Secretary, BIMSTEC & SAARC, Ministry of External Affairs, Rudrendra Tandon, said at an ICC organised virtual event. The Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) is an organisation comprising seven countries lying in the littoral and adjacent areas of the Bay of Bengal constituting a contiguous regional unity. The seven BIMSTEC members are Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Thailand. “With production technologies rapidly unbundling themselves, Indian companies cannot become world-class enterprises unless they are part of or at the centre of regional value chains,” Tandon said “Eventually, the factories will have to be based partly in India, and their subsidiaries and partners spread out in low-cost jurisdictions in contiguous neighbourhood BIMSTEC countries. All this will not be possible unless goods and services can move rapidly across national boundaries,” he said. Market access, trade facilitation and investment protection are the three most critical pillars of modern-day trade agreements, the official pointed out. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-aims-at-industry-integration-with-east-se-asia-official-1076018.html
29-01-2022||National||India's Covid vaccination coverage crosses 165.6 crore||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 165.6 crore with more than 53 lakh vaccine doses administered on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late tonight, the ministry said. Cumulatively, 53,96,51,188 first doses have been administered to those in the 18-44 age group and 40,19,58,479 second doses have been given in the same age group since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive, according to health ministry data. It said that cumulatively, 93,87,16,725 first doses have been administered while 70,57,49,826 second doses have been administered. India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 165.6 crore (1,65,60,85,526) on Saturday and more than 53 lakh (53,47,810) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm. In the age group of 15-18 years, 4,55,48,237 doses have been administered. More than 1,16,18,975 precaution doses for the identified categories of beneficiaries for vaccination have been administered so far. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late tonight, the ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it underlined.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-vaccination-coverage-crosses-1656-crore-1076023.html
29-01-2022||National||Gujarat sees sharp rise in daily Covid-19 deaths; cases fall below 12,000 for first time in two weeks||For the first time in nearly the last two weeks, Gujarat on Saturday reported less than 12,000 new Covid-19 cases while 33 patients died, the highest during the third wave, the health department said. With 11,974 new cases, the tally of infections mounted to 11,44,585 in the state and the death toll to 10,408. Gujarat had reported 10,150 cases on January 16 and 12,753 the day later. At 8, Ahmedabad district reported the highest number of new Covid-19 fatalities, followed by Rajkot, Surat and Bhavnagar which recorded five deaths each. Vadodara saw three deaths due to Covid-19, Anand and Valsad two each. Kheda, Jamnagar and Botad reported one death each. Gujarat's tally of active cases fell below one lakh to 98,021, the department said. With 21,655 patients being discharged in a single day, the number of recoveries in Gujarat rose to 10,36,156, it said. Ahmedabad district reported the highest number of 4,066 cases during the day, followed by Vadodara with 2,257 cases, Rajkot 982, and Surat 871 cases, among others. With 2.13 lakh more people receiving Covid-19 vaccination doses, the number of doses administered so far in Gujarat rose to 9.75 crore, the department said. The Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu reported 13 new cases and 33 recoveries. The tally of confirmed cases in the UT rose to 11,297 and recoveries to 11,185, leaving the UT with 108 active cases. It has reported four Covid-19 fatalities so far, officials said. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 11,44,585, new cases 11,974, death toll 10,408, discharged 10,36,156, active cases 98,021, people tested so far - figures not released. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-sees-sharp-rise-in-daily-covid-19-deaths-cases-fall-below-12000-for-first-time-in-two-weeks-1076024.html
29-01-2022||National||Students will have to fight unitedly against unemployment: Hardik Patel||Congress leader Hardik Patel on Saturday appealed to students to fight unitedly against unemployment in the country. He was talking to reporters at the gate of All India Sardar Patel Seva Sansthan, Alopibagh. "Today questions are being raised on youth unemployment in the country and in the entire state. The Congress is aggrieved to see the way youths are being thrashed with sticks, Patel said. He said that the Uttar Pradesh government has been trying to suppress the voice of the opposition, using police and the administration. "In such a situation, I appeal to the youth of the country to fight this battle unitedly. Today money is being collected in the name of employment, Patel said. "We are deeply saddened by the way police did not allow us inside this institution today. Tomorrow, we are also going to Varanasi and our efforts will continue to gather the youth of the entire state," he said. Patel and NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan were supposed to hold a meeting at Patel Sansthan but due to the imposition of Section 144 of the CrPC in the district, the administration did not allow it. A heavy police force was deployed around the institute's gate to prevent any untoward incident.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-will-have-to-fight-unitedly-against-unemployment-hardik-patel-1076043.html
29-01-2022||National||SC to consider listing PIL seeking to debar persons charged in serious offences||Days ahead of assembly polls in five states, the Supreme Court has agreed to consider listing for hearing a 2020 PIL for debarring persons against whom charges have been framed in serious offences from contesting elections. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana told petitioner lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay that it would consider his plea for urgent hearing of the PIL which has not been listed even once after it was filed in September 2020. The lawyer has been seeking a hearing on the PIL in view of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa that will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases with the counting of votes on March 10. Recently, the apex court has sought responses from the Centre and the Election Commission on another PIL of Upadhyay seeking a direction to seize the symbol or deregister a political party that promises or distributes “irrational freebies” before polls. Besides debarring persons against whom charges have been framed in criminal cases, the 2020 PIL also sought a direction to the Centre and the Election Commission of India (ECI) to take steps to restrain such candidates who are put on trial for serious offences. It claimed that despite recommendations of the Law Commission and the court's earlier directions, the Centre and the ECI have not taken steps in this regard. The plea said that out of 539 winners of the Lok Sabha election in 2019, as many as 233 (43%) declared criminal cases against themselves. The plea, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, added that there was an increase of 109 percent in the number of MPs with declared serious criminal cases since 2009, with one MP declaring 204 criminal cases against himself including cases related to committing culpable homicide, house trespass, robbery, criminal intimidation, etc. “What is alarming is that the percentage of candidates with criminal antecedents and their chances of winning have actually increased rapidly over the years," the petition said. “Criminals who earlier used to help politicians win elections in the hope of getting favours, appear to have cut out the middle-man in favour of entering politics themselves. "Political parties, in turn, have become steadily more reliant on criminals as candidates 'self-finance' their own elections in an era, where election contests have become phenomenally expensive, but also because candidates with criminal antecedents are more likely to win than clean candidates,” it alleged. It further alleged that political parties are competing with each other in a race to the bottom because they cannot afford to leave their competitors free to recruit criminals. “The injury caused to people is large because the criminalisation of politics is at an extreme level and political parties are still setting up candidates with serious criminal antecedents. Therefore, voters find it difficult to cast their vote freely and fairly though it is their fundamental right, guaranteed under Article 19,” it said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-listing-pil-seeking-to-debar-persons-charged-in-serious-offences-1076046.html
29-01-2022||National Politics||Trade unions postpone national strike against Modi govt to March 28-29||The general strike called by ten central trade unions against the Narendra Modi government scheduled for February 23-24 has now been shifted to March 28-29 following the third wave of Covid-19, upcoming Assembly elections and local polls in Odisha and Tamil Nadu. The decision to postpone the general strike "against the anti-worker, anti-people, anti-national policies" of the Modi government was taken at a meeting of ten central trade unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC -- held on Friday. Preparations for the strike had taken off in several states and sectors with joint state-level conventions and even district-level conventions having taken place in some states but some states informed about the constraints they are facing on preparing for the strike due to the third wave of Covid-19. The trade union leaders also considered the fact that the fourth phase of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections fell on February 23 as well as local body elections in Tamilnadu, Odisha and West Bengal around the same time. "Therefore the Joint Platform of the CTUs and Sectoral Federations/Associations have decided to defer the General Strike dates to 28-29 March, 2022, when the second phase of the Budget Session of Parliament will actually be in session," a statement said. The Joint Platform of central trade unions urged working people and their unions irrespective of affiliations to intensify the ongoing preparatory campaign and activities to make the General Strike a massive success to assert their pledge to "Save the People and Save the Nation from the destructive, anti-national policy regime". They also called upon workers and their trade unions in the election-bound states to "vigorously campaign for defeating the BJP government whose policies have forced the National Convention of Workers to give a call for two days countrywide strike". The demands of the ten central trade unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC -- include scrapping the Labour Codes, scrapping of Essential Defence Services Act, accepting the six-point charter of demands of the SKM, no to privatisation in any form and scrap the National Monetisation Pipeline, food and income support of Rs 7500 per month to non-income taxpaying households and increased allocation for MNREGA and extension of Employment guarantee Scheme to urban areas among others. It is also demanding universal social security for all informal sector workers, statutory minimum wage and social security for Anganwadi, ASHA, Mid-day-meal and other scheme workers, proper protection and insurance facilities for frontline workers serving the people in the midst of pandemic and an increase in public investment in agriculture, education, health and other crucial public utilities by taxing the rich through wealth tax in order to revive and revamp the national economy. Substantial reduction in central excise duty on petroleum product and concrete remedial measure to arrest price rise, regularisation of contract workers,  scheme workers and equal pay for equal work for all, cancellation of National Pension Scheme and restoration of old pension and substantial increase in minimum pension under Employees' Pension Scheme are also among the demands. In the run-up to the general strike, the unions and associations will organise state conventions, human chains, torchlight processions, signature campaigns, sectoral and area-based joint campaigns and agitation to expose the consequences of the "anti-worker, anti-farmer, anti-people, pro-corporate and anti-national destructive policies" by Modi government. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trade-unions-postpone-national-strike-against-modi-govt-to-march-28-29-1075929.html
29-01-2022||National Politics||SP government ran ‘tamancha’ factories in Uttar Pradesh, BJP building defence corridors: Yogi||UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday accused the previous Samajwadi Party government of adopting a model of the destruction of the state and developing only graveyards. “The SP government had set up factories for 'tamanchas' (country-made pistols) but we are getting defence corridors built in the state. We are building the grand Ram temple as well,” the chief minister said, addressing an ''Influential Voters’ Dialogue" programme here. “The Samajwadi Party only adopted the model of destruction and not the development of the state. During their time, the development was visible only in the graveyard. Nothing was built except boundary walls of cemeteries,” he alleged. There used to be migration of traders from western Uttar Pradesh earlier but there is no migration today as development is taking place there, he asserted. “They used to build their own bungalows but we built houses for the poor,” the chief minister said. Besides holding the dialogue programme, Adityanath also interacted with party office bearers and workers, in addition to teachers, advocates, doctors, traders and farmers in the Badaut assembly segment and said there had not been a single riot in the BJP government. Bulldozers were run on properties of anti-social criminals elements criminals, the chief minister asserted, adding the damage to people properties during riots too was compensated by his government. “Farmers did not get the price of their farm produce earlier and sugar mills stayed shut. The BJP government has done the work of providing the minimum support price to farmers,” he said. “The change has come now, Earlier they used to celebrate festivals only in Saifai but now a Deepotsav is celebrated in Ayodhya and Rangotsav in Braj, ” he said, adding the people of one family used to rig recruitments in the state before 2017. “The Saifai family used to swallow recruitment. Now recruitment takes place without recommendation and transaction,” he said, adding the earlier government’s sympathised only criminals. The chief minister also inspected the “Piku Center” and holding a six-month-old child in the district hospital in his lap for a long time, blessed him by placing his hand on his head. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sp-government-ran-tamancha-factories-in-uttar-pradesh-bjp-building-defence-corridors-yogi-1075965.html
29-01-2022||National Politics||India-Israel ties more important amid global changes, says Modi as Pegasus row returns||The importance of India-Israel relations grew even further with the changing global scenario, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, even as the opposition parties sharpened attack on his government for allegedly buying the Pegasus spyware from the NSO Group Technologies based in the Jewish nation in West Asia. “Today, when the world is witnessing important changes, the importance of India-Israel relations has increased even more,” Modi said in a video message on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Israel. “I am fully confident that the India-Israel friendship will achieve new milestones in mutual cooperation in the coming decades,” the Prime Minister added. The two nations celebrated the anniversary of establishment of diplomatic relations on a day the New York Times reported that the Government of India had bought the spyware called Pegasus from Israeli company NSO Group Technologies in July 2017 in order to carry out targeted surveillance on citizens. The investigative report by the New York Times triggered a political storm in India, with the opposition parties accusing the Modi Government that it had misled Parliament and the Supreme Court by denying its purchase of the spyware. The Modi Government had last year dismissed the allegation that it had used Pegasus for snooping on journalists, activists and politicians. There cannot be a better opportunity than now for setting new targets for mutual cooperation between the two nations, when India is celebrating 75 years of its Independence and Israel will do so next year and they are also observing 30th anniversary of establishment of their diplomatic ties, the Prime Minister said. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett also delivered a video message on the occasion. He said that India and Israel shared much in common. He said that the ties between the two nations were strong and would together grow stronger. Several monuments in India and Israel were lit up on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-israel-ties-more-important-amid-global-changes-says-modi-as-pegasus-row-returns-1075989.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi Police's prosecutor compares 2020 riots with 9/11 to attacks||Delhi Police prosecutor on Friday compared the alleged planning of the February 2020 riots to that of the 9/11 terror attacks in the US while opposing former JNU student Umar Khalid's bail plea.  Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad drew the parallels while accusing Khalid of organising a conspiracy meeting and supervising the site of protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. He said that a facade of secular protest was created whereas the protest was planned and tested.  Opposing his bail plea before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, the prosecutor said, "Just before 9/11 happened, when all the people were involved, they reached a particular place and took training. A month before that, they moved to their respective positions. That is what is relevant in this case also." He went on to say, "The reference to the 9/11 episode is very relevant. The person who was behind 9/11 never visited the US. The conspiracy meeting happened in Malaysia. There were not WhatsApp chats available at the time. Today we have documents available that he was part of the group. There is foundation to show that violence is likely to happen." He further told the court that the issue regarding the 2020 protests was not CAA or NRC but to embarrass the government and take such steps that it gets highlighted in international media.  "Issue was not CAA-NRC. The issue was you had to somehow embarrass the government. In the process of embarrassing the government, you take steps which will reflect in the international media," SPP Prasad said.  On the last date of hearing, the prosecutor told the court that all the protest sites were picked because of their proximity to mosques, but were purposefully given secular names.  Khalid and several others have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), a stringent anti-terror law, and are accused of being the "masterminds" of the riots which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. The arguments on their bail pleas have been going on for more than five months. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-polices-prosecutor-compares-2020-riots-with-9/11-to-attacks-1075769.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Significant dip in footfall at commercial, tourist places in Delhi due to pollution: Study||Footfall at popular shopping, commercial and tourist places in Delhi dipped by up to 33 per cent due to an increase in air pollution levels, a new study has shown. Climate-tech start-up Blue Sky Analytics and data analytics firm Near studied the impact of high pollution levels on footfalls in New Delhi's popular shopping, commercial and tourist hubs – Karol Bagh, Lodhi Gardens and Connaught Place over a period of six months, from October 2019 to March 2020. The period was further divided into weeks with 'Week 1' beginning October 1, 2019. The researchers compared footfall trends to rising pollution levels with air quality data provided by Blue Sky Analytics which uses machine learning and combines real-time ground observations from more than 250 Central Pollution Control Board air quality sensors with near real-time satellite data to provide a continuous spatiotemporal map for PM2.5 and PM10. In Connaught Place, one of the main commercial, financial and business centres in New Delhi, footfall dropped from around 17,000 a day to 14,000 a day between week 10 and week 14 when PM2.5 concentration rose to a high of 336 micrograms per cubic metre. In the densely populated Karol Bagh, a residential and commercial area and a popular weekend destination for locals and tourists alike, consumer footfall dropped by a massive 33 per cent in response to pollution levels increasing by 25 per cent in week five (early November). "The PM levels rose to 443 micrograms per cubic metre during week five and this could also have caused consumers to decide against travel," the report read. It underlined that Karol Bagh received more footfall from the 45-plus age group, hence a dip in footfall due to an increase in pollution levels was more noticeable. In Lodhi Gardens, a city park that offers over 90 acres of green walking space for local residents, footfall dipped from around 900 a day to around 700 a day from October end till mid-November, the study showed. Chief Executive Officer, Blue Sky Analytics, Abhilasha Purwar said, “Through this report, we hope to put a spotlight on the impact pollution has on consumer behaviour, health and commercial activity. We hope this study encourages both public and private governing bodies to strongly advocate the need for cleaner air and promote work on solutions to this crisis.” Shobhit Shukla, co-founder and president of Near, said, “With these insights, we hope to enable decisionmakers to take the right steps to better tackle the problem of air pollution while taking into consideration both social good as well as economic growth.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/significant-dip-in-footfall-at-commercial-tourist-places-in-delhi-due-to-pollution-study-1075867.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Centre to build 500 kilometres of roads in Ladakh||The Centre has targeted to construct 500 kilometres of rural road network in the Union Territory of Ladakh, under the third phase of Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), an official spokesman said on Saturday. The information was given at a meeting chaired by Union Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Giriraj Singh. The minister reviewed the progress of the implementation of PMGSY and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) with various state governments and Union Territory administration through video conference. Since the creation of the Union Territory of Ladakh in August 2019, 195 km of road has been constructed and blacktopped in Ladakh under PMGSY, providing connectivity to villages. An amount of Rs 149 crore has been spent during this period and an additional Rs 50 crore have been approved by the Centre under this scheme which will be released soon, Commissioner Secretary (Public Works Department) Ladakh, Ajeet Kumar Sahu, said. As the task of connecting eligible habitations with all-weather roads has been substantively completed, the Centre has now launched PMGSY-III which envisages consolidation of the existing rural road network by upgrading existing 'through routes' and 'major rural links' connectivity habitation with 'Gramin' (rural) agriculture markets, higher secondary schools and hospitals. Sahu informed the minister that against the targets under PMGSY-III, detailed project reports (DPRs) of 425 km of road network with an estimated cost of Rs 500 crore have already been sent to the State Technical Agency, empanelled by the ministry. He also requested the minister for early sanctioning of the DPR considering the short working season of Ladakh, the spokesman said. The official informed that innovative green technology has been used in constructing 84 km of the road which includes nanotechnology, cement stabilization and waste plastic. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-to-build-500-kilometres-of-roads-in-ladakh-1075875.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||MP: Dalit man gets police protection for wedding procession amid fears of disruption||A Dalit man's wedding procession was taken out under police protection after his family feared disruption by some influential people at a village in Madhya Pradesh's Neemuch district, police said on Saturday. The procession, called bindoli in the local language, was taken out on Thursday at Sarsi village under Manasa police station area, some 30 km from the district headquarters, an official said. The groom's father Fakirchand Meghwal had approached the administration with a complaint claiming that some influential people in the village might disrupt the wedding procession of his son Rahul, he said. Security was provided to the procession as a precaution, after the groom feared disruption, said Kanhaiya Lal Dangi, the in-charge of Manasa police station. "All security arrangements were made by the police and the procession was taken out peacefully. All villagers cooperated and there was no opposition. The villagers said that they all have been living harmoniously," Dangi said. However, the groom alleged that some villagers had threatened his father not to take out the procession or the family would have to leave the village. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Radheshyam Commander said that he had got information from Rahul Meghwal that he wanted to take out bindoli couple of days ago and he had spoken to the police and administration in this regard. Earlier this week, the police had arrested six persons after stones were allegedly pelted at the home of a Dalit bridegroom and ransacked in Sagar district after he took out a wedding procession, in an act seen as defiance against tradition, the police and family members said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-dalit-man-gets-police-protection-for-wedding-procession-amid-fears-of-disruption-1075905.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Gehlot sacks chairman of secondary education board in REET paper leak case||The Ashok Gehlot government on Saturday sacked the chairman of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, Ajmer, D P Jaroli, in connection with the paper leak during the teachers' recruitment exam (REET) in September. The suspension order of the Board Secretary, Arvind Kumar Sengwa, an RAS officer, was also issued by the department of personnel. The development came after a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday night. Irregularities in the conduct of Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) 2021 in September led to protests. The opposition BJP has been demanding a CBI inquiry in the matter. Gehlot in the meeting on Friday night also decided to constitute a committee headed by a retired judge of the high court to give suggestions for ensuring that papers leak incidents do not take place and exams are conducted in a fair manner, official sources said. Education minister BD Kalla, Minister of State for Home Rajendra Singh Yadav and senior officers were present in the meeting. The Special Operation Group (SOG) has arrested several persons in the case. It recently arrested Ramkripal Meena and Udaram Vishnoi. Meena was employed by the district coordinator for the purpose of security of papers at Shiksha Sankul in Jaipur. Shiksha Sankul is a building where the offices of the education department are located. Meena allegedly stole the paper from Shiksha Sankul and gave it to Udaram Vishnoi, who is accused of circulating the paper. After it was confirmed that the paper was leaked from Shiksha Sankul, the role of the board chairman, secretary, and other officers came under the scanner. When the irregularities in the conduct of exams had emerged in September, the state government had suspended one RAS and two RPS officers, 13 personnel of the education department, and three other policemen. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gehlot-sacks-chairman-of-secondary-education-board-in-reet-paper-leak-case-1075911.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Terrorists fire upon policeman in Jammu and Kashmir||Militants hurled a grenade on security personnel in the Maharaj Bazar area of the city here on Saturday, but there was no immediate report of any casualty, police said. At about 4:30 PM, terrorists lobbed the grenade targeting a team of CRPF and police personnel at  Maharaja Bazar Chowk here, a police official said. He said no loss of life or injury in the explosion has been reported. The area has been cordoned off and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers, the official said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-fire-upon-policeman-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1075928.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir orders for CID verification of all employees appointed after 2018||Amid reports that several “anti-national” elements have managed to get government jobs in Kashmir, authorities have ordered that CID verification of employees appointed after May 2018 is done at the earliest. Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, Pandurang Pole has directed deputy commissioners of all 10 districts of the valley to ensure that CID verification of new appointees is done as per the directions of the Jammu and Kashmir government at the earliest. Reports said the Jammu and Kashmir government has amended service rules which mandate that for those who join government services, their credentials must be verified by the Crime Investigation Department of police. As per the officials, the amendments in the rules of the service have been done to ensure that the credential of new appointees is checked beforehand. “There have been reports that several people, who were involved in stone-pelting and terror activities have managed their entry into the government service. To check this menace, the drive has been started,” they said. Last year the government terminated the services of over two dozen government employees, who were found, involved in ‘anti-national activities.’ The terminations were made under Article 311(2) (c) of the Constitution under which no inquiry is held and dismissed employees can only approach the high court for relief. The Jammu and Kashmir administration also ordered the premature retirement of eight employees of various ranks on charges of alleged corruption and misconduct in October 2021. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-orders-for-cid-verification-of-all-employees-appointed-after-2018-1075933.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Covid cases decline in Delhi, but containment zone count still over 40K||The number of Covid-19 cases reported in Delhi has reduced significantly in the last week from over 11,000 cases logged on January 22, but the containment zones count remains over 40,000, according to official data. A containment zone is created by authorities to check the spread of infection if at least three cases of coronavirus are recorded in a household or in a neighbourhood. The surge in Covid cases in Delhi during the third wave of the pandemic is due to the Omicron variant of the virus which is highly transmissible. Many families in a large number of neighbourhoods had tested positive, but medical experts have said that since the infection had happened at the same time, the recovery too will be quicker for the community as a whole, and there is less chance of more spread of infection as people are largely home isolated with a very little number of patients needing hospitalisation this time. According to official data shared by the Delhi health department, the number of containment zones in the city stood at 41,095 on Friday, a fall from 42,388 on Thursday. The number of containment zones on January 22 was 43,457 when 11,486 Covid cases were recorded. The number of cases has dropped in the last one week, with over 4,000 cases logged on Friday. However, the number of containment zones are still in the range of over 40,000. If a household or a neighbourhood is put under a containment zone category, then the movement of people in and out of that region is restricted. District officials had earlier said that emphasis was being laid on mirco containment to arrest the spread of the infection. While home isolation protocols have undergone a change in the recent past, the containment zone regulations still remain the same, authorities said. Sources in the district administration authorities in Delhi said the policy to manage containment zones is still the same, meaning, a zone can be put in a de-containment zone only after a 14-day period, to check the spread of infection. So, the number of positive cases may register a fall, but the number of containment zones can be expected to show reduction only after the passage of that stipulated time, they said. According to a senior government official, "The decontainment strategy has not changed which means that an area is decontained only after 14 days. If in a house there are three people who have been infected, and it has been declared as a micro-containment zone, it will be decontained 14 days from the day the last patient recovers. The number is high due to this reason." Delhi on Friday had reported 4,044 fresh Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths, while the positivity rate dropped slightly to 8.60 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. With this, the national capital's case count had increased to 17,64,41 and the death toll climbed to 25,769, according to Friday's bulletin.  The number of Covid-19 tests conducted on Thursday had stood at 47,042, it said. Delhi had on Thursday reported 4,291 cases with a positivity rate of 9.56 per cent and 34 deaths. The number of daily cases in Delhi has been on the decline after touching the record high of 28,867 on January 13. The city had recorded a positivity rate of 30.60 per cent on January 14, the highest during the ongoing wave of the pandemic. It took just 10 days for daily cases to drop below the 10,000-mark. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-cases-decline-in-delhi-but-containment-zone-count-still-over-40k-1075946.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Man rapes 18-year-old, circulates obscene video on social media in Punjab||A man has been arrested here for allegedly raping an 18-year-old woman and sharing her obscene video on social media, police said on Saturday. The alleged rape took place in a village in Punjab's Hoshiarpur district a few months ago, police said, adding the 22-year-old accused had befriended the survivor on a social media site. The youth, who belongs to a village under Chabbewal police station limits, had also recorded an obscene video of the woman and made it viral on social media a few days ago, said Station House Officer (SHO) Sub-Inspector Harprem Singh. He said the accused, Vishal Chaudhary, was arrested on Saturday under relevant provisions of the law and further investigations were on. The SHO said Chaudhary called the young woman to his house last year on some pretext and allegedly offered her a soft-drink laced with an intoxicant. As soon as she consumed it, she became unconscious and the accused allegedly raped her and recorded her obscene video. "Later, Chaudhary started blackmailing her and threatened to make the video viral. When the woman refused to meet his demands, the accused allegedly circulated her video on social media after which the police complaint was lodged," SHO Singh said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-rapes-18-year-old-circulates-obscene-video-on-social-media-in-punjab-1075948.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Congress demands apology from MP minister for 'fake father, fake chacha' Facebook post||The Madhya Pradesh Congress on Saturday demanded an apology from state higher education minister Mohan Yadav for reportedly uploading a Facebook post about "country's fake father and fake chacha" not being part of the recent Republic Day parade, an apparent reference to Mahatma Gandhi and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. MP Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta claimed Yadav's Facebook post, which has been removed since, said," Subhash Chandra Bose and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel were there in the parade of the Republic Day. Neither the country's fake father nor the fake chacha were there... Nor the iron lady, nor the inventor of the computer were there." “The parade had tableaux of Kashi Vishwanath and Vaishno Devi. It was a scene of Sanatan Culture. My country is truly changing and coming out from the clutches of the slaves of the Britishers, my country is truly turning Independent # Jai_Hind, Vande Mataram, Bharat Mata ki Jai," Gupta said quoting the now deleted post by Yadav. Gupta said it is not expected from the political heirs of a man who took Rs 60 from the British as pension to respect Independence. "Why will those people who stood witness against the great freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and dissuaded countrymen from joining Subhash Chandra Bose's army (INA) respect Independence? But we won't let them prevail. We are not going to sit quietly until RSS ideologue Yadav apologizes," Gupta said. If Yadav does not apologize, then he must be sacked from the MP cabinet, Gupta added. Hitting back, MP BJP spokesperson Pankaj Chaturvedi said the Congress was averse to the post as it mainly has praises for Kashi Vishwanath, Vaishno Devi and Sanatan Dharma, which were against the opposition party's appeasement politics. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-demands-apology-from-mp-minister-for-fake-father-fake-chacha-facebook-post-1075950.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Srinagar Police says no grenade attack in the city||Srinagar Police on Saturday claimed no grenade attack took place in the Maharaj Bazar area of the city here earlier in the day, saying the reports of the incident were a “rumour”. Earlier, officials had said militants hurled a grenade on security personnel at around 4.30 pm in the Maharaj Bazar area of the city, but there was no immediate report of any casualty. “There is rumour about grenade attack in Srinagar today at maharaja bazar/Mehjooj nagar. It is clarified that no such attack has taken place,” Srinagar Police wrote on Twitter later in the evening. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-police-says-no-grenade-attack-in-the-city-1075979.html
29-01-2022||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between security forces, militants in Pulwama district||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Acting on specific input about the presence of militants in the Naira area of Pulwama, in south Kashmir, security forces launched a cordon and search operation there, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting searches, the hiding militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated and an encounter broke out, the official said. The exchange of fire is going on and further details are awaited, he added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-militants-in-pulwama-district-1076020.html
29-01-2022||Opinion||What can we still do about the future of education?||The International Day of Education, designated by the United Nations, was celebrated globally on January 24th earlier this week. In India, the date was also marked as National Girl Child Day. Ironically, the government of India slashed six per cent of its expenditure on education in the 2021 Budget, from Rs 99,311 crores to Rs 93,223 crores, approximately three per cent of the total budget.  Global experts, including India's own successive National Education Policy (NEP), since 1968, opine that countries should spend at least six per cent of their budgets on education. One of the primary fallouts of this underinvestment is on the public education system, which about 248 million, representing more than half of India's children, attend. In contrast, Norway spends 6.7 per cent of its budget on education, New Zealand 6.2, the United Kingdom spends 6.1 per cent, and the United States spends six per cent. The Taliban took over the governance of Afghanistan in September 2021 and promised not to disrupt education in the war-torn country. It had been widely expected that one of the effects of the Taliban occupation would be education. They had proclaimed otherwise. After the initial posturing, however, the Taliban banned education for girls. In a Zoom-based interaction between girls in Mawoud, a learning centre in rural Afghanistan and Canyon Crest Academy in San Diego, the Afghan girls expressed their anguish on being born in this gender, as reported by the New York Times. This is but one example of how technology can help education, with or without the ongoing pandemic.  While I am not a proponent of the western-kids-teach-those-in-the-global-south, I realise that those in the global north seem to be more equipped technology-wise, at least when it comes to the hardware. Google may donate $7.5 million to UNICEF, and the World Food Program may question Elon Musk's tax contributions; the fact remains we need to hold each other accountable. Education must become the centrepiece of our social impact and what we expect from a more educated and equitable society. Statistics tell us that 88 per cent of girls and 91 per cent of boys attain primary education globally. This number falls to 66 per cent each at the secondary stage and finally to 41 per cent and 36 per cent, respectively, when it comes to tertiary or college education. The out-of-school per cent of boys and girls at the primary stage has climbed down from 57 per cent and 42 per cent to 32 per cent and 27 per cent, respectively, in the last twenty years. But we need to do more. We have tried the governments for a very long time. We have also tried non-governmental organisations for more than 70 years. This is the result we have. In 2000, the United Nations set itself a target of ensuring universal primary education to all children by 2015. It announced the new avatar of its Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in 2015, called Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), aiming to achieve the same target by 2030. That's thirty years and billions of dollars to ensure everyone can attend primary school. Many experts bet on the advent of Education Technology (EdTech) to herald a change in enrollment numbers. While the evaluations of such online companies may be in billions, and they may be employing thousands to entice the poor among us by shining a light on their children's future, we all know this is not a panacea. At best, EdTech can abet the education that is provided in person. The next Einstein will not emerge from online education after being coached on a smartphone. These EdTech giants can perhaps replace the coaching centres which have sprouted all over, but they cannot substitute the learning that should happen in a classroom. The largest employers in the world, the BigTech, those interested in changing the world must come together to change the futures of our children in countries like India and globally. Those conferred with the Padma awards, the CEOs of Microsoft and Alphabet (Google), can give back to the country, which provided them with the subsidised education and the opportunity to fly away. They have the platforms, and they know how to connect people. It is time we asked them to do more – not only for the people they employ but also for those for whom their own governments cannot do much. UNESCO estimates approximately 12 per cent of the students globally will not return to their schools after the pandemic finally ends. Can we not do something together to keep them out of harm's way by taking education to them? We may marvel at Sundar Pichai and Satya Nadella, among other Indian-origin CEOs and confer the coveted Padma Awards on them, much like on Indra Nooyi in the past. The next global CEO must be rooted in India, not foreign soil. (The author is a former Chief of Communications with UNICEF in New York, where he worked for more than a decade) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-can-we-still-do-about-the-future-of-education-1075806.html
29-01-2022||Opinion||The melody vs the gutter speech of UP's Kairana||Kairana, the small town in west Uttar Pradesh, has a glorious and melodious linkage to the most influential gharana of Hindustani classical music. The name, Kairana gharana, which thrives in Maharashtra and Karnataka, comes from the west UP town where the founder of the gharana, Ustad Abdul Karim Khan, was born in 1872. He is acknowledged as one of the artists who defined Hindustani classical music (he died in 1937). The journey of the gharana begins with the Ustad being employed as a court musician by the Gaekwads of Baroda. There he would meet Tarabai Mane, a member of the royal family, and the two fell in love. Because the family disapproved, they left the state and moved to Bombay (today, this would be called 'Love Jihad'). The couple would separate in 1922, but five children were born of that union, all accomplished musicians, particularly Hirabai Barodekar. The personal life of Abdul Karim Khan was colourful and, in every sense, a synthesis of the Hindu and the Muslim. He left a musical legacy that would travel to Maharashtra and the Hubli-Dharwad belt of Karnataka, where this great school of music is still nurtured. One of the most famous students of the Ustad would be Ramachandra Kundgolkar Saunshi, popularly known as Pandit Sawai Gandharva, who would, in turn, be the guru of Bhimsen Joshi and Gangubai Hangal, among others. As the anecdotes about great musicians go, Bhimsen Joshi is said to have once heard a recording of Abdul Karim Khan singing a thumri on the radio and would say that inspired him to want to pursue singing seriously. The same Kairana is often in the news for all the wrong reasons now that election season is upon us. On January 23, Union Home Minister Amit Shah made an important gesture in the ongoing Uttar Pradesh election when he arrived in Kairana that votes in the first phase on February 10. The second most important individual in the command structure of the BJP then went door to door to campaign. One may ask, why Kairana? Possibly because since 2016, Kairana has been part of the narrative of polarisation between Hindus and Muslims in the region, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its lawmakers claiming that about 250 Hindu families migrated out of Kairana due to fear of "Muslims and criminals". It is a highly contested claim. Kairana is currently part of the Shamli district that was created out of the Muzaffarnagar district: it is indeed a constituency with a substantial Muslim population. It's hard to get the demographics of the entire constituency, but Kairana town, according to data drawn from the 2011 Census, has an 80 per cent Muslim population. Presumably, the home minister went there because the narrative of "Hindu in danger" is essential to the BJP's strategy for the first two phases of voting in west UP, on February 10 and 14. This is the region with the highest percentage of Muslims in Uttar Pradesh. Kairana is also part of the belt severely hit by the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 that set Jats against Muslims. Link this up to the fact that three days after visiting Kairana, the home minister summoned the BJP's Jat leaders. At the meeting, he even suggested that the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), led by Jayant Chaudhary, has been misled into going into an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) and has chosen "a wrong home", implying that the doors of the BJP are open to that party. (The RLD is traditionally seen as the party of the Jat community).  But Kairana itself is a seat dominated by the Gujjar OBC community, and both the Muslim candidate of the SP and the Hindu candidate of the BJP are Gujjars who historically belong to the same clan and family, with one wing having converted to Islam. We can therefore see the glass as empty and imply that there is some great hatred among the Gujjars of Kairana. Or we can see the glass as half full and note that after posturing during elections, the two political clans of Kairana get back to living quite peacefully, side by side. As the locals say, "they are all related to each other".  Here is a quick wrap of the two political Gujjar Muslim and Gujjar Hindu "dynasties" of Kairana. The BJP candidate is Mriganka Singh, the daughter of the late BJP lawmaker Hukum Singh, who first raised the "exodus" question and later implied it was more about law and order than religion but there was a certain ambiguity in his positions. He became the MP from Kairana, winning in the 2014 wave that brought Narendra Modi to power.  But after his death in 2018, a Lok Sabha byelection took place that was won by Tabassum Hasan, who had also won that seat in the 2009 general election as a member of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). (She would lose to the BJP in 2019). Tabassum Hasan is the wife of the late Chaudhary Munawar Hasan, who is seen as the founder of the Gujjar Muslim political dynasty of Kairana. Before his death in 2008, he had been both an MP and an MLA from Kairana from the SP. The current candidate of the SP-RLD, Nahid Hasan, is the son of Tabassum and Munawar Hasan. He is also the sitting MLA and has cases against him under the gangster act that the family insist are all political. (Akhilesh Yadav has also stated that the cases against Nahid Hasan were all lodged by the current BJP regime). Nahid Hasan will be facing Mriganka Singh of the BJP, who has lost previous elections to him, but she gets the BJP ticket because father Hukum Singh was the only individual who could get the better of the Hasan family's apparent political dominance in the seat. Both families incidentally originally belonged to the same Khap about a century ago. Another interesting nugget is that when Tabassum Hasan won the byelection in 2018 as an RLD candidate, she was briefly the only Muslim MP from UP. In the current election, Kairana is considered a safe seat for the SP-RLD. It's a seat that has many stories to tell, some of hate but also those that invoke harmony in melody. (Saba Naqvi is a journalist and an author) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-melody-vs-the-gutter-speech-of-ups-kairana-1075826.html
29-01-2022||Opinion||The case for upgrading India-Bangladesh ICPs||The absence of adequate infrastructure is to blame for South Asia's appalling level of regional integration, which stands at just five per cent according to the World Bank. As a result, logistics costs have risen, raising the overall cost of trading in the region. Different types of border management infrastructure, such as Land Customs Stations (LCSs), Immigration Check Posts (ImCPs), and consolidated facilities, like Integrated Check Posts (ICPs), and other border-trade centres, help India's land border trade with Bangladesh.  The ICPs are land border entrance and departure points that house a variety of facilities, like customs, immigration, border security, and quarantine, among others, all inside a single facilitation zone. In 2019-20, the ICPs accounted for 40 per cent of India's entire commerce with Bangladesh. Status of India – Bangladesh ICPs Bangladesh is currently India's fifth-largest trading partner, with land trade accounting for almost 75 per cent of total trade. The four active ICPs located at Petrapole, Agartala, Sutarkandi, and Srimantapur handle most of this commerce. Two ICPs (in Agartala and Petrapole, respectively) were formally launched in 2013 and 2016, respectively. The ICP Petrapole is the largest land port in South Asia, located along the international boundary between India and Bangladesh. It is located about 80 kilometres from Kolkata, West Bengal's capital. In terms of trade and passenger traffic, Petrapole (India)-Benapole (Bangladesh) is a major land border crossing for India and Bangladesh. The ICP Petrapole is responsible for over 30 per cent of land-based traffic between India and Bangladesh. Since its launch in February 2016, it has seen a steady increase in passenger traffic, with an average of 2.2 million persons crossing the border post each year on both sides. The ICP Agartala is the most important international trading land port in northeast India, with an average of 80-100 trucks filled with various trade commodities arriving in Tripura from Bangladesh daily. On average, Rs 3 to 4 crore worth of trades takes place through the ICP Agartala. Impact and challenges By combining all relevant agencies under one roof and therefore significantly organising the processes, the ICPs have altered border crossings between India and Bangladesh. Cross-border transportation has grown easier and less time-consuming where the facilities are operational. Passengers at the checks in Agartala and Petrapole have reported better conditions. It is also important to overcome several existing problems at the India-Bangladesh ICPs that obstruct smooth connectivity. These issues include a lack of digitisation at both countries' ICPs, port limits due to a lack of cargo-handling infrastructure, and quarantine restrictions, among others. In particular, the lack of a mirror ICP infrastructure increases trade hurdles, limiting the convenience of conducting business. Way Forward The ICPs on the India–Bangladesh border show India's desire to provide world-class amenities at the border checkpoints to boost trade and connectivity with its neighbour. The Agartala and Petrapole ICPs have resulted in significant progress, but there is still much more work to be done. The government may learn from current ICPs to avoid repeating their weaknesses and, as a result, improve those that are still being constructed. Effective ICPs will be critical for India's trade and connection with Bangladesh in the future. As a result, India must concentrate on modernising facilities on a regular basis.  (The writer is an independent researcher of South Asian affairs) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-case-for-upgrading-india-bangladesh-icps-1075828.html
29-01-2022||Right in the Middle||A privileged life||The most popular male in the community I live in is Litchi. No; he is not a new neighbour nor is he the Zumba instructor who comes in twice a week. Litchi is a dog. Of unknown breed and pedigree, to me at least, but I would not be surprised if it turns out that he was sired by a king. Because any mention of Litchi on our WhatsApp group evokes the highest number of character certifications and votes anyone has garnered. Like ever! To quote, he is ‘a darling’, ‘the gentlest, kindest, most non-reactive creature’, ‘a gentle and loving baby’ and ‘a beautiful soul’. I can’t recollect a time when any human being, living or dead, evoked as much passionate support from the ladies of our community as did Litchi when his habit of walking around without a leash was put under the spotlight. The outpouring of affection and praise for him warmed my heart and made me feel very amenable towards him. With that sort of approval rating, I knew he would be a shoo-in for the post of Permanent President of our Society. I thought to nominate him but thankfully, I reconsidered the wisdom of my suggestion. Given that Litchi had grabbed more than his fair share of love and tolerance that people earmark for their neighbours, I expected that my unsolicited remark would earn me considerably less than my due. And possibly even a few brickbats. I would probably be condemned as an uncaring savage. In the face of the strong advocacy that even the snakes, rats and scorpions around us generate, best not to make Litchi the butt of any joke, however feeble it might have been in the first place. Litchi, of course, was a dog, a species that ranked much higher on the food chain, even in my eyes than our reptilian and rodent cohabitants. I knew I wouldn’t stand a chance if I took him on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-privileged-life-1075681.html
29-01-2022||Second Edit||Act resolutely on ties with Central Asia||Building on earlier meetings with Central Asian national security advisers and foreign ministers, India on Thursday hosted the first-ever virtual summit with the Presidents of the five countries in the region. Such an initiative was long overdue. Central Asia is rich in resources, including oil and natural gas, and offers India markets. Importantly, cooperation with this region is key to our national security and strategic ambitions. The Central Asian Republics border Iran, Afghanistan and China. For any Indian initiative in Afghanistan to be successful, Delhi needs to have the Central Asian countries on board. The just-concluded virtual summit is therefore a welcome stepping up of India’s attention to them. Recognising their shared perceptions of the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and the threat that State-backed terrorists pose to their security, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan decided to set up two Joint Working Groups on Afghanistan and the Chabahar port project. The JWG on Afghanistan will help India coordinate its strategies and step up humanitarian and other aid to Kabul, evolve a consensus on dealing with the Taliban as well as cooperate in tackling security concerns. The JWG on Chabahar is meant to boost Indian trade with Central Asia, even as it strengthens ties with Iran and Afghanistan. India’s outreach to landlocked Central Asia was hamstrung for decades by Pakistan’s refusal to allow it overland access to Afghanistan and onward to the Central Asian countries. Still, this is no justification for what until now have been weak ties with the region. It is Delhi’s confused ties with Iran that has undermined its Central Asia policy. Without strengthening cooperation with Iran, India’s aspirations of building bonds with Central Asia will remain a non-starter. India’s outreach to Central Asia will face competition from China. Beijing’s trade with the region is worth tens of billions of dollars, compared to India’s measly few billions. China does not encounter the kind of geographical or financial obstacles that India faces in dealing with the region. However, resentment against China’s overbearing influence is growing. The region is looking to reduce dependence on Beijing. This provides India an opportunity. Hitherto, Delhi has not persisted in transforming its stated interest in Central Asia into co-operation on the ground. It has resulted in India not having enough options in crafting its strategy vis-à-vis Afghanistan, especially in the wake of the fall of the Ashraf Ghani government. It is time for Delhi to act more resolutely to build strong equities in this region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/act-resolutely-on-ties-with-central-asia-1075677.html
29-01-2022||South||61-year-old man in TN cracks NEET but misses seat on technical grounds||Retired Tamil Nadu teacher K. Sivaprakasam cracked the NEET with the 349th rank, under the 7.5 per cent government school student quota, but was rejected on technical grounds. Officials said that Sivapraksam had completed the Pre University Course (PUC) system which was later abolished by the Tamil Nadu government and this led to his disqualification. The 61-year-old retired zoology teacher was undecided on taking the seat or not as his son advised him against it as it would mean a young aspirant would be deprived of the seat. Sivaprakasam was called for counselling on Friday under the government school student quota. There are 437 seats under the quota and Sivaprakasam would automatically have got the seat but for the PUC issue. Talking to IANS, he said: "I was in two minds on whether to take the seat or not as my son who is house surgeon at Kanyakumari Government Medical College had advised me not to take the seat as it would mean losing the opportunity of a young boy." He said that he always wanted a young boy to get the seat and that he was happy that he had cracked the NEET. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/61-year-old-man-in-tn-cracks-neet-but-misses-seat-on-technical-grounds-1075761.html
29-01-2022||South||Kerala CM reschedules his return from US: Reports||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who was scheduled to return from the US after his treatment on Saturday, will now spend few days in Dubai before heading home, as per sources. According to sources, instead of Kerala, now he will land in Dubai on Saturday. There was no mention of his change of plan even when he presided over the on-line cabinet meeting a few days back. As per reports, after a few days' rest, Vijayan will inaugurate the Kerala pavilion at the ongoing Expo in Dubai and he is understood to have lined up meetings with the top echelons of power in the UAE. Contrary to reports, it was not his personal assistant but a young bureaucrat from his office who had accompanied the CM and his wife to the US. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-reschedules-his-return-from-us-reports-1075841.html
29-01-2022||South||Kerala HC asks actor Dileep, his aides to handover 6 mobiles for probe||The Kerala High Court on Saturday ordered actor Dileep and others accused in the case pertaining to hatching conspiracy to murder police officers to surrender their mobile phones. Even as the actor raised objections against the demand of the investigation team for the mobile phones, the court rejected the objections and asked Dileep and the others accused to surrender six mobile phones. Dileep's counsel even raised suspicions over the ongoing investigation and also stated that the actor himself had sent the phones for forensic examination by experts in Mumbai to ensure that the data in it was not tampered with. But the court rejected the contention as the police maintained that it was for them to subject the phones to forensic examination to collect evidence. The court directed Dileep and others accused to hand over the phones to the High Court registrar by Monday. The police maintained that Dileep and the others accused, who are his close relatives and friends, changed their mobile phones by January. It was suspected that those phones were used hatching the conspiracy to attack and even kill police officers who probed the actor's assault case. Dileep filed an anticipatory bail plea maintaining that the fresh case against him was a ploy of the police to delay the ongoing trial in the actress assault case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-asks-actor-dileep-his-aides-to-handover-6-mobiles-for-probe-1075869.html
29-01-2022||South||Congress seeks Yechury's intervention in Kerala Lokayukta tweak||With the Congress, BJP and ruling Left ally, Communist Party of India (CPI), all slamming the manner in which Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan decided to tweak the Lokayukta guidelines, the Congress on Saturday wrote to CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury to intervene in the matter. Congress also asked the state government to refrain from moving forward with this extremely regressive legislation that will render the Lokayukta toothless. Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan, who wrote a three-page letter to Yechury, said that Congress has always been appreciative of the progressive stance taken by the latter and the CPI(M) on the need for "strong" and "effective" Lokpal and Lokayuktas to tackle the scourge of corruption. "Please recall that during Rajya Sabha debates on the Lokpal Bill in 2011 and 2013, you (Yechury) had vehemently argued for the need to make the Lokpal autonomous, transparent, comprehensive and independent of political control. Bringing corporate houses and foreign-funded NGOs under Lokpal's purview, electoral reforms, and bringing the CBI under Lokpal's purview to free it from the clutches of political masters, were some of the noteworthy and laudable suggestions you (Yechury) made during those discussions," Satheesan's letter added. He pointed out that through articles in its mouthpiece and documents published, the CPI(M) has also argued for vesting Lokpal with quasi-judicial powers and keeping the institution free from legislative and executive interference in strict adherence to the division of powers that forms the basic structure of the Constitution. It also insists on the state governments to accept and act on the decisions of the Lokayukta. The editorials also urge other parties to display the level of political morality shown by the CPI(M) to combat the menace of corruption, Satheesan added. "Unfortunately, the proposed ordinance to amend the Kerala Lokayukta Act, 1999, is in stark contradiction to the progressive stance taken by your (Yechury's) party and your good self on strengthening Lokpal or Lokayukta to combat corruption. Furthermore, the ordinance puts the political morality of the CPI (M) at stake and would reduce the bold and strong stance taken by your good self and the CPI (M) to mere political rhetoric to eyewash the common public," says the Leader of Opposition. Satheesan points out that the Lokayukta was floated by former Kerala Chief Minister and CPI(M) leader E.K. Nayanar in 1999. He adds that the proposed amendment, which was rushed through as an ordinance, gives the competent authority whether the Governor, Chief Minister or the state government the power to either accept or reject the Lokayukta's decision. This amendment literally removes the Lokayukta "tooth and nail". During the Lokayukta's 22-year history, it has only issued one ruling citing Section 14 of the Act, directing former Kerala Minister K.T. Jaleel to quit office in 2021. The Lokayukta ruling was upheld by the Kerala High Court and the Supreme Court, establishing that Section 14 is in conformity with the Indian Constitution," said Satheesan. The Leader of Opposition points out that with the Kerala Assembly session slated for February and no compelling reason to amend the 22-year-old statute, the hastiness in bringing this ordinance is suspicious. "There seems to be no other reason except that the Lokayukta is about to take up cases against the Kerala Chief Minister and the Higher Education Minister. It is clear that this amendment is a shield to guard against any unfavourable decisions from the Lokayukta. The Lokayukta was the only tool left to question the Executive's corruption and nepotism. However, rendering the Lokayukta toothless will only serve as a catalyst for corrupt public servants to engage in widespread corruption. I, therefore, request you to intervene in this matter and direct the state CPI(M)-ruled government to refrain from moving forward with this," the letter added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-seeks-yechurys-intervention-in-kerala-lokayukta-tweak-1075872.html
29-01-2022||South||Move to engage only Brahmins for temple duty in Kerala revoked ||A decision of the Guruvayur temple authorities to recruit only members from the Brahmin community for cooking and serving food at the Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple in Kerala was revoked following widespread criticism. The Guruvayur Devaswom Board that manages the famed temple decided to appoint only Brahmins for cooking and serving food as part of the upcoming temple festival. Notices were also issued inviting quotations for the same. But the move invited severe criticism from various quarters forcing the authorities to cancel the tender. Devaswom Minister K Radhakrishnan's office informed that as soon as the minister came across the matter he intervened to drop the move. It was also decided to do away with the practice of serving food during the festival this time as the festival would be conducted by following Covid-19 protocol. Sources said that such a practice has been followed for several years. "This time some left fellow travellers who came across the matter had voiced their protest on social media. This prompted the government to revoke the decision," they said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/move-to-engage-only-brahmins-for-temple-duty-in-kerala-revoked-1075934.html
29-01-2022||South||Covid-19: Schools, colleges in Telangana to reopen on Tuesday||The Telangana government has decided to reopen the educational institutions in the state from Tuesday. Schools and colleges were earlier asked to extend the Sankranti holidays till the month-end, as the new Covid-19 cases were rising across the state. On Saturday, education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy said that the institutions are allowed to function physically from 1 February, but follow all the Covid-19 rules and regulations strictly. According to the state health department, new daily Covid-19 cases have remained below the 5000 mark in Telangana even as over one lakh tests are being conducted every day. The new positive cases reported on Friday was only 3,877 when 1,01,812 samples were tested for SARS-CoV-2. Except for keeping the schools, colleges shut, the K Chandrasekhar Rao government has not initiated any other measures to contain the virus spread like night curfew. States like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan are also reopening their schools and colleges from next week. The Rao government has asked the health authorities to speed up vaccination of the teenagers by measures like special drives in the educational institutions. Till Friday, Telangana could complete the first dose vaccination of only 64 per cent of the over 18 lakh children, adolescents in the 15-17 age group. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-schools-colleges-in-telangana-to-reopen-on-tuesday-1075959.html
29-01-2022||South||TRS MPs to meet on Sunday to chalk out party's strategy for Budget session of Parliament||Telangana Chief Minister and ruling TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao would hold a meeting with TRS MPs on Sunday to finalise the party's strategy for the Budget session of parliament. Rao would give directives to MPs over fighting for the state's rights in both Houses of Parliament during the Budget session, TRS sources said on Saturday. Reports on the state's issues pending with the Centre would be handed over to the MPs, they said. The meeting, to be held at Pragati Bhavan here, which is the CM's camp office-cum-official residence, would be presided over by Rao. TRS has nine members in Lok Sabha and six members in the Rajya Sabha. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-mps-to-meet-on-sunday-to-chalk-out-partys-strategy-for-budget-session-of-parliament-1075963.html
29-01-2022||South||Covid was a tough battle, but we fought well: Kerala's ex-health minister Shailaja||Kerala's former Health Minister K K Shailaja was leading a "night walk" of women through a city street as part of a government campaign on a crucial day two years ago when the alarming message was passed on to her via phone. One of the medical students from the state, who was in quarantine after arriving from Wuhan in China, the epicentre of the novel coronavirus during the first wave, tested positive for the infection-- a first such case in the entire nation. Though the message was quite disturbing, the seasoned politician regained her composure and began exploring options to quickly reach Thrissur, over 275 km away from here that night itself somehow as the affected woman was admitted to a hospital there. Almost two years since the country's first confirmed Covid-19 case reported in Kerala, Shailaja, who won global acclaim for leading the state in effectively managing the disease, said the night of January 30, 2020, was crucial for her as health minister. From managing to get an air ticket last minute to reach Thrissur and convening an emergency midnight meeting of doctors and health officials there to boosting the confidence level of the team members and briefing the media about the first case-the job was quite hectic, she recalled. "The outbreak of Nipah virus was actually an eye-opener for all of us...After that, we were mentally prepared to fight any such infectious diseases in future. I think we could evolve a good disease management strategy and execute it well, which helped contain the spread of the disease effectively during that stage," she told PTI in an interview. Shailaja was the face of Kerala's fight against Covid-19 during the initial phase. A legislator from Mattannur constituency now, the former minister said even days before the Centre issued guidelines and protocols in identifying and containing the disease, the state commenced its preparations to fight the possible outbreak of the disease. She said the news of the global spread of coronavirus came at a time when the state health department was about to conduct a state-wide mock-drill in all government and private hospitals for gauging preparedness to tackle Nipah. "When I came to know about the new virus, I directed the drill giving thrust on that infection. Others may laugh at me if I say we even opened a control room here as we came to know that Wuhan was the epicenter. Because we were aware that several Keralite students were pursuing their higher education in the Chinese province," she said. An expert group was formed under the control room and team leaders were identified and given distinctive responsibilities to tackle the new virus, if it was reported in the state, she said. Days before other states came up with an action plan, the Kerala Health Department deployed trained personnel in all four airports of the state and began checking the temperature of passengers arriving from abroad at their newly set up health desks there. "We had only some infrared thermometers and other related equipment for the purpose. As no case was reported anywhere in the country, no central guidelines were in place. Thus, three persons, who arrived from Wuhan on January 27, were found to have slight fever," Shailaja said. Among the trio, who had been put under hospital isolation, one student was tested positive on January 30, 2020. After reaching Thrissur by 12:45 am, the minister, who was accompanied by two of her cabinet colleagues and health secretary, conducted an emergency meeting of doctors and senior health officials of the district at the government medical college. Later, she confirmed to the media, who had gathered at the hospital premises in the wee hours, about the reporting of the first Covid case in the country. "The following days and weeks saw countless meetings, relentless planning and efforts to control the spread of the infection. It was really a tough battle but we fought it well through meticulous planning and collective action," the ex-minister said. All taluk and district hospitals were directed to keep an adequate number of isolation beds ready for Covid emergency and 100 beds in medical colleges in the initial phase. Decision to buy and stock an adequate amount of PPE kits was taken and training to wear protective gadgets was started immediately. Several rounds of online meetings of head nurses, ASHA workers and other health workers were conducted every day across the state to coordinate the medical treatment, surveillance, quarantine and also to boost their morale. On the psychological impact of the disease, Shailaja said the first Covid patient, the woman from Wuhan, was very calm and bold even after knowing that she had contracted the virus. "As she was a medical student, she was aware of the disease. She was shifted from the district hospital to the medical college in the early hours. When I talked to her over the phone, she said she was feeling ok and had no severe symptoms." But, there were persons who got thoroughly disturbed due to the mandatory quarantine and isolation like a Ranni-based family that arrived from Italy and tested positive for the virus, she recalled. Stressing that the fight against the disease was a collective effort in the state, Shailaja said there were hundreds of doctors, nurses and health workers who set aside their personal affairs to take part in the mission to contain the infection. "I met a nurse at the district hospital in Kasaragod when Covid was at its peak. When I said I was aware of their personal problems as they were unable to take leave, she reassured me and said she had taken permission from her family to work overnight due to the current situation....," she said, lauding the healthcare worker's undying spirit. The coordination of various government departments under the leadership of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the whole-hearted support of the finance department despite the cash crunch played a key role in the battle against the pandemic, the woman leader added. Noting that the most important thing in checking the spread of an infectious disease was to trace its source and isolate the affected people, she said those persons, put under isolation, should never feel that they are abandoned. "Trace, quarantine, test, isolate and treat...that was our mantra. Even though the WHO guidelines gave thrust on the test, we thought isolation and quarantine were also important. I feel that helped us contain the infection spread effectively," Shailaja added. The state adopted a strategy to delay the peak of the first wave and took all possible steps to equip the health system to face any emergency during the gap, she explained. Kanpur IIT had predicted 50,000 cases during the peak but the collective efforts helped the state to flatten the curve even though a second wave followed it, she said adding that her tenure as minister had ended by the time. Though 2020 was Covid year, the death rate was 8 per cent less in Kerala compared to 2019, according to the Excess Death analysis conducted during the end of the year. The lesser number of deaths was reported only in 7 places across the world during the period and one among them was Kerala, she said adding that the striking achievement was made possible through the containment strategy adopted during the time. It was also a reply to the opposition who had alleged that the state was covering up the actual figures of the Covid death, the ex-minister added. On the super spread of Covid in the state, she said the testing facilities should be decentralised and the primary healthcare system should be further strengthened to overcome the crisis. Shailja also said steps should be taken to ensure that every single person displaying symptoms, should undergo a test. Hailed as 'rockstar health minister' by the global media for her able leadership, effective crisis management and mature intervention in arresting the first wave of Covid-19 in the state, Shailaja's non-inclusion from the present Left government cabinet evoked widespread criticism. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-was-a-tough-battle-but-we-fought-well-keralas-ex-health-minister-shailaja-1075971.html
29-01-2022||South||MDMK chief Vaiko tests positive for Covid-19||MDMK general secretary Vaiko has tested positive for Covid-19 and he has isolated himself at his residence here, party sources said on Saturday. Vaiko, a Rajya Sabha MP, had symptoms like fever and headache since January 24 and a test confirmed that he has been infected with coronavirus. The 77-year-old party chief has isolated himself at his home and he is being treated for the infection, sources said. Elected in 2019 to the Rajya Sabha, this is Vaiko's fourth term in the upper House. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mdmk-chief-vaiko-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1075992.html
29-01-2022||South||Cong leader Ramesh Chennithala seeks appointment of prosecutor in tribal man lynching case||Senior Congress leader and MLA, Ramesh Chennithala, on Saturday sought appointment of a special public prosecutor in the case connected with the lynching of tribal man Madhu at Attapady in Palakkad district in February 2018. Chennithala, in a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, alleged that the government was sabotaging the trial in the case to help the accused. He said it was a shame that the trial court had to ask for the prosecutor in the case. "The government is trying to sabotage the trial in the lynching case of a tribal youth and in turn trying to help the accused. The government should immediately appoint a prominent lawyer as the Special Public Prosecutor for the proceedings in the case and take necessary steps to ensure punishment for all the accused," Chennithala said. The prosecutor in the case failed to appear before the court on January 25, the date of hearing, following which the court enquired about the absence of the lawyer. Sources from the government told PTI that this was the second prosecutor appointed in the case as per the demand of Madhu's family. "The first prosecutor, as suggested by the family of Madhu, was removed as he made some unacceptable demands including exorbitant salary, a separate office, a high-ranking official as his assistant among other things. Later a retired district judge was appointed but he was unable to appear due to a surgery and later the pandemic-related issues," the sources said. However, the trial of the case that happened in 2018 was yet to begin. Police had on May 23, 2018, filed the charge sheet in the case connected with the lynching of Madhu at Attapady on February 23, 2018. All the 16 persons arrested in connection with the case has been charged with various offences including murder. The 440-page charge sheet was filed at the Special court for crimes against SC-ST at Mannarkad in Palakkad. The 27-year old Madhu was lynched after a mob accused him of theft of some food articles from a shop in the area. The incident had triggered widespread condemnation and protest from different quarters. The post-mortem report had shown that he was beaten up and two of his ribs were broken in the attack. An amount of Rs 10 lakh was given to Madhu's mother from the Chief Minister's Relief fund. Chandrika, the youngest sister of Madhu, was among the 74 tribal youths appointed through special recruitment in the police force as part of the government's efforts to empower people from the marginalised sections. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cong-leader-ramesh-chennithala-seeks-appointment-of-prosecutor-in-tribal-man-lynching-case-1076019.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka beats Maharashtra, tops country in active Covid-19 caseload||On Thursday, for the first time, Karnataka recorded the country’s highest active Covid caseload, higher than Maharashtra’s, something that was not seen even during the devastating second wave. The state had 3,28,711 active cases, much more than Maharashtra’s 2,87,397. On Friday, this trend continued with Karnataka’s active case load at 2,88,767, eight per cent more than Maharashtra’s 2,66,586. As of Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry, 27 districts in the state had a weekly test positivity rate (TPR) more than 10 per cent. Only three districts had weekly TPR between 5 per cent and 10 per cent. Bringing down the TPR is difficult now especially after Thursday’s circular about the state aligning with ICMR’s testing norms of not testing asymptomatics. This means fewer tests and hence, higher TPR. Health Commissioner D Randeep said that over 80,000 cases were reported over the past seven days and hence, they would have been inactive by now. “They would be shown as recoveries over the next two days. Hence, effective active case load is only 2.5 lakh. What would be more closely followed is the hospitalisation rate and case fatality rate (CFR), both of which are low,” Randeep said. Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) chairman Dr M K Sudarshan, explaining the reasons for the state topping the active Covid case load in India said, “We have the highest testing rate, and robust reporting of cases compared to other states. Besides, over 80 per cent to 90 per cent are asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic. Hence, a majority are under home isolation. Very few are in Covid care centres.” Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, asked about the reasons for the high caseload, said, “Since the virus has been found more transmissible but less severe in the third wave, our focus is on triaging and constant monitoring of Covid patients under home isolation though tele-counselling and home isolation visits.” In the last seven days, the state has triaged more than 2.67 lakh patients which is about 88.5 per cent of the cases. “There are about 3.51 lakh active cases in the state who are under home isolation and we have issued home isolation kits to 98.2 per cent of them. Our doctors have made 1.17 lakh home isolation visits based on triaging, especially in cases of elderly people who stay alone, differently-abled and other such citizens. This has been the main reason for effective management of the third wave in Karnataka,” Sudhakar said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-beats-maharashtra-tops-country-in-active-covid-19-caseload-1075765.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Deciphers | What is the Hogenakkal project and can Karnataka really block it?||On January 20, Tamil Nadu announced that it will implement the second phase of the Hogenakkal Water Supply and Fluorosis Mitigation Project at a cost of Rs 4,600 crore. Karnataka immediately raised objections, saying Tamil Nadu cannot go ahead with any scheme that utilises Cauvery water without its concurrence. Here is a detailed look at the project, why Karnataka is objecting to it and whether it can really block it:  What is the Hogenakkal project?  Originally conceived in the 1960s, the Hogenakkal project saw the light of day only in 2013. Under the first phase, 160 MLD of potable water is supplied to the drought-prone districts of Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri. Keeping the fluorosis content in the water within the permissible limits of 1.50 mg/litre is also an essential component of the project.  Every person is provided with 30 litres of water a day in rural habitations, 40 litres in town panchayats and 75 litres in municipalities.  The first phase, implemented at a cost of  Rs 1,928.80 crore, serves three municipalities, 17 town panchayats and 7,639 rural habitations.  Where is Hogenakkal located?  Hogenakkal, a scenic tourist spot known for its waterfalls, is located on the border between the Dharmapuri district of Tamil Nadu and the Chamarajanagar district of Karnataka. It is about 125 km south of Bengaluru. The word Hogenakkal is of Kannada origin and roughly means smoky rocks. The Cauvery water which enters Tamil Nadu at Biligundulu in Krishnagiri district from Karnataka reaches the Stanley reservoir at Mettur through Hogenakkal.  The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board says the intake structures for the project are designed and located in such a way that the required water flows into the intake well even during the lowest flow in Cauvery.  Didn't Karnataka object to the first phase?  It did but Tamil Nadu managed to implement the project because observers say its case was stronger. Tamil Nadu said it was using only its share of the Cauvery water. Beyond political rhetoric, Karnataka couldn't do much, and Tamil Nadu was able to commission the project.  What's proposed in the second phase?  Tamil Nadu believes the second phase is needed to continue the supply of potable water to Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri, and meet the demands of a rising population.  The amount of water supplied per person per day will be increased to 55 litres in rural areas (as mandated under the Centre's Jal Jeevan Mission) and 135 litres in town panchayats and municipalities. As the population is projected to rise to 41.54 lakh in 2024, 49.46 lakh in 2039 and 57.31 lakh in 2054, the amount of water needed will increase to 254.64 MLD in 2024, 288.78 MLD in 2039 and 375 MLD in 2054. Phase-II will serve one municipal corporation (Hosur), two municipalities, 16 town panchayats and 6,818 rural habitations.  In addition, the SIPCOT industrial estate in Dharmapuri has sought 20 MLD per day. Tamil Nadu estimates it will need Rs 1,800 crore to expand the project in Dharmapuri and Rs 2,800 crore in Krishnagiri.  What does Karnataka say?  Karnataka has announced it will oppose the Hogenakkal project both legally and politically.  Karnataka's opposition is based on two grounds: the project falls in the geography of both states and was not placed before the Cauvery tribunal or the Supreme Court. Geographically, Karnataka says, Hogenakkal is a 64-km region that covers both sides of the border. Apparently, the Survey of India has not finalised the border along Hogenakkal. Karnataka also argues that any project Tamil Nadu wants to take up in the Cauvery basin should be in line with the allocation of water made by the tribunal and Supreme Court orders.  What does Tamil Nadu have to say?  Tamil Nadu cites both legal and humanitarian grounds to justify the second phase. It also cites the Supreme Court's February 16, 2018, judgement on sharing the Cauvery water between states. It says the final verdict of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal allowed 2.2 tmcft of water for consumptive use and 25.7 tmcft of water for permitted irrigation schemes. Since the verdict has been upheld by the Supreme Court, Tamil Nadu says it is well within its rights to implement the second phase of the project. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-deciphers-what-is-the-hogenakkal-project-and-can-karnataka-really-block-it-1075790.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to withdraw night curfew from January 31, Bengaluru schools to reopen||With the third wave of Covid-19 receding, Karnataka decided Saturday to remove most of the curbs, including revoking the daily night curfew and allowing schools to resume physical classes.  “We have good news for the public. From January 31, there won’t be a night curfew,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka said, briefing reporters after a meeting Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired with experts.  The government also decided to remove the 50 per cent seating limitation on pubs, restaurants, hotels and eateries. “They are now 100 per cent open,” Ashoka said. This was a demand from hotels who asked the government for relief from their business point-of-view.  Primary & Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said schools in the Bengaluru Urban district can start physical classes for classes 1 to 9 from Monday. “Physical classes from 1 to 9 were stopped due to the third wave. From Monday, all classes will open in compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.  The standard operating procedure in Bengaluru will be the same as the other districts. “If any positive case is found, only that particular class will be closed, not the entire school. All kids in that class will be tested. Depending on the total number of positive cases, the deputy commissioner will decide on how long a school should be closed - three or five days,” Nagesh explained.  Even degree colleges will open in Bengaluru.  The decisions are based on data and trends that experts laid out before the government.  “The total number of cases across all ages is 4.02 lakh. Of them, cases of children aged 0-14 are 22,318. That’s 5.5 per cent of total cases. The total number of hospitalsed cases is 6,732, which is 1.6 per cent. Of them, children in hospital are 401, or 1.8 per cent. Total deaths are 146, which is 0.03 per cent. The positivity rate has dropped to 20.9 per cent from a peak of 33%,” Ashoka said.  Other decisions The 50 per cent capacity rule will continue in theatres and multiplexes where Ashoka said people sit for hours together in an enclosed space. Likewise, the 50 per cent rule has been retained for swimming pools, gyms, sports complexes and stadia.  The government further increased the cap on the number of guests at functions like marriages. “For marriages, we’re increasing the cap on guests from 200 to 300 in an open space, and from 100 to 200 in a closed space,” Ashoka said.  In places of religious worship, the existing rule allowing only 50 people inside at a time will continue. “We are allowing resumption of sevas,” Ashoka said.  All fairs, rallies, dharnas, protests, social/religious gatherings remain prohibited.  Government offices that were asked to function at 50 per cent strength will return to full attendance, Ashoka said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-withdraw-night-curfew-from-january-31-bengaluru-schools-to-reopen-1075865.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai sets February end deadline for 'Grama One' implementation across Karnataka||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday directed officials to ensure that the 'Grama One' project, which he had launched on January 26, is implemented across the state before February end. The scheme, which was launched on Republic Day on January 26, is aimed at providing a host of services under one roof. The Chief Minister has written to officials of e-governance, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR), Revenue department and the deputy commissioners of all the districts in this regard, a statement issued by his office said. He said he would personally hold weekly meetings to review the progress of implementation of 'Grama One' with Grama One operators, Tahsildars and deputy commissioners of the districts. According to the statement, Bommai instructed the officials for speedy disposal of petitions received at 'Grama One'. In case of rejecting petitions, the officials have to mention the reasons. Further, the deputy commissioners and senior officials of the departments concerned should review the petitions rejected and initiate disciplinary action if the petitions are rejected erroneously. Bommai also instructed conducting of impact assessment to ensure the success of state government-sponsored four Food Parks. During a review meeting of Food Karnataka Limited, Bommai instructed the officials to oversee issues related to land acquisition, equity and infrastructure for setting up food parks in Bagalkot, Hiriyuru, Maluru and Jewargi. A decision would be taken on providing a Rs 26 crore grant for Food Karnataka Limited to set up food parks after examining the proposal with the finance department, Bommai was quoted a saying in the official statement.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-sets-february-end-deadline-for-grama-one-implementation-across-karnataka-1075958.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||ZP, TP polls after it gets panel report: KSE||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that Zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat polls will be conducted in Karnataka after the delimitation panel submits its report to the government. Speaking to media persons, here on Saturday, he said, the panel headed by retired IAS officer Lakshminarayan has received more than 780 applications with regard to the issues on reservation and delimitation of constituencies. The panel is going through the applications now. The election process will begin after the government gets the report from the panel.  Slamming Congress leaders, former chief minister Siddaramaiah and C M Ibrahim are known as opportunists. They talk of quitting the party when they don't get political power. So, there is no need to worry about such opportunist politicians. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/zp-tp-polls-after-it-gets-panel-report-kse-1075961.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||No Hindu Rashtra if Hindus, Muslims and Christians fight: Ram Madhav||The core idea of Hinduism is pluralism and there can be no 'Hindu Rashtra' if Hindus, Muslims and Christians fight among each other, RSS National Executive Member Ram Madhav said on Saturday.  Madhav was speaking at an event organised by the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) on Swami Vivekananda's Message in Nation Building. Answering a question from the audience on whether India can be declared a 'Hindu Rashtra', Madhav said, "'Hindu Rashtra' is not something to be declared. The idea of 'Hindu Rashtra' is a sentiment. Hinduism does not need a country as we believe in the philosophy of 'Vasudaiva Kutumbakam'. We have always been secular and the idea of Hinduism is that there is space for everyone in this country." Speaking on the idea of Atma Nirbhar Bharat, Madhav said that self-sustenance did not mean closing the doors for everyone from outside. The country needs to accept people from outside and allow for development, he said. Further, he pointed out a need for India to aggressively focus on employment generation. "We need to focus on grassroots prosperity. We need to modernise and run with the times. India needs to encourage entrepreneurs," he said.  He also noted that the nature of employment is changing and there is a need to find jobs where humans and technology can coexist. That said, India also needs to focus on newer technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, robotics and space technology, where the country lags behind, he pointed out.  Responding to a question on privatisation of Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs), he felt there is a need for it. "Post Independence, the government started PSUs as the private industry was not strong. Today, except for critical areas such as nuclear and defence technology which will remain with the government, the country can benefit from privatisation," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-hindu-rashtra-if-hindus-muslims-and-christians-fight-ram-madhav-1075962.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||After court appearance, accused can’t seek anticipatory bail, says Karnataka HC||The high court has said that the remedy of anticipatory bail is not available to an accused against whom the trial court has issued a warrant for deliberate absence after making appearance once in the case either through an advocate or personally. Dismissing the petition seeking anticipatory bail, Justice H P Sandesh has said that as per the high court’s verdict in Somashekar’s case, an option is given to the petitioner to approach the trial court by filing necessary application for recalling of the non-bailable warrant. The petitioner, a resident of Hakki-Pikki Colony in Hosur village in Gauribidanur taluk of Chikkaballapur district, was booked under the Wild Life Protection Act for possessing three monitor lizards and three gray francolins at his house.  The petitioner had appeared before the JMFC Court through his counsel on the summons issued against him. He had also sought exemption from personal appearance by filing an application, which was allowed. However, he remained absent on October 6, 2021 when the case was again taken up. The JMFC court then started issuing non-bailable warrants against him from time to time, citing non-appearance. The high court said that once an application seeking an exemption from personal appearance is allowed, the petitioner again cannot invoke section 438 of CrPC, seeking anticipatory bail. The court observed that the petitioner had approached the high court instead of filing an application for recalling the warrant. “Apart from that, the appearance of the petitioner before the trial court has also been suppressed before this court and nowhere in the petition has stated that he had appeared through the counsel. Only on perusal of the order of the trial court, it is clear that he had appeared through the counsel and exemption application was allowed, but he did not appear before the court. Hence, NBW was issued. When such being the factual aspects of the case, once he appears through the court, whether it is through counsel or personally, he cannot again seek anticipatory bail,” Justice Sandesh said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-court-appearance-accused-can-t-seek-anticipatory-bail-says-karnataka-hc-1076029.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Finally, online salary payment for panchayat staff||In a rudimentary, yet significant reform, Karnataka has decided to switch to a system where 60,000-odd gram panchayat employees will be paid salaries online, directly into their bank accounts before the fifth of every month.  The new system - Electronic Fund Management System (eFMS) - will be rolled out in all gram panchayats, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) principal secretary L K Atheeq has said in a directive issued to chief executives of zilla panchayats.  The eFMS module has been developed in the RDPR’s Panchatantra software to enable online payment of salaries, Atheeq said. This was first piloted in gram panchayats in Chikkaballapur. It will now be extended to all 5,960 gram panchayats in the state. The average salary outgo for gram panchayat employees is around Rs 900 crore every year. “At present, salaries are paid through cheques,” Atheeq told DH. “And, there was a long-pending demand to streamline this in gram panchayats whose employees faced erratic salary payouts.”  Gram panchayat employees have staged protests in the past against pending salaries. Under the new system, salaries will be paid to the Aadhaar-seeded bank accounts directly. According to Atheeq, the eFMS will not only ensure regularity in salary payment, but also plug any pilferage. “Zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat employees are on the government’s payroll. So, they don’t have any problem. But, gram panchayat employees are at the mercy of the gram panchayat. They are an exploited lot,” Atheeq said.  The RDPR department has fixed February 10 as the deadline for gram panchayats to compile details of employees and their verified bank accounts. This has to be entered into the Panchatantra software before February 25.  “We have asked gram panchayats to operate a separate bank account for salary payments,” Atheeq said. And, it is to this dedicated account that statutory salary grants and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) money will be put.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/finally-online-salary-payment-for-panchayat-staff-1076030.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||CM directs for impact assessment of food parks||In a bid to ensure the successful functioning of the food parks in the state, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday asked officials to conduct an impact assessment for the four state-sponsored food parks. In a review meeting of the food parks, he asked officials to oversee issues related to land acquisition, equity and infrastructure for setting up the food parks. The finance department will examine a proposal on the Rs 26 crore grant for Food Karnataka Ltd to set up these parks, Bommai said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-directs-for-impact-assessment-of-food-parks-1076031.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 33,337 fresh Covid cases||Karnataka on Saturday reported 69,902 recoveries and 33,337 fresh cases. With 70 fresh fatalities, including 13 in Bangalore Urban, nine in Mysuru, five each in Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, the toll climbed to 38,874. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 16,586 fresh infections. Dharwad district recorded 1,278 cases, Hassan 1,039, Mysuru 2,431 and Tumakuru reported 1,192 fresh infections. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-33337-fresh-covid-cases-1076032.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to launch pilot scheme in 4 districts to increase farmers' income||The state government will look into the implementation of activities related to increasing farmers’ income, by launching a pilot scheme in four districts. The government set up the secondary agriculture directorate in a bid to double the farmers’ income recently. In a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday, officials discussed the framework of operation for the secondary directorate. The CM asked them to conduct a survey of farmers’ families across the state. He also asked officials to make use of Family ID and look into ways of increasing their income by taking into account land ownership and other related details. It was decided that the directorate must function independently though it will be attached to the agriculture department. It needs to encompass all agriculture-related activities, Bommai said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-launch-pilot-scheme-in-4-districts-to-increase-farmers-income-1076035.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Film chamber ‘hopeful’ of 100% occupancy in theatres in Karnataka from Monday||The Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) on Saturday hoped that the state government would permit 100% occupancy in theatres and multiplexes from next week. A delegation, led by KFCC president D R Jairaj, met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai soon after the government decided to continue the 50% occupancy guideline in theatres and multiplexes. “We requested Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to permit 100% occupancy in theatres and multiplexes. Bommai asked us to submit a memorandum which the Technical Advisory Committee will consider in its meeting on Monday,” he said. The chief minister told the delegation that there should not be any problem in permitting 100% occupancy as there was no data to indicate that film screening with full seating capacity caused more infections. “There was indication that 100% occupancy will be permitted from Monday itself,” Jairaj told DH. Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association also demanded the government to withdraw the 50% occupancy guideline. “The guideline will permanently shut over 200 single screen theatres across the state. Postponement of releases by producers hits exhibitors hard. The guideline also prompts producers to prefer over the top (OTT-streaming service that delivers content over the internet) platform increasingly,” the Association president K V Chandrashekar told DH. He added, “There are 635 single screen theatres across the state. These theatres did not screen any films for 14 months due to two lockdowns in the last 23 months. The 50% occupancy guideline was in force for four months. This period saw the release of nine major Kannada films. It helped producers to some extent, but exhibitors suffered heavily as there were no major films to screen continuously.” Chandrashekar said that about 200 theatres did not conduct even a single show in the last 23 months. Multiplexes too did not screen any films on at least three screens. At some places, multiplexes conducted two shows a day instead of five shows on one screen. He alleged that the government ignored the interests of theatre owners. “The Association requested the government for auto renewal of licence of theatres and exemption of licence fees as theatre owners did not operate. The total fee would be hardly around Rs 50 lakh. Instead of exempting the licence fee, the government postponed payment of fees by one year,” he expressed disappointment. According to insiders, the Sandalwood records activities worth Rs 15 crore a day and activities worth Rs 5,000 crore a year. Movie-related operations worth Rs 6,500 crore have been stalled in the last 23 months. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/film-chamber-hopeful-of-100-occupancy-in-theatres-in-karnataka-from-monday-1076036.html
29-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Headscarf controversy: A matter of uniform or religious majoritarianism?||For a month now, Aliya Assadi and seven other girls have been protesting for their right to attend classes wearing headscarves. Students of the first and second pre-university courses in Udupi’s Government Women’s PU College, these girls are demanding the right to practise their religion, while they attend college. The headscarf issue is a decade-old, with the first case being reported in SVS College in Bantwal in 2009. This time in Udupi, the college is citing the rule of not allowing religious practices inside the campus, mentioned in the college prospectus. The prospectus and the available circular do not mention the term hijab anywhere. The issue started brewing last year but remained hidden due to the pandemic. The college had offline classes only for two months. Aliya Assadi says they started wearing headscarves last year itself. They were restricted, harassed and sent out of the classrooms but remained silent. They were restricted from using Beary, Urdu and Arabic languages, while Tulu and Konkani languages were used by other girls. The girls say they are wearing headscarves willingly with no force from parents or the mosque. They wrap the shawl given along with the school uniform around their heads and shoulders and do not use any extra piece of cloth. There are 970 girls studying in the college. Of these, 82 are Muslims. For other Muslim girls keen to follow religious beliefs, focusing on studies without any controversy is a priority. Many of them remove the hijab or burqa before entering the campus. Culture and religion In the state, dress codes are implemented only up to SSLC, and there is no dress code for the government colleges. Individual College Development Committees prescribe rules and regulations. It is the same with the Udupi case. While the principal steers clear of the media, Yashpal Suvarna, the College Development Committee vice-president, calls the shots. A BJP activist and a political aspirant, he is against allowing hijab, as it is a religious attire. “The uniform is introduced to avoid discrimination and to bring in discipline among students. They should abide by the rules and regulations put forth by the committee,” he told DH. When asked about allowing one type of religion while curbing the other, he was unapologetic. “When Muslim institutions can practice their religion, why shouldn’t we?” he asked, hinting at the unspoken religious practices that always existed, which speaks loads about the majoritarianism prevalent in the society at large. Udupi MLA Raghupathi Bhat, the president of the development committee, was diplomatic. “The only fact here is the dress code and the matter surrounding the decorum of the cloth and not other accessories,” he said. B C Nagesh, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, ruled out the existence of a controversy. The government will constitute a committee and decide on the dress code in colleges for the next academic year, he informed. “Someone will want to wear shorts, and someone else will want to wear shawls. Can we allow everything?” he asked. “Let people follow their religion inside homes, Why bring it to colleges?” he added. Blaming a “certain community” for being regressive and not educating its women, he called the entire incident a conspiracy to derail the education of the girls in question. The road to reconciliation Meanwhile, the girls have rejected the offer of online classes. Udupi wing of Girls Islamic Organisation (GIO), Karnataka has given a representation to the district administration supporting the girls’ stand. Amid a notice by the National Human Rights Commission to the state government for impinging on the girls’ right to medication, the situation has reached a stalemate. The state government has decided to maintain the status quo; the girls will not be allowed in the college. Phaniraj K, a social activist from Udupi, has been observing the issue from the beginning. “Practice of religious rituals like Pujas goes on in government organisations, even today. As long as it doesn’t harm anyone, it need not be objected to. The controversy is only due to increased right-wing communalisation. Even then, there is no law and order problem right now,” he said. Everyone’s priority now should be the education of the girls. “Don’t curb womens’ education because of an issue that does not trouble anyone else,” he said. (With inputs from Manjushree G N in Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/headscarf-controversy-a-matter-of-uniform-or-religious-majoritarianism-1076040.html
29-01-2022||West||Maharashtra women cops' duty reduced from 12 hours to 8||Women police personnel across Maharashtra would now have duty for eight hours instead of 12, as per an order issued by the state Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey. The new shorter working day for women personnel will be implemented on an experimental basis. Normally, both male and female personnel have 12 hours' duty. The eight-hour duty for women will be in force until further orders, said the DGP's directive, issued on Thursday. Unit commanders must ensure that the order is implemented, it added. The step has been taken to provide better work-life balance to women officials, said a senior official. Earlier, this system was implemented in Nagpur city, Amarvati city and Pune Rural, the official said. In emergency or during festivals duty hours of women personnel can be increased, but only with the permission of respective district Superintendents of Police or Deputy Commissioners of Police. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-women-cops-duty-reduced-from-12-hours-to-8-1075768.html
29-01-2022||West||In Maharashtra, blaze erupts in Gandhidham-Puri Superfast Express, no casualties||A fire broke out in the pantry car of the Gandhidham-Puri Express train on Saturday when it was near Nandurbar railway station in Maharashtra, but nobody was injured in the incident, officials said. The blaze erupted around 10.35 am when the Odisha-bound train (12993) was entering the railway station, a statement issued by chief spokesperson of the Western Railway said. The train had 22 coaches and the pantry car was the 13th one. After the blaze, the pantry car was separated from the front and the rear portion of the train by around 10.45 am. Fire extinguishers available at the station and inside the train were used for dousing the flames, it said, adding that nobody was injured. The fire brigade was immediately informed and its personnel arrived at the spot at 11 am, it added. A medical team, paramedical staff and senior railway officers rushed to the site to take stock of the situation, the statement said. A police official said, "Due to the fire, smoke engulfed the pantry car, which triggered panic among the passengers and a few of them even jumped out of the train as it was moving slowly. The train was soon brought to a halt." The fire was doused by around noon, he said, adding that the cause behind the blaze is being ascertained. Nandurbar district, located in northwest Maharashtra, is around 450 kms from Mumbai.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-maharashtra-blaze-erupts-in-gandhidham-puri-superfast-express-no-casualties-1075855.html
29-01-2022||West||Gujarat: Dingucha villagers pay homage to family who died at US-Canada border||Shops remained shut and streets were deserted in Dingucha village in Gujarat's Gandhinagar district on Saturday as villagers paid homage to the four members of a family, who died of the extreme cold near the Canada-US border recently. Villagers shared the grief of the Patel family, who lost their four members, including two children, by suspending work and downing the shutters of the shops in the market, a local office-bearer of the village said. The village, from where a significant number of people have migrated abroad, mainly to the US, Canada and Australia over the past many decades, wore a deserted look on Saturday, locals said. A majority of the local residents belong to the Patidar community. Initially, the village was not ready to believe that the four persons, including a baby, who died on the US-Canada border belonged to the family of Baldevbhai Patel, they said. However, they later came to terms with the hard fact that the deceased were his son Jagdish Patel (39), daughter-in-law Vaishali (37), grand daughter Vihangi (11), and grandson Dharmik (3), after Canadian authorities confirmed their identities. Following the confirmation of identity, relatives and some local women had gathered at the Patel family's ancestral house at Dingucha on Friday to mourn the deaths. As per the Canadian authorities, the Patel family had arrived in Toronto on January 12, 2022. From there, they made their way to Manitoba and eventually to Emerson around January 18, a day before they tragically died near the border due to exposure to extreme weather conditions. The relatives had on Friday said that the bodies of the four deceased would not be brought back to India. "The entire family is in deep shock...As of now, we all have decided not to bring the bodies here for cremation. Last rites will be conducted in Canada itself," Jaswant Patel, a cousin of Jagdish Patel, had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-dingucha-villagers-pay-homage-to-family-who-died-at-us-canada-border-1075907.html
29-01-2022||West||Schools, colleges in Pune to reopen from February 1||Schools and colleges in Maharashtra's Pune will reopen for physical classes from February 1, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters after attending a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation, Pawar said school timings for Classes 1 to 8 will be for half day so that the lunch hour gets excluded and students eat their meals at home. "The final decision to send children to schools and colleges will be on the parents. But the administration will reopen schools," said Pawar, who is also the guardian minister of the district. Colleges and schools for Classes 9 and up will be full-time, while schools for Classes 1 to 8 will be for half day so that lunch time gets excluded and students won’t have to take off their masks to eat, he said. Talking about Covid-19 vaccination for children in the 15-18 age group, the minister said, "College students should get both doses of vaccines. We plan to have mobile vans and make other arrangements so that vaccines can be administered in schools and colleges." At least 86 per cent of eligible children have taken the vaccine in the rural areas, while in Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad, the number is less, he said. The number of infections has come down in Pune in the last three days, Pawar said, refuting rumours about relaxation in mask rule. Pune on Friday recorded 7,166 new Covid-19 cases and 12 casualties that raised the tally of infections to 13,88,687 and toll to 19,429. The district currently has 2,261 active cases Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/schools-colleges-in-pune-to-reopen-from-february-1-1075913.html
29-01-2022||West||Trial in RSS defamation case against Rahul Gandhi to be held on day-to-day basis from Feb 5: Court||A court in Thane district of Maharashtra on Saturday said trial in the defamation case filed against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi by an activist of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will be conducted on a day-to-day basis from February 5. Civil court judge and judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) at Bhiwandi, JV Paliwal, passed the order. Citing a recent order of the Supreme Court, in which it called for speedy disposal of cases involving elected representatives, the court held that the case against Gandhi fell under the same category and hence needs to be taken up on priority, fast-tracked and heard on a day-to-day basis. The magistrate sought to know if counsels from both the sides - advocates Prabodh Jaywant for the complainant and advocate Narayan Iyer for Rahul Gandhi, were prepared for the day-to-day hearing. Rajesh Kunte, a local worker of the RSS, had in 2014 filed the case against Rahul Gandhi after watching his speech in Thane's Bhiwandi township, where the Congress leader alleged that the Sangh was behind the killing of Mahatma Gandhi. Kunte had claimed in his case that this statement slandered the reputation of the RSS. In 2018, a court Thane had framed charges against Gandhi in the case, but he had pleaded not guilty to the charges.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trial-in-rss-defamation-case-against-rahul-gandhi-to-be-held-on-day-to-day-basis-from-feb-5-court-1075932.html
29-01-2022||West||HC questions police probe, acquits Maharashtra man handed life sentence by lower court for murder||The Bombay High Court has acquitted a 21-year-old man, who was handed life imprisonment by a sessions court for killing a woman in 2017, observing that the evidence given by a child witness is "demonstrably unreliable and insufficient" for convicting the accused on the charge of murder. A bench of justices SS Shinde and Milind Jadhav also held that the probe conducted by the police in the case was seriously questionable and "deserves to be reprimanded with strictures". The bench acquitted the man on January 27. A detailed order was made available on Saturday. The accused, identified as Ganesh Mandavkar, a resident of Raigad district in Maharashtra, was handed life imprisonment by a sessions court for murdering a woman by strangulation. He had challenged the court's order before the Bombay High Court. Advocate Ashish Satpute, appointed by the high court from the Legal Aid Panel to represent the accused, had submitted that the investigation by the police to unearth the evidence in the case was "improper and inadequate". He further argued that the sessions court's verdict was based on mere conjectures, without appreciating the facts and circumstantial evidence on record. As per the prosecution, the accused had killed the woman in 2017 after she refused his demand for sexual favours. Mandavkar allegedly strangled the woman with a towel while another accused, who died during the pendency of the trial, held the victim's legs. A six-year-old child had allegedly witnessed the incident, as per the prosecution. The bench said the witness had stated that the spot of the incident is at a walking distance of 'about 10 minutes,' which, if roughly translated into the distance as the crow flies, would be about 1 to 1.5 kilometres. From such a long distance, it would have been impossible for this minor six-year-old to witness the alleged incident. This witness has specifically deposed that the deceased was at a far distance and that the site of the incident was not visible from that distance. This statement militates against the theory of this witness being an eyewitness to the incident, the bench said. "The evidence given by the child witness is demonstrably unreliable, does not inspire any confidence, and is in any case insufficient for convicting the Appellant of the offence under Section 302 IPC," the bench said. Further, questioning the probe conducted by the police, the high court held that the investigating officer has not recorded the statements and/or brought forth the relevant parties as prosecution witnesses. Such investigation smacks of complete incompetence and therefore deserves to be reprimanded with strictures, it added. The bench held that the trial court has erroneously arrived at a conclusion that the evidence given by witnesses corroborate each other on material particulars and shows that the accused had killed the woman. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-questions-police-probe-acquits-maharashtra-man-handed-life-sentence-by-lower-court-for-murder-1075960.html
29-01-2022||West||Pune Police arrest IAS officer in TET scandal||The Pune police have arrested a Maharashtra-cadre IAS officer Sushil Khodwekar in the sensational Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) scandal. Khodwekar is currently the Deputy Secretary in the Agriculture Department. Before this, he had served as deputy secretary of the school education and sports department. He was arrested from Thane district and taken to Pune, which is investigating the TET scam. Khodwekar has been remanded to police custody till January 31.  The Pune police have found his link with other accused in the case. The total arrests in the case now stand at 13 which also includes Tukaram Supe, the Commissioner of Maharashtra State Council of Examination (MSCE), Pritesh Deshmukh, director of G A Software firm, which was responsible for conducting the exam, and Abhishek Sawrikar, a consultant with the education department, all arrested in December 2021. According to the Pune police, marks of as many as 7,800 TET-2020 candidates were allegedly manipulated in exchange for huge sums of money. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-police-arrest-ias-officer-in-tet-scandal-1075970.html
29-01-2022||West||Fire breaks out in Mumbai building; no casualty||A fire broke out in a four-storey building located in the thickly-populated Bhendi Bazar area of south Mumbai on Saturday but no casualty was reported, an official said. Fire Brigade personnel rushed out at least 50 residents to safety after the blaze erupted in the metre box of the building, located on the Duncan Road, due to a short circuit around 3 PM, he said. The fire was extinguished after an hour, he added. Bhendi Bazaar is a market area between Mohammed Ali Road and Khetwadi. The bazaar is popular for shopping, mainly antique and hardware items. Crawford Market (Phule Market), Chor Bazaar, Nul Bazaar, and other smaller markets are located around the Bhendi Bazar. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-in-mumbai-building-no-casualty-1076009.html
