30-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Controversy over transfer of official over tree felling||The alleged transfer of a range forest officer (RFO) attached to the forest mobile squad in Udupi has courted controversy in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. Mangalore MLA U T Khader demanded that the vigilance squad of the forest department probe the alleged felling of hundreds of trees inside the reserve forest of Belthangady, after environmentalists alleged that the officer was transferred after she had seized a truck with the wooden logs. Three persons of the forest department were also suspended. Two letters related to the transfer have gone viral on social media. One is by Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja, in which he had requested the CM to transfer RFO Sandhya, and the another, reportedly written by Sandhya to a Billava organisation, alleging that she was transferred due to political reasons. However, the veracity of the letters could not be ascertained. Meanwhile, netizens have condemned the move of MLA Harish Poonja to transfer the officer. Belthangady Sri Guru Narayana Swamy Seva Sangha President Chidananda Poojary has condemned the move of the MLA recommending the transfer of RFO Sandhya to Bidar and appealed to the CM to revoke the transfer. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/controversy-over-transfer-of-official-over-tree-felling-1076159.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt plans to make historical temple in Hubballi 'visible'||History and archaeology enthusiasts who want to visit the 11th-century Chandramouleshwar Temple at Unkal in City have been finding it difficult to locate the monument due to narrow lanes, a congested colony of houses surrounding it and no visibility from the main road. At last, a plan is now taking birth to resolve the long-pending issue of the relocation of the houses especially in front of the temple and to give the temple the much-required visibility to attract more tourists. Many house owners have also come forward to get shifted if compensation and alternative land is needed, as being within 100-metre radius from the ASI-protected monument has put various restrictions on construction and renovation activities. On Saturday, MLA and former chief minister Jagadish Shettar visited the temple and interacted with the residents of the area. He also asked the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Hubbali-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) and the Revenue Department to conduct a joint survey to identify the houses that need to be shifted. 'Need compensation, land' "If the Union Government's ASI gives compensation, and the State Government provides alternative land, houses can be shifted. Efforts are being made in this regard. Nearly 400 tourists come in search of this Chalukya-era temple daily, and their number would be much more if it is developed, while Unkal Cross-Sai Nagar Road is also being widening," Shettar said. People near the temple are not even able to properly repair their houses, and they are now ready to get relocated, with suitable facilities. Earlier, they lacked that consent. Now steps would be taken for collection of documents, joint survey and proposals, to relocate houses, along with compensation and alternative land speedily, Shettar noted. The temple is being maintained but needs proper visibility. A similar problem at the historical Banashankari Temple at Amargol would also be resolved. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has also been urged to resolve the long-pending problem of lack of land to shift the entire Aihole village in Bagalkot district, he added. Later, he also visited Banashankari Temple at Amargol. MLA Arvind Bellad, HDMP Commissioner Gopal Krishna B, ASI Superintendent (Dharwad circle) Reshma Savanth, Tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal, corporators-elect Rajanna Koravi, Tippanna Majjagi, Umeshgouda Kaujageri, and others were present. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-plans-to-make-historical-temple-in-hubballi-visible-1076161.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Cooperative banks asked to reach target in disbursing loans by March: Somashekar||Minister for Cooperation S T Somashekar on Sunday said the cooperative banks in Karnataka have been directed to reach the target of disbursing loans of Rs 20,810 crore to 30.86 lakh farmers by March 25. He was speaking after inaugurating the head office of Athmashakthi Multipurpose Cooperative Society near Bairadi Kere in Mangaluru. Of the targeted loan amount, already, Rs 14,000 crore has been disbursed among 20 lakh farmers in the state. The Minister said that there are 5,000 posts lying vacant in cooperative sectors in the state. Of which, already, 3000 posts have been filled. The recruitment process for the remaining posts will be taken up shortly. There are 60 to 70 posts vacant in DKMUL. Similarly, there are vacancies in DCC banks, Urban Cooperative Banks. Further, he said that there are 260 urban cooperative societies in the state. Owing to the alleged misappropriation of funds by a few banks, the cooperative sector received a bad name. The government has passed Karnataka Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act. The cooperative leaders have placed demands for a few more amendments, which will be tabled during  the next assembly.   Athmashakthi Multipurpose Cooperative Society has carried out business transactions of  Rs 858 Crore in the last 10 years. Society President Chitharanjan Bolar, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Mayor Premananda Shetty, MLA Umanath Kotian, MLC K Harish Kumar and others were present. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cooperative-banks-asked-to-reach-target-in-disbursing-loans-by-march-somashekar-1076217.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Sringeri Tahsildar's official car driver ends life; family stages protest||Sringeri tahsildar’s official vehicle driver was found dead under suspicious circumstance at Hegtur in Sringeri taluk on January 29 (Saturday) evening. The deceased Vijeth Hegtur had allegedly died by suicide by hanging himself in a forest land. He was found dead at a time when the officials from the Revenue Department are probing into the irregularities in the issue of title deeds illegally to those who had applied under 94C, and 94CC of Land Revenue Act, in Sringeri taluk office. In fact, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) police had arrested Sringeri tahsildar R Ambuja, and village accountant Siddappa while accepting a bribe for regularisiation of a property on January 6. Following this, the Chikkamagaluru deputy commissioner had ordered an inquiry into the irregularities in issuing certificates for residential properties in the taluk. It is alleged that several applicants allegedly received clearances illegally. Assistant Commissioner H L Nagaraj is heading the inquiry into the irregularities in Sringeri taluk office. On the other hand, Sringeri taluk in-charge Tahsildar on January 27 filed a complaint to the police alleging that an almirah in the tahsildar’s office was opened by an unknown person. In his complaint, Basavaraju said, previous tahsildar Ambuja had not handed over the key of the almirah. Protest by family The family members staged a protest on Sunday by placing the body of Vijeth at Veerappa Gowda Circle in Sringeri. They demanded Deputy Commissioner to visit the spot and announce compensation. Chief Minister's political secretary D N Jeevraj, State JD(S) Vice President Sudhakar Shetty and others promised a compensation of Rs 8 lakh to the family of the deceased. District Superintendent of Police Akshay M Hakay said that a death note was found in the place where Vijeth had ended his life. Accordingly, the police have arrested three persons-- Raghavendra Kurubagere, taluk office employee Sharath and a trader Nagendra. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sringeri-tahsildars-official-car-driver-ends-life-family-stages-protest-1076312.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Muslim youth's murder: Nargund CPI suspended||Nargund police station circle inspector Nandishwar Kumbar has been suspended for dereliction of duty in connection with the murder of a Muslim youth. Sameer Shahpur (20) was allegedly stabbed to death, while Shamsheer Khan Pathan (22) sustained injuries in a clash on January 17. It was alleged that a group of Hindu youths carried out the attack over a petty issue. The police later arrested four persons. “IGP (Northern Range) N Satheesh Kumar suspended the CPI on the grounds that there was dereliction of duty in handling the entire case properly,” SP Shivaprakash Devaraj said. It was alleged that the police had failed to prevent the incident and arrest the suspects. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah recently had condemned the failure by the police in taking action, demanding immediate arrests of the suspects. Background A minor clash between two groups over hoisting of flags atop a hill and at Lodhigalli in the town about four years ago culminated in the murder on January 17. In the last four years, the town witnessed several communal clashes. Nargund began witnessing clashes almost every fortnight after a petty incident on November 17, 2021. Even students of Moulana Azad School and Siddeshwar College were also attacked. Members of the two groups staged protests. Bahutva Karnataka Sathyashodhana Tanda members recently alleged that the failure of the police in taking action against the suspects nurtured communal tension in the town. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muslim-youths-murder-nargund-cpi-suspended-1076339.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's first crocodile park comes up at Dandeli||Karnataka’s first ever and the country’s second crocodile park was commissioned here on Sunday. MLA R V Deshpande inaugurated the Dandeli Crocodile Park near Dandelappa temple. The works for the Rs 3 crore project began in 2019 and concluded in June 2021. The project, jointly implemented by the Department of Tourism and the Public Works Department on the banks of River Kali, was delayed due to Covid-19. The park has come up on two acre land across the river bank. It has various civic amenities and amusement facilities. There are facilities for the tourists to have a glance of the crocodiles. The park has amusement facilities too The lawn, sculptors of crocodiles, deer, giraffes, pergola facility with sitting arrangements and play equipment for children are the chief attractions. There are watchtowers to facilitate the visitors to have glimpses of the crocodiles. Three locations have been identified to watch crocodiles. Entry for the park is free. However, a nominal entrance fee is likely to be charged for the watchtowers. The timing for the public is yet to be decided. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-first-crocodile-park-comes-up-at-dandeli-1076344.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Mystery shrouds death of Sringeri tahsildar's driver||The driver of Sringeri tahsildar Vijeth (24) was found dead under mysterious circumstances at a forest area near his house at Hegtur in Sringeri taluk on Saturday evening. His body was found hanging from a tree. He was working as a driver of tahsildar for the past several years. He was found dead at a time when the Revenue officials are probing the irregularities into the issuance of illegal title deeds under Sections 94C and 94 CC of Land Revenue Act in Sringeri taluk office. The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths had on January 6 arrested Sringeri Tahsildar R Ambuja and village accountant Siddappa while accepting a bribe for regularisation of a property. Following which, the Chikkamagaluru deputy commissioner had ordered an inquiry by Assistant Commissioner H L Nagaraj into the lapses in issuing title deeds for residential properties in the taluk. Meanwhile, Vijeth’s brother Vinay has lodged a complaint with Sringeri police. My brother Vijeth had been depressed since Saturday morning. He (Vijesth) had confided in family members as to what happened at the office on Jan 27 and that he was upset over a few colleagues doubting his hand in the incident. Family members protest The family members of the deceased driver on Sunday staged a protest, placing Vijeth’s body at Veerappa Gowda Circle in Sringeri, demanding justice. They relented after CM’s political secretary D N Jeevraj and JD(S) state vice president Sudhakar Shetty promised a compensation of Rs 8 lakh to the next of kin of Vijeth. Meanwhile the police have taken taluk office employee Sharath, Raghavendra Kurubagere and Nagendra, a trader, into their custody in the case. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mystery-shrouds-death-of-sringeri-tahsildars-driver-1076347.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Mercury plunges to 8.6 degrees Celsius in Bidar||Bidar district froze at 8.6 degree Celsius on Sunday. The mercury, which was hovering at 10 degree Celsius for a week, plummeted further on Sunday.  Basavaraj Biradar, technical officer, weather, at Agriculture Science Centre said that Bidar district will continue to reel under cold till February 10. Halladakeri in Bidar district recorded lowest temperature of 5.8 degree Celsius on January 10, 2015. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mercury-plunges-to-86-degrees-celsius-in-bidar-1076355.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Mahindra Tumakuru ruckus: Farmer gets vehicle delivery, calls for 'respect to all'||A farmer from Tumakuru district in Karnataka, who shot to fame for arranging Rs 10 lakh in 30 minutes after being allegedly insulted by the staff of a Mahindra showroom, said that he protested against the treatment meted out to him with an intention to prevent a repeat of such behaviour towards others. The farmer, Kempe Gowda, of Ramanapalya near Hebbur, was allegedly insulted by the showroom staff, who questioned if he had the money to purchase a vehicle. The incident took place on January 21. Following the incident, business tycoon and Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra reacted and the company apologised for the incident. The staff of Mahindra Group visited the farmer's residence, apologising for the incident, and invited him to buy the Bolero pick-up goods vehicle. "The showroom staff had come to my house and apologised. They invited me to buy the vehicle. I happily got the vehicle delivered (on January 28). I paid Rs 9.4 lakh. They didn't give any concession and I also didn't ask for a discount," he said. "No one should be looked down upon or judged by the clothes they wear." Earlier, Anand Mahindra had welcomed the farmer into the Mahindra family and the company said the matter of the incident of humiliation of a farmer at a Mahindra showroom in Tumakuru district of Karnataka got resolved. "Let me add my welcome to Kempe Gowda..," Mahindra said on Friday evening. Mahindra Automotive reacted on Twitter, saying, "We regret the inconvenience caused to Kempe Gowda and his friends during their visit to our dealership on January 21. As promised, we have taken appropriate measures and the matter is now resolved. We would like to thank Kempe Gowda for choosing to be with us and we welcome him into the Mahindra family." "The core purpose of @MahindraRise is to enable our communities and all stakeholders to rise. And a key core value is to uphold the dignity of the individual. Any aberration from this philosophy will be addressed with great urgency," Mahindra tweeted, quoting a tweet by Mahindra and Mahindra CEO Veejay Nakra. The Mahindra automotive company on Twitter said, "Dealers are the front face of our company. It is our responsibility to ensure that they behave in the most customer-centric manner and ensure the dignity of all our customers. We will investigate the incident and if there is any transgression, we will take appropriate action which includes counselling and training of our frontline staff." The showroom staff had apologised for their mistake following police action. Gowda's quick action and vigour was been appreciated by people all over the state and his photos and videos have gone viral on social media. "I came to make a purchase of a Bolero pick-up goods vehicle. I had gone to the showroom along with my seven friends and uncle. Company field officer mocked and chided me that I don't have Rs 10 with me and how could I have the capacity to purchase the vehicle. The officer also said that no one comes to purchase a car in such a group," the farmer said. "My uncle asked him if we bring the money, will he be able to deliver the vehicle. The field officer challenged that if we managed to bring the money, he would deliver the vehicle immediately and he again challenged us to bring the money in half an hour. I arranged Rs 10 lakh in 30 minutes and placed it in front of the field officer. I managed to arrange it with my friends' help," he said. "I had approached the police about the insult caused by the showroom employees. I am an educated man. I have studied till Class 10. What will these people do to farmers from villages?" he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mahindra-tumakuru-ruckus-farmer-gets-vehicle-delivery-calls-for-respect-to-all-1076150.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Sack arrogant ministers from cabinet: MPR to CM Bommai||MLA and Chief Minister's Political Secretary M P Renukacharya demanded Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai sack arrogant and inefficient ministers from the cabinet.  Speaking to media persons in Honnali on Sunday, he said some 15 ministers don't respond to his calls and grievances. They are not keen to know the problems of his constituency. They are behaving as if they are the pillars of BJP -led government in Karnataka. "I had discussed it with the chief minister and state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel. They promised to hold a meeting with such minister's and resolve the issue. " He also made it clear that he has not given any complaint against them in writing. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sack-arrogant-ministers-from-cabinet-mpr-to-cm-bommai-1076233.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Ibrahim demands Tanveer Sait as leader of Opposition||Congress MLC C M Ibrahim on Sunday challenged the party top brass to replace Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar as leader of the Opposition and KPCC president with Tanveer Sait and U T Khader. Sait and Khader, both senior Muslim leaders in the Congress, represent Narasimharaja constituency in Mysuru district and Mangalore Assembly constituency in Dakshina Kannada district respectively. “I had predicted that minorities would get respect in the party once I quit. Khader has been appointed as the Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislature Party in the Assembly. Let the top brass replace Siddaramaith with Sait and Shivakumar with Khader,” he told reporters here. He added, "The minorities in the party are suddenly getting positions after I quit. The Congress leaders are misleading the public.” “Siddaramaiah claims that he made me an MLC. I will resign tomorrow itself. Let him resign as an MLA and contest the election. Let us see who wins. Shivakumar promised to fix everything in six months, but nothing happened,” he expressed displeasure. “I will join hands with S R Patil and launch the Alinga (Alpa Sankhyata-Lingayat) movement to organise minorities in Lingayats in north Karnataka and Vokkaligas in old Mysore region,” he said. Reiterating that he would not return to the Congress, Ibrahim on his next move said, "Prashanth Kishore and Akhilesh Yadav are approaching me. I won’t follow Owaisi’s type of caste politics.” On his meeting with Ibrahim, Patil said, "I met him voluntarily asking him to stay in the Congress.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ibrahim-demands-tanveer-sait-as-leader-of-opposition-1076345.html
30-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||BJP takes dig at Karnataka Congress's infighting, says rift wide open||After another video exposing the feud between KPCC president D K Shivakumar and Opposition leader Siddaramaiah went viral, BJP leaders including C M Bommai attacked the Congress accusing it of being concerned only with politics. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the differences within Congress was now out in the open. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that though the tussle between Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah was the internal matter of Congress, it was public knowledge now. “This is not the only incident. There have been several before,” he said, commenting on the video. Congress has never worked for the welfare of people, even when they were the ruling party and now as the Opposition. Their only concern is assuming power and using it for their advantage, the CM said. Ashoka said that the internal strife between the two leaders had turned to a ‘street fight’. “We have been talking about the strife within the Congress. The padayatra held recently was to improve the personal image of D K Shivakumar and to show that his stature was above Siddaramaiah’s in the party,” Ashoka said. A hot-mic at Siddaramaiah’s press conference had captured Congress leader Ashok Pattan complaining about Shivakumar hurting party prospects ahead of next elections. The conversation was related to demands for party ticket in Pulakeshi Nagar constituency - represented by MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy - for the elections scheduled in 2023. In the video, Pattan is heard complaining to Siddaramaiah that a section of Congress workers were campaigning against the MLA. Siddaramaiah is heard saying that ‘they’ were spoiling the constituencies, to which Pattan says that D K Shivakumar was behind it and he wanted everyone to ‘surrender’ to him. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-takes-dig-at-karnataka-congresss-infighting-says-rift-wide-open-1076346.html
30-01-2022||National||Ukraine tensions to make India’s balancing act with Russia, US difficult||Russia has “legitimate interests” in Ukraine, Shivshankar Menon, the National Security Advisor to then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, said in New Delhi on March 7, 2014 – just days after President Vladimir Putin’s “Little Green Men” – soldiers with no insignia on uniforms – seized the government buildings and the airports in Crimea. The Crimeans later that month voted overwhelmingly in favour of merging the Black Sea peninsula with Russia. Notwithstanding protest from Washington and other western capitals, Putin signed legislations in a brief ceremony at Kremlin on March 21, completing annexation of Crimea into Russian Federation. But eight years later, as tension between Russia and the western nations led by the United States escalated once again, India chose to tread cautiously. It didn’t speak up for weeks and when it broke its silence on January 28, it carefully avoided endorsing Russia’s military build-up around Ukraine and rather called for “a peaceful resolution of the situation through sustained diplomatic efforts for long term peace and stability in the region and beyond”. The spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi said that India was closely following “the developments relating to Ukraine, including ongoing high-level discussions between Russia and the United States”. New Delhi has reasons to be worried over escalation of tension between Moscow and Washington over Ukraine, as it is likely to make it all the more difficult for India to maintain the delicate balance between its strategic partnerships with Russia and the United States. Moscow is likely to expand its security partnership with Beijing if a conflict between Russia and the US-led West cannot be avoided. Notwithstanding India’s growing strategic synergy with the United States in the Indo-Pacific region, Russia remains the origin of over almost 86% (according to a study of the Stimson Centre) of weapons and other military hardware being used by the Indian Army, the Navy and the Air Force. Russia has been the source of about 55% of defence equipment imported by India since 2014. Even after the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army started along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh in April-May 2020, India relied on Russia for emergency supply of arms and ammunition to bolster its defence capabilities. So, a closer defence cooperation between Russia and China, which could eventually also turn into Russia-Pakistan-China axis, is no way in the interest of India. India has already been walking on a tightrope to manage its ties with Russia and the US. The spectre of the US CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act) sanctions still looms large over India for its October 2018 deal to procure five S-400 air defence systems from Russia at an estimated cost of nearly Rs 39,000 crore. Though several US lawmakers and strategic affairs analysts argued in favour of granting India a waiver from the CAATSA sanctions, President Joe Biden’s administration remained non-committal and informally signalled that even if New Delhi gets an exemption for the S-400 contract, it should not expect the same for future big-ticket deals to procure defence equipment from Russia. Ned Price, the spokesperson of the US State Department, said as recently as on January 27 that Russia’s “destabilising role” in the region was reflected in its move to sell the S-400 missile systems to India. India has been pointing it out to the US that while it has been diversifying its defence procurement, it cannot abruptly lessen its dependence on military hardware from Russia, given the decades-old defence ties between the two nations. It also pointed out that it needed the S-400 missile defence systems from Russia, in view of escalating tension along the India-China disputed boundary. The value of India's weapons procurement from the US too jumped from $6.2 million in 2019 to a whopping $3.4 billion in 2020. India is also discussing several big-ticket defence deals with the US, including one for buying 30 MQ-9 Reaper (a.k.a. Predator B) drones at an estimated cost of nearly Rs 21,000 crore. Russia has also been conveying to India its “serious concern” over the US role in Asia-Pacific “in the name of so-called Indo-Pacific strategies and (through) creation of closed bloc-type structures”. It had earlier called the Quad a ‘divisive’ and ‘exclusivist’ tool being used by the US to implement its “devious policy” of engaging India against China as well as to undermine Russia’s close partnership with India. Though India argues that its own vision for the Indo-Pacific is inclusive and not against China or any other nation, it obviously could not yet convince Russia. India is not only deepening its engagements with the US, Australia and Japan within the framework of the ‘Quad’, but also working with Germany, France and the United Kingdom to counter China’s belligerence in the Indo-Pacific region. A conflict between Russia and the western nations over Ukraine, however, is likely to distract the attention of the US and other nations from the region – an opportunity, which Xi Jinping’s Middle Kingdom will utilise to expand its geopolitical influence, including in the Indian Ocean. So, New Delhi clearly has a stake in the success of the negotiations to avoid a conflict between Russia and the US-led West over Ukraine. That is why it kept in touch with both Moscow and Washington over the past few weeks. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had phone-calls with his Russian and American counterparts early this month. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla received a call from US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman and they discussed Russia’s troop build-up around Ukraine. New Delhi’s envoy to Moscow, Pawan Kapoor, too recently had a meeting with Russian Deputy Foreign Minister, Sergei Ryabkov, when the progress of the negotiations to avert a conflict was discussed. The Embassy of India in Kyiv meanwhile asked Indians living in Ukraine to register with it – obviously preparing for emergency evacuation in case the escalating tension leads to a conflict. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ukraine-tensions-to-make-india-s-balancing-act-with-russia-us-difficult-1076085.html
30-01-2022||National||DH Toon | What is Netaji's legacy?||Political competition has curdled the simple pleasure of straightforward pride in the achievements of national icons, the latest being the controversies over who exerted what pressure and why to get the Narendra Modi government to install a temporary hologram of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on the vacant pedestal at India Gate and the "merging" of the Amar Jawan Jyoti after its removal to the National War Memorial where another eternal flame was already alight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-what-is-netajis-legacy-1076101.html
30-01-2022||National||India logs 2.34 lakh Covid-19 cases, 893 deaths||With 2,34,281 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of cases increased to over 4.10 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry's data on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,94,091, with 893 deaths reported in the 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases decreased by 1,19,396 to reach 18,84,937 — 4.59 per cent of the total infections — while the country's recovery rate was at 93.89 per cent, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 14.50 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was 16.40 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,87,13,494, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.20 per cent, it said. After the Sunday update, the total number of infections stands at 4,10,92,522, it said. Meanwhile, the cumulative number of anti-Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 165.70 crore. India surpassed the one-crore mark in the number of cases on December 19, 2020. It crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23 of 2021. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Saturday virtually interacted with the health ministers and other senior officials of five states, namely Odisha, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and West Bengal, urging them to monitor the case positivity rate on a daily basis and increase RT-PCR testing as most of the states exhibited lower number of tests. The states were also advised to keep a close watch on the number of hospitalisations and deaths. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-234-lakh-covid-19-cases-893-deaths-1076112.html
30-01-2022||National||Not all hunky-dory for Abhishek as senior TMC leaders yet to accept him||The recent debate between veteran Trinamool Congress MP Kalyan Bandyopadhyay and the relatively younger state spokesperson Kunal Ghosh over the leadership of Abhishek Banerjee was indicative enough of a sharp division within the party. The situation became so embarrassing that senior party leader and General Secretary Partha Chatterjee had to step in to put an end to the controversy. The controversy started when Abhishek, going against Mamata Banerjee's decision to allow the Gangasagar Mela, said that all religious and political programmes should be put on hold. Bandyopadhyaya who is considered to be close to the chief minister countered Abhishek saying that 'Mamata Banerjee wants to do the fair and one of the leaders of the same party is saying just the opposite. Being the All-India General Secretary of the Party (Abhishek Banerjee), one cannot have any personal opinion". Ghosh who made a comeback to the party after six years of imprisonment in the Saradha chit fund scam because of Abhishek Banerjee immediately retorted. "Abhishek Banerjee is the second in command in the party after Mamata Banerjee. When he is saying something the common soldiers like us should keep quiet and listen. We need to speak considering everything." Bandyopadhyay in reply said, "I don't consider anyone in the party but Mamata Banerjee to be the leader. I respect the position but don't consider him to be a leader. If Abhishek Banerjee can bring victory for the party in Goa and Tripura then I shall consider him to be a leader." The controversy escalated to such an extent that Partha Chatterjee had to speak to both the leaders and ask them not to give statements in public. The party warned everyone not to speak in public. "Everyone has been asked not to give any public statement. If anyone has any grievance, he should speak to the senior party leaders or to the chief minister," a senior party leader said. Though the controversy was apparently doused but that it had a deeper impact on the authority of Mamata Banerjee was manifested when in a recent meeting with the party MPs at her Kalighat residence she said that she would look after the organisation of the party in West Bengal. The chief minister's statement just before the party's first organisational polls early next month is an obvious indication that she wanted to send a strong message to the party workers that she still has the last word in the party. Political experts are of the opinion that it has a wider range of political and organisational ramifications. "Abhishek Banerjee is still not wholly accepted in the party particularly among the senior leaders. The rift between the younger generation and older leaders is widening and Mamata Banerjee wanted to put a cap on that," a senior political analyst said. Not only that, the chief minister's strong message to the junior rung of the workers and leaders has a wide range of political implications too. "Mamata is still the most accepted and adored political leader in the state and there is no other political leader in the party who is capable of matching her charisma. In this situation the shift of the centre of gravity towards Abhishek Banerjee in the party might erode the support base having a long-term effect on the vote bank. So, this will not only restore confidence among the confused party workers but also help to restore the faith of the voters," he added. Sources in the party also indicated that the chief minister has directed to send the names of the possible candidates for the municipal elections to Rajya Sabha MP and Trinamool Congress General Secretary Subrata Bakshi, making it clear that she will have the final word about selecting the candidates for the forthcoming municipal polls. "Previously the nomination of the candidates was done by I-Pack -- the professional group of election strategist Prashant Kishore -- and it was sent to Mamata Banerjee for final approval. The change in the strategy is an obvious signal that she wants to plug the influence of the outside elements in the party," a senior cabinet minister considered close to Mamata Banerjee told IANS on condition of anonymity. The change was first felt when she nominated Firhad Hakim as the mayor of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation ignoring the party policy of 'One Person - One Post'. It is widely believed that Hakim was never the first choice of Abhishek Banerjee; rather he suggested another name but Mamata Banerjee by nominating Hakim as the mayor made it very clear that like before she will decide the final policies of the party. Now how much can she keep the influence of Abhishek Banerjee in the party at bay will be the thing to watch. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-all-hunky-dory-for-abhishek-as-senior-tmc-leaders-yet-to-accept-him-1076116.html
30-01-2022||National||How Delhi startup's drone light show at Beating Retreat mesmerised India||When over 1,000 drones, dazzling in different colours, lit up the sky over Lutyens' Delhi during the Beating Retreat Ceremony, the Indian startup success story once again took the world by storm. The 10-minute drone light show was conceived, designed and produced by Botlab Dynamics, a start-up incubated by IIT Delhi, which is now being run by Tanmay Bhunkar, Anuj Kumar Barnwal and Dr Sarita Ahlawat. According to IIT Delhi Director, Professor V Ramgopal Rao, he personally witnessed the trials and tribulations the startup went through in building drones. "The Institute helped them at every stage. The Department of Science and Technology (TDB), FITT and IHFC from IIT Delhi provided them financial and technical support through various government of India schemes," Rao said in a tweet late on Saturday. With this, India has become the fourth country in the world to have indigenously developed such a technology, he informed. The key focus areas of the startup is to use drone technology for defence and media and entertainment. In early 2012, Co-founder Bhunkar took his first UAV flight and by 2014, he and his team were asked to deliver eight drones that would join the Delhi Police. In 2016, BotLab Dynamics was incorporated at the Technology Business Incubator Unit at IIT Delhi. In the same year, BotLab Dynamics sold heavy-lift systems to IARI (the Indian Agriculture Research Institute). In 2017, BotLab Dynamics was awarded Nidhi-SSS (DST, Govt of India) of Rs 50 lakh for future research and development. The following year, BotLab Dynamics got selected by Army Design Bureau (ADB) to demo the heavy lift drone in Tawang, Arunachal Pradesh. BotLab Dynamics demonstrated a swarm of 10 drones with obstacle avoidance capability to the Army at NorTech, Udhampur. It later received the Prime Minister's award and iDEX grant of Rs 1.5 crore for R&amp;D. The 1,000 drones were used to depict 75 years of Independence or what is known as 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' under the government's 'Make in India' initiative. Botlab Dynamics is working on cutting-edge drone technologies like swarming and drone light shows from ground-up in-house designed components. BotLab Dynamics has built technology that allows many drones to fly simultaneously and autonomously in interesting spatial and temporal formations. The technology is built from scratch by BotLab. According to its founders, the goal of the BotLab is to fly thousands of drones simultaneously operated by a single user. "Our mission is to be part of the ecosystem that makes building hardware easy in India. We are building drone technology solutions by designing both hardware and software in-house," they said. The team has developed a full stack of solutions for drone light shows. Building a complete system is hard and making several copies with identical performance is even harder. "Making all the drones position themselves precisely so that a viewer can identify a form is a huge challenge. What we have developed is capable of scaling it to thousands of drones flying in detailed vivid imagery," according to the company. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-delhi-startups-drone-light-show-at-beating-retreat-mesmerised-india-1076123.html
30-01-2022||National||Two years on, new variants mar India's battle against coronavirus||Amid the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, India has completed two years since the first coronavirus case was reported in the country and during this time, it has not just battled the virus but also its mutated variants, even as uncertainty continues to surround the expected course of the pandemic. It was on January 30, 2020 when a third-year medical student from Wuhan university tested positive for coronavirus, becoming the country's first Covid-19 patient, days after she had returned home following semester holidays. Since then, India has battled three waves of Covid-19 and its seven mutated variants, many of which turned out to be lethal. Till now, India has reported 4,10,92,522 cases and 4,94,091 fatalities due to Covid-19 and its variants. According to the Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortia INSACOG, there are seven variants of concern that have been identified in the last two years in India – Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.3, AY series and Omicron. Of these, Delta and Omicron variants have been found to be the most dangerous with the former driving the second wave of Covid-19 while the latter is behind the ongoing third wave. A senior official said out of 1.5 lakh samples sequenced till January 2, variants of concern and interest have been found in 71,428 of them. Out of the 71,428 samples in which variant of concern and interest was found, 67,700 samples were found in the community while 3,728 were found in travellers and their contacts, the official said. Also, out of the 71,428 samples, Delta variant was identified in 41,220 samples followed by those found in the AY series of Covid-19 at 17,114. However, presently Delta has been replaced by Omicron as the dominant variant in most metros and cities. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Saturday said irrespective of the Covid variants, 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and Adherence to Covid-Appropriate Behaviour' will continue to remain the tested strategy for Covid management. Healthcare specialists too have advised that following Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination remains the best possible solution to tackling coronavirus variants. But there is no clarity about when the pandemic will finally become endemic in India. “We are still in the midst of the pandemic and the focus should be on curtailing the virus spread and save lives,” Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region told PTI when asked if the pandemic is entering the endemic stage in India. Even if it becomes endemic, it doesn't mean that the virus will not be a cause of concern, she added. When noted virologist Dr T Jacob John was asked about how the pandemic is expected to progress, he said it is generally seen that the new (emerged) pathogens get adapted to human hosts and in the process (hopefully) tend to become more infectious and less pathogenic -- within limits. However, what the future holds is not clear, he said. “So, ‘what can we expect....' is a good question with no good answer. We shall see as the pandemic progresses,” John had told PTI.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-years-on-new-variants-mar-indias-battle-against-coronavirus-1076139.html
30-01-2022||National||75% adults vaccinated against Covid: PM Modi hails 'momentous feat'||With 75 per cent of all adults fully vaccinated, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated fellow citizens for this "momentous feat" and said he is proud of all those who are making the vaccination drive a success. Tagging a tweet by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in which he stated that India has achieved its goal of vaccinating 75 per cent adult population against Covid, the prime minister said, "75 per cent of all adults are fully vaccinated. Congratulations to our fellow citizens for this momentous feat." "Proud of all those who are making our vaccination drive a success," he said. The cumulative number of anti-Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 165.70 crore. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75-adults-vaccinated-against-covid-pm-modi-hails-momentous-feat-1076140.html
30-01-2022||National||PM, President and deputy pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi on death anniversary||The nation on Sunday remembered Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary with President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi paying floral tributes to the Father of the Nation. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla joined Kovind and Modi at the Raj Ghat, where attendees held a two-minute silence in honour of Gandhi, who was assassinated on January 30, 1948. His death anniversary is observed as Martyrs' Day. "Remembering Bapu on his Punya Tithi. It is our collective endeavour to further popularise his noble ideals," Modi tweeted. "Today, on Martyrs' Day, paying homage to all the greats who courageously safeguarded our nation. Their service and bravery will always be remembered." Remembering Bapu on his Punya Tithi. It is our collective endeavour to further popularise his noble ideals. Today, on Martyrs’ Day, paying homage to all the greats who courageously safeguarded our nation. Their service and bravery will always be remembered. An interfaith prayer was held at Raj Ghat and Gandhi’s favourite devotional songs were rendered to mark the 74th death anniversary of the father of the nation. A gun salute was given at the memorial where school students and people from different walks of life gathered to pay respects to Bapu. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, meanwhile, urged people to come together to free the country from poverty, hunger, social evils, illiteracy and discrimination. Gandhi was assassinated on this day 74 years ago. "An apostle of peace and non-violence, Gandhi Ji played a colossal role in India's freedom struggle and in shaping the destiny of India," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu. Describing Gandhi as a visionary leader, social emancipator, messiah for farmers, crusader of the downtrodden and the voice of rural India, the vice president said he was an epitome of kindness, compassion and selfless service.  "His glorious life, noble ideas and selflessness continue to inspire humanity. Let us come together to free our country from poverty, hunger, social evils, illiteracy and discrimination," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-president-and-deputy-pay-homage-to-mahatma-gandhi-on-death-anniversary-1076144.html
30-01-2022||National||'Gehri dosti' says Bennett as Israel and India mark 30 years of diplomatic ties||Israel and India have a "gehri dosti" (deep friendship), Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has said and thanked his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi for his "deep commitment" to the "strong and robust friendship". Describing the opportunities of collaboration between the two countries as "endless", Bennett, in a special video message released on Saturday evening, stressed that "the ties between Israel and India are strong and together they will only grow stronger", as the two nations celebrated 30 years of establishment of diplomatic relations. "There is something I wanted to tell to all of the people of India. “Israel and India have a "gehri dosti", Deep Friendship. Today we honour 30 years of diplomatic relations between Israel and India. Thirty years of a wonderful partnership, a deep cultural connection, and military and economic cooperation," he said. Though India had recognised Israel on September 17, 1950, full-fledged diplomatic relations between the countries were established on January 29, 1992. "I would like to thank my dear friend, Prime Minister Modi, for his leadership and deep commitment to this strong and robust friendship. “Our countries may be different in size but we share much in common - our rich history, the inherent warmth of our peoples, and our cutting edge innovation and technology", the Israeli prime minister said amidst a series of activities underway to mark the occasion. The video was tagged to a tweet that said, "Today, we celebrate 30 years of diplomatic relations between Israel & India. We celebrate a strong partnership, An incredibly deep friendship, & optimism for the future!". He wrote in Hindi, "Together we will continue to achieve more remarkable achievements". Today, we celebrate 30 years of diplomatic relations between Israel & India. In New Delhi, Prime Minister Modi, in his special video message, said there cannot be a better time to set new goals for taking forward India-Israel relations and asserted that the importance of the relationship has increased amid significant changes in the world. Modi said the people of India and Israel have always shared a special relationship. "This day holds importance in our relationship as full diplomatic ties were established between the two countries 30 years ago. A new chapter between the two countries had begun. It was a new chapter but history between us is age-old. "For centuries, the Jew community has stayed in India in a harmonious environment without any discrimination and has grown. It has made an important contribution in our developmental journey," Modi said. On Friday, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Israel's foreign minister Yair Lapid penned op-eds in an Israeli and an Indian newspaper emphasising that "friendship and trust" are not only positive traits, but also "real assets" with which the two countries have worked together to "deepen their roots" for the last three decades, expressing hopes that their achievements together will continue to bear fruit. The celebrations to commemorate 30 years of diplomatic ties are likely to continue through the year but anniversary celebrations have been marked by illumination of historic sites in both countries - the Gateway of India and Teen Murti Haifa Chowk in India and Masada in southern Israel's Judean desert which is a popular tourist site. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gehri-dosti-says-bennett-as-israel-and-india-mark-30-years-of-diplomatic-ties-1076145.html
30-01-2022||National||US H-1B visa registrations for FY23 to begin in March: See details||The US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has announced that the initial registration period for the coveted H-1B visas for FY2023 will run through March 1-18. In a statement on Saturday, the USCIS said that during the above mentioned period "prospective petitioners and representatives will be able to complete and submit their registrations using our online H-1B registration system". The USCIS will assign a confirmation number to each registration submitted which will be used solely to track registrations. This number however, cannot be used to track the case status online, the statement said. It further said that prospective H-1B cap-subject petitioners or their representatives are required to use a myUSCIS online account to register each beneficiary electronically for the selection process and pay the required $10 registration fee. "Prospective petitioners submitting their own registrations will use a 'registrant' account. Registrants will be able to create new accounts beginning at noon on February 21." US employers and agents are collectively known as "registrants". The USCIS said that once enough registrations are received by the March 18 deadline, there will be a random selection after which selection notifications will be via users' myUSCIS online accounts. The H-1B visa allows companies and other employers in the US to temporarily employ foreign workers in occupations that require the theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialised knowledge and a bachelor's degree or higher in the specific specialty, or its equivalent, according to the USCIS. Every year the US gives 65,000 H-1B visas open to all and 20,000 to those with advanced US degrees. Indians are the biggest beneficiaries of the H-1B visas getting about 75 per cent of them, according to the US government.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-h-1b-visa-registrations-for-fy23-to-begin-in-march-see-details-1076151.html
30-01-2022||National||Lata Mangeshkar's heath improving, responding to treatment: Tope||Singing legend Lata Mangeshkar is recovering and responding to the treatment, Maharashtra Minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday. "I spoke with Dr Pratit Samdani who is treating singer Lata Mangeshkar. She's recovering, was on a ventilator for some days, but is better now. She is no more on ventilator. Only oxygen is being given to her," he was quoted as saying. The 92-year-old singer tested positive for coronavirus with mild symptoms and was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai on January 8 where she is being treated by Dr Pratit Samdani and his team of doctors. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lata-mangeshkars-heath-improving-responding-to-treatment-tope-1076154.html
30-01-2022||National||Experts suggest change in India's Covid-19 strategy as vaccination coverage reaches 75%||With more than 75% of India’s adult population fully vaccinated, public health experts on Sunday suggested modifications of Covid-19 strategies such as free distribution of good quality masks to the poor and using hospitalisation numbers instead of test positivity for guiding public health action in future. The experts also flagged the importance of betterment of the primary health care delivery system to tackle any upcoming surge rather than short term strategies like movement restrictions and school closure. “Good quality masks should be supplied free of cost to low-income families with explanations of benefits provided by health workers and community volunteers,” K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India told DH. Many others agree with Reddy on having a policy to make good quality masks freely available to people. The poorer section of the society either reuse ordinary surgical masks or normal cloth masks, whose protective ability is lower than N95 or similar masks. “Using effective masks has not been easy, at least in part because there has been no policy to make high-efficiency reusable masks freely available,” observed Satyajit Rath, a visiting faculty at the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Pune. The Union government on Sunday announced that more than 75% of India’s 94.47 crore eligible population is now fully vaccinated. Also 60% of the adolescents belonging to the 15-18 years of age and peak of the third wave seems to have been crossed ten days ago. On January 20, India logged more than 3.47 lakh fresh cases, which is the highest in the ongoing surge as the number of daily counts continues to slide since then. Over 2.34 lakh new cases have been recorded all over the country even as more than 500 districts still register a test positivity ratio of 5% and above. “More than test positivity rates, which are affected by many variables, numbers of seriously ill persons needing hospitalisation should guide our assessment of pandemic severity at this point. Wherever there are many persons requiring hospitalisation, stricter restrictions may be enforced. Elsewhere, we may resume normalcy in stages,” said Reddy. 165 करोड़ वैक्सीन डोज! Experts are unanimous on resumption of offline classes in schools and colleges, on which the Union government is expected to make a policy announcement soon. While a few states have begun to open up the schools, there are many others, which didn’t. “If there are any lessons from two years of the ongoing pandemic it is that temporary measures such as restrictions of movement and closure of schools are stop gap interventions. Strong primary health care delivery systems will determine the future course of such public health emergencies,” said Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute of Public Health, here. “Many of the restrictions such as night curfews, weekend curfews and limiting occupancy of public transport to 50% capacity were not based on any scientific evidence,” he said. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-suggest-change-in-indias-covid-19-strategy-as-vaccination-coverage-reaches-75-1076158.html
30-01-2022||National||People should work together to rid nation of corruption: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said corruption is like a "termite" that makes the country hollow and all the people of the country have to work together to rid the nation of it as soon as possible. In his Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast, Modi said more than one crore children have sent him "their Mann Ki Baat" via postcards which have come from many parts of the country and even from abroad.  These postcards give a glimpse of the broad and comprehensive outlook of the new generation for our country's future, Modi said. Talking about a postcard from a girl in Uttar Pradesh who had said she wants to see an India free of corruption by 2047, Modi said, "You have talked about corruption-free india. Corruption is like a termite that makes the country hollow. Why wait for 2047 to get rid of it? This is a work all the people of the country, today's youth, have to do together, it has to be done as soon as possible." "And, therefore, it becomes very important that we give priority to our duties. Where there is a sense of duty, where the duty is supreme, corruption cannot exist," he said. In his radio broadcast, the prime minister also talked about the merging of the 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' near India Gate and the flame at the nearby National War Memorial. "We have seen that 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' near India Gate and the flame at the nearby National War Memorial have been merged into one. On this emotional moment, many countrymen and the family of martyrs had tears in their eyes," Modi said. He urged people to visit the War Memorial. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-should-work-together-to-rid-nation-of-corruption-pm-modi-1076160.html
30-01-2022||National||'Hindutvawadis' feel Mahatma Gandhi is no more, but he is alive where there is truth: Rahul||The Congress on Sunday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 74th death anniversary with former party chief Rahul Gandhi saying "Hindutvawadis" feel the Father of the Nation is no more but he is alive, where there is truth. Gandhi was shot dead on this day in 1948 by Nathuram Godse. The Father of the Nation's death anniversary is observed as Martyrs' Day. "A 'Hindutvawadi' had shot Gandhi ji. All 'Hindutvawadis' feel that Gandhiji is no more. Where there is truth, Bapu is still alive there," the Congress leader tweeted in Hindi, using the hashtag 'Forever Gandhi'. Rahul Gandhi also paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at the Raj Ghat here. On his Twitter handle, Rahul Gandhi also shared a quote of Mahatma Gandhi: "When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love have always won. There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible but in the end, they always fall. Think of it always.” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary, posting a quote by him on ahimsa (non-violence). The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, said, "We pay our tribute to the Father of the Nation on his death anniversary. On this day, also observed as Martyrs' day, we salute all the brave men and women who laid their lives for the country." "Our beloved Bapu may not be amongst us today to lead us through these tough times but his ways of fighting fearlessly & relentlessly against tyranny, apathy, injustice & falsehood continue to guide us in our quest for a prosperous & progressive India," the Congress said. Several senior Congress leaders paid homage to the Father of the Nation.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindutvawadis-feel-mahatma-gandhi-is-no-more-but-he-is-alive-where-there-is-truth-rahul-1076182.html
30-01-2022||National||60% youths in 15-18 year age group are vaccinated: Modi in 'Mann Ki Baat'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that about 60 per cent of youths in the age group of 15 to 18 years are vaccinated. The Prime Minister also said that within 20 days, one crore people have taken the precaution dose as well. Addressing his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat', Prime Minister said that India is fighting with great success with the new wave of coronavirus, "it is also a matter of pride that till now about four and a half crore children have been administered the dose of Corona Vaccine". "This means that about 60 per cent of youth in the age group of 15 to 18 years have got their vaccines within three to four weeks. This will not only protect our youth but will also help them to continue with their studies. Another good thing is that within 20 days, one crore people have taken the precaution dose as well," the Prime Minister said. He mentioned that now the cases of corona infection have also started decreasing and this is a very positive sign. "People should be safe, the pace of economic activities of the country should be maintained - this is the wish of every countryman," he said. Sunday's 'Mann Ki Baat' is the first episode of 2022 and Prime Minister remembered Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary. "Today is also the death anniversary of our revered Bapu Mahatma Gandhi ji. The 30th of January reminds us of the teachings of Bapu," he said. Talking about the just concluded Republic Day celebrations, Modi said, "The display of the nation's valour and strength, which we witnessed on Rajpath in Delhi filled everyone with pride and enthusiasm. One change you must have noticed is that now the Republic Day functions will start from the January 23, i.e. the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and will continue till the January 30, i.e. Gandhiji's death anniversary." He also talked about the digital sculpture of Subhas Chandra Bose installed at India Gate. "We can never forget the way the country welcomed this, the wave of joy that arose from every corner of the country; the kind of feelings expressed by every countryman," he said. The Prime Minister also talked about the 'Swachhta Abhiyan', 'Vocal for Local' and 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. "We should not forget the 'Swachhta Abhiyan', we should accelerate the campaign against single-use plastic, 'Vocal for Local' mantra is our responsibility, we have to work wholeheartedly for the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign. With the efforts of all of us, the country will reach new heights of development," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/60-youths-in-15-18-year-age-group-are-vaccinated-modi-in-mann-ki-baat-1076188.html
30-01-2022||National||India fighting new wave of Covid with 'great success': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India is fighting the new wave of Covid with "great success" and asserted that the people's trust on indigenous vaccines was "our strength". In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio broadcast, Modi said, "Now the cases of corona infection have also started decreasing, this is a very positive sign." It is a matter of pride that till now about four-and-a-half crore children have been administered the first dose of coronavirus vaccine, he said. "This means that about 60 per cent of youth in the age group of 15 to 18 years have got their vaccines within three to four weeks. This will not only protect our youth but will also help them to continue with their studies," he said. Another good thing is that within 20 days, one crore people have taken the precaution dose as well, Modi said.  "This trust of our people on the indigenous vaccines is our great strength," the prime minister said. He asserted that India is fighting the new wave of coronavirus with "great success". "People should be safe, the pace of economic activities of the country should be maintained -- this is the wish of every person in the country," Modi said. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Modi congratulated fellow citizens for this "momentous feat" of full vaccination of 75 per cent of all adults and said he is proud of all those who are making the inoculation drive a success. Tagging a tweet by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in which he stated that India has achieved its goal of vaccinating 75 per cent adult population against Covid, the prime minister said, "75% of all adults are fully vaccinated. Congratulations to our fellow citizens for this momentous feat." "Proud of all those who are making our vaccination drive a success," he tweeted.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-fighting-new-wave-of-covid-with-great-success-pm-modi-1076196.html
30-01-2022||National||Govt mandates two-year storage period for all calls over normal networks, internet||The government has mandated storage of international calls, satellite phone calls, conference calls and messages made over normal networks as well as on the internet for a period of at least two years, according to circulars issued by the telecom department. The move follows an amendment made in the unified licence (UL) in December by the Department of Telecom (DoT) which extended storage of call data records as well as internet logs to two years from the earlier provision of one year. UL holders are telecom companies like Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio, Vodafone Idea, BSNL for providing all kinds of telecom services, except satellite phone services. "The licensee shall maintain all commercial records, call data record, exchange detail record, IP detail record with regard to the communications exchanged on the network. Such records shall be archived for at least two years for scrutiny by the licensor for security reasons and may be destroyed thereafter unless directed otherwise directed by the licensor," the circular dated January 27 for voice mail, audiotext and unified messaging service licence said. The amendment applies to companies like Tata Communications, Cisco's Webex, AT&T Global Network, etc who have subscribed to these licences. The DoT made amendments in ILD licence on January 25, which, besides extending an additional one year for maintaining call detail records includes provision for storing details of international communications made using internet protocol. A similar amendment has been issued for the licence issued to BSNL for providing satellite phone calls and data services as well as for VSAT licence holders who provide satellite-based services, on January 24, mandating them to maintain call data and internet communications records for at least two years. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-mandates-two-year-storage-period-for-all-calls-over-normal-networks-internet-1076199.html
30-01-2022||National||Pegasus: Fresh plea in SC calls for FIR against PM Modi||A fresh plea has been filed in the Supreme Court to take note of a news report in international media about the purchase of Isreal's Pegasus spyware and order registration of FIR against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Relying upon new "revelations" in a report by The New York Times on India having purchased Pegasus in 2017 from Israel, advocate Manohar Lal Sharma, the lead petitioner in the pending Pegasus case, approached the top court once again. In his plea, he sought registration of the FIR, recovery of the money of the deal and prosecution of the Prime Minister. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana, while acting on a batch of petitions, had on October 27, 2021, formed an independent experts committee led by Justice R V Raveendran, a retired top court judge, to examine charges of snooping. “Right to privacy and freedom of speech are alleged to be impacted, which needs to be examined. The entire citizenry is affected by such allegations due to the potential chilling effect,” the court had said in its detailed order. It had asked the experts panel to ascertain if any governmental agency had used the Pegasus spyware on the citizens of the country, and under what law, rule, guideline, protocol or lawful procedure such deployment was made. Sharma, in his fresh application, referred to the report that claimed the Indian government had bought Pegasus Spyware from Israel in 2017 as part of a $2-billion package for weapons including a missile system. On July 18, 2021, an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software.  A batch of petitions including those by advocate Sharma, CPI(M) MP John Brittas, journalist N Ram, former IIM professor Jagdeep Chokkar, Narendra Mishra, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, S N M Abdi and Editors Guild of India were filed for an independent probe into the matter. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-fresh-plea-in-sc-calls-for-fir-against-pm-modi-1076200.html
30-01-2022||National||Fielding Yogi from Gorakhpur will also help party maintain hold on other seats in region, BJP hopes||The BJP seems to have strategically fielded Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath from Gorakhpur Urban in the assembly elections to maintain its sway over 62 seats in the region following desertion by some ministers hailing from the area. Party insiders say Adityanath had campaigned vigorously in the 2017 polls in the region which had helped the saffron party win 44 of the 62 seats in Gorakhpur and nine other neighbouring districts. The party has also got a prized catch in influential Congress leader R P N Singh to check the erosion in its support base among OBCs in the wake of recent exit of backward caste leaders like Swami Prasad Maurya and Dara Singh Chauhan as well as Om Prakash Rajbhar, who had quit earlier. Maurya and Chauhan have joined the Samajwadi Party along with some OBC legislators. Rajbhar had contested the last polls in alliance with the BJP and was made a minister, but bid adieu to the saffron camp ahead of the 2019 general election. Adityanath, who is popularly known in the region as "Maharaj ji" because of him heading the famous Gorakhnath temple, has served as the Lok Sabha member for five times from Gorakhpur since 1998. The Hindu Yuva Vahini -- founded by him in 2002 -- also has a considerable presence in the area. Reports suggest that Adityanath's footprint is visible in the selection of BJP candidates in the Gorakhpur region in particular. Adityanath is a member of the state election committee which sorts out candidates and party sources say that he wields considerable influence in the process. The Bharatiya Janata Party has divided its organizational structure into six parts in Uttar Pradesh - West Zone, Braj Region, Kanpur-Bundelkhand, Awadh, Kashi and Gorakhpur. Gorakhpur region consists of 10 districts namely Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Deoria, Kushinagar, Basti, Sant Kabirnagar, Siddharthnagar, Azamgarh, Ballia and Mau. Voting will be held on these seats in the sixth and seventh phases scheduled on March 3 and March 7. BJP Gorakhpur region vice-president Satyendra Sinha told PTI, "Yogi ji was the party's star campaigner in 2017 while being an MP and because of him, BJP got a lot of benefit in the Gorakhpur region and this time he is the chief minister.” "And since he is a candidate from Gorakhpur (urban) assembly constituency, BJP will definitely get an advantage under his leadership," he added. Party's regional coordinator of the Panchayat Cell, Ajay Tiwari said, "The BJP will not suffer any loss due to Swami Prasad joining the SP. The party will get the benefit of the development done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi in the area." In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP had won 44 of the 62 assembly seats in the Gorakhpur region, while the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party had secured seven seats each, and Congress and an independent had emerged victorious on one seat each. In addition, the then BJP partner Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party and Apna Dal (Sonelal) had also won a seat each in the region. However, the SBSP is an ally of the SP this time around. Backward castes constitute 52 per cent of the votes while the share of scheduled castes voters is 20 per cent. Upper castes like brahmins, kshatriyas and kayasthas also have significant presence in the region. Muslim voters also have a considerable presence in about 15 assembly constituencies, including Mau, Azamgarh and Padrauna. Also, there are many key rival party leaders from different assembly constituencies in this region. Maurya (Padrauna-Kushinagar), Chauhan (Madhuban-Mau), Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary (Bansdih-Ballia), State Congress President Ajay Kumar Lallu (Tamkuhiraj-Kushinagar), BSP's party leader Umashankar Singh (Rasra-Ballia) and Mafia turned politician Mukhtar Ansari from Mau are in this region. Even Azamgarh, the parliamentary constituency of SP president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, comes under this region. However, Yadav has decided to fight from Karhal seat in Mainpuri district. As Gorakhpur has a good number of voters from the backward Maurya, Kushwaha and Nonia-Chauhan communities, the SP has challenged the BJP through Swami Prasad Maurya and Dara Chauhan. SP state secretary Ziaul Islam told PTI that the BJP would “lose badly” in the region as it made “false promises” and “neglected” the interests of farmers, youth, Dalits, backwards and minorities. Islam argued that SP’s development-oriented image and joining of leaders like Maurya and Chauhan would result in the party getting a thumping majority. With the BJP roping in R P N Singh of the Padrauna (Kushinagar) royal family, who belongs to the backward Kurmi-Sainthwar fraternity, it is believed that he could help the saffron party retain its support among the OBCs. Singh was a minister in the Congress government at centre and has also been an MP from Kushinagar Lok Sabha constituency and an MLA from Padrauna. He is also a veteran leader of Purvanchal region. However, Uttar Pradesh Congress vice-president, Vishwavijay Singh, who is a resident of Gorakhpur, rejected the possibility of Adityanath and Singh influencing the polls. "Yogi ignored youth and the issue of unemployment for five years. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are fighting to safeguard the constitutional values of the country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fielding-yogi-from-gorakhpur-will-also-help-party-maintain-hold-on-other-seats-in-region-bjp-hopes-1076201.html
30-01-2022||National||Centre may clarify in HC if it wishes to withdraw stand opposing pleas to criminalise marital rape||The Centre is likely to inform the Delhi High Court on Monday whether it wishes to withdraw its earlier affidavit in which it had submitted that marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon which may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing husbands. A bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar, on January 28, had asked the Centre’s counsel to take instructions on whether it wants to withdraw its 2017 affidavit. The bench, which has been conducting marathon hearings on a batch of petitions seeking criminalisation of marital rape, will also hear rejoinder submissions on behalf of petitioners on Monday. Advocate Karuna Nundy, representing petitioner NGOs RIT Foundation and All India Democratic Women's Association, has sought a clarification as to whether she shall address the written submissions and affidavits filed by the central government so far or they are withdrawing it. This assumes significance as the Centre, in its affidavit filed in August 2017, had said the Supreme Court and various high courts have already observed the rising misuse of Section 498A (harassment caused to a married woman by her husband and in-laws) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It had further said that marital rape has not been defined in any statue or law and while the offence of rape is defined under section 375 IPC, defining marital rape would call for a broad based consensus of the society. Regarding the petitioners' submission that other countries, mostly western, have criminalised marital rape, the Centre had said it does not necessarily mean India should also follow them blindly. "This country has its own unique problems due to various factors like literacy, lack of financial empowerment of the majority of females, mindset of the society, vast diversity, poverty, etc. and these should be considered carefully before criminalising marital rape," it had said. However, in January, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the high court that it was considering a “constructive approach” to the issue and has sought suggestions from several stakeholders and authorities on comprehensive amendments to the criminal law. He had said criminalisation of marital rape involves “family issues” as well as the dignity of a woman and cannot be looked at from a “microscopic angle” and sought some time to respond with the government’s stand. The bench, on January 24, granted 10 days to the Centre to come back with its stand on the issue. The court, which has been hearing the pleas on a daily basis since January 10, has concluded hearing the submissions of petitioners, the Delhi government and some NGOs which have been opposing the pleas. It was hearing PILs filed by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association, a man and a woman seeking striking down of the exception granted to husbands under the Indian rape law. Under the exception given in Section 375 of the IPC, sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape. The petitioners had said that marital rape was the biggest form of sexual violence against women and the Delhi government had said that this act was already covered as a "crime of cruelty" under IPC. The petitioner NGOs have challenged the Constitutionality of section 375 IPC on grounds that it discriminated against married women being sexually assaulted by their husbands. NGO, Men Welfare Trust (MWT), which is opposing the batch of petitions seeking criminalisation of marital rape, had argued that sexual intercourse between a husband and wife cannot be treated on a par with that in non-marital relationships as the issue of consent cannot be divorced from the context of a marriage. It had submitted that the Domestic Violence Act was specifically promulgated for recognising spouse sexual violence. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-may-clarify-in-hc-if-it-wishes-to-withdraw-stand-opposing-pleas-to-criminalise-marital-rape-1076205.html
30-01-2022||National||Budget Session to begin on January 31: Will Opposition pass test on unity?||Parliament’s Budget Session is beginning on Monday in the shadow of Assembly elections in five states, dubbed as semi-finals to the 2024 polls, with the ruling BJP and the Opposition sharpening their tools to corner each other. The new revelations on Pegasus will be one of the main weapons the Opposition will use along with price rise, India-China border tension, Covid-19 third wave, farmers distress, Chinese border issues, relief package for Covid victims and sale of Air India. The session held in two legs – January 31 to February 11 and March 14 to April 8 – in the midst of the third wave of Covid-19 will start with the customary address of President Ram Nath Kovind to a joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs on the first day followed by the much-anticipated Budget on February 1. While in 2012, the UPA government had deferred the presentation of the Budget to March 16 owing to Assembly elections but in 2017 and this time, the Modi government decided to present the Budget during the election season. For both the ruling and Opposition sides, the session is crucial as the deliberations during the first leg would have an impact on the elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. Both sides are likely to use the Parliament floor to make their political points. Both the Houses are likely to see most of the MPs from poll-bound states remaining absent in the first leg of the Budget Session.  The session will also test the resolve of non-BJP parties on Opposition unity or electoral compulsions will keep them divided in Parliament, as a number of friends have turned foes in poll-bound states. During the last Winter Session, Trinamool Congress did not attend meetings called by Congress on floor coordination. NCP and Shiv Sena have come together against Congress in Goa where Trinamool Congress and AAP are also fighting separately. In Punjab, it is Congress versus AAP. Samajwadi Party is the main challenger against BJP in Uttar Pradesh while Congress is fighting alone. The government has called an all-party meeting through digital mode on Monday at 3 pm, which would set the tone for the Session, at least for the first leg. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not attended such a meeting before the Winter Session. The Opposition has said that it will raise the Pegasus issue prominently among other issues.  The report in The New York Times claiming that the Modi government bought Pegasus – which were alleged to be used against Opposition leaders, Constitutional post holders, journalists and activists among others – have given new ammunition to the anti-BJP parties. The Opposition will target the government alleging that the latter misled and lied in Parliament and Supreme Court on questions on whether it bought the Israeli spyware. It would also question the government on the assertions in the NYT report about India changing its stand on Palestine following the buying of Pegasus. Parties like Congress, Trinamool Congress, CPI(M), CPI, RJD, DMK, NCP and Shiv Sena have already targeted the government over the issue.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-session-to-begin-on-january-31-will-opposition-pass-test-on-unity-1076207.html
30-01-2022||National||Modi should address nation on Pegasus issue: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi address the nation on the Pegasus issue to end any confusion on the matter. After paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at the secretariat here on Shaheed Diwas, the chief minister said those who follow the ideology of the man who assassinated the Father of the Nation are ruling the country and are entering the parliament as MPs. Reacting to a media report claiming that India bought the Pegasus spyware from Israel as part of a defence deal in 2017, the Congress leader said, "The Central government should give a clarification. If the government is clean, then the PM should himself address the nation." "The Supreme Court is not able to do hearings on the matter on priority, which it should have done. Who should be blamed?" he said. Gehlot said that Richard Nixon had to resign as US president in a matter of spying. He also alleged there is such an environment in the country that anyone who expresses disagreement with the ruling dispensation is targeted, and the CBI, Enforcement Directorate go after them. He also said that the RSS and BJP have created a "troll army" across the country to attack people on social media for writing anything which is against their ideology. "You write anything on social media, the troll army of RSS and BJP, which is given lakhs and crores of rupees, comes to attack. In a democracy, disagreement and criticism are welcomed but today if you criticise, you are declared anti-national. In what direction the county is moving? This should be a matter of concern for every citizen," he said. Gehlot said that almost 98 per cent of the country's current population comprise those born after independence and it is necessary to take the ideology of Mahatma Gandhi to the new generation. On the issue of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) paper leak, the chief minister said the state government took prompt action and handed over the investigation to the SOG, which has conducted a thorough probe. Apparently ruling out the possibility of a CBI inquiry in the paper leak case, as demanded by the Opposition BJP, Gehlot said BJP leaders should give suggestions to the state government to improve the system instead of "playing with the future of the youths". He also claimed that today such people are in the BJP "who have no understanding of politics and give statements without thinking". "They should do some brainstorming before speaking. Because of them, lakhs of students are getting demoralised. After inflation, unemployment is a major issue. The state government has taken steps to improve the system," he said. Gehlot said the chairman of the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, Ajmer, D P Jaroli was sacked and secretary and other officials were suspended in connection with the paper leak, and action will be taken against all those whose names come during the course of investigation. Jaroli was sacked and the board secretary Arvind Kumar and two others were suspended by the state government on Saturday in connection with the paper leak of REET-2021 which took place in September last year. The board had conducted the exam to recruit teachers.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-should-address-nation-on-pegasus-issue-gehlot-1076212.html
30-01-2022||National||Now, Uttar Pradesh 'Dharm Sansad' calls for 'Hindu Rashtra', Seers say Gandhi not Father of the Nation, Nehru not 'first' PM||After the 'Dharm Sansad' (religious gathering) at Haridwar in Uttarakhand last year, yet another 'Dharm Sansad' called for making India a 'Hindu Rashtra' even as the seers refused to recognise Mahatma Gandhi as the Father of the Nation and Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru the first prime minister of the country. The Uttarakhand 'Dharm Sansad' triggered widespread condemnation after videos of alleged ''hate speeches'' by some seers appeared. The UP 'Dharm Sansad' was organised at the 'Magh Mela', an annual religious event at 'Sangam' (the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and Sarswati rivers).  Three resolutions were adopted at the meeting, which was attended, among others, by the Shankaracharya of Sumeru Peeth Swami Narendrananda Sarswati, which included declaring India a 'Hindu Rashtra', capital punishment for those indulging in religious conversion and immediate release of Jitendra Narain Tyagi alias Waseem Rizvi, the former chairman of Shia Waqf Board, who recently embraced Hinduism, and the Hindu seer Yati Narsimhananda, both accused in the Haridwar 'Dharm Sansad' hate speech case. ''In a country like India someone can be Rashtra Putra (son of the nation) but not Rashtra Pita (father of the nation),'' Sarswati said in his speech. He also said that Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose should be declared the first prime minister of the country as he (Bose) had the ''support of 15 countries''. ''Bose was already the PM of India when the country had attained freedom,'' he claimed. The seers warned of a nationwide agitation if Narsimhananda and Tyagi were not released from jail immediately.  According to the sources, the organisers had changed the name of the meeting from 'Dharm Sansad' to 'Sant Sammelan' after the district administration refused to give them permission for the same. ''Though the name was changed it was in fact a Dharm Sansad,'' Swami Anand Swaropp, one of the organisers, said. After the Supreme Court took cognisance of the Haridwar hate speech case, the police arrested Tyagi and Narsimhananda. A case was registered against Tyagi and some others under section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language) following uproar over the alleged hate speeches. The state government had also formed a special investigation team to probe the matter. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-uttar-pradesh-dharm-sansad-calls-for-hindu-rashtra-seers-say-gandhi-not-father-of-the-nation-nehru-not-first-pm-1076216.html
30-01-2022||National||Centre's silence on Pegasus worrying, need credible answers: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Sunday targeted the central government on its "silence" over the Pegasus controversy saying that it is necessary to give credible answers and be accountable towards the country and its people. She also slammed Union minister Gen VK Singh for his "supari media" remark. “The Pegasus espionage case is making the central government and the BJP go sleepless. In this very serious matter, there have been new revelations on a regular basis. Instead of giving reliable answers by being accountable and responsible towards the country, the silence of the Centre raises more questions. The government should disclose (the issue),” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. In another tweet, she called out the "narrow thinking of the government". “India's name in Pegasus case along with countries like Mexico, Poland and Hungary is no less a matter of concern,” she wrote. A report in The New York Times claimed that India had purchased Pegasus spyware in 2017 as part of a two-billion-dollar defence deal with Israel. Following this, a major controversy erupted on Saturday and the opposition accused the government of engaging in illegal espionage and termed it "treason". While the government is yet to react on the issue, former Army chief and currently the Minister of State for Road Transport Gen VK Singh had tweeted, "Can you trust NYT?? They are known 'Supari Media'". Last year, a conglomerate of international media groups claimed that Pegasus was allegedly used against several Indian politicians, ministers, social activists, businessmen and journalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-silence-on-pegasus-worrying-need-credible-answers-mayawati-1076221.html
30-01-2022||National||Omicron cases in Myanmar town restricts movement in Manipur town||The rise in Omicron cases in Myanmar's Tamu town has forced the Manipur government to restrict free movement of residents from the neighbouring country through the Moreh border in order to prevent further rise in Covid-19 cases.  An order issued by Mannuamching, the district magistrate of Tengnoupal district in which Moreh town is situation, on Sunday said the restriction on free movement of residents from both the countries has been imposed based on reports about detection of several cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Tamu, which can be a hotspot of Covid-19. The order imposed under power conferred upon to the district magistrate under Section 24 (c) of Disaster Management Act, 2005, shall come into force from February 1 and would remain in force till February 7. It further said the order was imposed based on a decision taken by Manipur home department. Free movement of nationals from both the countries are allowed within 20-kms radius as per a bilateral agreement. Hundreds of people, similar in culture, visits both sides for business and other activities without a passport and Visa. Moreh in Manipur is a favourite place for Myanmar nationals as it is a big and busy commercial town situated close to the border. Manipur, where Assembly elections is slated on February 27 and March 3 is registering over 16 per cent Covid-19 cases for the past few days. The state government has taken several steps to check Covid-19 cases as Election Commission has also expressed concern over the situation including low vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-cases-in-myanmar-town-restricts-movement-in-manipur-town-1076235.html
30-01-2022||National||Gujarat ATS arrests cleric in connection with murder of youth over Facebook post||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Sunday arrested a cleric from New Delhi and another suspect from Rajkot in connection with the murder of a 30-year-old youth in Dhandhuka town of Ahmedabad district. The police have so far arrested five persons including an Ahmedabad-based cleric for murdering the youth in broad daylight allegedly over a Facebook post that is said to have hurt religious sentiments.  As the investigation is progressing, a number of right-wing organisations have started making "provocative speeches" while demanding strict action against the killers of Kishan Boliya, who was gunned down on January 25 in Dhandhuka town. Several videos of speeches of right-wing leaders are doing the rounds targeting a particular religious community.  "We have arrested a cleric Qamar Gani Usmani from New Delhi and one Asif from Rajkot. Asif is suspected to have provided the weapon used in the murder," Superintendent of Police, ATS, Imtiaz Shaikh told DH. Usmani runs an organisation named Tahreek Farogh-e-Islami. Sources, however, said that there are many video speeches of Usmani talking about taking on those insulting the religion called "Gustakh-e-Rasool." "We have detained a cleric Qamar Gani Usmani from New Delhi for questioning. He runs an organisation named Tahreek Farogh-e-Islami," Deputy Inspector General of Police, ATS, Deepan Bhadran told DH. He refused to share further information on how Usmani is involved in the murder case here. Sources, however, said that there are many video speeches of Usmani talking about taking on those insulting the religion called "Gustakh-e-Rasool". Before ATS took over the investigation, Ahmedabad district police had arrested three persons including a Maulvi Mohammed Ayub Y Javarawala, 51, a resident of Jamalpur, in Ahmedabad city, Shabbir Chopda alias Saba Dadabhai, 25 and his friend Imtiaz Pathan, 27, both residents of Dhandhuka.  Police have alleged that Javarawala radicalised Shabbir and supplied a pistol and five cartridges. On January 25, on a motorcycle, Shabbir and Imtiaz followed Kishan and his brother Bhaumik who were also on a bike. At around 5:30 pm, Shabbir shot Kishan, killing him on the spot. Kishan had uploaded an objectionable post on Facebook against which police had filed an FIR after local Muslim leaders filed a complaint. He was arrested and later released by the local court.  Larger conspiracy Senior police officials told DH that Shabbir, Maulana Javarawala and some identified persons are allegedly part of a "larger conspiracy" to "punish" people for blasphemy. "Usmani is well-known for making a list of those who have written or said blasphemous statements. However, there is nothing incriminating against Usmani as yet except his open speeches against those insulting Prophet Muhammed. But, we have come to know that it was Usmani who introduced Shabbir and Imtiaz to Javarawala," police officials said. Sources claimed that "Shabbir, Imtiaz and Javarawala had identified at least two more persons in Gujarat, including one in Porbandar identified as Sajan Odedara for offensive remarks". Superintendent of Police, ATS, Imtiaz Shaikh told reporters on Sunday that Shabbir and Javarawala had travelled to Porbandar allegedly to kill Odedara but couldn't do it. Sources also claimed that a controversial news anchor, known for his provocative speeches targeting a particular religion, was also on the list. Javarawala is said to have survived a mob attack during the 2002 post-Godhra riots at Por village in Gandhinagar district. "A mob had set the mosque, where Javarawala was working as a Maulvi, on fire. Many sustained injuries including Javarawala. After this incident, he left Gandhinagar and started working at a local mosque in Jamalpur," a neighbour told DH on the condition of anonymity. A senior police officer also confirmed that Javarawala had sustained injuries during the 2002 riots. In December, he penned a book entitled "Jazbaa-e-Shahadat" in Ahmedabad. In the launch, Usmani is said to have participated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-ats-arrests-cleric-in-connection-with-murder-of-youth-over-facebook-post-1076244.html
30-01-2022||National||Congress showing love for armed forces with eye on polls: Pralhad Joshi||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Sunday accused the Congress party of making just a show of its love for the armed forces with an eye on polls and asked why did it not implement the one-rank-one-pension plan if it cared for them. Dubbing INC as an acronym for the "Indian National Confusion", Joshi, also the BJP's Uttarakhand election in-charge, said it becomes a party of Hindus whenever convenient and a lover of the armed forces when the polls are round the corner. "It should explain why did it not implement the OROP scheme despite being in power at the Centre for decades if it cared for the armed forces personnel. It should tell why did it not buy modern weapons and equipment required by the armed forces,” he asked. “The people of Uttarakhand can never forget how the Congress once called the country's first Chief of Defence Staff and pride of the state Gen Bipin Rawat a "streetside hooligan" and demanded a proof of the surgical strike,” he added. He said it was because of the double engine BJP government in the state and at the Centre that developmental projects worth over Rs 1.5 lakh crore have been brought to Uttarakhand over the past five years. Claiming that the people of Uttarakhand had made up their mind to re-elect the BJP, Joshi said Congress too had a double engine government in the state and at the Centre at one point of time but it wasted the opportunity to serve people. Without naming anyone he said a former chief minister who is the biggest face of the Congress in Uttarakhand was seen in a sting video during his tenure offering a "licence to loot". He said Rahul Gandhi's "proneness to confusion" is now becoming a characteristic of the whole party. Citing the example of Harish Rawat without naming him, the BJP leader said first he was saying he would not contest the election and now in the face of certain defeat he was switching from one seat to another. In an apparent reference to the way Harak Singh Rawat was re-inducted into the party, he said, "First he (Harish Rawat) put his foot down saying bullocks destroying crops will not be taken in. Now he is taking a vow along with the same bullocks to grow a new crop." Joshi also said the BJP will formally begin its poll campaign in Uttarakhand from February 1 which will be attended by Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, his Himachal and Haryana counterparts Jairam Thakur and Manohar Lal Khattar and Pradesh party president Madan Kaushik besides all former BJP chief ministers of Uttarakhand. The party also launched its theme song and poll banner on the occasion. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-showing-love-for-armed-forces-with-eye-on-polls-pralhad-joshi-1076254.html
30-01-2022||National||Rakesh Tikait slams Centre, says farmers would observe 'Betrayal Day' on Jan 31||Alleging betrayal by the Centre, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday announced a country-wide observance of "Betrayal Day" on Monday over farm issues. The national spokesperson of the influential north Indian farmers' union claimed the over-a-year-long protest at Delhi's borders was withdrawn on the basis of a letter of promises by the government on December 9 but those remain unfulfilled. "A nation-wide 'Betrayal Day' will be observed on January 31 because of government's betrayal to farmers. The movement was suspended on the basis of a letter given by the government on December 9 but those promises have not been fulfilled,” Tikait, whose BKU is a part of the SKM, said in a tweet in Hindi. सरकार द्वारा किसानों से वादाखिलाफी के खिलाफ कल 31 जनवरी को देशव्यापी "विश्वासघात दिवस" मनाया जाएगा । The protest on Delhi's borders had started under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a farmers' collective, in November 2020 over the main demands of withdrawal of three contentious farm laws that were introduced by the BJP-led Centre. The farmers, who occupied key border points of Singhu , Tikri and Ghazipur for over a year, also demanded a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) of crops. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in November 2021 announced that the contentious farm laws would be rolled back, leading to the protestors eventually vacating Delhi borders in December.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakesh-tikait-slams-centre-says-farmers-would-observe-betrayal-day-on-jan-31-1076261.html
30-01-2022||National||BJP govt's priority is spying on citizens: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday attacked the Centre over the issue of employment, saying its priority is "spying" on citizens when it ought to be jobs for the youth. Her attack on the government came over a media report which claimed that there are 3.03 crore unemployed youth in the country. "The priority of the government should be jobs for the youth, but the priority of the BJP government is spying on citizens," the Congress general secretary alleged in an apparent reference to the Pegasus snooping allegations against the government. The country needs an agenda for the youth, it needs a roadmap for employment for the youth, Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. सरकार की प्राथमिकता होनी चाहिए युवाओं के लिए जॉब्स, लेकिन भाजपा सरकार की प्राथमिकता है नागरिकों की जासूसी। Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-govts-priority-is-spying-on-citizens-priyanka-gandhi-1076269.html
30-01-2022||National||Budget Session: Parties asked to provide list of MPs sitting in LS, RS chambers, galleries||With Covid-19 forcing staggered sitting of Parliament during Budget Session, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday reviewed the preparations and decided to ask parties to provide the list of MPs to be seated in Chambers and galleries. With Rajya Sabha meeting in the morning hours and Lok Sabha during the evening, MPs will be seated in both the chambers as well as in galleries. Sources said Secretaries General of both the Houses have been asked to reach out to leaders of various parties and groups in respective Houses immediately and to suggest them to draw lists of names of MPs of respective parties to be seated in different locations. Seats were allotted in chambers and galleries of both the Houses based on the strength of parties.   This decision was taken at a review meeting by Naidu and Birla after the latter made the suggestion that the MPs may be seated at different locations by name to avoid confusion, crowding, and enquiries, they said. Till now, seats in the chamber and galleries were allotted in numbers and any MP can choose any of these, according to their party's allotment.  Both Naidu and Biral also discussed the reduction in the time of sitting of both the Houses by one hour per sitting. Both underscored the need for cooperation from all sections for effective utilisation of available time.  The Parliament House complex has been sanitised and all possible measures are being taken to contain the spread of Covid-19, they said. The MPs have been requested to take the RT-PCR test 48 hours before the commencement of the Session. To a query by Birla, sources said, officials informed that there was no test required for Covid-19 patients to ascertain they are out of virus infection after seven days of home quarantine if they do not have any symptoms Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-session-parties-asked-to-provide-list-of-mps-sitting-in-ls-rs-chambers-galleries-1076270.html
30-01-2022||National||BJP govt promised 'acche din', but reports indicate 7-9 crore people unemployed: Mevani||The BJP had come into power promising 'acche din' but reports indicate that seven to nine crore people are unemployed in the country, rights activist and Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mevani said on Sunday. Speaking during an online press briefing on unemployment in the country, he along with other activists urged the Centre to take steps to tackle the issue, more so as there is a pandemic. Those at the briefing also alleged that unemployment has risen under the BJP government. Statistics speak about the status of unemployment in the country, Mevani said. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised 'acche din' (good days) and came into power. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, prior to the coronavirus pandemic, four to five crore had lost employment, but during the pandemic, 12 crore people lost jobs and nearly three to four crore people haven't got any jobs, while the remaining have managed to get something. The numbers indicate that seven to nine crore people are unemployed," he said. Other speakers on the panel spoke about how marginalised sections are the worst sufferers. Rudrani Chhetri, an LGBTI activist, said that transwomen face a lot of issues in getting employment as society has a certain perception towards them. "A transwoman, who is qualified, had gone for a job interview but the security guard asked her for sexual favours for allowing her to enter the office. She came back in tears," she said. “There are many women, who despite being qualified are not getting the dignity they deserve. There are transwomen I know who have burned their degrees after facing dejection in job interviews and being forced to return to being a sex worker," she said. Chhetri said that even though the third gender has been recognised in the country, the awareness about such people is ''almost at the level of prep in school''. Student activist Aftab Alam condemned the recent police action against job aspirants protesting the alleged irregularities in a recruitment exam by Railways. "Is youth only used as vote bank? When students study in DU (Delhi University), everyone knows that he is studying in a big university. It is shameful when he returns to village because the government is not even able to ensure jobs for them,” he said. Alam said that the governments and the system are responsible for it.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-govt-promised-acche-din-but-reports-indicate-7-9-crore-people-unemployed-mevani-1076272.html
30-01-2022||National||Pegasus: Adhir submits privilege notice against Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw||Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday submitted a privilege notice against Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw for "deliberately misleading" the Parliament, citing a New York Times report that claimed that India purchased the controversial Israeli spyware. In his notice to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, he said the Pegasus issue had rocked the Monsoon Session last year with the Opposition demanding a discussion on reports that the government was targeting politicians, journalists and activists among others. He claimed that the Narendra Modi government always maintained on the floor of the House that it had nothing to do with Pegasus. He also alleged that the government lied to the Supreme Court when it was "directly questioned" about the purchase and deployment of Pegasus. In its affidavit, Chowdhury said that the government told the apex court that deny the allegations against the government on the Pegasus issue. "In light of the latest revelations by the New York Times, it appears that the Modi government has misled the Parliament and the Supreme Court and lied to the people of India," he said in his letter while urging him to accept his privilege notice against Vaishnaw, who made the statement on behalf of the government in Parliament. Tweeting a copy of the letter, Congress Whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore asked, "Will Speaker Om Birla accept the opposition demand?"  The NYT report claimed that India purchased the controversial spyware, which was reportedly used to spy on Opposition leaders, activists, journalists and those in Constitutional posts among others, and linked the country's change in stance on Palestine and votes in the United Nations that favoured Israel to the purchase from the NSO Group. So far, the government has not reacted to the NYT story while it has not made clear whether the spyware was purchased or not. In July last year, reports had emerged that a large number of Opposition politicians, lawyers, activists, businessmen, those holding Constitutional posts and journalists among others were spied using the Pegasus spyware by hacking into their phones, an allegation the government denied. Vaishnaw had told the Parliament that the reports of use of Pegasus in the country was "baseless" and “highly sensational". The Ministry of Defence said in Parliament last August that it has not had any transaction with NSO Group, which sells Pegasus. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-adhir-submits-privilege-notice-against-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-1076280.html
30-01-2022||National||If youth shown right direction it will ensure all-round development: CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said that if the youth are shown the right direction it will prove to be an effective way in ensuring all-round development of the nation. For this, it is also necessary for them to follow a competent guide, he said while interacting with 1,500 youngsters through video conferencing under the 'Rising Youth Talk' programme. Paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 74th death anniversary, Khattar said he is an idol of integrity, the priest of non-violence, whose life will be an inspiration for generations to come. The youth need a charioteer, companion and guru at every turn of life from whom they can draw inspiration and constant guidance, the chief minister said. Khattar, according to an official statement, said that the youth should learn skilling abilities and dedicate their life for the benefits of others, and learn to live for the country and society. He also said that there is a need to run a social campaign on the lines of the ‘Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao Abhiyan’ to make the youth more aware about the ill effects of drugs. Touching upon another issue, Khattar said that the "CM Window" portal is proving to be the best way to redress the problems of the people. "About 10 lakh problems have come up in about seven years, out of which 90 per cent have been resolved. Citizens are satisfied with the immediate redressal of problems through the CM Window," he said. He said that the BJP-led government was carrying out equitable development, and to improve the social environment, emphasis has been laid on social, religious and cultural education. The chief minister said that the margin of error reduces while working with the spirit of "Antyodaya". "Through this justice is equally ensured for everyone without any favourism or discrimination. Our government's aim is to ensure that the last person standing in the queue should get the benefits of government schemes,” he said, For this, the Parivar Pehchan Patra (family-id) scheme has been started. Fifty-four schemes have already been linked with this scheme, in which data of 67 lakh families have been verified so far, Khattar said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-youth-shown-right-direction-it-will-ensure-all-round-development-cm-khattar-1076286.html
30-01-2022||National||Take cognisance of NYT report on Pegasus: Editors Guild to Justice Raveendran committee||The Editors Guild of India on Sunday approached the Supreme Court-appointed committee probing the Pegasus scandal, demanding that it should call top government officials as witnesses during its inquiry into the use of the Israeli spyware following new revelations in New York Times, saying the claims in the news report is in stark contrast to the government's stance. In a letter to Justice (Retd) RV Raveendran who is heading the committee, it said the panel should take cognisance of the "startling claims" in "one of the most respected news organisations in the world". The Editors Guild wanted the panel to summon the "Government of India, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, as well as the Secretaries of ministries that may have been involved with the claimed purchase of the spyware -- Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Home, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, as well as any other Ministry that your Lordship/the committee deems fit, as witnesses to the inquiry and seek their response on an affidavit”. The NYT report claimed that India purchased the controversial spyware, which was reportedly used to spy on opposition leaders, activists, journalists and those in Constitutional posts among others, and linked the country's change in stance on Palestine and votes in the United Nations that favoured Israel to the purchase from the NSO Group. The Editors Guild said it noted with "deep concern" the claims made in the report and it was in "contrast to the stance of the Government of India, which has been and continues to be vague and non-committal in its response to these extremely serious allegations that whether they purchased the spyware, and more disturbingly, if it was used against Indian citizens, including journalists and civil society members". Earlier on 29 November 2021, it had written a detailed letter to the committee with suggestions, amongst others, regarding the procedures for the inquiry to be done by the committee as well as suggestions with respect to witnesses and evidence to be examined by the committee.  "The Guild had also offered assistance in any manner to the Committee...The Guild reiterates its consistent stance that the proceedings of the Committee be kept open to the public at large so that there is complete transparency with respect to the witnesses being called as well as their responses," the Editors Guild said in a statement.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-cognisance-of-nyt-report-on-pegasus-editors-guild-to-justice-raveendran-committee-1076290.html
30-01-2022||National||Congress to launch booklet highlighting rising prices under BJP govt||The Congress on Monday will highlight the issue of rising prices and will launch a 'BJP brought inflation' booklet in poll-bound states. The Congress will organise a series of press conferences underlining the problems faced by the people due to inflation and hold the central government responsible for it. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala will hold a press conference in Lucknow, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel in Chandigarh and former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan in Goa. Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijay Singh will address a press conference in Jalandhar, Sachin Pilot in Dehradun, Hardik Patel in Meerut and Ranjit Ranjan and Supriya Srinate in Varanasi. "The people of the country are suffering from inflation and BJP is enjoying. The double whammy of rising prices and falling income has made life difficult for people," AICC Secretary Pranav Jha said. "The back-breaking prices have spoiled the budget of families. Modi ji, BJP took votes by serving lies of 'acche din' and served the poison of inflation in people's lives," he said. The party will highlight that wholesale price index has reached a 12-year high under BJP rule and the high excise duty on petrol and diesel, a statement said. It will also highlight that the BJP increased rail passenger fare by 205 per cent and since January 1, 2022 and how it has made clothes, shoes, children's books, withdrawing money from ATM, auto booking from app and ordering food, among other things, more expensive, the statement said. This will be the third booklet that the Congress releases in poll-bound states. Last week, the Congress had launched a booklet to highlight how the BJP government "compromised" with the interests of armed forces and held press conferences on it. Before that, the party had launched a booklet to highlight the farmers' plight under the Modi government and held press conferences in various cities. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-launch-booklet-highlighting-rising-prices-under-bjp-govt-1076291.html
30-01-2022||National||Child suffering from mental disorder entitled to family pension: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said a deceased government employee's child, who is suffering from a mental disorder, is entitled to a family pension. He said this public reiteration was needed because the Department of Pension and Pensioners' Welfare has noticed that in some cases banks are not allowing family pension to such children and are insisting on a guardianship certificate from courts. Singh, the Union Minister of State for Personnel, emphasised that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi the government follows the mantra of good governance to provide "ease of living" for the common man. In that spirit, the provision of nomination for family pension is intended to avoid any hassle for a child, suffering from a mental disability, in obtaining guardianship certificate from the court or in claiming family pension after the death of his/her parents, Singh said. Therefore, insisting on a guardianship certificate by a bank in such cases defeats the very purpose of such nomination and also amounts to violation of the statutory provisions of Central Civil Service (Pension) Rules, 2021, the minister said. Chairman and managing directors of all pension disbursing banks have been advised to issue suitable instructions to their centralised pension processing centres/pension paying branches for payment of family pension to a mentally retarded child through the person nominated by the government servant/pensioner/ family pensioner under the statutory provisions of the rules and not to insist for a guardianship certificate, Singh said. The Department of Pensions has introduced many path-breaking reforms including relaxation in the provision of family pension for divorced daughters, the introduction of face recognition tech through a mobile app for ease in submitting life certificates by elderly pensioners among others, Singh added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/child-suffering-from-mental-disorder-entitled-to-family-pension-union-minister-jitendra-singh-1076308.html
30-01-2022||National||From Mahatma Gandhi to Covid-19 vaccination: Modi's first 'Mann Ki Baat' of 2022||A tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 74th death anniversary, the merging of the Amar Jawan Jyoti with the National War Memorial, and vaccination numbers are some of the topics that Prime Minister Narendra Modi took up in the first Mann Ki Baat episode of 2022 on Sunday.  In remembrance of Mahatma Gandhi, PM Modi deferred the radio address programme by 30 minutes. The day is celebrated as Martyr’s Day. This is the 84th episode of the programme.  “Today is the death anniversary of our revered Bapu Mahatma Gandhi ji. The 30th of January reminds us of the teachings of Bapu,” Modi said. He added that the Republic day celebrations this year was a matter of pride for all of us.  He mentioned the merging of the Amar Jawan Jyoti with the National War Memorial and said that former soldiers had written to him about it.  “Some former soldiers of the army have written to me saying that, ‘The Amar Jawan Jyoti lit at the memorial is a symbol of the immortality of the martyrs,” Modi said. He encouraged people to visit the National War Memorial.  In his address, Modi also said that covid vaccination among the young people is significant. “It is a matter of pride that so far almost 4.5 crore children have taken the Covid-19 vaccine. This means that about 60% of youth in the age group of 15 to 18 years have got their vaccines within three to four weeks. Another good thing is that within 20 days, one crore people have taken the precautionary dose as well,” Modi said.  Modi also spoke about the rhino conservation efforts in Assam. “Rhino poaching affects Kaziranga and 37 rhinos were killed in 2013 and 32 in 2014 by poachers. To tackle this challenge, a huge campaign against the poaching of rhinoceros was launched in the last seven years by the Assam government. The number of rhino killings dropped sharply to 2 in 2020 and just 1 in 2021,” he said.  He added that on World Rhino Day, the government of Assam burnt 2400 rhino horns that were caught.  He also remembered the tigress T-5 who passed away recently at Madhya Pradesh’s Pench Tiger Reserve, who was given a burial as per Hindu rites. Modi said that it was a fine display of Indian culture.  “People used to call this tigress Collar Wali Tigress. People duly performed her last rites, bid farewell to her with full respect. The love of Indians for nature and animals has been highly appreciated the world over,” Modi said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-mahatma-gandhi-to-covid-19-vaccination-modis-first-mann-ki-baat-of-2022-1076311.html
30-01-2022||National||Godse's ideology becoming dominant, 'poison of hatred' spreading, says Mahatma Gandhi's great-grandson||Mahatma Gandhi's great grandson Tushar Gandhi on Sunday lamented that the number of people who follow the teachings of the Father of the Nation is shrinking in the country, while the ideology of his assassin, Nathuram Godse, is becoming dominant. He also said that while the central government is celebrating 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' to mark 75 years of Independence, it is being witnessed that "poison of hatred" is spreading in the society. He was speaking during a virtual a programme 'Kar ke dekho' (Do it and see) organised by the Gandhi Study Centre, JES College here, on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. "The government is celebrating 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' to commemorate 75 glorious years of progressive India and its rich history, but now 'amrit' has become poison of hatred and it is increasing and being spread," he said. "The teachings of Mahatma Gandhi are on the wane and the ideology of his killer, Nathuram Godse, is dominating over it. A section of people is distorting the history and rewriting it in their own way. But we have to revive the real history and raise voice against hatred and division in the society," he said. We have adopted the culture of violence, hatred and division. We are divided on the basis of religion, caste and region. Our division is our identity, mentality; and social systems are based on the division, he added. A nation is not merely a boundary, a flag or a map, he said. "A nation is a land on which all human beings live. It is the people who make the nation," Gandhi added. On the programme's theme 'Kar ke dekho', Gandhi said when Mahatma Gandhi planned to take out the Dandi march, most Congress leaders opposed his idea, doubted whether the plan would succeed and even thought that it may cause embarrassment to the party. "But Mahatma Gandhi wrote a single line in reply - 'Kar ke dekho'. He showed that the Dandi march can become a movement to achieve freedom. Today we have to do the same thing - 'Kar ke dekho' - against the situation of hatred, division and inequality. It will be a true homage to him if we follow his teachings in our life," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/godses-ideology-becoming-dominant-poison-of-hatred-spreading-says-mahatma-gandhis-great-grandson-1076317.html
30-01-2022||National Politics||Caste equations: Reaping dividends through division||'Rome Pope Ka, Madhepura Gope Ka' (Rome belongs to the Pope and Madhepura to Yadavs), so goes the saying in Bihar, a cradle of caste politics in India. Known as the 'Vatican of Yadavs', Madhepura has elected a Yadav MP for 14 consecutive polls. There are several such parliamentary seats across the country, where deep-rooted caste divisions still play a decisive role in electoral politics. Caste is key in the five states going to polls in less than a month — Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand. Yet, getting the math right is no easy task even for seasoned experts. A web of sub-castes, each competing against the other for the limited political space that is already dominated by the privileged in the hierarchy, makes the situation more complex. For instance, the Other Backward Classes (OBC) have now branched into Extremely Backward Classes (EBC) or Most Backward Classes (MBC). A section of Dalits identify themselves as Mahadalits in UP and Bihar. Decentralisation of political power has also meant that there are multiple claimants for the same community space after the fall of pan-state leaders. "Sub-castes provide more potent leadership of smaller groups and bargaining power. Helping in the evolution of chhuthbhaiya netas (small-time leaders) capable of providing 500 to 5,000 votes, which is crucial. These leaders switch sides every five years or so. The outcome of the Uttar Pradesh polls, particularly in eastern UP, may be a result of a political group that is able to win over or retain sub-caste support," says Rasheed Kidwai, a political analyst. While the Congress experimented with Charanjit Singh Channi, the first Dalit Chief Minister of Punjab — a state with 31.9% of Dalit votes, the Samajwadi Party in UP saw a number of backward class leaders from the BJP joining the party, particularly those belonging to the politically ambitious Kushwaha community. This chain reaction ensured that 44 seats went to the OBCs in the BJP's first list of candidates, a trend that continued in later lists as well. “Cast your vote or vote for your caste? In the uncertain world of politics in Uttar Pradesh, caste provides a comfort zone for an electorate that is tired of experimenting or looking for elusive ‘vikas’. When ideological lines are blurred, caste acts as a catalyst,” Kidwai argues. If Bihar and UP have made the maximum headlines for the inseparable concoction of caste and politics, the reality elsewhere in the country is not different, though the scale of the dominance of caste may differ. Identity politics surrounding caste loyalties in Vokkaligas and Lingayats has remained an integral part of Karnataka while the Maratha quota has kept the political cauldron boiling in Maharashtra. In Andhra Pradesh, the previous TDP administration headed by Chandrababu Naidu was more often referred to as the ‘Kamma government’ while the present regime is known as the ‘Reddy rule’. These two forward caste communities have been wielding power in the state for years and most CMs belong to these castes. The slogans of 90s Polarisation on caste lines was perhaps most evident in Bihar in the 1990s — the most controversial slogan being ‘Bhura baal saaf karo’ (wipe out Bhumihars, Rajputs, Brahmins). It was attributed to and denied repeatedly by Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad Yadav. Even Muslim politics in the state saw division along the lines of Ashraf and Pasmanda castes. In the end, JD(U)’s Nitish Kumar walked away with a chunk of the latter’s votes. In the adjoining state of Uttar Pradesh, a laboratory of Mandal politics (reservation for OBCs) and Kamandal politics (the Ram Mandir campaign by the BJP which also managed to woo a number of backward classes into the Hindutva fold) was brewing. Eventually, what socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia predicted in his book Wheel of History’ came true in both UP and Bihar. Lohia predicted that power would shift from the privileged castes to the OBCs, but if the dominant among the OBCs behave in the same manner with the deprived communities, the suppressed would ally with the privileged castes again. In UP, Dalits and privileged castes joined hands with Jatavs under Mayawati against Mulayam Singh Yadav’s SP. It saw further changes with a number of EBCs and non-Jatav Dalits breaking away from both SP and BSP and powering the BJP, which was earlier called a Brahmin-Baniya party. Karnataka’s caste calculus Caste has remained an integral part of Karnataka politics from the early 19th century due to the impact of Leslie Miller report — which ensured representation for non-Brahmins in the government — and census reports till 1931 that listed populations along caste lines, says political analyst Muzaffar Assadi. Post-Independence, Lingayats and Vokkaligas controlled power. The hegemony ended in the 1970s after former CM Devaraj Urs came with an ‘Ahinda’ prototype involving Muslims, OBCs and Dalits (MOD), Assadi says. Congress leader Siddaramaiah later perfected the Ahinda politics to keep the party in power while the Lingayats’ near-final shift to the BJP saw the first saffron party government in the state in 2008. Further down in Kerala, the Congress is not alien to divisions along the lines of faith. Caste factors have played a prominent role in candidate selection and policymaking, with Hindu-Nair, Hindu-Ezhava, Christian and Muslim communities being wooed by parties. In Maharashtra, caste politics matters in issues like reservation for the politically-strong Maratha community, the change in quota category for the Dhangar community and the restoration of OBC reservation in local bodies. With the creation of a special category through the Socially and Economically Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, the government breached the Supreme Court cap of 50%, which was later struck down. In Tamil Nadu, the AIADMK-BJP coalition in the 2021 Assembly polls tried to combine half a dozen SC sub-castes into one group and divide the MBC quota into sub-quotas. It is because of the Vellalar Gounders that J Jayalalithaa retained power in 2016. The DMK could not counter her in the western region, where the community stood like a rock behind Jaya, political analyst Raveenthran Duraisamy says. DMK leader M Karunanidhi hailed from the Isai Vellalar community while Jayalalithaa was a Brahmin — both numerically not very prominent. The two leaders factored in caste equations while handing out poll tickets. Caste bonds are, of course, hard to break. “Ye Jaati hai jo Jaati Nahin (It is this caste which does not go away),” says socialist Sharad Yadav after a 50-year political career. (With inputs from Akram Mohammed, E T B Sivapriyan, Prasad Nichenametla, Mrityunjay Bose and Arjun Raghunath) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/caste-equations-reaping-dividends-through-division-1076087.html
30-01-2022||National Politics||Chidambaram asks if it is 'best time to get advanced version of Pegasus' in jibe at PM Modi||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the 30 years of diplomatic ties with Israel, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday took a jibe and asked whether it was the best time to ask for advanced Pegasus spyware. He said, "PM said that it is the best time to set new goals in the India-Israel relationship. Of course, it is the best time to ask Israel if they have any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware. The last deal was for $2 billion. India can do better this time. If we get more sophisticated spyware ahead of the 2024 elections, we can give them even $4 billion." PM said that it is the best time to set new goals in the India-Israel relationship Of course, it is the best time to ask Israel if they have any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware After the expose in an international publication on Pegasus, the Congress on Saturday targeted the Modi government. Addressing a press conference, the leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge and Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala jointly said that the snooping was an "act of treason". "The Modi Government is the deployer and executor of the illegal and unconstitutional snooping and spying racket through Israeli surveillance spyware Pegasus & the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is himself involved! This is a brazen 'Hijack of Democracy' & 'An Act of Treason'," they said. Surjewala said, "The Modi government purchased Pegasus Spyware in 2017 and other military technology as the 'centrepieces' of a package, including 'weapons and intelligence gear worth roughly $2 billion' from Israel during PM Modi's visit. It is not a coincidence that the Budget of National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) reporting to NSA went up from Rs 33 crore to Rs 333 crore in 2017-18." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chidambaram-asks-if-it-is-best-time-to-get-advanced-version-of-pegasus-in-jibe-at-pm-modi-1076146.html
30-01-2022||National Politics||If we get better spyware from Israel, we can give them $4 billion: Chidambaram's dig at govt||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday cited Prime Minister Narendra Modi's remarks that there cannot be a better time to set new goals in India-Israel relations to take a dig at him, saying it is the best time to ask Israel if they have any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware. Chidambaram's attack at the government came a day after a New York Times report claimed that India bought Pegasus spyware as part of a $2 billion defence deal with Israel in 2017. The report triggered a major controversy with the Opposition alleging that the government indulged in illegal snooping that amounted to "treason". "PM said that it is the best time to set new goals in the India-Israel relationship. Of course, it is the best time to ask Israel if they have any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware," Chidambaram said. "The last deal was for $2 billion. India can do better this time. If we get more sophisticated spyware ahead of the 2024 elections, we can give them even $4 billion," the former home minister said. In a special video message on Saturday on the completion of 30 years of full-fledged diplomatic relations between India and Israel, Prime Minister Modi had said there cannot be a better time to set new goals for taking forward India-Israel relations and asserted that the importance of the relationship has increased amid significant changes in the world. Chidambaram also attacked Union minister Gen (retd) V K Singh for calling The New York Times "Supari Media". "Minister V K Singh has called the New York Times ‘supari media’. Was he not the one who called Indian media ‘presstitutes’?" Chidambaram said in another tweet. "I wonder if he has ever read newspapers like the New York Times or Washington Post. I doubt if he knows the role played by the two newspapers in exposing the Watergate scandal and the Pentagon Papers. If he does not wish to read history, he can at least watch the movies!" the senior Congress leader said. While Singh had called The New York Times "Supari Media", a government source had said the matter related to the Pegasus software was being monitored by a committee under the Supreme Court -- headed by retired Supreme Court judge R V Raveendran -- and its report was awaited. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/if-we-get-better-spyware-from-israel-we-can-give-them-4-billion-chidambarams-dig-at-govt-1076366.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||Two encounters underway between militants and security forces in Kashmir's Pulwama, Budgam||Two separate encounters broke out between security forces and militants in Pulwama and Budgam districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Acting on a specific input about the presence of militants in the Naira area of Pulwama in south Kashmir, security forces launched a cordon and search operation there, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting searches, the hiding militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter, the official added. The exchange of firing is going on and further details are awaited, he said. Another encounter broke out between security forces and ultras in the Chrar-i-Sharief area of central Kashmir's Budgam district, the official said. He said the exchange of firing between the two sides was going on and further details are awaited. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-encounters-underway-between-militants-and-security-forces-in-kashmirs-pulwama-budgam-1076071.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||5 terrorists from JeM and LeT killed in encounters in Kashmir||Five militants, including Zahid Wani a top commander of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), were killed in two separate gunfights in south Kashmir’s Pulwama and Central Budgam district on Sunday. “05 #terrorists of #Pakistan sponsored proscribed #terror outfits LeT & JeM killed in dual #encounters in last 12 hours. JeM commander terrorist Zahid Wani & a Pakistani terrorist among the killed. Big #success for us: IGP Kashmir (sic),” Kashmir Police Zone tweeted. According to police, JeM commander Zahid Wani was among four terrorists killed in an overnight encounter in Naira village of Pulwama. “Wani became the top Jaish commander in south Kashmir after security forces killed Pulwama attack mastermind, Sameer Dar, last year. His killing is expected to disorient the remaining JeM terrorists operating in the valley as he used to provide the planning and leadership,” a senior police officer told DH. The other three slain militants were identified as Waheed Reshi, Inayaitullah Mir, both locals and Kafil aka Chotu, a Pakistani. One more militant affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was killed in a separate encounter in the Charar-i-Sharief area of central Kashmir’s Budgam district. Both the encounters had started on Saturday evening and ended early Monday morning with the killing of five militants. 21 militants, including eight from Pakistan, have been killed in Kashmir this year in 11 encounters while last year 171 ultras were neutralized. According to police figures, 156 ultras, including 73 foreigners, were active in Kashmir on December 31. This is for the first time that the number of active militants in the Valley has come down to less than 200 since the insurgency erupted in Kashmir in 1990. Earlier on Saturday, a 53-year-old policeman was shot dead by militants in Hassanpora village of Bijbehera in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. Unidentified militants fired at head constable Ali Mohammad Ganie near his residence and he was rushed to the hospital where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-terrorists-from-jem-and-let-killed-in-encounters-in-kashmir-1076109.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||BJP deploys 10 lakh booth-level workers with smartphones for Uttar Pradesh polls||As part of its digital outreach, the BJP has deployed around 10 lakh workers with smartphones across Uttar Pradesh for the upcoming Assembly polls to be held between February 10 and March 7. Five to six workers with smartphones have been deployed at each polling booth of Uttar Pradesh. The saffron party has also formed its IT and social media teams at the block level in the poll-bound state. A well-placed source in the BJP said that these 10 lakh workers with smartphones will reach out to each and every voter in their respective areas. "We have formed a 21-member booth committee at each polling station. Among these, a minimum of five members have smartphones, which has been made mandatory so that all the information reaches the ground at the booth level," he said. There are 1,74,351 polling booths in the state, an increase of 18.49 per cent from the 2017 Assembly polls. Another party leader said that with a minimum of five members at each booth with smartphones, there are over 10 lakh BJP workers prepared to reach out to voters with digital content across the state. "We have formed a team of five to six volunteers at each polling booth. Our volunteers are ensuring our digital presence among each voter at every polling booth. These workers, part of booth committees, work in coordination with the 'Panna Pramukhs' (head of each page of the voter list)," the leader said. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has banned physical rallies and roadshows till January 31, with some relaxations for the first and second phases of polling. Another senior leader said that the BJP has formed a team for IT and social media campaign at the block level in all the 403 Assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh to digitally reach out to the voters amid the restrictions put in place by the poll panel. "Our IT and social media structure is such that Uttar Pradesh BJP has a robust team of social media and IT volunteers at every level in each district of Uttar Pradesh. In addition, we have five workers with smartphones at each polling booth we can take all the information and content to the people through them," said Shashi Kumar, social media co-convenor of Uttar Pradesh BJP. For digital dissemination of information, the party has formed groups and has pages on all social media platforms. The party is reaching out to voters with information through WhatsApp, Telegram, Facebook, Twitter and other platforms. As the Election Commission of India (ECI) has banned rallies and roadshows, the BJP is now planning to intensify information sharing through 1.75 lakh WhatsApp groups created at the booth level. The party also uses Facebook to share campaign content. "We have created more than 1.75 lakh WhatsApp groups with a minimum of 50 persons at the booth level. Similarly, we are connecting with the people through Telegram, Facebook and Twitter. We have over 50 lakh views on our Telegram platform," said a member of the BJP. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-deploys-10-lakh-booth-level-workers-with-smartphones-for-uttar-pradesh-polls-1076113.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||In latest jibe, Yogi claims SP's red caps covered 'in blood of riot victims'||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath stirred controversy ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in the state saying that the ''red caps'' (Samajwadi Party ) were 'soaked' in the ''blood of innocent Hindus'', who were 'killed' in the 2013 Muzaffarnagar communal riots and were also fired at in Ayodhya in 1990 as he warned the people against supporting the SP in the polls. Speaking during an interaction with the electorate at Baghpat in western UP on Saturday, Adityanath once again raked the Muzaffarnagar communal riots and the firing on the 'karsevaks' at Ayodhya to target the SP. ''Inki lal topian nirdosh hinduon ke khoon se rangi hui hain aur ye shanti ka paath padha rahen hain.....inhe sharm bhi nahin aati'' (their red caps are soaked in the blood of innocent Hindus and they are trying to give us lessons in peace....they have no shame), the chief minister said. ''Voting for the SP will mean humiliation of those killed in the Muzaffarnagar communal riots,'' he added. Adityanath also referred to the alleged killing of two 'Jat' youths Sachin and Gaurav which had resulted in communal clashes in Muzaffarnagar and said that the youths were killed for protesting 'molestation' of their sister. The UP CM also listed the achievements of his government during its tenure and appealed to the people to support the saffron party in the polls. Before Adityanath, prime minister Narendra Modi had also taken potshots at the SP by referring to red caps in his speech at Gorakhpur in December last year.  ''In laal topi walon ko UP ke logon ke dukh se matlab nahin hai....inhe satta chahiye apni tijori bharne ke liye....atankvadiyon ko riha karne ke liye aur mafia ko khuli chooth dene ke liye,'' (These red wearing people have no concern for the sufferings and pains of the common man....they want the power to fill their coffers, release the terrorists from jails and give a free hand to the mafia elements), the prime minister had said. ''The red cap is a red alert for UP......it denotes danger,'' Modi had added. SP president Akhilesh Yadav had retorted by saying that the red caps were ''red alert'' for the BJP and reflected that the saffron party would be ousted from power after the polls. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-latest-jibe-yogi-claims-sps-red-caps-covered-in-blood-of-riot-victims-1076152.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||Parliament panel to meet on February 8 on biodiversity bill||The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Biodiversity Bill will be meeting on February 8 when committee members will be holding meet with some State Biodiversity Boards. The committee has met twice since its formation and has invited suggestions from people on the Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that was introduced in the Lok Sabha in December. The Joint Committee put out a notice in the public domain, including advertisements in main newspapers on Sunday, inviting "memoranda containing views/suggestions from the public in general and NGOs/experts/stakeholders and institutions in particular". The deadline given is 15 days from the publication of the advertisement. The Committee is expected to submit a report by the last day of the first week of the next Session, which would mean before or by February 6. Lok Sabha member Dr Sanjay Jaiswal (BJP) is the chairperson of the Joint Committee. Earlier, Rajya Sabha Member and Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Bhupender Yadav had moved the Bill to the Joint Committee of the two Houses on December 20. Yadav had introduced the Bill in the Lok Sabha on December 16 amid din of the opposition members. There was no debate on the issue and the House was soon adjourned. The government then sent the Bill to a Select Committee. A day after that, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh had expressed the "strongest possible protest" that the government had referred the Bill to a Select Committee and not to the Parliamentary Standing Committee. Apart from Dr Jaiswal, members of the Committee from the Lok Sabha are Diya Kumari (BJP), Dr Heena Vijaykumar Gavit (BJP), Aparajita Sarangi (BJP), Raju Bista (BJP), Pallab Lochan Das (BJP), Santosh Pandey (SP), Prathap Simha (BJP), Jugal Kishore Sharma (BJP) and others. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parliament-panel-to-meet-on-february-8-on-biodiversity-bill-1076168.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||Journalist held for impersonating Yogi Adityanathna||A freelance journalist was arrested for allegedly impersonating Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and sending forged letters to several public sector units in a bid to obtain advertisements for his newspaper in 2016, police said on Sunday. Adityanath was then a Lok Sabha MP from Gorakhpur. Accused Manoj Kumar Seth (41) was arrested from his native Bhubaneshwar in Odisha by the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit of Delhi Police's Special Cell, they said. Rajbhushan Singh Rawat, personal secretary to Adityanath, had filed a police complaint alleging that some unknown persons had created a fake email ID using the BJP leader’s credentials. According to Rawat, the accused had sent emails and forged letters to public sector units such as Power Grid Corporation of India, ONGC and GAIL India. The accused also attached scanned letters with forged signatures of Adityanath. Deputy Commissioner of Police (IFSO) KPS Malhotra said during the course of the investigation, the fake email ID yogiadityanath.mp@gmail.com was identified and its contents were analysed to understand the motive. "The alleged email was with a request to release advertisements in favour of an English newspaper. Similarly, fake emails and fake letters were sent to ONGC and GAIL for advertisement support in favour of another newspaper. Through the IP address analysis and human intelligence, we identified the accused as Manoj Kumar Seth," Malhotra said. Police said Seth’s plan had not been successful and that he had been continuously changing his hideouts to evade investigators since then. Though several raids were conducted at his possible hideouts, he managed to give the police a slip every time. A dedicated team headed by ACP Raman was constituted to nab him, police said. “On Friday, Seth was arrested from Bhubaneshwar by our team and during interrogation, he revealed that he is a freelance journalist and also publishes a fortnightly newspaper. He had created the fake email ID and prepared the forged letters to seek advertisement support in favour of his local newspapers," Malhotra said. Seth is also involved in a case of extortion in 2020 at Chaliya Ganj police station in Cuttack on the complaint of an executive engineer of the public works department, Odisha, police said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-held-for-impersonating-yogi-adityanathna-1076184.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi court denies bail to Bulli Bai App's alleged creator Niraj Bishnoi||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail application of Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged creator of the Bulli Bai app, saying his offence was not only against the essence of womanhood but was also designed to disturb communal harmony. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana denied the relief to the accused on January 29, noting that the allegations against him were serious in nature and the investigation was at a nascent stage. Several complaints were received by police stations in the country regarding the listing of Muslim women for "auction" on the 'Bulli Bai' mobile application with photographs sourced without permission and doctored. It has happened for the second time in less than a year. The app appeared to be a clone of 'Sulli Deals' which triggered a similar row last year. The judge passed the order after hearing arguments of the accused as well as the prosecution. “The sardonic conduct of the applicant accused in targeting women journalists of a particular community, using offensive monikers with derogatory communal overtones, on a social platform is not only an offence against the essence of womanhood but also an act designed to enrage passion and cause ill will amongst communities and disturb communal harmony,” the judge said in the order. The accused had sought bail on the ground that the investigation against him was already complete and no fruitful purpose would be served by keeping him behind bars.  He had submitted that he is an engineering student and has no criminal antecedents. The prosecution had opposed the bail application arguing that in the present case, doctored photographs of the complainant, a journalist, were shared on Twitter handle @bullibai through a web app.  It submitted that the accused created a web app Bullibai on Github website/portal platform by using Proton VPN to hide his identity.  It further submitted that after the arrest of the accused, his laptop and mobile phone were analysed and various incriminating material have been recovered including many lewd comments and derogatory remarks on the doctored photographs of victims in Bullibai web app using Twitter handles @wannabesigmaf and @bullibai.  The Delhi police had further submitted that the investigation was at a nascent stage and if the accused was released on bail, he may attempt to influence the fair course of the investigation. The probe agency had told the court that the accused used his Twitter handle to target women of a particular community. It told the court that the contents of Bishnoi's Twitter handles were derogatory as he and others were using words like 'Suli' and 'Buli' for the women of a particular community.  Bishnoi, a 21-year-old engineering student, is said to be the main conspirator and creator of the Bulli Bai app on GitHub and the main Twitter account holder of the app. He was arrested by Delhi Police's Special Cell from Assam's Jorhat on January 5, 2022. An engineering student from Bengaluru, a young girl from Uttarakhand and one of her friends have also been arrested by Mumbai Police in connection with the 'Bulli Bai' app case.  The Delhi Police had registered a separate case based on the complaint of a journalist for offences under Sections 153A (promoting enmity on grounds of religion etc), 153B (imputations prejudicial to national integration), 354A (sexual harassment) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-denies-bail-to-bulli-bai-apps-alleged-creator-niraj-bishnoi-1076204.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||Sufficient provisions under existing laws to stop forcible conversions: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that religious conversions done by allurement or threat are wrong and there are sufficient provisions under existing law in the country to stop such practices. At the same time, he said choosing one's religion was a personal matter and no government has the right to interfere. The Delhi chief minister was speaking in poll-bound Punjab, where the Jathedar of Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, Giani Harpreet Singh, had accused Christian missionaries of running programmes for forced conversion of Sikh families in border villages, a charge vehemently denied by the Bishop of Diocese of Amritsar. Kejriwal said, "I believe it is a matter of personal choice which religion one wants to practice... and it is entirely one's personal matter in which no one has a right to interfere... No government has the right to interfere in this, and this is one's constitutional right." "But if anyone's conversion is done by allurement or threat, that is wrong," the AAP chief told reporters when queried about his party's stand on bringing an anti-conversion law. The BJP has been targeting the AAP over the issue. The BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh had earlier passed a bill aimed at curbing religious conversions by fraudulent or any other undue means, including through marriage. Kejriwal said that forcing anyone to convert was wrong and whatever steps need to be taken to stop this should be taken. "It is my opinion and I have been told by some lawyers, but this needs to be examined further, that under the country's existing law there are sufficient sections and provisions that if anyone forces anyone to convert one can be stopped from doing so. "Even today there are sufficient provisions in the country (to stop forcible conversions). Those who talk of a new law, what they are doing, is a political issue," he said in a veiled dig at the BJP. Meanwhile, on a question pertaining to the 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, Kejriwal accused the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of playing "dirty politics" on the issue. The SAD has accused the AAP government of obstructing the release of Bhullar. Kejriwal said that has he told Delhi Home Secretary to immediately convene a meeting of the Sentence Review Board and ensure that Bhullar's issue is taken up in the agenda.         "As several issues are taken up in the Board's meeting, I will ensure that this issue is there in the agenda and discussed. Whatever decision is taken at the meeting, the file goes to the Delhi L-G and he takes the final decision," said Kejriwal. The SAD had recently said a party delegation would meet President Ram Nath Kovind to seek "immediate and effective personal intervention" to secure the release of Bhullar.        Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had urged Kejriwal not to allow a "communal bias or political or electoral opportunism to dictate his decision and refusal to grant immediate clearance for Bhullar's release". The Centre had in September 2019 recommended special remission to eight Sikh prisoners, including Bhullar, to mark the 500th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. It has been alleged by some Sikh bodies that the AAP government in Delhi has not given its clearance for the release of Bhullar. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sufficient-provisions-under-existing-laws-to-stop-forcible-conversions-kejriwal-1076222.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||Prayagraj: Authorities expect 1 crore devotees to take holy dip on Mauni Amavasya||Amid the coronavirus pandemic, authorities in Uttar Pradesh expect one crore devotees to take a holy dip in the Ganga and the Sangam on Mauni Amavasya Monday. Chief Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra, who reviewed the preparation for the event, said Mauni Amavasya is a very important festival of Magh Mela and people from across the country come here to take a holy dip in the river. "Tomorrow one crore people are expected to take bath," Mishra said, adding he was satisfied with the arrangements made there for devotees. The chief secretary said he himself took a bath on Sunday in the Ganga and found that the river flow and the water is "good". As far as the coronavirus pandemic is concerned, the cases are coming down in the state, he said. "The rate of infection in the state has come down from 20 per cent to 4 per cent. As of today, the first dose of vaccine has been given to 99.5 per cent of the people in the state while 69 per cent of the people have been given the second dose too," he said. He also said that 65 per cent of the children in the age group of 15 to 17 years have also been vaccinated with the first dose. "During my visit here, whoever I asked about the coronavirus vaccine, they told me that have taken both the doses," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prayagraj-authorities-expect-1-crore-devotees-to-take-holy-dip-on-mauni-amavasya-1076241.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||Gandhi's philosophy of truth and non-violence continue to be 'our guiding light': Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha Sunday said Mahatma Gandhi's philosophy of truth and non-violence would continue to be "our guiding light" as he paid rich tributes to the Father of the Nation on his 74th death anniversary. Sinha was speaking at an event organised by the Global Gandhi Family (J&K) at the Mubarak Mandi Heritage complex, an official spokesman said. On the occasion, the Lt Governor received the Mahatma Gandhi Award 2022, which he dedicated to 1.25 crore citizens of J&K and called them equal partners in the Union Territory's growth. Paying homage to Gandhi, Sinha said, “His philosophy of truth and non-violence will continue to be our guiding light. Bapu's life and teachings will continue to be relevant in the centuries to come.” "As the world is getting more inter-dependent than ever before, Gandhi's teaching of equal respect for each other and peaceful co-existence will become more powerful instrument for the welfare of mankind," he said. The Lt Governor underscored that for the sustainable development of J&K, peoples' participation is imperative. "Bapu laid a lot of emphasis on balancing our development and ecology. It is our duty to make his vision integral part of our development policy,” he said. Sinha urged people to follow the values of non-violence, social justice, and equality. The Lt Governor also appealed for people’s participation in promoting Swachhata and preserving ecology. Two-minute silence was observed to pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi and Bhajans were also recited. Padma Shri awardees, Captain (Retd) Bana Singh, Political leaders, members of civil society, senior officers of police and civil administration, besides others were present on the occasion. Earlier, in connection with martyr's day, Raj Bhavan officials and staff members observed a two-minute silence as homage to Gandhi and countless brave Indians who sacrificed their lives during the freedom struggle, the spokesman said. Meanwhile, separate functions were observed across Jammu province where the participants observed two-minute silence to pay tributes to Gandhi and other martyrs of freedom struggle. Director General of Police Dilbag Singh led his personnel in paying homage to the martyrs at the police headquarters lawns. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gandhis-philosophy-of-truth-and-non-violence-continue-to-be-our-guiding-light-manoj-sinha-1076288.html
30-01-2022||North and Central||REET paper leak: BJP demands CBI probe, alleges involvement of Rajasthan minister||Intensifying attack on the Congress government in Rajasthan over the REET paper leak, the BJP on Sunday demanded a CBI inquiry into the matter including the alleged role of Rajiv Gandhi Study Circle (RGSC) and its national coordinator Subhash Garg who is a state minister. Addressing a press conference, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Kirori Lal Meena alleged that Garg, an RLD MLA, was the key conspirator in the paper leak, a charge denied by Garg. Meena claimed the district coordinators employed for the REET held in September last were the office bearers of RGSC, a non-government organisation whose chairman is Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The organisation works to promote the ideology of the Congress party.  Leader of Opposition in Rajasthan assembly Gulab Chand Kataria also issued a statement and said that persons from the RGSC were appointed as coordinators in Jaipur while in other districts, the responsibility of security of papers was given to administrative officers and police. Both of them demanded a CBI inquiry, saying the Special Operation Group (SOG), which is currently investigating the case, will not be able to do a fair investigation. When contacted, Garg rejected the allegations of his involvement in the paper leak and claimed the BJP leaders were dragging his name for political mileage. REET was conducted by the Board in September last year for the recruitment of teachers in the education department.  “Many of those involved in the paper leak are associated with the Rajiv Gandhi Study Circle. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot is the chairman and minister Subhash Garg is the national coordinator of the study circle which is indirectly financed with public money,” Kirori Meena said. He said that district coordinators were appointed at the behest of Subhash Garg. Without naming anyone, Meena claimed that a leader had given 2000 questions to the then Board chairman DP Jaroli for setting the paper of REET and the same questions were sold to 3,000 candidates for Rs 10 lakh each in Sikar. “If the exam is cancelled then these people will come on the road and demand money from the government. This has created a dilemma for the government,” he said. He said that looking at the gravity of the scam, a CBI inquiry should be ordered in the matter. The BJP leader also said that former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot should also come forward in the interest of the youths of the state. He said that Pilot gives statements on any irregularities but he is silent this time. Gulab Chand Kataria also named those associated with the Study Circle who were given the responsibility of coordinators by the Board during the exam. He also said that the CBI inquiry should be ordered in the case. Asked about the allegations, minister Subhash Garg said, “I have nothing to do with any paper leak incident.” "The agencies are investigating the case, let the report come. Nobody is above the law. The government swiftly took action on the matter,” he said. Earlier in the day, Gehlot appreciated the SOG for its investigation and said that action against all those found involved will be taken. Speaking on his decision to sack Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, Ajmer, D P Jaroli, he said that criminal negligence is also a crucial factor. He said that every mistake demands a price. “I said it 20 years ago when I became the chief minister for the first time. I want to repeat it again, that every mistake in every person's life demands a price and hence the one who has committed the mistake will have to pay the price,” he said. Virtually ruling out the possibility of CBI inquiry in the paper leak case, as demanded by the Opposition BJP, Gehlot said that the BJP leaders should give suggestions to the state government to improve the system instead of playing with the future of the youths. Board secretary Arvind Kumar and two others were also suspended by the state government on Saturday in connection with the paper leak of REET-2021. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reet-paper-leak-bjp-demands-cbi-probe-alleges-involvement-of-rajasthan-minister-1076307.html
30-01-2022||Opinion||Staying the liberal democratic course is key to India’s security, ambitions||The poll campaigning in five states conjures up an image of a vibrant democracy at play in India. The campaign noise even drowns out serious reservations about the ‘free and fair’ character of elections due to opaque electoral bonds and the Election Commission’s questionable conduct. Even if these apprehensions weren’t there, we must remember that there is more to democracy than elections. It is in the ‘more’ that we have witnessed less since 2014. The space for public debate has shrunk, institutional structures have been hollowed out, political rights smothered by suppression, the criminalisation of dissent and the crushing of protests. Why, the very idea of citizenship based on the constitutional dictum of civic equality has been negated by the CAA. The threat to our democracy has been chronicled globally. In March 2021, Sweden’s V-Dem Institute categorised India as an “electoral autocracy”, while Freedom House, a majority US government-funded organisation, listed India as “partly free”. In November 2021, another Swedish think-tank, the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, categorised India as the “backsliding democracy with the most democratic violations during the pandemic” and a “major decliner” in its Global State of Democracy 2021 report. All these reports confirm that Indian democracy is in deep distress, though Delhi was invited by the US to the Summit for Democracy in December – but so were ‘democracies’ like Pakistan, Malaysia, Iraq and Angola. Many Indians hope the US will fix India’s democratic decline. They are going to be disappointed. American geopolitical interest in keeping India at the centre of its efforts to counter China gets priority over shared values. It is for us Indians to recognise that our democracy matters not merely for the intrinsic value that it brings to one-seventh of humanity. It is as much a hard power imperative for Delhi in a fragile world order. It was a very poor and illiterate India, emasculated by two centuries of colonial subjugation, that chose to be a democracy. The principle emerged from the freedom struggle in which our leaders advocated liberal and progressive values for the people, going against the grain of India’s socio-religious structure. Even if the practice of democracy was imperfect, the idea of it took deep roots among Indians who saw intrinsic value in it. India’s multiple diversities could have easily become its weakness but democracy, sustaining our ‘unity in diversity,’ converted it into its major internal strength. As India’s democracy backslides, this internal strength is under stress. An already fragile situation in Muslim-majority Kashmir or Christian-majority Nagaland becomes even more threatening, with top generals warning of a two-and-a half-front security challenge for the country. While China and Pakistan are the two external threats, the half front refers to the internal security challenge from border regions like Kashmir and Nagaland. Economic development is bound to suffer when our 22% religious minorities, promised equal rights under a secular Constitution, feel that they are being targeted by a majoritarian government. A weakened democracy, with ineffective checks and balances, has already made India one of the most economically unequal countries in the world, where the rich have gotten richer and the poor poorer. Rising inequality, seen to be a consequence of cronyism, can eventually lead to social turmoil and instability. A socially divided and economically weak India will not be able to muster the hard power needed to take on China. One of the challenges from China has come in India’s neighbourhood, where Delhi has exerted maximum sway since independence. Even when it had limited hard power, the moral power of India’s democratic example sustained its influence in South Asian capitals. India was the exception in a region where regimes failed to deal fairly with religious and ethnic minorities. A bulwark against majoritarianism, Indian democracy was the aspirational beacon for neighbouring peoples. India’s democratic decline opens the doors for China in the region more easily. The vast gap between Indian and Chinese comprehensive national power and Beijing’s greater enthusiasm in engaging our neighbours accentuate the deficit caused by India’s democratic deterioration. India’s timid response to the Ladakh border crisis has severely dented Delhi’s hard power credentials while its soft power lies in tatters. It is only as a bulwark against authoritarianism that India can hope to play a counterweight to China. An Indian democratic failure is a failure of democracy as an idea – it strengthens China’s hand, and allows Beijing to export its growth and governance model to the world. India has to be the example that influences others to pursue the path of democracy, and it is critical for the world that Delhi itself stays true to the democratic course. Over the years, India had shown that it would not only practise democracy in word and deed but also deliver in ample measure to all its citizens, irrespective of religion, caste, gender, race and ethnicity. It lifted 271 million Indians out of poverty between 2006 and 2016. If longstanding democracies like India show backsliding in their conduct, it is a vote of no-confidence in the belief that democracy can deliver and be effective. Many Indians mistakenly assume that democracy is merely a catchphrase that has little value in the real world. They forget that ideas have power. Furthering India’s interests requires a wise blend of material and ideational resources. The idea of India provided us the internal stability and strength needed to springboard to great power. If the lived idea of a democracy is allowed to be hollowed out to a mere slogan, India will not be in a position to secure its own interests, let alone rise to global leadership that Indians so eagerly desire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/staying-the-liberal-democratic-course-is-key-to-india-s-security-ambitions-1076072.html
30-01-2022||Opinion||Ideology, anybody?||Some days ago, while responding to Karnataka ex-CM Siddaramaiah’s statement that leaders were joining the Congress since they liked the party ideology, another ex-CM, HD Kumaraswamy (HDK), responded that “ideology died long ago for all parties. There is no ideology for any party and parties have no commitment. Power is the only ideology for the parties”. It was a rare moment of public self-awareness, even self-criticism, from a contemporary politician. The lament may have been about politics in Karnataka, but the complexes it captures speak across India. But I partially reject HDK’s view. If anything, it’s hard to see the Modi government’s almost eight years in power so far as anything but the mainstreaming of Hindutva. But, here too, it’s ideology and some critical caste-community-regional alliances and social factors that have made Hindutva the pivot of politics in this era. So, if we take HDK’s comment (a common refrain) for its worth, it doesn’t explain the BJP’s inability to win elections in Bengal (though it’s now a formidable Opposition there), or Tamil Nadu or Kerala or other states. Political power and money power are crucial in politics in most countries, but even more so in India, given its built-in social and economic inequities. Yet, behemoths like the BJP don’t have it easy in many major states, where their ideology finds little appeal. So, the situation is layered: Ideology certainly dictates politics, but in degrees. It’s often checked by other imperatives. Currently, there are two ideas clashing and crisscrossing each other in interesting and intractable ways. These are notions of ‘ideology’ and ‘inequality’. No matter how ideologically driven parties may be, they must battle the hard facts of inequality and enable the social goods for a democratic republic. So, how do they tame these issues while still retaining their ideological core – and yet not rile and offend the so-called Hindu voter? Almost all non-BJP political parties look trapped. They have been forced to battle Hindutva, and yet not lose non-Hindu or ‘lower caste’ voters. In early 2020, the Aam Aadmi Party kept its distance from the Shaheen Bagh protests. None of their leaders attended it as it may have further polarised the vote in the Delhi Assembly polls then. In the bruising Bengal polls, Mamata Bannerjee made overtures of ‘Hinduness’. Over the last few years, a panoply of Congress leaders has parroted their Hindu identity. Transforming the Opposition’s rhetoric and narrative of politics are Modi-Shah’s biggest achievements. Yet, ideology does not help completely, nor all the time. In Uttar Pradesh these past weeks, some key state-level BJP leaders have crossed over to rival parties. They influence caste and subcaste votes. For the BJP, no amount of heating up the poll with ideology has appeared to abate the hammering UP’s mainly informal economy has received over the last four years. That plan worked in 2017. Now, the lightning-rod of ideology is clashing with the lived experience of local inequality. There’s plenty of rage over what happened with the farm laws or the second wave of the pandemic earlier, and the general hellishness of life in India’s most populous state. Rife inequality, caused by policymaking, has beset India and besmirched the poll season. Opposition parties want to expose incumbents on their policies that have widened inequality. Sitting state governments, like in UP, are struggling to answer to that, and so are approaching it ideologically. Oxfam India’s recent ‘Inequality Kills’ report makes for hurtful reading, considering India sees herself as a great democracy. If it’s causing so much inequality, it means the ideological enterprise constructed by the Centre is cracking. All ideologies have their limitations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ideology-anybody-1076073.html
30-01-2022||Opinion||Let’s go back to some hands-off parenting, please||Your daughter’s board exams begin tomorrow, and you get a call from a classmate who you last met 15 years ago, is leaving for the US in two days and is asking to meet up for a leisure lunch. If you go, it will take away three hours from the day — will you? Or will you say “What! How can I even think of stepping out?” I would go, and without guilt. This year, I am peddling a kind of parenting that’s worth trying. Especially if you are an HP -- Helicopter Parent – a term used for those who hover around their child. An HP may think she or he is, in fact, an IP – Involved Parent. But there is a wafer-thin line between Involvement and Interference. The former can give a young one a feeling of confidence, the latter can totally crush her independence. In trying to be a good mother or father, are you harming, rather than helping, your child? To be fair, some amount of hand-holding is necessary when children are growing up. To get them to know bad from good, to learn tasks, to initiate them into how the world works, as you have seen it. But after you have taught how to cross the t and do addition-subtraction in school homework, it is okay to step off and just be around. That’s when a child’s own thinking and problem-solving skills kick in, learning begins. The problem is when the parent ends up doing the homework herself! This gradually grows to more work for the parent, and then comes along that stress-inducer of modern schooling called ‘Project Work’. Gone are the days when you got away with drawing the planets of the solar system wonkily on a thick white sheet. Today’s project work is often a grand piece of art, no less than a trophy -- for the parents who have done it ‘oh so perfectly’. Else, you have to live with looking dull on the parents’ WhatsApp group. In the world of online classes, teachers are no longer left alone with their students. The taught are not just the tiny tots; moms, dads, grandmoms are always ‘Present, Miss’ even while the video is on mute. Compare this ever-present parent-set to the generation before. Joint families, some 5-6 kids per home, and women busy with never-ending chores meant that children grew up on their own, with optimal parental absence. “We were never inside the house in the first place. If it wasn’t at school, we would be found on some tree branch laughing, yelling, fighting,” says my mother. Everyone fed, bathed, chided someone’s children. There was neither fussing over, no making separate dishes. Today’s generation has to live with over-attention. What they are watching, what they are not reading, who they are friends with – is all on parental surveillance, like that CCTV outside the apartment lift. Parents can’t be blamed either; “the world is not how good it used to be”. So, when I, used to doing solo train journeys from my father’s postings across India since I was a pre-teen, sent my son of 10 by the local Bengaluru bus to meet his grandmom 10 km away, it was an act of bravery. When he went to the hostel for graduation, his roommate’s mother would call him thrice a day, starting 6 am, “Did the alarm ring? Gulp down some milk before class, ok?” We take our kids to holidays only in sanitised resorts, water anywhere is only from a mineral water bottle. A cab driver told me three years ago how at peak-time “A row of huge, fancy cars with only one little kid in the back seat”, held up traffic outside a school we were passing. Maids do the room-cleaning, machines do their laundry, mothers do every other work – while the young emperors and empresses grow up overprotected, under-skilled. Career mums have it hard as if they are not good-enough moms if the children want to slack off. But do we want the crown of a perfect parent more than the joy of raising a well-adjusted young person? In 2022, my tip to parents is to twist a line from a Salman Khan film: Do your children a favour -- do not do them any favour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/let-s-go-back-to-some-hands-off-parenting-please-1076074.html
30-01-2022||Opinion||Remembering the Mahatma: Loss, meet love…||They stand on the opposite banks of the river. One, shrinking into itself, separate, fearful, mistrustful, unable to see beyond its own needs and instincts for survival. The other, waiting for the crossover. Not now or later, but eternally. In Gandhi, the two, loss and love, met. Not just your loss or mine. His too. He was, after all, a man, even if a Mahatma. But the river that connected the two banks flowed through him. The river of love. You could submerge your loss in him. And be submerged by him. He never ran dry. Not even in the months leading up to Independence when loss’s furious, unstoppable reprisals, its blind, numb loathing, held sway in India. Calcutta was a gutted city. Communal killings had broken out on ‘Direct Action Day’, August 16, 1946, and they carried on, renewing themselves in fresh spasms of hate. The violence blazed through Noakhali in East Bengal, torched Bihar, engulfed Punjab and Delhi, threatened to consume the whole country. India had become a wracking, unconsolable fireball that would not be put out until Gandhi’s own blood had been shed. No, not even then did he run dry. Here he is in Noakhali, in a famous photo from 1946. Alone, head down, walking with staff in hand, trying to restore sanity in an area where Hindus had been killed in hundreds, houses burnt, women raped, in vengeance for attacks on Muslims in Calcutta. Many villagers he met were hostile to his arrival but he took it in his stride, went to live in their homes. He sought out those who had suffered to provide courage. To the community, his message was clear: He wanted “repentance.” Rajmohan Gandhi writes in The Good Boatman: A Portrait of Gandhi that he spoke to the large gatherings in an idiom they understood: “Hindus and Muslims were nourished by food grown from the same soil, quenched their thirst from the waters of the same river, and finally laid themselves to rest in the same earth. If they feared God, they would fear no one else.” In Bihar, which saw a terrible retribution against Muslims for Noakhali, he told a crowd of 100,000 on March 5, 1947, that he wanted “honest reparations greater in magnitude than their crimes.” And that “everyone of us is equally guilty of what any one of us has done.” A Hindu beggar came to give him four annas for the Muslim relief fund he had set up. Gandhi saw “true charity” in this act and found the real face of Bihar in him. Calcutta saw him go on a fast, his second-last, where he would have nothing save water. It would be his one last attempt to return sense to a city that continued to smoulder despite a spell of amity around Independence. The fast began on September 1, 1947. By the time he broke it three days later, the impossible had happened. “The nerve of feeling had been restored, the pain began to be felt; the pain of the whole society, because of the pain of its members, whether Hindu, Muslim, or others…it was fundamentally the joy of union, and the acceptance of new responsibility which such glad assurance of united strength makes possible,” wrote Amiya Chakravarty, who was an eye-witness to the fast. C Rajagopalachari, then the new Governor of West Bengal, said nothing that Gandhiji had achieved, “not even independence” was “so truly wonderful as his victory over evil in Calcutta.” Love, you must meet loss. Loss, inscribed by the memory of more than a million dead, homes and relationships abandoned, friendships extinguished. The loss of a promised wholeness. No, we haven’t acknowledged or understood, we are still capable of a return to madness. What to even speak of forgiveness? But loss, meet you must love. Love, inscribed by the fact of three bullets fired at point-blank range into the open heart of a 78-year-old man, his hands folded in the gesture of greeting, forgiveness and love. He embraced his death willingly. He had prayed earlier to forgive his assassin. His surrender to Rama was finally complete. The river connected the two banks because they weren’t really apart, weren’t really separate. The river knew, it trusted. It still does. We have to let go. Let ourselves be swept by love. We have nowhere else to go.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/remembering-the-mahatma-loss-meet-love-1076076.html
30-01-2022||Opinion||Want Indian R&D to get going? Start moonshot prize challenges||India is not usually a source of new, technologically sophisticated products, notwithstanding the stellar performance of our pharma industry during the pandemic. The Economic Survey 2021 discussed the low rate of innovation, noting that only now has India finally found itself in the list of top 50 innovative countries but still ranks 48th among 131 countries in the Global Innovation Index. Why is this so? The usual explanation is that Indian R&D spend as a share of GDP is low at 0.7%. It is far lower than that of Israel (4.6%), South Korea (4.5%), Japan (3.2%), Germany (3%), US (2.8%), France (2.2%), UK (1.7%), and Canada (1.6%). This, despite a sustained and wide-ranging focus on promoting R&D for many years and the government’s own spend growing steadily. Government-funded research focuses mainly on Agriculture and allied sectors, Space, Atomic Energy, Earth Sciences, etc. The State’s share in the gross national spend is 52%, as against the norm of 20% in peer countries, thus highlighting inadequate focus on R&D by the Indian business sector and academia. However, the adequacy of the national R&D effort can be examined from another dimension, looking at it in terms of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP). Usually, the bulk of R&D spend comes from recurring needs, largely manpower cost. Notably, the Indian salary structure is lower than in peer countries. UNESCO has been tracking inter-country performance using PPP. Its database indicates that in PPP Dollars, India’s expenditure exceeded that of Russia and UK, and may soon equal France’s. So, the question needs to change from “Are we spending enough on R&D?” to “Why is India not getting value for money in the form of recognisable technological achievements?” Over 4,000 approved R&D establishments exist in the Indian business sector. Individual companies reveal varying performance. Pharma major Lupin spends 8% of its sales on R&D. Tata Motors and Mahindra spend 5% of their revenue and compare well with global majors like Daimler, Volkswagen and Volvo. However, only 26 Indian companies figure among the top 2,500 global R&D spenders. These are mostly from three sectors – pharmaceuticals, automobiles and software. It is noteworthy that India is seen as globally competitive in these sectors. A wider array of globally competitive product development would be enabled only if companies in other sectors ramped up their spend on R&D. Total business sector contribution should rise from the existing 42% (private sector 37%; public sector 5%) to near 70%. The question is, how to generate interest in R&D. The answer does not lie in giving additional tax sops. A variety of government programmes -- Make in India, Start-up India, FAME, etc., apart from a variety of tax incentives, exist to promote both in-house and outsourced research. It is also not the case that the private sector is not responding. Their R&D spend is steadily growing. The problem lies in the structure of our manufacturing sector. We have historically promoted MSME development, majorly focused on low-tech products. About 90% of our companies are MSMEs, of which 90% are ‘micro and small’. We don’t have many global-size firms. The bandwidth to deploy money in R&D to attain breakthroughs is thus limited. So, if we want a greater variety of breakthrough achievements, we need ‘lateral’ thinking, such as that displayed by some luxury car dealers. It is no longer unusual to read about how 100-plus Mercedes/BMWs are bought by entrepreneurs of Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Surat, Coimbatore, Pune, Ludhiana etc., on a single day to avail discounts on offer for group buys. In 2018, GoI had partnered with Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI), Colorado, and others to launch the Global Cooling Prize challenge. This resulted in breakthrough innovation in air-conditioning technology. The target -- 80% reduction in climate impact compared to current ACs and specified affordability criteria with boundary conditions for use of water, power, materials and refrigerants -- was initially called unrealistic. However, by 2021, two contenders (Daikin with partner Nikken Sekkei, and Green Electric Appliances, Zuhai, with partner Tsinghua University, China) achieved them. Both use refrigerants that are more climate-friendly than those used currently. As a result, a number of AC manufacturers have committed to bring to market super-efficient ACs by 2025. This breakthrough happened because companies collaborated to win a prize. This ‘mission mode’ model can be replicated through national prize competitions (involving at least one Indian participant) with attractive honours and prize money for winners. Some pre-defined targets in select growth sectors could be identified and a reasonable time-frame set. This ‘mission mode’ R&D competition(s), sitting on top of existing incentive schemes, may boost innovation, rather than just more tax incentives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/want-indian-rd-to-get-going-start-moonshot-prize-challenges-1076077.html
30-01-2022||Opinion||Myanmar, Nagaland, AFSPA and a ticking time bomb||There has been heightened gunfighting in the Chin region of Myanmar between its military and rebels. Nearly 20,000 Myanmar people are already in Mizoram. But the state government cannot recognise the hapless intruders as refugees since states are not authorised to do so under the law. Only the Centre can. But the Union government faces a diplomatic quagmire. Entertaining the Myanmar intruders could upset that country's military junta. India needs its cooperation to deal with insurgent groups who take shelter and operate from the jungles of western Myanmar.  India's security apparatus is concerned over growing incidents of violence in Myanmar between the military and resistance groups. Several ethnic Naga, Mizo, Manipuri and even Assamese rebels from northeastern India have maintained bases in Myanmar's Sagaing region for years. The modus operandi used to be simple - launch attacks on Indian forces and then return to their camps and hideouts across the border.  Manipur witnessed one gruesome incident in November last year when Colonel Viplav Tripathi, his wife and their nine-year-old boy were killed. Forces wanted to hit back. So in Nagaland's Mon district, not far from the India-Myanmar border, innocent Naga civilians were attacked on December 4.  The fallout of 'mistaken identity' in a botched operation triggered anti-India and anti-Indian forces sentiment. Nagas and the Nagaland state government, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as an alliance partner, have demanded the "draconian" Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) be repealed. Boycotts marked the Republic Day celebrations on January 26 in Nagaland. Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, a senior leader with good contacts in national politics, hoisted the national flag in Kohima, the state capital. Ministers and administrative officials did so in district headquarters but in front of empty stadiums, which had nothing to do with the Covid-19 protocols. The state administration was at pains answering frantic calls from the Union Home Ministry mandarins and others why such a situation prevailed. The Naga Students Federation, an influential students' body, which can be compared with such outfits as the All Assam Students' Union (AASU) and Khasi Students Union (KSU) in Meghalaya, also called for a boycott. These student bodies in the northeast are often the stepping stones for student leaders to state-level politics. In other words, developments in Nagaland should not be brushed aside.  The intense fighting between the Myanmar military and the 'joint forces' of the Chin National Army (CNA) militants and Chinland Defence Force (CDF) is somewhat a new security dimension. The Lai tribe among Mizos shares an ethnic affinity with Chins and hence their bond and hospitality accorded to them. Last year, the Mizoram government, run by the Mizo National Front (MNF), a constituent of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, made elaborate arrangements for the school education of the Myanmar children who have sneaked into Mizoram with their parents and guardians in the aftermath of the military coup in Myanmar in February 2021.   The dissident National Unity Government (NUG) had declared a "Spring Revolution" from September 7, 2021, marking the launch of a "civil war" to oust the military junta in Myanmar.  Recently one Chin rebel was arrested in Mizoram border smuggling arms from India. Four "injured cadres from Chin forces" earlier sneaked into Mizoram state. One of them died. Three are reportedly undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Aizawl. Indian forces, primarily because of the ensuing elections in Manipur, another border state adjoining Myanmar, have intensified border security along the Indo-Myanmar border in Mizoram and the poll-bound state. The anti-insurgency team of Assam Rifles seized contraband also included a thousand aluminium instant detonators, one Tata 912 truck, Rs 73,500 Indian currency and 9,35,000 Myanmar currency (Kyats). The Assam Rifles personnel also seized a huge cache of explosives, 2,500 kilograms of gelatin (dynamite) sticks, and 4,500 meters of detonating fuse at the Zawngling village in Siaha district on the border. Another twist in the tale is that the explosives reportedly originated from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh and were allegedly being 'transported' to a fixed destination in Myanmar to arm the CNA militants. In December, Foreign Secretary Harsh V Shringla visited Myanmar and tried to build a needed diplomatic bridge. Before that, in October 2020, India delivered a kilo class submarine, INS Sindhuvir, to the Myanmar Navy, its first submarine. Amid this, Indian political parties, particularly the ruling BJP and its top leadership, are busy with election campaigns in the poll-bound states, including Manipur. The BJP hopes to retain power in Manipur, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the state on January 4.  Manipur is home to a sizable Naga population. Therefore, New Delhi is treading the path cautiously. However, officials had claimed last year that the Naga peace talks are in the final stages. The leading Naga group, the NSCN (IM), influential in the hilly region of Manipur, was still giving mixed signals. This group wants a separate flag and constitution for Nagas. The Centre has rejected the demand. The Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), a coalition of seven groups operating in Nagaland, are keen on an early peace pact. Its convener, N Kitovi Zhimomi, says all issues, including army deployment and AFSPA provisions, would end once a final peace pact is inked. This group signed a preamble agreement with the Centre in 2017. A matter of concern is the question of 'indigenous' Nagas has returned to the debate. The NNPGs working committee now says that all "Naga national workers" after signing the peace pact must "return" to their ancestral Naga inhabited areas.  The phrase "Naga national workers" refers to Naga militants operating with bases in Nagaland state and outside, such as Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Assam and even Myanmar. Similarly, "ancestral Naga inhabited areas" refer to respective Naga tribes' home districts. The NNPG working committee has said, "The political negotiations are over and to ensure that provisions of the agreement in respective Naga areas are meticulously and effectively implemented in letter and spirit, all Naga National workers, upon signing the political agreement, must return to their respective ancestral Naga inhabited areas to restrengthen and forge greater Naga historical and political identity".  Suffice it is to say that the region is sitting on a ticking time bomb. (Nirendra Dev is a New Delhi based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/myanmar-nagaland-afspa-and-a-ticking-time-bomb-1076114.html
30-01-2022||South||Not cadre rules, empanelment worries AP IAS officers||More than the proposed changes to the cadre rules, non-empanelment for various ranks has become the major stumbling block for Indian Administrative Service officers of Andhra Pradesh cadre, depriving them of the opportunity to serve at the Centre. The ‘360-degree’ system, under which senior IAS officers, and even retired bureaucrats, are called at random to evaluate junior officers before they are considered for empanelment at the Centre, is affecting their prospects, the officers lament. From the AP cadre, there are now only three IAS officers in the Secretary rank, one Additional Secretary rank and four in the Joint Secretary rank working in the central government on deputation. One more is at the Director level. Two officers are empanelled in the Additional Secretary rank and four in the Joint Secretary rank, making them eligible for central posting. For the record, as per the cadre strength fixed by the Centre, at least 52 IAS officers from AP should be on ‘Central Deputation Reserve’ but the current number is a mere 15, with little empanelment in the last few years. “This is the lowest number of empanelled officers from the state to the Centre in decades, though many are competent. If this trend continues, soon there will be little AP presence in the central bureaucracy,” a top IAS officer pointed out. Of the three Secretaries (from AP cadre) in the central departments, one will retire at the end of February and another in August. The third one will retire in June 2023. “After that, for years there may not be a Union Secretary from our state cadre at the Centre. Earlier, there used to be at least half a dozen officers from AP holding crucial Secretary posts in the GoI,” the officer said. What has become worrisome for bureaucrats is the depletion of “bench strength” at the Centre. Of the four Joint Secretaries now at the Centre, three are on only a few months’ extension and have to return to the state soon. The central deputation tenure of the lone Director level officer is also coming to an end. The state government has recently issued the no-objection certificate to only one IAS officer for deputation to the Centre at the Joint Secretary level. “Beyond that neither there are officers empanelled, nor is the state willing to spare those already eligible. This is worrisome as hopes of middle-level officers to gain exposure at the national level are getting dashed," a officer lamented. Since 2007, a two-year central deputation at the Director level has been mandatory even for empanelment as Joint Secretary. “If the state doesn’t send Director or Deputy Secretary level officers on deputation, they can’t become Joint Secretary or further up at the Centre. It affects the career progression of IAS officers adversely, but importantly the state will be the ultimate loser as there will not be any representation at the Centre in a few years,” a top bureaucrat told PTI. Referring to the grounds cited by the Centre for the proposed amendments to the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, officers observe the claim that “states are not sponsoring adequate number of officers for Central deputation” leading to shortage was “not valid”. “After the 360-degree system of evaluation was put in place, somehow the AP cadre officers lost out and many could not even get empanelled for Additional Secretary and Secretary-rank posts in New Delhi,” the top bureaucrat said. “These officers are many a time giving wrong and negative feedback about their colleagues, leaving the juniors in the lurch. The government of India should discard the views of these officials or do a 360-degree afresh for the cadre,” the top bureaucrat said. It is based on the feedback provided by the bureaucrats that Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi two days ago, welcoming the proposed changes to the cadre rules. “More IAS officers from the state cadre at different levels in the central government will help the state. The AP government will take all necessary measures as per the proposed amendments to ensure required number of officers are sponsored from the state,” the Chief Minister said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-cadre-rules-empanelment-worries-ap-ias-officers-1076185.html
30-01-2022||South||No place for Godse's 'heirs' in India, says TN CM Stalin||Governor R N Ravi and Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday paid floral tributes here to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary with the latter urging the people to take a vow that there is no place in the Indian soil for Nathuram Godse's 'heirs'. Ravi and Stalin paid floral tributes to a decorated portrait of the father of the nation, placed close to a life-size statue of Gandhi on the Marina beachfront here. In a tweet, Stalin urged people to take a pledge on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi to uphold unity by nurturing love and brotherhood and, "let us take a vow that there is no place in the Indian soil for Godse's heirs and their evil thoughts." The Chief Minister did not explicitly name anyone in his post. Ravi also paid floral tributes to Gandhiji at the Raj Bhavan administered a pledge against untouchability and observed 2-minute silence as a mark of respect along with students from the institutions of Harijan Sevak Sangh and Raj Bhavan staffers and officials. On the occasion, Ravi hailed Mahatma Gandhi for his charismatic leadership to the freedom movement, unwavering commitment to truth, non-violence and dedication to serving the Scheduled Castes and downtrodden. The Governor, "urged the people to pledge themselves on this day for adhering to his principles and rendering selfless service to promote fraternity in our society in strengthening and taking our nation on the progressive path," a Raj Bhavan release said.  The Governor interacted with students and presented them with Mahatma Gandhi's autobiography and sweets. He advised the authorities to arrange for career counselling for students to enable them to decide on options after completing schooling. Led by Stalin, Ministers, Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu and top government officials took a pledge against untouchability on Saturday at the Secretariat here on the eve of Gandhiji's death anniversary which is observed as Martyrs' Day. Similarly, senior government officials including district collectors administered the pledge against untouchability to government staff across Tamil Nadu on Martyrs' Day eve. Gandhi was assassinated by Nathuram Godse on January 30, 1948, and the nation paid homage to the father of the nation on his 74th death anniversary. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-place-for-godses-heirs-in-india-says-tn-cm-stalin-1076208.html
30-01-2022||South||Most Covid cases in India are from the southern states||Unlike the second wave of Covid-19 in India, hospitalisation has been lower in the third wave, but most of the states are reporting record daily cases. Until two weeks ago, one in five Covid cases were reported from the southern states, but now the numbers have doubled. Currently, Karnataka and Kerala account for one in three Covid-19 cases. Tamil Nadu is home to every 10th Covid-19 case reported in India. The cases in South Indian states started increasing after the cases in Maharashtra and Delhi showed a reduction. A similar trend was observed in the second wave too. Until April 2021, the most number of cases were reported from Maharashtra, but after June 2021, South India saw a spike in its daily cases. From 21.8 per cent on April 23, 2021, southern states reported 44.2 per cent of the country’s Covid cases on May 21, 2021. Later, on June 18, it increased to 57.6 per cent. The higher rate of Covid-19 tests in the southern states is a possible reason behind the rise in Covid cases. Two weeks ago, 17 per cent of India’s daily Covid tests were from these five states. It has now increased to 23 per cent. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/most-covid-cases-in-india-are-from-the-southern-states-1076245.html
30-01-2022||South||Defeat BJP’s communal politics in local body polls: Stalin tells DMK cadre||Amid BJP’s heightened campaign against the party-led government over the suicide of a 17-year-old student, DMK President and Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday asked his cadre to expose the BJP’s “degradation politics” that is aimed at “fomenting communal tension” before the public during the local body polls scheduled for February 19.  This is the first time that Stalin has spoken, albeit indirectly, on the issue of the minor’s girl suicide which the BJP alleges is due to “forced conversion” on the part of the hostel warden. Stalin’s statement came on the day the BJP led by its state unit chief K Annamalai visited the girl’s family in Ariyalur and handed over a cheque of Rs 10 lakh as ex-gratia.  The girl, who was a student at Sacred Heart Higher Secondary School in Tirukkaatupalli in Thanjavur district, consumed pesticides on January 9 and died 10 days later at a government medical college hospital. While the police said the girl died by suicide due to “ill-treatment” by her hostel warden, the BJP, armed with a video of the girl, has been alleging “forced conversion.” “Expose the degradation politics of the BJP which aims to foment communal tension and violence in Tamil Nadu, the state known for peace and religious harmony. Tell people that the BJP and AIADMK have sealed an alliance to destroy Tamil Nadu and remind them that the state had always kept communal politics away from it,” Stalin told DMK cadres in a letter.  Hours later, he took to Twitter to ask people to take a pledge to deny any space for “heirs” of Nathuram Godse in India on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary.  Stalin’s letter to his cadres came as political parties in Tamil Nadu are gearing up to face the elections to urban local bodies on February 19. In the letter, Stalin asked DMK office-bearers in districts to “allot required” number of seats to alliance partners in corporations, municipalities, and town panchayats.  “Everyone should bear in mind that this is not just an electoral alliance. This alliance is based on ideology,” Stalin told his cadre. The DMK is holding talks with Congress, VCK, and other allies on seat-sharing for the local body elections. The DMK president told his party men to follow “military discipline” in choosing the candidates for the election as these representatives will take the “good policies” of the government to the people. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/defeat-bjp-s-communal-politics-in-local-body-polls-stalin-tells-dmk-cadre-1076250.html
30-01-2022||South||Kerala left-front leader questions Lok Ayukta's integrity||The ongoing moves by the left-front government in Kerala to undermine the powers of Lok Ayukta has assumed a fresh dimension with a left-front MLA and former minister questioning the integrity of the Lok Ayukta. K T Jaleel, who had to quit from higher education post in the previous Pinarayi Viayan government in Kerala after Lok Ayukta found him guilty of nepotism, on Sunday alleged the Lok Ayukta was trying to destabilise the left-front government in Kerala by acting as a weapon of the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front. Even as Jaleel did not name the Lok Ayukta in his social media post in this regard, going by the references made in the post it was widely considered to be targeting present Lok Ayukta Justice Cyriac Joseph. Jaleel alleged that the Lok Ayukta would do any favours if he get adequate returns. A prominent UDF leader was saved from a well-known case and in return got his brother's wife appointed as Mahatma Gandhi University vice-chancellor, Jaleel said in the post. He also shared a copy of the court order of 2005 acquitting Indian Union Muslim League leader then minister in Congress-led government P K Kunhalikutty in a case by a bench comprising justice Cyriac Joseph. Jaleel also shared a list of the vice-chancellors of the MG university in which the name of Jancy James, who was the vice-chancellor from 2004-2008, was highlighted. Jancy James is justice Cyriac Joseph's sister-in-law. The fresh allegations came at a time when the left-front government was facing criticism over the cabinet decision to amend the Kerala Lok Ayukta Act so as to empower the state government to overrule Lok Ayukta directives to public servants to vacate office once found corrupt. Even the CPI, which is a key coalition partner in the left-front, was unhappy over the haste move. There were allegations that cases pending before the Lok Ayukta against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Higher Education Minister R Bindu was the immediate provocation for bringing in the amendment. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-left-front-leader-questions-lok-ayuktas-integrity-1076255.html
30-01-2022||South||TN local body polls: Will the AIADMK-BJP alliance continue?||Seat-sharing talks between AIADMK and its alliance partner BJP for the urban local body elections in Tamil Nadu are “deadlocked” due to a “huge gap” between the number of seats demanded by the national party and those offered by the regional outfit.  Even as both parties maintained that the talks were continuing, the AIADMK released its first list of candidates for nearly 300 wards of municipalities in Cuddalore and Dharmapuri districts. The move led to intense speculation about the AIADMK and BJP parting ways, for now, and contesting the local body polls alone – there is a view within the saffron party to contest alone to “prove our strength.”  The talks are being held amid visible strain in the relationship between the two political parties in the backdrop of an unsavoury remark on AIADMK MLAs by BJP floor leader in the Assembly, Nainar Nagendran, at a protest meeting last week.  The AIADMK took “strong objection” to the remark forcing state BJP chief K Annamalai to personally express regret to joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami. Besides the recent developments, the AIADMK is under pressure from its district-level office bearers and cadres to just allot a “limited number of seats” to the BJP, which they say, lacks any base in many areas of the state.   As top brass of the AIADMK and BJP sat across the table to discuss seat sharing on Saturday, there was no agreement on the number or percentage of seats to be offered for the national party. The first round ended in deadlock – the AIADMK leadership continued its internal discussion on Sunday.  While the BJP wanted more number of seats in urban areas where it believes it has a “good base”, the AIADMK is understood to have offered one formula across the state, which comes around 5 to 7 per cent of total seats that go to the polls on February 19.   Palaniswami told reporters on Sunday that the BJP was asking seats where the AIADMK wants to contest, in the first official reaction from his party. A senior AIADMK leader explained: “The BJP asked for a specific number of seats in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Nagercoil, and in few other places. They feel their party has a considerable base in those places, but we do not agree with their demand. For instance, we are quite strong in Coimbatore and how can we part more seats there? It is impossible.” When contacted, a BJP leader told DH that the party wants to “prove its base” in the ensuing elections and that was the reason behind the demand. “We can ask for seats only where we feel we can win. We can’t take seats across the state even in places where our party is not strong for now. We hope to resolve the differences,” the BJP leader said.  While the elections to 12,838 seats/wards in 21 corporations, 138 municipalities, and town panchayats will be held in a single phase on February 19, the counting of votes will be taken up on February 22. Almost a fortnight later, the indirect elections for the heads of local bodies will be held on March 4.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-local-body-polls-will-the-aiadmk-bjp-alliance-continue-1076257.html
30-01-2022||South||Kerala records 51,570 new Covid-19 cases||Covid-19 cases in Kerala continued to rise with the southern state reporting 51,570 new infections on Sunday taking the total number of affected people to 59,83,515. The state has reported 14 coronavirus-related deaths in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 53,666, the state health department said. The state has tested 1,03,366 samples in the last 24 hours, a release issued by the health department said. On Saturday, Kerala had reported 50,812 cases. On January 25, Kerala had registered 55,475 cases, the highest ever single-day spike in the infection count since the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported 9,704 cases, the highest in the state on Sunday, followed by Thrissur with 7,289 and Thiruvananthapuram with 5,746 cases. "Currently, there are 3,54,595 active Covid-19 cases in the state out of which only 3.4 per cent are admitted to hospitals," the health department said in a release. There are 5,27,362 people under observation in the state out of whom 12,628 are in isolation wards of various hospitals across Kerala, it said. Out of those who were found infected on Sunday, 177 reached the state from outside while 47,778 contracted the disease from their contacts. The sources of infection of 3,178 are yet to be traced. 439 health workers are also among the infected. Among the latest fatalities, 87 were recorded over the last few days, while 374 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, 32,701 people recuperated from the disease on Sunday taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 55,74,535. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-51570-new-covid-19-cases-1076275.html
30-01-2022||South||Tamilisai lauds Tiruppur woman mentioned by PM's 'Mann Ki Baath'||Puducherry Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday lauded Thayammal, a woman from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu who won appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for donating Rs 1 lakh to improve the infrastructure of a school. Modi had during his Mann Ki Baat radio programme earlier in the day praised the woman for donating the amount out of her savings made by selling tender coconuts. The Lt Governor, who had heard the programme, later called up the woman and extended her greetings. "You have done very good humanitarian and charitable work. I appreciate this inclination," she told the woman over phone. Thayammal told the Lt Governor that she had drawn inspiration from her (Tamilisai Soundararajan) and thanked her for the greetings. Transcript of the telephonic conversation between them was made available by the Lt Governor's office to the media. Soundararajan extended an invitation to Thayammal to visit the Raj Bhavan for a felicitation function. "I will send an invitation to you to visit the Raj Bhavan`, the Lt Governor told Tayammal. Meanwhile, the BJP's Tamil Nadu unit said its party leaders from Tiruppur felicitated Thayammal after the PM had made a mention of her in 'Mann Ki Baat' programme. State BJP chief K Annamalai thanked Modi for identifying and highlighting such personalities from the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamilisai-lauds-tiruppur-woman-mentioned-by-pms-mann-ki-baath-1076278.html
30-01-2022||South||2 men killed in accident at fireworks unit, TN CM announces solatium||Two men were killed and two others sustained injuries in a mishap at a firecracker unit in Virudhunagar district of Tamil Nadu and Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday ordered a solatium of Rs 3 lakh each to the families of the deceased workers. The two workers were killed on Saturday night due to an accidental explosion and blaze at a fireworks manufacturing facility in Nattarmangalam village of Virudhunagar district. Conveying his condolences to the bereaved families and expressing grief, Stalin ordered an ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakh each to the families of the two workers, Arumugam and Kubendran, who were killed in the mishap, an official release here said. The Chief Minister ordered 'best treatment' to the two injured workers at a government facility. Also, Stalin announced an assistance of Rs 1 lakh to one of the two workers, Deivendiran, who sustained severe injuries and is being treated at a government hospital in Madurai. The financial assistance would be provided from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund to the beneficiaries. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-men-killed-in-accident-at-fireworks-unit-tn-cm-announces-solatium-1076287.html
30-01-2022||South||Kerala police case against journalist flayed by union ||After Kerala police registered a case against a journalist on charges of discussing details regarding the actress assault case, the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) has flayed the decision. A case was registered against Reporter TV channel chief editor M V Nikesh Kumar under IPC 228 A(3) for publishing matters in relation to any proceeding before a court. The basis of the case is an interview where filmmaker Balachandra Kumar reveals the alleged conspiracy hatched by actor Dileep against the investigation officers of the actress assault case Dileep had filed petition accusing the media of publishing the trial proceedings. KUWJ said in a statement that registering cases against media for publishing news could not be justified in a democratic system. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-case-against-journalist-flayed-by-union-1076363.html
30-01-2022||South||As Covid turns 2, it is brickbats for Kerala after bouquets||As the country's fight against Covid turned two on Sunday, Kerala where the first Covid case in the country was reported on a girl medical student in China on January 30, 2020 is facing criticisms for lapses in its fight against the pandemic . With 51,570 more fresh cases being reported on Sunday, the test positivity rate of the state was almost 50 per cent. A large number of positive cases were also remaining unreported as individuals with symptoms conduct home tests and remain in self-quarantine. Even as the state was initially boasting of its strategy of delaying the peak and thereby keeping the number of deaths low, what the state is now witnessing is a steep increase in deaths as the backlog in the Covid death declaration process was being cleared. So far, 53,666 deaths were reported in the state which is second after Maharashtra. The delaying the peak strategy even led to prolonged lockdown restrictions in Kerala during the second wave. The financial crisis caused by it even led to many small scale businessmen ending their lives. Even in the third wave as many states started witnessing a declining trend in daily fresh cases, in Kerala it is still on the increasing trend. With regard to active cases, Kerala tops the tally with 3.56 lakh. Kerala health minister Veena George said that the increasing trend may continue for couple of weeks more and thereafter there would be decline. Dr S S Lal, a former technical officer at the World Health Organization, said that crowding and density of population could be the reason why Kerala was still witnessing. But there was also lapses in  the state government  in making the preparations in time to face the third wave. The daily review by expert panel comprising public health experts seems to be not taking place, he said. The opposition parties were accusing the state government of lack of proper coordination in the fight against Covid. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan used to personally review the Covid situations on a daily basis during the initial stages of the pandemic and the government also used to extend relief measures like free provision kits. Vijayan had gone to the US for medical purposes two weeks back and was scheduled to return by January 29. But he has now decided to spent nine days in Dubai citing official reasons. This was being criticised by the opposition Congress. Vijayan should have returned to Kerala at the earliest to coordinate the steps against Covid, said Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-covid-turns-2-it-is-brickbats-for-kerala-after-bouquets-1076364.html
30-01-2022||State||Gas distribution network for CB'pur, Yadgir districts||Chikkaballapur and Yadgir districts will soon have city gas distribution networks. According to a release, Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board had invited bidders to provide such networks last year. A private firm has won the bid to implement the networks in the cities, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gas-distribution-network-for-cbpur-yadgir-districts-1076338.html
30-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||U T Khader appointed deputy leader of Congress in Karnataka assembly||The Congress on Sunday appointed party MLA and former Minister U T Khader as the Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislature Party in the state legislative Assembly. He currently represents the Mangalore Assembly constituency in Dakshina Kannada district. "Hon'ble Congress President has appointed Shri U T Khader, MLA as Deputy leader of Congress Legislative Party in Karnataka Legislative Assembly, with immediate effect," an AICC release signed by party General Secretary K C Venugopal said. Khader said it is his utmost privilege and honour to be appointed as Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislature Party in the legislative assembly. Thanking the party leadership including Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar for reposing confidence in him, in a tweet, he said, "I look forward to work closely with the office bearers, members and workers to strengthen the party in the state at the grass root level, and address issues concerning to the welfare of citizens." Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah is the Congress Legislature Party leader and the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly. Khader's appointment is being seen as a move by the Congress to conciliate the Muslim community, ahead of the Assembly polls in 2023, party sources said. The move comes days after senior Congress leader and MLC C M Ibrahim said that he has decided to quit the party and the post, upset over not being made the Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative Council. According to sources, there were murmurs within the party about a Muslim leader being denied an opportunity, after senior leader B K Hariprasad was appointed Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, for which Ibrahim was also a strong contender.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/u-t-khader-appointed-deputy-leader-of-congress-in-karnataka-assembly-1076153.html
30-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 28,264 Covid cases, 68 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 28,264 new Covid cases and 68 deaths, including a 17-year-old boy, taking the active case load to 2.51 lakh. The positivity rate for the day came down to 16.38% from the 19.37% reported on Saturday. Bengaluru accounted for 11,938 (42%) of the new cases as interior districts posted high number of infections. Mysuru reported 2,322 fresh infections followed by Dharwad (1,356), Tumakuru (1,165) and Ballari (964). New Covid cases have been coming down over the last seven days. On January 23, the state reported 50,210 cases which has come down by 43% in the cases reported over the last 24 hours. However, the number of deaths have been going up consistently during the week with Saturday's 70 coming as a high point till now since the beginning of the third wave. Of the 68 deaths reported Sunday, 14 were from Bengaluru and 10 from Mysuru. Ballari and Dakshina Kannada each reported seven deaths. The fatalities include a 17-year-old male patient from Chitradurga and 25-year-old female from Ballari both of whom did not have any known comorbidities. The number of discharges was 29,244, slightly higher than the total infections. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-28264-covid-cases-68-deaths-1076332.html
30-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to review towing system in Bengaluru amid complaints||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the government would review the existing towing system in place in the city. The chief minister would hold a meeting with DG&IGP, Bengaluru Commissioner of police and traffic officials on Monday following several untoward incidents reported during towing. “The government will not tolerate any high-handed behaviour by officials,” Bommai said. This was in response to queries of a viral video where a woman was seen being kicked by a traffic personnel over a towing dispute. Earlier, police department used to tow vehicles parked in no-parking zones. It was subsequently handed over to private agencies on a contract basis, which has caused several incidents in the past, the CM said. Commenting on the incident where a women was kicked by a traffic official after she pelted stones at the latter, Bommai said that people and police should abide by the law. “Those protecting the law should behave in an amicable manner. Any extreme behaviour will not be tolerated,” he said. Cabinet expansion Bommai said that he was ready for Cabinet expansion, though he did not want to discuss the issue in public. “I will travel to Delhi as soon as the party leadership wants me to (to finalise expansion). I am ready for expansion,” he said. Ahead of the Union budget, there is a tradition of meeting state MPs in Delhi, he said, adding that he would convene a meeting soon. On appointments of chairpersons to boards and corporations, the CM said that the appointments would be finalised by the party. Congress criticism On criticism by Congress leader Siddaramaiah that BJP had failed to fulfill the promises made in the manifesto, he said that nothing more could be expected of Siddaramaiah. “We are aware of our responsibility,” he said, asking Congress to comment on measures that benefited the public than resorting to criticism all the time. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-review-towing-system-in-bengaluru-amid-complaints-1076336.html
30-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government appoints new officers to handle investor fraud cases||Concerned over undue delays and other problems in initiating action against companies which cheat their investors, the Karnataka government has appointed new officers as Competent Authorities. The appointment is based on recommendations made by Revenue department officials over the past two years. The government order is among the measures initiated by the government recently to reduce the burden on revenue officials of Bengaluru Urban district, grappling with a large number of cases in their courts. According to the order dated January 24, appointment of assistant commissioners (ACs) of Bengaluru North and South sub-divisions had caused delays in initiating action against 31 companies due to various reasons. AC (Admin) of Bhoomi Monitoring Cell (BMC), Revenue department and AC (Modernisation of Land Records), BMC will now be competent authorities (CA) for action against fraudulent companies. While the first CA will handle 19 cases related to Bengaluru, the second will look after 12 cases registered in various parts of the state. A proposal made in October 2020 by IAS officer Harsh Gupta, Special Officer and Competent Authority (CA) for the IMA case, recommended creating separate CAs to deal with various companies booked under Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act and Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act. The reasons for the proposal were, neglect of CA’s work, since the ACs are burdened with other routine matters, lack of knowledge about their role and responsibility since the task of CA is not a regular task, requirement of personal appearance at the jurisdictional special court “takes a lot of their time from other administrative matters” and the difficulty faced by state authority to compile information from numerous CAs and review their work. A meeting in December 2020 had discussed the recommendations, and had approved creation of four CAs to look into the cases, along with 44 other posts. However, the Finance department has cleared creation of 19 posts, including two CAs, the order noted. It can be recalled that the state government had recently appointed another special deputy commissioner to sort out more than 9,000 cases pending in three DC courts of Bengaluru Urban district. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-appoints-new-officers-to-handle-investor-fraud-cases-1076341.html
30-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||No fee hike for UG medical, dental seats this year||The state government on Sunday announced that there will not be any fee hike for undergraduate medical and dental courses this academic year. Ahead of the NEET counselling, there were rumours that the government was mulling revision of fee for undergraduate medical and dental courses after intense pressure from the management of private medical colleges.  The department of medical education has forwarded the fee structure for the current academic year to the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) which published the same on its website on Sunday. As per the announcement, there will be no change in fee structure for the government quota MBBS seats at private medical colleges. The fee will remain same at the government medical colleges also. Currently, students pay Rs 1,28,746 per year for government quota MBBS seat at a private medical college and Rs 59,800 per year at the government medical college. Further, the fee for dental courses would be Rs 83,356 per year for government quota seats in private dental colleges. Previously, the management of private medical and dental colleges had demanded the state government to increase the fee by 30 per cent. However, the state government has been successful in convincing the management to stick to the same fee structure as last year. The KEA has also commenced the first round of counselling for medical, dental and Ayush courses through UG-NEET 2021 from 29th January and the process will end on 7 February. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-fee-hike-for-ug-medical-dental-seats-this-year-1076342.html
30-01-2022||West||Dropped from Beating Retreat, 'Abide With Me' sung at Sabarmati Ashram||While Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government dropped the hymn 'Abide with Me' from the Republic Day's Beating the Retreat ceremony, causing a huge uproar in the country, the 19th-century hymn was sung for the first time at Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad during its unique all-religion prayer meet held on Sunday on occasion of its founder Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary. The hymn, considered to be personal favourite of Mahatma Gandhi, was included in the prayers for the first time and was sung by Bhadraben Savai at Hriday Kunj, the heart of the Sabarmati Ashram where Gandhi lived with his wife Kasturba. Savai, who has been singing bhajans at the Ashram for nearly three decades, told DH, "I was handed over a copy to sing it. I sang it for the first time and it was beautiful."   Savai sang a Gujarati translated version of the hymn entitled "Hath Have Tun Jhal Hari". According to ashram officials, the hymn has been translated into Gujarati by poet and writer Pratishtha Pandya. One of the officials of the Ashram said, "there is no political overtone to it. It was simply included as part of the all-faith meet." "The hymn has always been part of Bhajanmala, a booklet of devotional songs, at the Sabarmati Ashram. It was close to Gandhi's heart," said Ashoke Chatterjee, a trustee of Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which manages the Ashram. Sabarmati Ashram is said to be the only place where verses of Quran, Bible, Gurbani, are recited by their respective priests along with shlokas from Hindu scriptures. Gandhi's other favourite bhajans such as Tulsidas's "Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram" and Narsi Mehta's "Vaishnav Jan" are also sung. When asked about what was the significance of reciting the hymn at the Ashram, Chatterjee, former director of city-based National Institute of Design (NID), told DH, "It has great significance. The Christian hymn symbolizes Gandhi's vision of an inclusive society. Whereas its removal sends a message that Christianity is not part of India. Therefore, it is important that we do things to respect the values Gandhi stood for."  He lamented that under the watch of the defense ministry, the tradition of ending Republic Day festivities has been altered in the name of "decolonising" India. The removal of "Abide With Me", a hymn written by Henry Francis Lyte of Scotland in the 19th century, from the annual Republic Day celebration sparked controversy and divided opinion. The Christian hymn used to mark the conclusion of three day Beating the Retreat ceremony of the Republic Day festivities beginning January 26. January 30 is remembered as "Martyrs' Day" in the country for it was on this day in 1948 when Nathuram Godse shot Gandhi dead from point-blank range in New Delhi. The cross-religion hymnal is sung at Hriday Kunj twice- on the death anniversary of Gandhi, and on October 2, his birth anniversary.     Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dropped-from-beating-retreat-abide-with-me-sung-at-sabarmati-ashram-1076135.html
30-01-2022||West||Pune University, Giripremi launch mountaineering course||A uniquely-designed certificate course in mountaineering and allied sports initiated by Pune-based adventure and mountaineering club Guardian Giripremi Institute of Mountaineering (GGIM) and Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) was launched last week coinciding with Republic Day festivities.  A perfect blend of theories and practicals, the first three-month-long course will commence on February 1, 2022. The students will learn from the best of the faculties of the mountaineering field who have immense experience in mountaineering and adventure sports. Theory lectures will be conducted online and the practical session will be conducted in the Sahyadri mountain ranges. The inauguration of the course was officially announced by Umesh Zirpe, veteran mountaineer and founder-director, GGIM, and Dr Deepak Mane, Director, Board of Sports and Physical Education, SPPU. Dr Mane said: “The certificate course in mountaineering and allied sports will help the participants to gain technical knowledge of mountaineering and allied sports. The course will teach the important life skills that can be beneficial for the participants in future.” Zirpe, an Everester and expedition leader, thanked SPPU for understanding the importance of making adventure a part of the curriculum. He explained how making ‘mountaineering as a lifestyle’ can help in enhancing personality development. He highlighted the fact that participants will learn several life aspects through unique experiences during the course. Bhushan Harshe, Everester and Head of Operations, GGIM along with Vivek Shivade, Kanchenjunga Summiteer and Head of Content Development, GGIM are the coordinators of the course. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-university-giripremi-launch-mountaineering-course-1076178.html
30-01-2022||West||India will run on Gandhian ideology, not Hindutva: Nana Patole||Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole on Sunday said Mahatma Gandhi's ideology is the guiding light for the country, which will run on the teachings of the Father of the Nation and not on Hindutva. The Gandhian thoughts are deeply rooted in the country and nobody can wipe them out, Patole said addressing Congress workers at the party office in central Mumbai after paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary. ''The Gandhian philosophy has been accepted the world over. The country will run on Gandhiji's teachings and not on Hindutva,'' said the Congress leader, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and NCP in Maharashtra. He also said Gandhiji lives on through his teachings. ''Gandhi is not an individual, but a thought. His teaching of non-violence has been accepted the world over. The country's independence and Constitution are under threat at present, and we have to be alert to protect them,'' Patole said. Earlier in the day, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said "Hindutvawadis" feel the Father of the Nation is no more but he is alive, where there is truth. Mahatma Gandhi was shot dead on this day in 1948 by Nathuram Godse. "A 'Hindutvawadi' had shot Gandhi ji. All 'Hindutvawadis' feel that Gandhiji is no more. Where there is truth, Bapu is still alive there," Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, using the hashtag 'Forever Gandhi'. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-will-run-on-gandhian-ideology-not-hindutva-nana-patole-1076268.html
30-01-2022||West||All efforts to be made to bag nagar panchayat president posts: MVA leaders||The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi on Sunday said all efforts will be made to bag the president's post in the nagar panchayats where elections were held recently. A statement signed by Jayant Patil of the NCP, Subhash Desai of Shiv Sena and Nana Patole of the Congress appealed to local units to stay united to bag the president's post in 106 nagar panchayats, Bhandara-Gondia zilla parishad and 15 panchayat samitis in its jurisdiction where elections were held recently. Of the 1,802 seats in the 106 nagar panchayats, the BJP won 416 , the NCP 381, the Congress 384 and Shiv Sena 296. In the 105 seats in the Bhandara Gondia zilla parishad and 15 panchayat samitis, the BJP bagged 38, Congress 34 , Ncp 21 and Shiv Sena one.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-efforts-to-be-made-to-bag-nagar-panchayat-president-posts-mva-leaders-1076361.html
30-01-2022||West||Cement wall widens divide between Hindu and Muslim followers of Sufi Saint||The Ahmedabad district police on Sunday detained more than 100 people from Pirana village for protesting against construction of a wall inside the 14th century Sufi shrine of Imam Shah Bawa. Once famous as a place of communal harmony, the shrine has turned into a major dispute between Hindus and Muslims over control of its management for the past several decades. More than 100 Muslim residents of Pirana village, about 20 km from Ahmedabad city, stormed the shrine premises after learning of construction of the wall in the place of barbed wire fencing. The wire fencing had first appeared in 2003 after Hindus and Muslims followers of Pir Imam Shah Bawa clashed. The fencing segregated the entire campus into two areas controled by Hindus and Muslim followers. Locals said that as word spread of construction of the concrete wall in place of wire fencing, the villagers rushed to the spot. The local police bundled them into several police vehicles and kept them under detention at various police stations before releasing them later in the night. At present, the shrine or dargah remains divided. The Satpanthis, who have a large chunk of the premises under their custody, call the place as "Prerna Tirth or Samadhi" and address Imam Shah Bawa as "Imam Shah Maharaj." The Muslim trustees have alleged the Hindus have approrpriated the shrine and "converted it into a Hindu temple" over the year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cement-wall-widens-divide-between-hindu-and-muslim-followers-of-sufi-saint-1076367.html
