31-01-2022||Comment||Union Budget 2022: Give jobs a push||India’s annual Union Budget in February has become a day that is closely observed by many economic and political commentators, when the Modi government is known to have tried to either correct some ‘wrongs’ from the past year or give a handful of ‘carrots’ and ‘sweets’ to poll-bound state demographics with an eye on votes. In either of these scenarios, there remains a sharp divergence between what’s promised and what’s delivered. For example, last year’s Budget outlays by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman sought to offer an optimistic ‘pro-growth’ vision to the government’s long-term plan to kickstart (domestic) private investment through increased government-enabled capital spending in the hope of reviving ‘animal spirits’ and ensuring economic recovery across sectors. According to the recent CMIE data on year-to-year growth trends, there were some positive signs in manufacturing and mining activities in 2021. But the overall situation still looks grim, particularly in areas of agriculture, industrial production and services. And now, with the third wave, a more adverse impact is likely on the performance of almost all these sectors in the coming quarters. Going forward, it is also important to focus growth diagnosis more on the sequential aspect of performance across the year than overemphasise year-to-year data alone. Still, the Modi government’s fiscal priorities, based on the recent Union Budgets, have continued to miss the trick on the puzzling unemployment-underemployment challenge, entrenched in crises of low social spending in areas that could help create a robust safety net for lower-middle-class workers. The government’s budgetary focus to help the ‘poor’ even during the pandemic remained focused on providing ‘food’ through a higher subsidy bill. Despite higher subsidies on food and fertilisers, most other measures announced in support of those affected were ‘stimulus’ steps to create means for ‘liquidity’ in the market, in facilitating borrowings for affected small and medium enterprises. Nothing was done to increase the household disposable income of those deeply affected by the twin shocks. For example, if one closely assesses the outlays of the three versions of the Atmanirbhar package announced, most spending (say, 55% in Atmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 package) was aimed and targeted solely for industrial infrastructure, manufacturing via the PLI scheme (Production Linked Incentive Scheme) that yielded little gains in actual growth performance, and at the same time, little was done on job creation (Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana getting less than 2% of the announced package). For farmer-centric allocations too, the picture of proposed outlays vs actual disbursements looks murky. Even before the pandemic, the shortfall between budgeted and actual expenditure claims was roughly 42% for schemes like PMKSY (Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana), accentuating a further erosion in trust between farmers and the Union government. Employment challenge For Budget 2022, the biggest macro-fiscal and economic challenge for the government is on creating good quality jobs for those joining the workforce. Acknowledging the issue would be the first step for the government, but correct diagnosis of the issue at hand is equally important. As Mahesh Vyas recently pointed out, “Unemployment rate is not India’s most important labour market indicator. The unemployment rate was 7.9% in December 2021. This does not mean that the remaining 92.1% were employed. It does not even mean that 92.1% of all working-age people were employed.” Vyas is right here. Amid the many concerns in a disjointed labour market structure within India, one of them is how most adults do not clearly express a desire to work to earn wages or profits. That makes traditional metrics less significant in interpreting and studying the problem. The employment-population ratio becomes a more useful indicator, measuring the ratio of the employed to the total working-age population. India’s pre-pandemic employment-population ratio of 43% was lower than the global rate (55%) in 2020, according to World Bank Data. The employment rate in Bangladesh is 53% and in China around 63%. According to CMIE’s estimate, India’s employment-population rate is below 38%. What this reflects is a chronic crisis of ‘good quality jobs’ in/across India for the working-age population that is entering the labour force every year (rate of which has continued to be high even during the pandemic). At the same time, in rural India, the demand for MGNREGA work (seen as a fallback option as a safety net) still remains high despite the resurgence of some economic activity from the second half of 2021. Inadequate MGNREGA budgets have made it difficult for states to provide adequate employment to those in rural areas who have less or no alternative employment opportunities. Where the finance minister and the Modi government would need to get their act straight in defining their allocative spending priority this upcoming Budget would be therefore on two things: One, focus the design of our fiscal policy towards creating good quality jobs through incentives across sectors and do so over a three-to-five-year plan. Second, creating well-financed job-based social security nets by supporting increased outlays to MGNREGA in rural areas and creating an urban version of the National Employment Guarantee Scheme (discussed at length here) in cities for temporal relief to those struggling to find employment in both rural-urban areas. At the macro-level, if only 38% of the working-age population in India is employed and only another 3% wants to work but cannot find work (unemployed as per cent of the population), then implicitly, as Vyas points out, 59% of the working-age population does not want to work. The government’s ‘pro-growth’ outlook accompanied by a vision of ‘atmanirbharta’ ultimately lies in finding employment for not only the 3% who are unemployed but also a significant chunk of the remaining 59% of the population. To reach the global employment rate standards, India needs to employ an additional 187.5 million people every year. Given the current employment of the order of 406 million, that is a tall order. (The writer is Director, Centre for New Economic Studies, Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/union-budget-2022-give-jobs-a-push-1076321.html
31-01-2022||First Edit||Hijab row: A manufactured controversy||The controversy that arose in a government pre-university college in Udupi over some students coming to college wearing the hijab has gone on for over a month without resolution. Seven Muslim students who wore the hijab have been denied entry into the classrooms by the principal who has maintained that wearing the hijab is a violation of the college’s uniform code. The girls have missed their classes all these days. The government has sided with the principal, calling the wearing of the hijab an act of indiscipline. It has formed a committee to look into setting up a strict uniform code for educational institutions. Why such a committee has become necessary now when the constitutional position on the matter is clear and has been so for decades is quite obvious.    All citizens of the country have the fundamental right to practise their religion, and as the girls have maintained, the use of the hijab should be considered a part of the practice of their religion. It is wrong to claim that this right cannot be exercised within a college campus or a classroom.  Would a Sikh student wearing a turban be seen as violating the uniform code and prevented from attending class? Would a Brahmin boy with a tuft of hair on his head as a religious mark be seen as violating the uniform code? The girls turn up in college wearing the prescribed uniform and so they cannot be accused of violating the college’s uniform code. The hijab on the head does not take anything away from the uniform and does not hinder their identification in any way. In any case, no uniform rule imposed by a college or a state can override the right to freedom of religion granted by the Constitution. India’s national and social life has been accommodative of all religious beliefs and practices. Public expression of religiosity and the use of marks of religion abound in public spaces and institutions in the country. The wearing of the hijab cannot be treated differently from the wearing of the mangalsutra, bindis, bangles, the cross or other commonly worn religious symbols. Unfortunately, a divisive political culture centred around religion and the targeting of religious minorities that has grown in recent years in the country has made this non-issue a controversy. It is unfortunate that the students are being denied their right to education also in the process. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai should intervene, let the girls return to class in uniform and hijab, and show that his government goes by the Constitution, not the diktats of party ideology and political convenience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/hijab-row-a-manufactured-controversy-1076323.html
31-01-2022||In Perspective||Recommended but not appointed||More than two months later, the government is yet to clear the recommendation of the collegium and ‘appoint’ a senior advocate as India’s first openly gay judge to the Delhi High Court. The recommendation approved by the Supreme Court collegium on November 11 was credited to be historic, as it promised inclusivity and representation for the LGBT community in the judiciary. There are various speculations adduced to this delay, which generally are in many appointments, for various unconfirmed reasons but the most certain limb to this is the Union government’s perpetual ‘recalcitrant attitude’ in clearing such appointments to the high courts and even the Supreme Court. Perennial delay in appointment by the Centre after receiving a recommendation by the collegium is only a contribution to millions of pending cases and ineffective adjudication, thus compromising access to justice for the poor and marginalised. Unlike the appointment of judges in many countries of the world, which inspired our Constitution-making, the appointment of judges in India is done by the president in ‘consultation’ with the Chief Justice. After decades of power tussle between the Centre and the judiciary on primacy in appointment, a “collegium” system, more so an arrangement, was crafted which consists of four senior-most judges in addition to the CJI who recommends the name for elevation, and the government, through the President, appoints. The 99th constitutional amendment did try to streamline the appointment process, against which just concerns were raised in the name of lack of transparency through a National Judicial Appointment Commission but it failed the test of “independence of the judiciary” due to its own structural shortcoming. This opaque method of appointment of judges becomes more vulnerable when certain recommendations by the collegium are at the mercy of governments, even though it is a constitutional obligation to clear the recommendation if reiterated by the collegium in further considerations. A school of thought believes that the reasons which lead to delay, even after various memoranda of procedure (MoPs) and constitutional mandates, include instances such as a judge passing an order against the ruling government while being in the high court or litigating against the policies as an advocate, political and ideological biases or others. At times, the appointments are delayed for months or even years to an extent that many courts function with a ridiculously smaller number of judges from the original sanctioned strength, thus jeopardising the rights of common people. It is important to note that there is at least 40% of vacancies pending in the high courts, and Patna tops the list with the highest percentage of vacancies around 60%. In all of it, the clogged judicial system suffers the most in addition to even affecting the quality of judges aspiring to move up to the high court, which the great M C Setalvad once feared. Turf of tensions Appointments, therefore, have been a turf of urbane tensions between the executive and the judiciary which, however constitutionally separated, swings from a ‘strong executive’ to a ‘weak court’ or vice versa. Many believe that the collegium is a great issue of concern and while it is true that transparency in appointment through this arrangement is close to none, the reforms introduced in the past have been at perils of deliberate political excursion. In defence of the collegium, many believe that at least it has kept “active government intervention” at bay, which may not be necessarily true. Whatever be the case, the delay in appointments, when the government is constitutionally bound to accept the recommendation even after their objection in the first instance has been overlooked by the collegium and names have been reiterated, is reminiscent of the old days of veto politics in appointments. Today, in the given arrangement of appointment, a tactical and visible delay by the government(s) prejudices whatever little transparency or progress exists in terms of representations or filling vacancies, which thereby damages the health and image of the judiciary, and most importantly, takes justice away from its citizens. The method of appointment in the near future doesn’t appear to see a revolutionary change. Therefore, the ‘redemption’ of the judiciary at least in terms of appointment of quality judges could be from prescribing a certain time, as advocated by many, to clear the names for an appointment at different stages of the process. This could ensure accountability of the executive and responsibility on the collegium to collectively take steps in the direction of transparency and can be a significant step in inspiring the confidence of not only the legal minds motivated to take judgeship but also of a common citizen whose right of access to justice can be manifested with courts functioning at their sanctioned strength. (The writer is an advocate and researcher)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/recommended-but-not-appointed-1076318.html
31-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Udupi girl's college not to allow hijab in classrooms||The government girl’s PU college in Udupi has categorically informed that students wearing ‘hijab’ (Islamic headscarf) will not be allowed inside classrooms. The decision of the authorities was announced on Monday by Udupi MLA and college development authority president K Raghupati Bhat, after a meeting with four of the five students who have been protesting against the decision of the college authorities by boycotting classes. Bhat said it is not possible to allow students to wear hijab inside classrooms where only uniforms are allowed. The parents of the girls have also been informed of the decision. They said they will take a decision after speaking to the male members of their families. He said from Tuesday, students will not be permitted to create any chaos or confusion on the college campus. Representatives of organisations and media persons also will not be allowed inside the campus. The steps have been taken as the college was receiving complaints from parents of other students at a time examinations are nearing, Bhat said. If the students or their parents have any further complaint, they should take it up with the district deputy commissioner, the MLA said, adding only those who follow discipline will be allowed inside the campus. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-girls-college-not-to-allow-hijab-in-classrooms-1076580.html
31-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Third wave: Of 56 Covid deaths in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada, 27 victims were unvaccinated||Dakshina Kannada district had recorded 56 deaths during the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Among the total deaths, 15 people were from outside the district. Of 56 deaths, 27 were vaccinated, while two were partially vaccinated and 27 were unvaccinated, said Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Ashok. Among the Covid-19 victims, 40 from Dakshina Kannada had comorbidities. Thirteen from outside the district had comorbidities.  Statistics compiled by the health department stated that out of 56 deaths, 16 people were in the age group of 71 to 80 years, while 13 deceased were in the age group of 61 to 70. As many as 16 in the age group of 41 to 60 had lost their lives. Three persons above 91 years and six persons in the age group of 81 to 90 had lost their lives. Of the deaths, 16 had succumbed to infections in government hospitals. While 17 people died within 24 hours of hospitalisation, six had died within 48 hours of hospitalisation. Five infected had lost their lives within 72 hours of hospitalisation, said sources from the health department. Among the deaths, Mangaluru taluk tops the list with 28. As many as 5 persons from Bantwal taluk succumbed to infection. Four from Belthangady, three from Puttur and one from Sullia had died of Covid-19 infection during the third wave. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/third-wave-of-56-covid-deaths-in-karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-27-victims-were-unvaccinated-1076642.html
31-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Hijab row: MLA Raghupathy Bhat issues ultimatum to students||MLA and Government PU College Development Committee president Raghupathy Bhat on Monday issued an ultimatum to eight Muslim girl students asking them to choose either offline (without Hijab) or online classes by Tuesday. “If they are keen on learning, they should attend classes without wearing Hijab. If they are not willing to attend classes without the headscarf, they will be offered online classes,” Bhat said on Monday. He was addressing mediapersons after convening a meeting of members of college administration, Karnataka Beary Sahithya Academy and officials from DDPU. Bhat said the parents of other students, studying in the college, had complained that the raging controversy over the headscarf was destroying the learning environment in the college. “The college has become a centre of controversy,” he said. The legislator said, “The college is not against the headscarf, as it represents Islamic ritual. But democracy differs from Shariat law and government rules should be respected,” he stressed. MLA said there was no possibility of permitting the students to wear headscarf inside classrooms. Bhat said the adamant stand of eight Muslim girls demanded stringent measures. Thus the students were given a deadline until Tuesday. Among the eight Muslim girl students, three students had agreed to take a decision by Tuesday. “One student is adamant and insists on wearing a Hijab inside the classrooms. The other four students are yet to reveal their stand,” he said and added that parents were also informed that girl students will not be allowed to wear Hijab inside the classrooms. “Parents have promised to take a decision after talking to elderly male members in their families. Further confusions and controversies will not be permitted in the college. Even media and organisations are barred from entering campus,” he said.  Bhat said students will have to prepare for the examinations. “If anyone would like to submit a memorandum, it should be given to the deputy commissioner,” he said and  stressed that discipline is important in an educational institution. Meanwhile, a student said that she has approached the High Court seeking to declare wearing hijab as a fundamental right. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hijab-row-mla-raghupathy-bhat-issues-ultimatum-to-students-1076660.html
31-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Leopard attacks 2 women working in fields near Dharwad||Two women working in agricultural fields at Govankoppa, 12 km from here, were reportedly attacked by a leopard on Monday. The attacked women are identified as Manjula Totager of Kavalageri village and Basavanneva Kulkarni. They suffered injuries on the face, hand, neck and leg. Forest personnel rushed to the field and shifted them to the district civil hospital in Dharwad. The two are said to be out of danger. Eyewitnesses told DH that some women were working in a bengal gram field, when the leopard came out of a nearby banana plantation and attacked Manjula. When the animal tried to drag her away, the other women working in the field raised an alarm and the leopard fled. Even as the women were attending to Manjula, they heard Basavanneva screaming for help from a nearby field, when she was attacked by the big cat. Soon, a crowd gathered and they all started throwing stones at the leopard. The big cat tried to drag the woman away. As more people gathered, the animal escaped. “We have started a hunt for the animal with the help of the police and district administration. We are yet to ascertain if the animal is indeed a leopard,” deputy conservator of forests (Dharwad division) Yashpal Ksheersagar said. He appealed to the people of Kavalageri, Chandanamatti, Govanakoppa and nearby villages not to venture out in the dark. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-attacks-2-women-working-in-fields-near-dharwad-1076663.html
31-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) expels former MP Shivarame Gowda||The JD(S) has expelled senior party leader and former MP LR Shivarame Gowda. JD(S) Legislature Party leader H D Kumaraswamy on Monday said Gowda had made derogatory remarks against farmer leader, the late Made Gowda.  A leaked audio clip of Shivarame Gowda where he is allegedly heard making personal and derogatory remarks against Made Gowda has gone viral. Kumaraswamy said the former Mandya MP’s remarks are not in good taste. "His statements are embarrassing to the party. Made Gowda is a tall leader of the Vokkaliga community. We hoped that Shivarame Gowda would mend his ways. But he did not," Kumaraswamy said. Accordingly, JD(S) state president HK Kumaraswamy issued an order expelling Gowda from the party.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-expels-former-mp-shivarame-gowda-1076550.html
31-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Meeting between Anand Singh, Shivakumar sparks speculation||Speculation was rife on Monday after Tourism Minister Anand Singh visited Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar while Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai declined to comment on it.   Notably, Singh went to Shivakumar’s house in his private car.  The visit created a buzz in political circles, with speculation that Singh may be manoeuvring after he was not made in charge of the new Vijayanagar district, the creation of which he lobbied for. Singh got Koppal while Vijayanagar went to Shashikala Jolle.  Singh, a party hopper, was a minister in the earlier BJP government (2008-13). He joined the Congress in 2018 just before the Assembly polls. However, he returned to the BJP in 2019 as part of the defections that brought the Congress-JD(S) coalition down.  Shivakumar said the minister visited him to discuss a tourism project. “When I was the minister in charge of Ballari, a Tunga Aarathi was performed. I had requested Singh to see if a similar aarathi can be done at Mekedatu for the Cauvery and Arkavathi rivers. Singh said he will come for a personal discussion on this. He said he will appoint a team of officials to work on the proposal,” he said.  During the post-result drama in May 2018, when the Congress-JD(S) coalition had to safeguard its legislators from being poached by the BJP, it was Shivakumar who personally ensured Singh stayed on.  Dismissing speculation, Shivakumar said there is no need to give Singh’s visit any political colour. “If we had to discuss politics, we wouldn’t do it at home. There are guesthouses or hotels for that. It’s common sense. Being a minister, he visited an opposition leader’s house. So, there’s no politics here,” he said.  On why he went in a private car to see Shivakumar, Singh said, “My brother-in-law, a poor man, lives in the narrow lanes of Munireddy Palya. If I had taken my (big) car, I would have had to walk a distance to reach his house. My wife isn't in town. So, he had called me home for breakfast. On my way back, I got a call from Shivakumar. I dropped by to see him on the way. If I had known that this would become such a big news, I'd not have gone at all.” Singh further said he is not unhappy with Koppal. “I went to Koppal happily to hoist the tricolour on Republic Day,” he said.  Transport Minister B Sriramulu said Singh will not leave the BJP. “His visit to Shivakumar was not about politics. He won’t quit,” Sriramulu, who is seen as Singh’s aide from the undivided Ballari, said.  The Singh-Shivakumar visit comes at a time when both BJP and Congress have been making claims on defections in the run-up to the 2023 Assembly polls. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/meeting-between-anand-singh-shivakumar-sparks-speculation-1076587.html
31-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Shivakumar gains upper hand over Siddaramaiah as Congress offers posts to party loyalists||Amid a cold war between former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Pradesh Congress president D K Shivakumar, the Congress high command is giving preference to old-timers instead of newcomers in appointing party leaders to different posts. The appointments made by the party top brass for the past few days clearly indicate that Shivakumar is virtually gaining the upper hand in the organisation against Siddaramaiah. Shivakumar, who has been aggressively pushing the party Delhi brass to give party posts to old-timers instead of newcomers, seems to have succeeded in keeping Siddaramaiah's loyalists away from any key posts. Though Siddaramiah had been pushing former Minister C M Ibrahim as party leader in the Legislative Council, the party opted for Hariprasad. Hariprasad, a veteran Congress leader, has been projecting himself as the OBC face in the party to counter Siddaramaiah. The party, while ignoring Ibrahim, also did not give any post to another Siddaramaiah loyalist Zameer Ahmed Khan. By appointing Khader, the party sent two messages – one that it is giving a post to a minority leader and another that is he is an old-timer. Though M B Patil was considered close to Siddaramaiah, senior Congress leaders in AICC said that the party gave him the post considering his seniority and clout among the Lingayat community. Earlier also, the party top brass appointed Salim Ahmed, close to Shivakumar, as working president. "The party high command used only loyalists as criteria while making all these appointments," said the leader. The party wanted to overhaul the organisation by ensuring all plum posts should go to loyalists only, the leader said. Soon after Shivakumar became PCC president in March 2020, senior leaders including Mallikarjuna Kharge, M Veerappa Moily, K H Muniyappa, B K Hariprasad and G Parameshwara backed Shivakumar's stand on giving preference to party loyalists over newcomers. Besides, these leaders were also lobbying at Delhi to reduce the clout of Siddaramaiah and his followers. There was a long-standing grouse among party leaders that Siddaramaiah has been giving preference to his followers, who mostly came from Janata Parivar, instead of original Congressmen. Shivakumar, who is a Chief Ministerial contender, also wanted to reshuffle district units. However, it was stalled after Siddaramaiah opposed the removal of some of his loyalists from district and block-level office bearers. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shivakumar-gains-upper-hand-over-siddaramaiah-as-congress-offers-posts-to-party-loyalists-1076594.html
31-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar plays down Ibrahim-Patil meet||KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Monday played down the meeting between senior party leaders C M Ibrahim and S R Patil. Apparently, Ibrahim and Patil discussed organising a conference of minorities and Lingayats. “S R Patil is a senior leader. He’s not a fool to indulge in someone’s hunger for power. Ibrahim is also a senior leader. He hasn’t yet quit the party,” Shivakumar told reporters. Ibrahim, an MLC, has said he is considering quitting the Congress after B K Hariprasad was picked as the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council.  Meanwhile, former KSTDC chairperson S A Hussain issued a statement taking a dig at Ibrahim for throwing tantrums. “I’m unable to comprehend why Ibrahim is demanding for a post whose remaining tenure is just about a year... Instead of accusing our leaders and my party, Ibrahim must count favours conferred upon him by our leaders...” he said.  Hussain further said Ibrahim should have asked for the KPCC campaign committee chairperson’s post, which went to M B Patil. “Had Ibrahim demanded this post, our community would have immensely benefited from it, as the minority community could have demanded KPCC president’s post in coming years or at least deputy CM’s post,” he said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-plays-down-ibrahim-patil-meet-1076656.html
31-01-2022||National||DH Toon | Nathuram Godse's prominence grows in India||Mahatma Gandhi's great grandson Tushar Gandhi on Sunday lamented that the number of people who follow the teachings of the Father of the Nation is shrinking in the country, while the ideology of his assassin, Nathuram Godse, is becoming dominant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-nathuram-godses-prominence-grows-in-india-1076404.html
31-01-2022||National||6 dead after electric bus runs over bystanders in Kanpur||At least six people were killed and several others injured after an electric bus lost control and mowed down several bystanders near the Tat Mill crossroad in Kanpur in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, police said. The police said that a group of 15 people were at the site where the accident took place. According to reports, three of the victims have been identified and efforts were under way to establish the identities of the rest. Pramod Kumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Kanpur East, said that the brakes of the bus stopped working on the Tat Mill incline and it went on hitting cars, motorcycles and pedestrians. He added that nine people are in critical condition and being treated in a hospital. "A probe in the matter has been initiated," the DCP added. Meanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to Twitter to express condolences to the families of the deceased in the road accident. "Received unfortunate news of a road accident in Kanpur. My deepest condolences to the families of the deceased. I pray to God for the speedy recovery of the injured in the accident," she said in a tweet posted in Hindi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-dead-after-electric-bus-runs-over-bystanders-in-kanpur-1076418.html
31-01-2022||National||India reports 2.09 lakh Covid-19 cases, 959 deaths||With 2,09,918 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of cases increased to over 4.13 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.   The death toll has climbed to 4,95,050 with 959 fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases decreased by 53,669 to reach 18,31,268 and comprise 4.43 per cent of the total infections, while the country's recovery rate stands at 94.37 per cent, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 15.77 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was 15.75 per cent, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease increased to 3,89,76,122, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.20 per cent, the ministry said After the Sunday update, the total number of infections stands at 4,13,02,440, it said.     Meanwhile, the cumulative number of anti-Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 166.03 crore. India surpassed the one-crore mark in the number of cases on December 19, 2020, and two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23 last year.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-209-lakh-covid-19-cases-959-deaths-1076420.html
31-01-2022||National||Hindu Mahasabha confers Godse Awards||On a day the nation observed Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary, the Hindu Mahasabha on Sunday paid tribute to his assassin Nathuram Godse and a co-accused in the Gandhi murder trial, Narayan Apte, in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior by observing "Godse-Apte Smriti Diwas". The right-wing organisation also bestowed “Godse-Apte Bharat Ratna” in Gwalior upon jailed religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj, who was arrested last December for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Mahatma during a Dharma Sansad held in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur, and four leaders of the Mahasabha. “We performed 'aarti' of Bharat Mata with a resolve to integrate India with Pakistan to make it 'Akhand Bharat'. We are observing January 30 as the 'Godse Apte Smriti Diwas' day to express our anger over their arrest on January 30, 1948,” Hindu Mahasabha's national vice president Jaiveer Bharadwaj told PTI over the phone from Gwalior. The country on Sunday paid tribute to the Father of the Nation on his 74th death anniversary. Bharadwaj said the Mahasabha has honoured Kalicharan Maharaj and four leaders of Hindu Mahasabha with the “Godse-Apte Bharat Ratna” in Gwalior. "Since Kalicharan Maharaj is in jail, the honour was received by Pramod Lohpatre on his behalf," Bharadwaj said. He blamed Mahatma Gandhi for the partition of India in 1947, which he said led to the killing and displacement of lakhs of Hindus. Talking to reporters after attending the programme in Mahasabha's office in the Daulatganj area of Gwalior, Bharadwaj claimed the Hindu Mahasabha had made a huge contribution to the freedom struggle. “People should not be misled into believing that India got independence due to charkha (spinning wheel popularised by Mahatma Gandhi),” he said. Bharadwaj alleged that Congress and BJP didn't inform the people about the sacrifice made by seers and "seven lakh people who lost their lives during the freedom struggle". Mahasabha pays tribute and respects all the revolutionaries, he added. In Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut, the Hindu Mahasabha raised questions on Mahatma Gandhi being the Father of the Nation and refused to acknowledge his contributions. The organisation, however, remembered Godse. State spokesperson Abhishek Agarwal said that on this occasion some people have been given the Godse-Apte Bharat Ratna. Last November, the Hindu Mahasabha had said it will sculpt a statue of Nathuram Godse using the soil brought from Haryana's Ambala Central Jail, where he was hanged to death in 1949. In November 2017, Gwalior district authorities had confiscated Godse's bust foiling the right-wing outfit's attempt to turn its office into a 'temple' of Godse. When asked about the Mahasabha honouring Kalicharan and others with "Godse Apte Bharat Ratna", Madhya Pradesh BJP president VD Sharma said that it was the incumbent BJP government at the Centre which has taken Mahatma Gandhi's work to the people. “There is a process of providing 'Bharat Ratna' (the highest civilian honour in India) by the Centre. It can't be given to anybody standing on the road," he said, adding that there is freedom of expression in the country. On January 19, Thane Police in Maharashtra arrested Kalicharan from Chhattisgarh in connection with a case registered against him in Thane for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindu-mahasabha-confers-godse-awards-1076422.html
31-01-2022||National||Sadhvi Pragya tests positive for Covid-19||Lok Sabha MP Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur has tested positive for the coronavirus The BJP MP from Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal has herself made the announcement via Twitter on Monday, urging those who came in contact with her to get themselves tested. In a tweet, just a few hours commencement of the Parliament's Budget session, Thakur said, "Today my corona report is positive. I am under the supervision of doctors. All those who came in contact with me in two days are urged to be alert and also get the corona test done if required. We are concerned about you" The Budget session of the Parliament will commence under the shadow of coronavirus, with nearly 875 employees of the Parliament, till January 20, have been tested positive for the Covid. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sadhvi-pragya-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1076426.html
31-01-2022||National||Power sector workers to hold nationwide protest on Tuesday||All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has said power sector workers will hold a nationwide protest against privatisation policies on Tuesday. "On the call of National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees & Engineers (NCCOEEE) Power Employees & Engineers across the country will hold protest demonstrations against privatisation policies of Central Government," an AIPEF statement said. According to the statement, NCCOEEE has also decided that core committee leaders of NCCOEEE will meet the Punjab Governor on February 1 and hand over a memorandum to him against the privatisation of Chandigarh UT Power Department. NCCOEEE core committee office bearers will address the strike rally of Puducherry power employees on February 2 at Puducherry. AIPEF Chairman Shailendra Dubey said, "On-call of NCCOEEE about 1.5 million Power Employees & Engineers across the country will hold nationwide protest/ demonstrations on February 1 at all district headquarters and projects against privatisation policies of Central Government". The main demand of Power Employees & Engineers are - withdraw Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021, scrap decision of privatisation of profit-making power departments of Union Territories – Chandigarh, Dadra Nagar Haveli Daman & Diu and Puducherry, integrate all unbundled power utilities in states like KSEB Ltd in Kerala and HPSEB Ltd in Himachal Pradesh, implement old pension scheme for all power employees recruited after unbundling of SEBs, regularise all outsourced power employees as the Telangana government has done, he added. Dubey said that NCCOEEE core committee leaders will reach Chandigarh on February 1 to support UT Power Employees Strike against privatisation. The leaders will meet the governor on February 1 and submit a memorandum to him against the privatisation of the profit-making power department of Chandigarh. Chandigarh Power Department is earning profit for the last seven years. Profit of the year 2020-2021 stood at Rs 257 crore, and line losses in Chandigarh are only 09.2 per cent. Tariff of Chandigarh is also cheaper as compared to Punjab and Haryana. He said privatisation of such profit-making utility is not acceptable. Puducherry Power Employees & Engineers are resorting to indefinite strike from February 1 against privatisation of profit-making Puducherry Power Departments, the statement said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-sector-workers-to-hold-nationwide-protest-on-tuesday-1076446.html
31-01-2022||National||President Ram Nath Kovind highlights Modi govt's initiatives for poor, women and farmers||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday highlighted the Narendra Modi government's initiatives for the poor, women and farmers -- the issues on which the Opposition targets the ruling BJP -- in his customary address to the Parliament, as he asserted that India has emerged as the one of the fastest growing economies with global investors putting in $48 billion in the first seven months of this fiscal. Emphasising that the "achievements and successes are as limitless as the country's potential and possibilities" during his customary address to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs at the start of the Budget Session, the President said that the "achievements are the milestones in the long journey to achieve "our ambitious goals". Referring to 100 years of independence in 2047, he said, "we have to work hard now for building a grand, modern and developed India of that time. We have to ensure that our hard work leads to fruitful results in the end. We all have a stake, and an equal stake in this journey." He also highlighted the achievements of the government's mega Covid-19 vaccination drive while noting that 150 crore doses were administered to the country's citizens in a record time.  Just before he started his speech at the Central Hall, a group of DMK and Congress MPs from Tamil Nadu protested against the delay by the Governor in forwarding the Bill to exempt Tamil Nadu from NEET exams.  During his 50-minute address, Kovind showcased the government's contribution to cultural revivalism citing the installation of Maa Annapurna Devi's statue in Kashivishwanath temple and creation of modern facilities for pilgrims, Swadesh Darshan and Prasad schemes. At the same time, Kovind also spoke about the government "beginning to liberate the society from the manifestly arbitrary practice of Triple Talaq by making it a criminal offence" and removal of restrictions on women from performing the Haj as well as providing scholarship to minority students that led to a "significant reduction in the school dropout rate of Muslim girls and an increase in their enrolment".    Asserting that the government considers the ideals of B R Ambedkar as its motto and it provides top priority to villages, poor, tribals, backwards and Dalits, Kovind also referred to a series of initiatives taken by the government on handling pandemic, economy, defence production and MSMEs among others. Painting a rosy picture on the economic front, he said India has once again emerged as one of the fastest growing economies and highlighted a variety of indicators like rise in GST collection and inflow of FDI among others to substantiate his point. He said the inflow of $48 billion (FDI) between April and October was a "testimony to the belief the global investor community has in India's growth story".  Referring to the initiatives taken in defence production, he said the sector is becoming increasingly self-sufficient and the armed forces have decided that it will not import 209 military equipment. Amid activists claiming that hunger increased in the country during Covid-19, the President said "nobody remained hungry during the worst pandemic in 100 years" though several major countries experienced scarcity of food grains and faced starvation. Kovind highlighted that the government provided over two crore houses to the poor, six crore households got tapped water and 44 crore poor added to the banking system.  On the farmers front, he said the government was working continuously to empower them and the rural economy. Despite the pandemic, he said, the farmers produced more than 30 crore tonnes of food grains and 33 crore tonnes of horticulture produce in 2020-21, while the government "made record procurement to match the record production". Though the repeal of the controversial farm laws was not mentioned, he said agriculture exports have also registered a record level with an increase of 25 per cent and reached around Rs 3 lakh crore. He also said the government gives maximum credit to small farmers and around Rs 1.80 lakh crore has been given to more than 11 crore farmers, which has led to a "transformation".  The government is also making investments at an unprecedented level for developing infrastructure required near farmlands, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-highlights-modi-govts-initiatives-for-poor-women-and-farmers-1076448.html
31-01-2022||National||I-T cell issues summons to holders of offshore accounts: Report||In a bid to clamp down on secret foreign accounts, the Foreign Assets Investigation Unit (FAIU) has asked several Indians to share details of their overseas accounts. Those who have been given the notice must also specify if they disclosed these accounts in tax returns and paid tax on funds credited to these accounts, the report said. Individuals who have been served with these notices will have to disclose whether the person is a “beneficial owner or beneficiary or settlor or otherwise” for the accounts, the report said, citing sources. It was not clear why information is being sought for cases older than 10 years for assessment since reopening period for offshore assets was reduced to 10 years from the earlier 16 years under the Finance Act 2021. DH was unable to independently verify the report. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-cell-issues-summons-to-holders-of-offshore-accounts-report-1076455.html
31-01-2022||National||Ganga route to Kashi Vishwanath Dham to open from Feb 15 Ganga route to Kashi Vishwanath Dham to open from Feb 15 Varanasi (UP),||The Ganga route to the Kashi Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi will finally be opened for the public. It was inaugurated on December 13 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who entered the Kashi Vishwanath Dham through the Ganga banks route. Now all pilgrims will also be able to access the shrine in the same way as the Ganga Dwar will be opened by February 15 following its completion before elections. This entrance to KV Dham directly from the Ganga banks was under construction when the expanded shrine was opened by the Prime Minister, almost three weeks before the ECI announced the Uttar Pradesh Assembly poll dates on January 8. Incidentally, the Ganga Dwar will be opened three weeks before the polling in Kashi on March 7. Divisional Commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, "We are targeting to complete all finishing work of Ganga Dwar by February 10 so that it can be opened for pilgrims also. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ganga-route-to-kashi-vishwanath-dham-to-open-from-feb-15-ganga-route-to-kashi-vishwanath-dham-to-open-from-feb-15-varanasi-up-1076458.html
31-01-2022||National||Bitter truth is many Indians don't consider women to be human: Rahul Gandhi||The bitter truth is that many Indians don't consider women to be human, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Monday and added that the video of a 20-year-old woman being beaten brutally exposes a very disturbing face of society. Last week, a young woman was allegedly abducted, gang-raped and paraded by her attackers in east Delhi’s Kasturba Nagar. Videos from the day have been circulated widely on social media. "The video of a 20-year-old woman being brutally beaten up exposes a very disturbing face of our society. The bitter truth is that many Indians don't consider women to be human," Gandhi said on Twitter. The video of a 20-year-old woman being brutally beaten up exposes a very disturbing face of our society. The bitter truth is that many Indians don’t consider women to be human. This shameful fact needs to be acknowledged and called out. "This shameful fact needs to be acknowledged and called out," he added. Eleven people, including eight women, have been arrested for the sexual assault on the woman and her subsequent public humiliation. "A boy committed suicide in November last year and his family is now blaming the victim. They have alleged it was because of her that he took the extreme step. To extract revenge from her, they allegedly abducted her. They wanted to teach her a lesson," a police official had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bitter-truth-is-many-indians-dont-consider-women-to-be-human-rahul-gandhi-1076484.html
31-01-2022||National||'Concrete proof' of Pegasus use in India, experts tell SC-appointed committee||Petitioners before the apex court asked these researchers to testify before the panel probing the illegal use of Pegasus to surveil citizens. One of the researchers reviewed iPhones of seven people and found Pegasus spyware in two of them. One of the phones was infected in April 2018, while the other saw the spyware develop between June and July 2021, the report said. "Multiple entries going back to March 2021 indicating that the Pegasus malware tried to delete entries from the process table databases," the researcher said in an affidavit submitted to the apex court. The other researcher found different versions of Pegasus on all the six Android they analysed, with four containing varied versions of the malware and two containing the original. “We have an emulator for Android on which we verified that it has all the variants of the malware. What we found is that this (malware) is so virulent that it could not have been used for legitimate purposes. It not only reads your chats, it can get your videos, turn the audio or video at any time,” the researcher is quoted as saying. In October last year, the Supreme Court set up a three-member independent expert panel to probe the alleged use of Pegasus for targeted surveillance, observing the state cannot get a "free pass" every time the spectre of national security is raised and that its mere invocation cannot render the judiciary a "mute spectator" and be the bugbear it shies away from. The committee issued a public notice and set a deadline of January 7 for people to approach it with their submissions. The panel asked citizens who have “reasonable cause to suspect” that his or her mobile has been compromised due to “specific usage” of Pegasus. An international investigative consortium had claimed that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were potentially targeted by the NSO Group's phone hacking software. The report said that since 2011 when NSO “introduced” Pegasus to the global market, it had “helped Mexican authorities capture Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the drug lord known as El Chapo.” European investigators have quietly used Pegasus to thwart terrorist plots, fight organised crime and, in one case, take down a global child-abuse ring, identifying dozens of suspects in more than 40 countries, it said. (With DHNS/agency inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/concrete-proof-of-pegasus-use-in-india-experts-tell-sc-appointed-committee-1076487.html
31-01-2022||National||Akhilesh files nomination from Karhal, to face Union minister Baghel||Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-files-nomination-from-karhal-to-face-union-minister-baghel-1076493.html
31-01-2022||National||Jobless Indian youngsters accuse government of 'playing with lives'||Niranjan Kumar, the eldest son of a small farmer in the eastern Indian state of Bihar, was one of 1.25 crore youngsters who applied for 35,000 jobs when the railways department started recruitment examinations more than a year ago. The mathematics graduate, 28, and his dormitory mates did not even make it to a recently released shortlist despite preparing for years, a collective setback that triggered protests by a swelling army of unemployed youth in Bihar and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh last week. Infuriated by what they called a bungled recruitment process, tens of thousands of students, including Kumar and his friends, blocked rail traffic, while others vandalised trains and some even burned down coaches of a stationary train that had no passengers in it at the time. "The government is playing with our lives," Kumar told Reuters, sitting cross-legged on a friend's unmade bed in the congested Kashi Lodge in Bihar's capital Patna. "They only want to privatise everything, they don't want to hire people themselves." India has long had an unemployment problem and prized government jobs always attract huge numbers of candidates. But the widespread anger that has erupted over the railways' jobs poses a challenge for Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of crucial state elections in February and March, including in Uttar Pradesh. Modi came to power in 2014 promising development that would create millions of jobs for the surging ranks of young, educated Indians. But national unemployment peaked at 23.5 per cent in 2020 and has stubbornly remained well above 7 per cent since, according to data from Mumbai-based the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), much higher than the global average. As of last month, India had more than 5.2 crore unemployed people looking for work, CMIE data shows. More worryingly, the figure does not include many jobless people in the country of 135 crore who have stopped seeking employment. India's working age population - those between 15 and 64 - is estimated at 100 crore, only 40.3 crore of whom are considered employed, CMIE data shows. "Unemployment is a very deep crisis - it is the responsibility of the prime minister to resolve it," opposition party leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet this month. "The country is asking for answers, stop making excuses!" The labour and finance ministries did not respond to requests for comment. Gopal Krishna Agarwal, a spokesman for Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, said the government was aware of the jobs situation and was trying to promote manufacturing by giving production-linked incentives to industries such as defence. He said Modi himself had directed authorities to fix the problems with the railways recruitment. "We are not in denial, we are not saying unemployment is not a problem," he said. "But we are working on finding long-term solutions." 'Only way out' In the latest incident, Kumar and the other unsuccessful candidates accuse the Indian Railways of mismanaging the recruitment process by shortlisting many people for multiple job roles. "Had they shortlisted one candidate for only one role, we would have made it too and who knows could have cleared the main exam later," Kumar said. "I have not paid my rent for a year and my father has told me he won't support me financially beyond this year," added Kumar, a bearded and balding man. "My family has always had a difficult existence," he said. "A government job for me is the only way out." Kashi Lodge has dozens of residents, mostly from poor rural families, who have been preparing for competitive exams for government jobs for at least five years. As Kumar spoke, a young man was bathing in his underwear on a small balcony, while others cooked lunch on stoves mounted on small gas cylinders placed by their beds. Another man in the lodge, Ajay Kumar Mishra, says he had been a big Modi devotee and cheered when he came to Patna to seek votes before the 2014 general election. "We poured our heart out for him," said Mishra, thumping his chest as others crowded the narrow balcony by his room door. "Now he will have to listen to the same youth who are hurting so much." "Does he want us to sell tea and pakodas (snacks)? Maybe that's what we will have to do eventually. Time is running out for us, we will soon be too old to apply for government jobs." Mishra says he has to find a job quickly because his father will retire as a university worker next year, and the burden of taking care of his family will soon fall on him. "It's now or never for us," he said, books of current affairs and other topics strewn across another bed in his room and on its cement shelves, watched over by a picture of the Hindu goddess of learning, Saraswati. "We have started a leader-less revolution in which everyone is a leader because everyone is affected," Mishra said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jobless-indian-youngsters-accuse-government-of-playing-with-lives-1076519.html
31-01-2022||National||Number of naxal-affected districts has come down from 126 to 70: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday said the areas where naxals operate and perpetrate violence have come down significantly over the years and now 70 districts in the country are affected by the menace, from an earlier 126 districts. Addressing the joint sitting of both houses of Parliament at the beginning of the Budget Session, Kovind also said that a peace accord has been signed with insurgent groups in Assam's Karbi Anglong district to end decades long conflict, and a new chapter of peace and prosperity has been ushered. "Due to concerted efforts of my government, the number of naxal-affected districts in the country has also come down from 126 to 70 today," he said. On September 21, 2020, the then Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy had informed Rajya Sabha that a total of 90 districts in 11 states in the country are considered naxal or left-wing extremism (LWE) affected, and are covered under the Security Related Expenditure scheme of the home ministry. Reddy had also said that LWE-related violent incidents were reported in 61 districts in 2019 and in only 46 districts in the first half of 2020. According to home ministry data, between 2004-2020, 8,380 people were killed by the Maoists in different parts of India. The majority of civilians killed were tribals. They were often branded as 'police informers' before being brutally tortured and killed. The tribal and the economically underprivileged sections, whose cause the Maoists claim to espouse, have been the biggest victims of the so-called 'protracted peoples war' of the naxals, the home ministry has said. Referring to the insurgency in the Northeast, the president said the efforts of the Modi government to establish peace in the region have attained "historic success". "Just a few months ago, a settlement was reached between the central government, the state of Assam and the Karbi groups to end the decades-old conflict in Karbi Anglong. This has ushered in a new chapter of peace and prosperity in the region," he said. Check out latest DH videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-naxal-affected-districts-has-come-down-from-126-to-70-president-kovind-1076529.html
31-01-2022||National||'O Mitron' far more dangerous than Omicron: Shashi Tharoor||"Far more dangerous than Omicron is 'O Mitron'," senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Monday in an apparent swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as he flagged "increased polarisation" and the "weakening of democracy". Tharoor has been attacking the government, alleging that it is indulging in divisive rhetoric and spreading hatred. "Far more dangerous than Omicron is 'O Mitron'! We are measuring the consequences of the latter every day in increased polarisation, promotion of hatred & bigotry, insidious assaults on the Constitution & the weakening of our democracy," the former Union minister said in a tweet. "There is no 'milder variant' of this virus," he added. "Mitron", which means friends, is a term seen to be associated with Modi, who has used it in his speeches in the past. BJP spokesperson Shehzad Poonawala slammed Tharoor for the jibe and asked whether the Congress can keep the Covid-19 pandemic above politics. "Can Congress keep pandemic above politics? First Congress spread vaccine hesitancy & now it says Omicron isn't dangerous -- at beginning of Covid-19 Akhilesh said CAA is more dangerous than Covid. Do these people have no sense of responsibility?" he tweeted. Tharoor has been attacking the government over the issue of polarisation. On January 29, the Thiruvananthapuram MP had shared a video of Yogi Adityanath and accused him of polarisation, saying the Uttar Pradesh chief minister had no idea how much damage he had caused to the country. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/o-mitron-far-more-dangerous-than-omicron-shashi-tharoor-1076534.html
31-01-2022||National||Over 400 death row prisoners in Indian jails till 2020, govt data shows||As many as 413 prisoners, who have been awarded death sentence, were lodged in jails across the country till the end of 2020, according to a new central government data. Of the total death row prisoners, 94 were sentenced to capital punishment in 2020, stated the National Crime Records Bureau's annual 'Prison Statistics India 2020'. The death sentence of 29 convicts was commuted to life imprisonment in 2020, according to the NCRB, which functions under the Ministry of Home Affairs. "A total of 94 persons were awarded death penalty during 2020 in the country. Out of 94 persons awarded with capital punishment, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan reported 15 persons each, followed by West Bengal (14), Bihar (8) and Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu (6 each)," the report stated. Out of 29 convicts whose death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment, 24.1 per cent (seven) were reported from Maharashtra followed by Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu (5 and 17.2 per cent each), it added. “A total of 413 convicts (including 319 persons of previous years and 94 persons sentenced during the year 2020) sentenced with capital punishment were lodged in various jails, accounting for 0.36 per cent of the total convicts,” the report stated. Uttar Pradesh has reported the highest number of such convicts accounting for 12.8 per cent (53 out of 413) of total convicts sentenced with capital punishment in the country followed by Maharashtra (49, 11.9 per cent) and Madhya Pradesh (40, 9.7 per cent), it noted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-400-death-row-prisoners-in-indian-jails-till-2020-govt-data-shows-1076540.html
31-01-2022||National||States lag behind in publishing draft rules for all four Labour Codes||Only 15 states and union territories have so far pre-published draft rules for all the four Labour Codes passed by Parliament. Six states and two union territories have not published draft rules for even a single Labour Code. The Parliament has passed the Code on Wages in 2019 and the three other Codes – Industrial Relations, Social Security and Occupation Safety, Health and Working Conditions – in 2020 but the Codes have not been implemented yet as the rules are not notified by the Centre. According to the Economic Survey tabled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament, 26 states and union territories have pre-published draft rules on Code on Wages, 22 on Industrial Relations Code, 20 on Code on Social Security and 17 on Occupation Safety, Health and Working Conditions. The Centre pre-published the draft Rules for all four Codes. As on January 11, the survey showed, the 16 states and union territories that have published the draft rules for all the four Codes are Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Manipur, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab and Chandigarh.  Karnataka has published draft rules for Codes on wages and industrial relations. However, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim, Nagaland and Meghalaya as well as union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands as well as Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have not prepared the draft for even a single Code. The Code on Wages mandates that the basic pay of an employee will be 50 per cent of the total salary or cost-to-company (CTC), which could result in a decrease in take-home salary while rise in retirement benefits. The other Codes remove stringent conditions on the winding up of companies and ease restrictions on firing from 100 to 300 employees by firms without government sanction, which the government believes will attract more investment and job creation.  According to the Survey, the new Codes are “in tune with the changing labour market trends and at the same time accommodating the minimum wage requirement and welfare needs of the unorganised sector workers, including the self-employed and migrant workers, within the framework of legislation”.  Trade unions have been protesting against the Codes, saying that they are anti-workers and prepared keeping the interests of employers alone.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-lag-behind-in-publishing-draft-rules-for-all-four-labour-codes-1076543.html
31-01-2022||National||SC pulls up Centre, imposes cost on plea for recognising Hindus as minority in several States||The Supreme Court Monday pulled up the Centre for its failure to file its response on a plea, which has challenged the validity of section 2(f) of the National Commission for Minority Education Institution Act, 2004. It imposed Rs 7,500 cost the Union government. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh noted that the court on January 7 gave time to the Centre as a last opportunity but the Centre has yet not filed its response. As the Centre's counsel cited the Covid-19 pandemic, the bench said, everything else is happening. You have to take a stand. Don't make excuse which we find very difficult to accept." The court, while imposing the cost, said that it was not fair that the Centre has yet not filed its response. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for petitioner BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, opposed a plea for adjournment by the Centre. The court put the matter for consideration in March. The plea by Upadhyay sought a direction to the Centre to lay down guidelines for identification of minority at the state level saying the Hindus are in minority in 10 states and are not able to avail the benefits of schemes meant for minorities. It also said followers of Judaism, Bahaism and Hinduism, who are minorities in Laddakh, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Kashmir, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur, should be declared minority to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice in spirit of the TMA Pai judgement. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-pulls-up-centre-imposes-cost-on-plea-for-recognising-hindus-as-minority-in-several-states-1076545.html
31-01-2022||National||Special prayers at UP temple with Modi's bust||Pandit Brijendra Narain Mishra, the priest of a 200-year-old Shiva temple at Bhagwanpur village in Kaushambi district, who had installed a bust of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the temple in 2014, is performing a special puja for the victory of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Assembly polls. Mishra told reporters, "I had placed the bust of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this 200-year-old Shiva temple on January 21, 2014, during parliamentary elections and performed a special puja of Lord Shiva, praying that Modi ji becomes Prime Minister." "With the blessings of Mahadev, Modi became Prime Minister in 2014 and again in 2019. This year also, I am chanting mantras and shlokas and performing special puja with the prayer that BJP retains power in the state," he added. However, he clarified, that the temple is a 'Shivala' and not a 'Modi temple'. Mishra said the Prime Minister's bust is not worshipped. "We do not perform any puja of Modi's bust but dust it and clean it every day. I have put a woollen shawl on it recently since it is quite cold," the priest said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-prayers-at-up-temple-with-modis-bust-1076546.html
31-01-2022||National||Hindu outfits hold protests over man killed for FB post in Gujarat||Several Hindu outfits held protests across Gujarat on Monday against the killing of a youth in Dhandhuka town here on January 25 over a Facebook post he had shared on January 6 that some people alleged hurt their religious sentiments. Kishan Boliya was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne men over the post and four people, including two Muslim clerics, have been arrested in the case, the probe of which was taken over from the local police by Gujarat Anti Terrorism Squad on Saturday. During the day, functionaries of the Vishva Hindu Parishad, Hindu Jagran Manch, and Bajrang Dal organised vehicle rallies and foot marches in several cities, with the police having to resort to a mild baton charge in Rajkot.  The protests by local residents, mostly people from the Maldhari (cattle rearing) community, on Race Course road went out of control, Rajkot Deputy Commissioner of Police Manoharsinh Jadeja said. "The march was supposed to culminate at the Collector's office, but en route, some protesters threw stones and damaged a police PCR van. A mild lathicharge was ordered to bring the situation under control. One person claimed he was injured in the lathicharge but we do not buy his claim as the force used was minimal," the DCP told reporters. Protest programmes, including marches, shutdowns and prayer meets, were held by these outfits in Surat, Gandhinagar, Tankara Jetpur. Modasa, Morbi, Porbandar, Rajula, Mahuva, Deesa, Siddhpur, Karjan, Dabhoi and Padra etc. In Surat, protest marches were organised in Rander and Mora Bhagal, where people demanded capital punishment for the accused, while a bandh was observed in Visavadar, Mahuva, Palitana and Thangarh, functionaries from these outfits said. "Common Hindu citizens organized rallies across the state today demanding justice for Boliya. People want the police to go deeper into this entire conspiracy that led to the murder of Boliya. We have learned that one more person was on their target, and there is a need to probe the ideology that is responsible for such crimes" Gujarat VHP spokesperson Hitendrasinh Rajput claimed.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindu-outfits-hold-protests-over-man-killed-for-fb-post-in-gujarat-1076547.html
31-01-2022||National||Another SC judge recuses from hearing Tarun Tejpal's plea in sexual assault case||A Supreme Court judge on Monday recused from hearing a plea by former editor of Tehelka magazine Tarun Tejpal against the Bombay High Court, which declined to entertain his application for an in-camera hearing of the appeal filed by the Goa government against his acquittal in a sexual assault case. Justice U U Lalit recused from hearing Tejpal’s plea. This is the second recusal in the case. On January 21, Supreme Court judge Justice L Nageswara Rao opted out of hearing the plea. Justice Rao said that he had appeared for the Goa government as a lawyer in 2015.  Tejpal approached the court on December 4, last year, challenging the dismissal of his application by the Bombay High Court.  His plea contended every party has a right to place forth their case in the best possible manner. The plea argued that it would not be fair if lawyers have to curtail their submissions in the backdrop that some publications may publish something without exercising due care. Tejpal sought an in-camera proceeding in his matter, relying upon a recent order by Bombay High Court which passed directions for in-camera hearings in cases under the Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace Act. In May, last year, the trial court acquitted Tejpal of all charges levelled against him, including wrongful confinement, assault with intent to outrage modesty, sexual harassment, and rape against his female colleague.  The Goa government filed an appeal challenging his acquittal by the trial court.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-sc-judge-recuses-from-hearing-tarun-tejpals-plea-in-sexual-assault-case-1076583.html
31-01-2022||National||CBI nabs IAS officer in Punjab in Rs 2-lakh bribery case||The CBI on Monday nabbed senior IAS officer Paramjit Singh, posted as the Director of Punjab Roadways, for allegedly taking Rs 2 lakh bribe for recommending the name of an officer for promotion, officials said. The CBI had carried out a raid where Singh was allegedly receiving the bribe money for recommending the officer's name to Punjab's transport department principal secretary for promotion, they said. Singh, who was promoted to IAS from state services, will be arrested soon after the formalities and paper works are completed, they said. The person from whom Singh had allegedly demanded the bribe approached the CBI with a complaint, they said. "It was alleged that the complainant was due for promotion to the rank of General Manager, for which a DPC was constituted in January, 2022 and the Director (Singh) was part of the said DPC (Departmental Promotion Committee). "It was further alleged that the accused demanded bribe of Rs 5 lakh from the complainant for recommending his name to Principal Secretary, Transport, Government of Punjab, for promotion to the rank of General Manager,” CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. It was also alleged that the bribe amount was negotiated and the accused agreed to accept Rs 2 lakh, he said. "The said Director (Singh), Punjab Roadways, Chandigarh allegedly threatened the complainant to bear the consequences in case the said bribe amount was not paid to him," Joshi said. After getting a complaint and preliminary verification, the CBI laid a trap at the location where the alleged bribe money was to be paid, Joshi said. The team raided the location after getting the signal and caught Singh while allegedly accepting Rs 2 lakh, the officials said. Arrest proceedings of Singh are going on, they said. "Searches are being conducted today on the premises of the accused in Chandigarh and Mohali," Joshi said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-nabs-ias-officer-in-punjab-in-rs-2-lakh-bribery-case-1076592.html
31-01-2022||National||Nobody losing jobs due to Covid-19 vaccine mandates: Centre to SC||The Centre on Monday opposed in the Supreme Court a contention that people were losing their jobs and rations allegedly due to the Covid-19 vaccine mandates issued by various states and authorities. "Nobody is losing anything”, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai which was hearing a matter also related to disclosure of data on clinical trials of the vaccines. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Dr Jacob Puliyel, who is a former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, said people were losing their jobs and rations due to vaccine mandates. Besides, they are not able to move around freely as a result of it, he said. The bench said it might not be possible for this court to decide issues related to vaccine mandates because there may be numerous situations.  The court, however, agreed to consider the main petition related to disclosure of trial data on vaccines. The Union government had earlier told the top court, in a separate case, that its guidelines do not envisage any forcible Covid-19 vaccination without obtaining consent of the concerned individual. It reiterated its stand that no person can be vaccinated against his or her wishes. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nobody-losing-jobs-due-to-covid-19-vaccine-mandates-centre-to-sc-1076595.html
31-01-2022||National||HC stays ban on MediaOne news channel||The Kerala High Court on Monday issued an interim stay on an order of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting revoking the licence of Malayalam news channel MediaOne. The court sought a report from the centre and the case will be considered on Wednesday. The licence of the channel was revoked by the ministry citing that the union home ministry did not give clearance. Kozhikode headquartered MediaOne channel is run by Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited. It is backed by the Jamaat-e-Islami, Kerala. In March 2020 as well MediaOne, and another Malayalam news channel, were prohibited by the centre for 48 hours for alledgedly hurting communal sentiments while reporting the recent North-East Delhi violence. According to the I&B Ministry's order on Monday, the home ministry denied security clearance to Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited for renewal of permission for uplinking and downlinking of news and current affairs TV channel MediaOne. Hence the permission granted to the channel was revoked. The decision of the centre triggered a strong protest in Kerala with leaders of the ruling CPM and the opposition Congress flaying it and demanded the centre to revoke the decision. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that there should be space for all sections to express their view in society. Attempts to forcefully silence is undesirable in democracy. If there were any issues with the channel, it should be examined and steps taken to resolve it instead of imposing a ban without stating the reasons, Vijayan said in a statement. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said that democracy was being curtailed in the country and the continuous infringement on freedom of the press was an instance. MediaOne editor Pramod Raman said in a statement that the details for denying security clearance were not yet given by the centre.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-stays-ban-on-mediaone-news-channel-1076603.html
31-01-2022||National||'Why I killed Gandhi' row: Move High Court, Supreme Court tells petitioner||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to consider a plea to prohibit any exhibition or publication of the film Why I killed Gandhi and asked the petitioner to approach the High Court. The court asked the petitioner opposing release of the film's contents in any manner whatsoever on any OTT Platform or any other online social media, to raise his grievances before the High Court. A bench of justices Indira Banerjee and Justice J K Maheshwari declined to consider the plea filed by Sikandar Behl through Advocate Anuj Bhandari. The court also said that it appeared that the petitioner as a citizen has a serious cause of concern but no fundamental right of citizen appears to have been violated.  The petitioner claimed that the makers of the film are targetting Mahatama Gandhi and defaming the father of the nation.  He claimed the movie, produced by Kalyani Singh under the Banner of Rights Media International, was an attempt to glorify Nathuram Godse. The trailer of the movie was released on January 22||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-i-killed-gandhi-row-move-high-court-supreme-court-tells-petitioner-1076608.html
31-01-2022||National||Centre rules out discussion on Pegasus, says it’s subjudice||The Centre on Monday virtually ruled out a discussion on Pegasus in the Budget Session, saying that the issue is subjudice, after a string of Opposition leaders made the demand at an all-party meeting. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi also told the digital meeting chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh that the priority in the first leg of the session is to hold a debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address and general discussion on Budget and that any other issue could be taken up during the second leg of Budget session. This could create a roadblock for the smooth functioning of the session with the Opposition now armed with a report in The New York Times that claimed that India bought the controversial Israeli spyware.  A senior Opposition leader alleged that the government is running away from debates on issues like Pegasus, price rise and Covid-19 handling due to the upcoming elections in five states. Sources said several Opposition leaders demanded that Pegasus, price rise, Omicron, the proposed amendments on All India Services, Governors' role, NEET and federalism among others. While Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha raised the opaqueness of PM-CARES among other issues, sources said, Congress' Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, National Conference's Farooq Abdullah and DMK's T R Baalu told the meeting that their experience was that the government goes back on the promises made in such meetings.  RSP's NK Premachandran told the meeting that Calling Attention Motions should be taken up and he has been told by the Speaker and Lok Sabha Secretariat that concerned Ministries always object to the taking of matters. He said this should go. At the meeting, the Defence Minister and Joshi appealed to all parties to allow the Parliament to function smoothly.  Singh said all parties could sit together and decide on the issues that could be taken up for discussion. A consensus has emerged that the House not be stalled, he told the leaders.  In the Budget Session, the government has indicated that it is likely to bring 14 bills and six financial Items. However, no legislative business will be taken up during the first leg of the session that ends on February 11. Thirty-six leaders from 26 parties -- BJP, Congress, Trinamool Congress, AITC, DMK, YSR Congress, Shiv Sena, BJD, JD(U), BSP, TRS, LJSP, NCP, CPI(M), Muslim League, TDP, Apna Dal, CPI,  AAP, AIADMK, Kerala Congress (M),  RSP, RPI(A), RJD, NPP,  VCK and AGP -- are attended the meeting.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-rules-out-discussion-on-pegasus-says-it-s-subjudice-1076619.html
31-01-2022||National||India, Russia agree to deepen cooperation at United Nations||India and Russia on Monday agreed to deepen cooperation at the UN Security Council after the two sides held wide-ranging talks on issues before the global body. Russia is set to assume the presidency of the UN Security Council in February. The two sides held bilateral consultations on UN-related issues at a meeting in Delhi, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The Indian delegation was led by Reenat Sandhu, Secretary (West) in the MEA, while the Russian delegation was led by Ambassador Sergey Vasilyevich Vershinin, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The MEA said Sandhu congratulated Russia on its upcoming Presidency of the UN Security Council. "Both sides held wide-ranging discussions on issues on the UN Security Council agenda and related developments. Both sides agreed to deepen cooperation on issues of mutual interest at multilateral platforms," the MEA said in a statement. "The Russian delegation briefed India on its priorities during the 76th session of the UN General Assembly. Both sides also agreed to work closely together, given the common challenges faced and in keeping with their long-standing special and privileged strategic partnership," it said. Vershinin also called on Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and briefed him on Russian priorities during its upcoming Presidency of the UN Security Council.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-agree-to-deepen-cooperation-at-united-nations-1076621.html
31-01-2022||National||Economic Survey revealed Modi govt's 'gross mismanagement' of economy, says Cong||The 2022 Economic Survey has revealed the intrinsic weakness of the economy and the Narendra Modi government's "gross mismanagement" on this front, the Congress said on Monday. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala termed the survey a "self-serving cheerful assessment" of the economy that raises doubts about what the Budget is set out to achieve. He alleged the Economic Survey fails to assess the brutal impact of high prices on Indians and ignores the divide between the rich and the poor. "The Economic Survey2022 is a classic case of 'what statistics say' versus 'what they actually reveal'. It clearly reveals the intrinsic weakness of the economy and the gross economic mismanagement by the Modi government," Surjewala said in a series of tweets. He said the growth numbers reveal that even in the financial year 2021-22, the economy will be of the same size as in 2019-20 fiscal and the government should be "ashamed of the economic ruin caused by misplaced priorities". The Congress leader claimed that the "two lost years" have pushed 4.6 crore people into abject poverty and 84 per cent of families have seen wage reduction. "Economic Survey 2022 fails to assess the brutal impact of high prices on Indians with massive job losses and erosion of incomes! It ignores the divide as income of richest Indians increased by 13 lakh crore, the poorest 15 crore households have seen income reduction of 53 per cent," Surjewala said. "Self-serving cheerful assessment of economy raises doubts about what the Budget is set out to achieve -- which should be to stimulate the ailing economy, revive sectors, boost consumption, encourage investment and create jobs -- none of which the survey insists is a problem at all." He said the private final consumption expenditure per capita is still 5 per cent less than the 2019-20 level before the Covid pandemic struck India. "For 8-8.5 per cent GDP growth, we require investment to GDP ratio of 38.25 per cent. But who will invest when demand isn't picking up in the economy? Is 8 to 8.5 per cent GDP growth for FY 23 another jumla (rhetoric)," Surjewala posed. The total debt of the Government of India, which was Rs 53 lakh crore in March 2014, would blow up to Rs 136 lakh crore by March 2022. If Revenue expectations are too good and on target as reflected in Survey, why will each Indian owe Rs 1 lakh by March 2022, a loan they have never taken, he asked. "Lastly, classic case of failed MODINOMICS! Estimate Interest Payment for FY 22 is 54.6 per cent of total tax revenue for the central government. It shows an economy trapped in the vicious cycle of Debt wherein we have to raise more debts to pay interest on time," the Congress general secretary tweeted. 7/7Lastly, Classic Case of Failed MODINOMICS ! Estimate Interest Payment for FY 22 is 54.6% of total tax revenue for the central government. India will retain its tag of the world's fastest-growing major economy as the pre-Budget Economic Survey on Monday forecast an 8-8.5 per cent GDP growth in the fiscal year starting in April, saying it has the fiscal space to do more to support the economy and is well placed to meet the future challenges. India is poised to wrest the title world-beating economy tag this fiscal with a projected growth of 9.2 per cent, and the widespread vaccine coverage, supply-side reforms and easing of regulations are going to support it in the next. The Economic Survey -- an annual report card of the economy -- presented in Parliament by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, also warned about risks from global inflation and pandemic-related disruptions.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/economic-survey-revealed-modi-govts-gross-mismanagement-of-economy-says-cong-1076667.html
31-01-2022||National||Amazon-Future case: SC to pronounce verdict on pleas of Future group firms||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce on Tuesday the verdict on a batch of pleas filed by Future group firms against a Delhi High Court order declining stay on an arbitration tribunal decision refusing to interfere with the Emergency Award (EA) of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli has fixed the cases for pronouncement of judgement at 10.30 am. The bench, on January 11, had reserved the judgement and had said that it wanted to send the case back to the Delhi High Court to render a finding on the enforceability of the SIAC award restraining FRL's sale of assets to Reliance Retail. The apex court has reserved its order on two sets of petitions filed by FCPL (Future Coupons Private Ltd) and FRL (Future Retail Ltd). One set of appeals challenged the March 18 order of the Delhi High Court which besides restraining FRL from going ahead with its deal with Reliance Retail, had imposed costs of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group and others associated with it and ordered attachment of their properties. The second set of appeals has been filed against the Delhi High Court's recent order declining its plea for stay on an arbitration tribunal decision refusing to interfere with the SIAC's EA, which restrained it from going ahead with the Rs 24,731 crore merger deal with Reliance Retail. During the hearing on January 11, senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi had appeared for FRL and FCPL respectively and the US e-commerce major, Amazon, was represented by senior lawyers Gopal Subramanium and Ranjit Kumar, and others. Salve had said for the merger deal to go ahead the adverse orders passed last year on February 2 and March 18 have to be quashed. The US firm, which has invested in FCPL, has been opposing the deal. Salve had said the FRL will "sink with 30,000 employees losing their jobs" if the deal with RRL does not go through. The FRL and FCPL had said that they are allowed to go forward with the interlocutory proceedings of the scheme with Reliance to ensure that they would be able to finalise the deal once the dispute with Amazon is concluded. "We first sank because of a lockdown when people wouldn't go to shops. We are in this financially precarious situation. Fortunately, banks are willing to wait and say that if a transaction goes through Reliance deal will pay off the banks. The Reliance deal is close to Rs 26,000 crores, and Amazon's stake is Rs 14000 crores. Around 30,000 jobs will be saved. If you put this all together, let us get to that final stage. Let that final stage does not go through. Amazon's interests are not hurt," Salve had said. He had said even if eventually it was found by the courts that Reliance Industries Ltd arm could not acquire assets of FRL, the September 9, 2021 order of the apex court protected Amazon. On September 9, last year, the apex court had stayed for four weeks all proceedings before the high court concerning the implementation of the EA and also directed statutory authorities like National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Competition Commission of India (CCI), and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) not to pass any final order related to the merger deal in the meantime. The SIAC, in the EA, had granted relief to US e-commerce major Amazon by restraining the Future from going ahead with the Rs 24,731 crore merger deal of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) with Reliance Retail. Amazon had dragged Future Group to arbitration at SIAC in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance Retail. On October 21 last year, a duly-constituted panel of arbitrators at the SIAC reiterated the EA's decision. On October 29, 2021, the Delhi High Court declined Future Group's plea for a stay on the arbitration tribunal. The high court sought a response from Amazon which had challenged the merger before the SIAC and listed the appeals by FCPL and FRL for further hearing on January 4, 2022. Kishore Biyani and 15 others including FRL and FCPL have been embroiled in a series of litigations with Amazon, an investor in FCPL, over the deal with Reliance. Following the EA, subsequently, a three-member arbitral tribunal was constituted to decide the issues arising from the deal. Subsequently, the arbitration tribunal under the SIAC rejected on October 21, last year, the FRL plea to lift the interim stay granted by its EA on October 25, 2020, observing that "the Award was correctly granted". The FRL and FCPL had moved the top court against the high court order of August 17, 2021, which said that it would implement the earlier order by its single-judge restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal in pursuance of the EA's award. On August 6, last year, the Supreme Court gave the verdict in favour of Amazon and held that the EA award, restraining the Rs 24,731 crore FRL-Reliance Retail merger deal, is valid and enforceable under Indian arbitration laws. The apex court had also set aside the two orders of February 8 and March 22, 2021, of the division bench of the Delhi High Court order which had lifted the single judge's orders staying the FRL-RRL merger. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman, since retired, had dealt with the larger question and held that an award of an EA of a foreign country is enforceable under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amazon-future-case-sc-to-pronounce-verdict-on-pleas-of-future-group-firms-1076676.html
31-01-2022||National Politics||Mahatma Gandhi's ideals must reach all to strengthen spirit of brotherhood in country: Gehlot||On the occasion of the 74th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said the ideals of the Father of the Nation must reach all people to strengthen the spirit of brotherhood, love and harmony in the country. He said the state government is working with dedication to carry the principles of Mahatma Gandhi, fondly known as Bapu, to the younger generation. Speaking on the topic 'Vishwa Ke Gandhi' through a video conference on Shaheed Diwas, Gehlot stressed that Mahatma Gandhi's principles can show the right direction in the current atmosphere of terrorism, violence, fanaticism and mutual distrust prevailing in the world. The youth should read about the freedom struggle of the country and about leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Vallabhbhai Patel, Gopal Krishna Gokhale and B. R. Ambedkar among others, he said. "Then only they will know the history and no one can mislead them." The chief minister said the ideology of Mahatma Gandhi is the only effective solution to the problems arising from violence, hatred and terror. Gehlot said that Mahatma Gandhi Sansthan and Gandhi Darshan Museum are being built in Jaipur to carry Mahatma Gandhi's teachings to the general public. On the occasion, he also unveiled a statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the premises of the Jhunjhunu district collectorate. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mahatma-gandhis-ideals-must-reach-all-to-strengthen-spirit-of-brotherhood-in-country-gehlot-1076389.html
31-01-2022||National Politics||Pegasus returns to rock Parliament: More MPs submit privilege notices against IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw||More MPs have submitted privilege notices against Information and Technology Minister Ashwani Vaishnaw accusing him of misleading the Parliament on Pegasus, making it clear the Opposition’s resolve to corner the Narendra Modi government on the issue after a news report claimed India bought the controversial Israeli spyware. After Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress Rajya Sabha MP KC Venugopal, CPI Rajya Sabha leader Binoy Viswam, CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP V Sivadasan  and Trinamool Congress’s Saugata Roy submitted separate notices against Vaishnaw. A confrontation appears to be brewing in the Parliament with the Opposition preparing to insist on a discussion on Pegasus while the government is set to counter it saying that the issue is under the consideration of the Supreme Court. When asked, a senior Opposition leader said, “wait and see.” Congress and Trinamool Congress leaders as well as other Opposition leaders are informally holding discussions.  “The question is all about will the government agree to a debate. Let’s see what happens on Wednesday,” the leader said. The privilege notices came against the backdrop of a New York Times report that claimed that India purchased the spyware, which was reportedly used to spy on Opposition leaders, activists, journalists and those in Constitutional posts among others, and linked the country's change in stance on Palestine and votes in the United Nations that favoured Israel to the purchase from the NSO Group. Vaishnaw had told the Parliament that the reports of use of Pegasus in the country was "baseless" and “highly sensational". The Ministry of Defence said in Parliament last August that it did not have any transaction with NSO Group, which sells Pegasus.  Venugopal claimed in his notice that Vaishnaw “deliberately made a vague and misleading statement in a matter relating to breach of national security”. He said the Minister “wilfully” made the statement  with the “intention to mislead and deceive” the House. In his notice, Roy claimed the government took the stand in Parliament that it had nothing to do with the spyware and never bought it. It also lied in the Supreme Court, he alleged. "In the light of the revelations by NYT, the Modi government misled the Parliament and the Supreme Court and lied to the people of the country," Roy said as he demanded that a  privilege motion be initiated against Vaishnaw for "deliberately misleading" the Parliament. Viswam said evidence has been made public that point towards the purchase of Pegasus spyware. "As a matter concerning grave allegations of snooping that violate Constitutional rights and safeguards, the Minister's deliberate attempt to mislead the Members of Parliament constitutes a breach of privilege," Viswam said. Sivadasan said the attempt by the executive to “mislead” Parliament constitutes “grave attack on the democratic values” and  a “frontal attack” on the concept of “popular sovereignty which constitutes the bedrock of the Parliament”. Kharge told reporters that the Monsoon Session was impacted due to the government not allowing a discussion on Pegasus. “The BJP had alleged that the Opposition was not allowing the Parliament to function but the truth has now come out. We will raise this issue,” he said, adding that other issues like inflation, unemployment, farmers' issue, crimes against women and Dalits will also be raised. Check out the latest DH videos on Union Budget here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-returns-to-rock-parliament-more-mps-submit-privilege-notices-against-it-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-1076445.html
31-01-2022||National Politics||Google opens training programme for journalists ahead of assembly polls in India||The Election Commission of India, earlier in the month announced the poll dates for five states of India including Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand. The polls are being conducted in seven phases starting on February 10 and are slated to conclude on March 7. The results will be revealed on the counting day on March 10. Google, in a bid to help journalists cover the election in the five states is offering training and also helping them utilise technology tools to improve their work in terms of delivering the news more visually appealing, also be able to segregate fake and genuine news and more. The company’s Google News Initiative India Training Network arm in collaboration with DataLEADS is inviting scribes and journalism students to register for PollCheck 2022: Covering India’s Election. “The workshop is designed to help strengthen skills in digital journalism and learn about a range of tools, tips, and techniques - from Google and beyond - that can help journalists prepare for their election story,” the company said. Google’s 2022 programme offers seven webinars including— Data Verification (Quick guide to report on election statistics and claims with clarity and accuracy on 5 February 11:00 am to 1:00 pm IST), Fact-Checking Online Misinformation (How to verify fake posts and profiles to check false narratives on 8 February 3:00 pm to 5:00 pm IST), Mobile Journalism For Elections (Explore the latest possibilities of Mobile Journalism for election coverage on 12 February at 11:00 am to 1:00 pm IST), Data Visualization (How to deliver election story through data-driven graphics, and animations on 15 February at 11:00 am to 1:00 pm IST) and Online Safety and Safety First: Covering Polls In A Pandemic (tips on how to cover elections with Covid-19 safety protocols on 22 February at 11:00 am to 1:00 pm IST).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/google-opens-training-programme-for-journalists-ahead-of-assembly-polls-in-india-1076481.html
31-01-2022||National Politics||Role of women continuously expanding, women commissions need to widen their scope of work: PM||The role of the National Commission for Women will have to increase in scope, PM Narendra Modi said on Monday while speaking at the Commission’s 30th Founding Day. He said that as the role of women continues to expand, it is the need of the hour. “All the women's commissions of the country will have to increase their scope and give a new direction to the women of their states,” PM Modi said during his virtual address. Also present were union minister of women and child development Smriti Irani, ministers of state Munjpara Mahendrabhai Kalubhai and Darshana Jardosh, and NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma. During his address, PM Modi said that the role of women is changing and about 70% beneficiaries of the micro-credit scheme Mudra Yojna are women. “The country has seen a three-fold increase in the number of women self-help groups in the last 6-7 years. More than 60,000 startups that have emerged after 2016, and 45% have at least one woman director,” the prime minister said. Modi also said that since 2015, 185 women have been honoured with Padma Awards, and this year too, 34 women were awarded in different categories. The Commission, a statutory body to look at issues concerning women, was formed on January 31, 1992, as per the National Commission for Women Act 1990. Congress MP Jayanti Patnaik was the first chairperson, and since then, the commission has been headed by 10 women. Some of its famous members include finmin Nirmala Sitharaman. In August 2014, former WCD minister Maneka Gandhi sent a proposal to the Cabinet to give the Commission powers at par with the National Human Rights Commission and give it the rights of a civil court with the power to conduct judicial proceedings with the power to summon. The law ministry, however, turned it down saying that the NCW was not qualified enough. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/role-of-women-continuously-expanding-women-commissions-need-to-widen-their-scope-of-work-pm-1076617.html
31-01-2022||National Politics||SKM levels 'betrayal' charge on Centre over farm laws, threatens to resume agitation||Accusing the central government of "reneging" on promises made to farmers on agitation against three contentious bill last year, farmer bodies on Monday carried out demonstrations, marches, and effigy burning in a number of states and threatened to "resume the agitation", observing a "betrayal day (vishwasghaat divas)", an event that coincided with the beginning of crucial Budget Session of Parliament ahead of polls in five states. In a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind that was submitted to the District Collectors, SDMs and ADMs in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Tripura, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said it "warns the BJP government against challenging the farmers' patience, and declares that if the promises are not fulfilled at the earliest, the farmers would be left with no option but to resume the agitation". The SKM said that as the Head of the State, it is the President’s constitutional obligation to protect the interests of the farmers, the largest section of the country. In what could be a trouble for the ruling BJP in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, the SKM has decided to continue with its "Mission Uttar Pradesh and campaign across the state to punish and defeat BJP". Farmer bodies will announce the new phase of the Mission with a press conference on February 3. "This is betrayal of farmers. There has been no withdrawal of cases lodged against farmers, no compensation for martyred farmers, no committee on MSP, no conversation on power...GoI should answer on these," tweeted Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, exhorting the farmers of the country to "be ready for a long-drawn struggle." In Western UP, which has been one of the centres of the year-long farm agitation that was called off in December end last year after the government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws and fulfill other key demands of the farmers, a revival of farmer protest is the last thing that the ruling party in the state can afford. Samajwadi Party, which is emerging as the main Opposition to the BJP in UP has already allied with the Jat party RLD, a combination that drastically altered the political outcome in the region. A campaign by farmer bodies will further exacerbate the problems for the party as such. Warning the government against committing this "fraud against the farmers", the memorandum reminded "due to the tireless efforts of the farmers, despite the lockdown and the economic slowdown, the agricultural production of the country has increased continuously. Playing tricks with farmers can be disastrous for the whole country. Of the written assurances made by the Government of India in the letter to Samyukta Kisan Morcha on December 9, 2021, not one of the promises has been fulfilled." *Government of India continues with its falsehoods related to the current MSP (announcement) regime, and the cost concept being used for announcing such MSPs with the Economic Survey report 2021-22. The cost concept being used continues to be A2+Family Labour, ignoring C2 cost of production, denying farmers their true entitlement,"the statement said. It dubbed a false claim that the crop diversification has happened with the "empty promises of meagre MSPs" being declared. "However, farmers do know that such diversification is indeed possible if MSP is legally guaranteed as an entitlement for all crops including oilseeds, millets and pulses. That is one of the key reasons that SKM also demands a legally guaranteed MSP," the memoranda issued jointly by farmer leaders Darshan Pal, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma 'Kakkaji', Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav, said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/skm-levels-betrayal-charge-on-centre-over-farm-laws-threatens-to-resume-agitation-1076645.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||Elections keep happening but Budget Session very important, must make it 'fruitful': PM Modi||As the Parliament's Budget Session started during an election season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said polls keep happening but MPs should keep in mind that the Budget and related proceedings during this period draw a blueprint for the coming year and they should make it fruitful. Talking to reporters just before the proceedings started, he said there are a lot of opportunities for the country. There is confidence instilled in the world for India due to its economic progress, Covid-19 vaccination programme and 'Made in India' initiatives. "Elections keep coming. It is true that elections have an impact on (Parliament) Sessions and debates. But I request all MPs that elections will go on but the Budget Session draws a blueprint for an entire year and therefore, it is very important. The more fruitful we make this session, there will be better opportunities in the coming year to take the country to new economic heights," he said. Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Goa will be going to the polls between February 10 and March 7 while the counting of votes will be on March 10. He expressed hope that all parties will discuss issues with an open mind in Parliament to take the country to new "heights of development".  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elections-keep-happening-but-budget-session-very-important-must-make-it-fruitful-pm-modi-1076437.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||Rahul, Priyanka condole loss of lives in Kanpur road accident||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday condoled the loss of lives in a road accident in Kanpur and asked party workers to help those in need. At least six people reportedly died and several others were injured when an electric bus lost control in Kanpur and ran over bystanders. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "The road accident in Kanpur is very unfortunate. My condolences to all those who lost their dear ones. I pray for the speedy recovery of all those who are injured". "My appeal to Congress workers to help in every possible way," he also said. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also condoled the loss of lives in the accident and wished early recovery of the injured. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-priyanka-condole-loss-of-lives-in-kanpur-road-accident-1076454.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||No 'moral policing' if 2 adults staying together willingly by marriage or live-in relationship: HC||The Madhya Pradesh High Court has held that no "moral policing" can be allowed if two adults are willing to stay together by way of marriage or a live-in relationship. Justice Nandita Dubey made the observation on January 28 while disposing of a habeas corpus petition filed by Jabalpur resident Guljar Khan, who stated that he had married Arti Sahu (19) in Maharashtra and she had willingly converted to Islam. Khan had alleged in his plea that Sahu was forcibly taken away by her parents to Varanasi and illegally detained. Sahu was produced before the court on January 28 through video-conferencing from the Advocate General's office. The HC noted that the state has raised an objection in view of provisions of the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2021. It is vehemently argued (by the government's counsel) that any marriage performed in contravention of Section 3 of the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act of 2021 shall be deemed null and void where no person shall convert for the purpose of marriage and any conversion in contravention, the court further noted. The HC in its order said, “No moral policing can be allowed in such matters where the two major persons are willing to stay together whether by way of marriage or in a live-in relationship, when the party to that arrangement is doing it willingly and not forced into it." The high court noted that the woman clearly stated that she had married the petitioner and wants to stay with him. She is a major person and her age is not disputed by any of the parties, the court said. "The Constitution gives a right to every major citizen of this country to live her or his life as per her or his own wishes,” the HC observed. “Under the circumstances, the objection raised by the counsel for the state and her prayer to send the corpus (Sahu) to Nari Niketan is rejected,” the court said in its order. It also directed the counsel for the state and police authorities to hand over the woman to her husband and to see that both of them reach their home safely. The police authorities are also directed to see that in future also the woman and her husband are not threatened by her parents, the court said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-moral-policing-if-2-adults-staying-together-willingly-by-marriage-or-live-in-relationship-hc-1076467.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||MPs violate Covid norms during President Kovind's joint address||MPs cutting across party lines were seen violating social distancing norms during President Ram Nath Kovind's address to the joint sitting of both houses of Parliament on Monday. MPs in the first two rows, seating Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, top Union ministers and floor leaders of various parties, were socially distanced but not after that. From the third row onwards, many MPs did not follow Covid protocol. This included several Union ministers. In some benches of the Central Hall meant to seat five, seven MPs were crammed together. Several parliamentarians were seen chatting with some of them dropping their masks. Following the spike in Covid cases during the third wave, arrangements have been made for MPs to sit in the Central Hall gallery as well as the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chambers. During the budget session beginning on Monday, parliament proceedings will be conducted in two shifts – Rajya Sabha in the morning and Lok Sabha in the evening. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mps-violate-covid-norms-during-president-kovinds-joint-address-1076471.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||Before President's Budget Session address, DMK, Congress MPs protest over NEET bill delay||DMK and Congress MPs from Tamil Nadu on Monday protested in front of President Ram Nath Kovind as he prepared to start his address to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs at the start of the Budget Session against the Governor for not forwarding a Bill passed by the Assembly to the Centre. As the President got up to speak in the Central Hall, the MPs from Tamil Nadu were on their feet with one of the MPs saying that they wanted to bring the issue before him. As the MPs raised their voice in protest, the President asked them to take their seats and started his speech. The MPs stopped their protest soon after the President started his customary address. The Tamil Nadu Assembly had passed the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill in September last year seeking exemption from NEET for students from the state. The Bill seeks to revert to admitting students into medical colleges on the basis of marks scored in plus-two exams. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin had written to at least 12 of his counterparts calling for united efforts to restore the primacy of the states in administering the education sector.  "Our considered position has always been that the Union government’s decision to introduce the NEET goes against the very spirit of federalism and violates the constitutional balance of power by curbing the rights of the State governments to decide on the method of admission to the medical institutions founded, established and run by them this regard, we consider that the state governments need to assert their constitutional right and position in deciding the method of admission to their higher educational institutions,” he had said in the letter. "In this regard, we consider that the State governments need to assert their constitutional right and position in deciding the method of admission to their higher educational institutions," he added.The Justice AK Rajan Committee, which was appointed by the state government, had recommended immediate discontinuance of NEET.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/before-presidents-budget-session-address-dmk-congress-mps-protest-over-neet-bill-delay-1076474.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||SC to hear plea against Haryana officers for failing to curb violent tendencies in Gurugram Namaz row||SC agrees to hear plea against Haryana officers for failing to curb violent tendencies around Friday Namaz The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to list for hearing a plea filed by former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb seeking contempt action against Haryana officers for their alleged failure to prevent incidents surrounding the Friday prayers offered by Muslims in Gurugram. Senior advocate Indira Jaising mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana who agreed to list it before an appropriate bench. She said this was not based only on newspaper reports. "We have ourselves filed complaints. We are not asking for any enforcement of FIR. This court has laid down preventive measures," she said  "We will look into it and post before appropriate bench immediately," the bench said. In his petition, Adeeb has sought action against the Chief Secretary and the Director-General of Police of State of Haryana, Sanjeev Kaushal IAS and P K Agrawal IPS, respectively. He alleged complete inaction by Haryana's top officials in curbing communal and violent tendencies. He contended that the Haryana authorities have failed to comply with the directions issued by the Supreme Court in Tehseen S Poonawalla of 2018 for direction to control and prevent the increasing number of hate crimes, including mob violence and lynching. His plea claimed the muslim community offered prayers in congregation on Friday and due to the footfall in Gurugram during the daytime, Jumaah Namaz was offered at various locations pre-approved by local authorities, which was not encroachment of any manner. The state government had in December 2021 banned Friday 'namaz' at the public parks at Gurugram following the opposition by local residents. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-hear-plea-against-haryana-officers-for-failing-to-curb-violent-tendencies-in-gurugram-namaz-row-1076480.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||PM Modi condoles loss of lives in Kanpur road accident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the loss of lives in a road accident in Kanpur and wished speedy recovery to the injured. At least six people reportedly died and several others were injured when an electric bus lost control in Kanpur and ran over bystanders. "I also wish a speedy recovery to all those injured in this accident," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-kanpur-road-accident-1076490.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||SC grants protection from arrest to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia till Feb 23||The Supreme Court on Monday protected Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia from arrest in a drugs case till February 23 in order to allow him campaigning and to contest upcoming Assembly polls in Punjab.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana told the Punjab government to refrain from launching criminal cases against the political opponents, just before the election.  The top court directed Majithia to surrender on February 24 before the trial court and seek regular bail. Senior advocate P Chidambaram, appearing for the Punjab government, said Punjab is sinking under drug trade and the youth are in danger.  He asserted that custodial interrogation of Majithia was required as it is a case of international drug racket and there have been monetary transactions, where Majithia mediated. The bench, however, said there is an allegation that it is a politically motivated case.  "Suddenly such cases come up before the election, and the court does not mean that the government should not crack down on the drug mafia. Let him file nomination and campaign, once it is over he will surrender and apply for regular bail," the bench said.  Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Majithia, submitted that for six years there were thorough probes and nothing was found against his client. Majithia, the brother-in-law of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, is in the fray for the February 20 assembly polls from Majitha, near Amritsar.  The High Court had on January 24 rejected the plea for anticipatory bail filed by Majithia in connection with an FIR registered under various provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on December 20, last year by Punjab State Crime. The petitioner claimed that the FIR was gross abuse of the process in law and vindictive in nature as it was lodged in 2021 against the incident on the basis of some statements made to the Enforcement Directorate in 2014. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-grants-protection-from-arrest-to-sad-leader-bikram-singh-majithia-till-feb-23-1076533.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||Cop starts teaching classes for poor kids in MP police station||In a novel initiative, a teacher-turned-policeman has started a study centre-cum-library in a police station premises at a remote village here in Madhya Pradesh with an aim to impart education to underprivileged children free of cost. Every morning, before getting into his police uniform, sub-inspector Bakhat Singh (41) takes on the mantle of a teacher between 7 am and 10 am for children from Class 4 onwards and those who aspire to appear for various competitive and civil service exams. He motivates the children to study and encourages them to read books kept in the library set up by him at the police station in Brajpur village, which has a population of around 6,000 and is located about 40 km from the district headquarters. Singh got the idea of starting the 'Vidyadan' initiative after seeing illiteracy and poverty in the area, which is mainly inhabited by Dalits, tribals and other OBCs who work as labourers in mines located nearby. Asked if children feel scared to enter the police station campus, Singh, who worked as a teacher in a government school some years back, told PTI that the police's aim is to instill fear among criminals and welcome good people. “We want to build a positive image of police. I strongly believe that literacy and good moral teaching can curb crime in society," he said. Adarsh Dixit, a 15-year-old civil services aspirant, said he was initially scared of entering the police station, but after meeting Singh, he was impressed by his teaching methods and personality. Other students also praised Singh's teaching skills. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-starts-teaching-classes-for-poor-kids-in-mp-police-station-1076548.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||Students protest construction of cow centre at DU's Hansraj college||Scores of students held a protest outside Delhi University's Hansraj College against the setting up of a cow protection and research centre inside the campus and demanded the construction of a women's hostel there. The Students' Federation of India (SFI) unit of Hansraj College has been alleging that a ''gaushala'' -- Swami Dayanand Cow-Protection and Research Centre -- has been constructed at the site reserved for a women's hostel. College principal Rama Sharma has said that they have only kept a single cow at the centre and it is for research purposes. She has also said that the area where the cow research centre has been built is a setback area and no hostel can be constructed there. The protest was called by SFI. Other student bodies also supported their protest. The students held the protest outside the college and carried placards -- ''Save Public Education'', ''Prioritise Student Welfare'', ''No to Saffronisation of Education'' and ''We reclaim out campus''.  Raising slogans, the students said the construction of a 'gaushala' will not be tolerated and demanded the construction of a women's hostel there.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-protest-construction-of-cow-centre-at-dus-hansraj-college-1076593.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||Congress was against creation of Uttarakhand: Former CM||Senior BJP leader Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Monday accused the Congress of opposing the creation of Uttarakhand and wanting it to be made only a Union Territory when the statehood movement was at its peak. The people of the state have not forgotten how one of the Congress leaders had even said that Uttarakhand will be built on his dead body, Pokhriyal, also a former chief minister of Uttarakhand and a former Union minister said. "The Congress leaders were never in favour of making Uttarakhand a separate state and wanted it to be made a union territory," he said. On the contrary, the BJP did not just create Uttarakhand but also ensured an 'unprecedented development' of the state in its health, education and infrastructure sectors, he said. Historic work done in the state over the last five years included the establishment of medical colleges in Srinagar, Haldwani, Dehradun and Almora, he added. The budget of the Health Department has been increased from Rs 837 crore to Rs 3000 crore over the last five years, the former chief minister said. Lakhs of families in the state have benefitted from the Ayushman Bharat scheme, a fact everyone in Uttarakhand can acknowledge, he added. Other developmental work that Pokhriyal counted included the Rishikesh to Karnprayag rail line, upgradation of highways, the construction of elevated roads in general and the upcoming one between Delhi and Dehradun in particular. Now it takes only 40 minutes to reach Dehradun from Laksar, whereas earlier it used to take two hours and three to four hours in case of a jam, he said. He said Dehradun airport too is now going to become an international airport. The BJP has proven its respect for servicemen with Prime Minister Narendra Modi implementing one-rank-one-pension which had remained stuck for 40 years, he added. "The Congress on the other hand always insulted soldiers. One of their leaders once even called late General Bipin Rawat a streetside hooligan," he said. Slamming the Congress party for this, he said the party had no remorse for what it did and never apologised for it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-was-against-creation-of-uttarakhand-former-cm-1076601.html
31-01-2022||North and Central||Judicial interference in foreign-funded mega projects not in nation's interest, SC says||The Supreme Court on Monday said delay in mega projects funded by foreign countries on bilateral agreement due to judicial interference may not be in the larger public interest and also not in the nation's interest. The top court set aside Delhi High Court judgment, directing National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) to consider the bid of Montecarlo Limited, for construction and development of a depot in connection with the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project. “Such interference by the courts midway and delay in the projects like these which are funded by the foreign countries on bilateral mutual understanding/agreement by the developed country to a developing country may affect the future investments/funding,” a bench comprising Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said said. The court said any delay in execution of such a Mega project, which is a very important for the developing country like India may not be in the larger public interest and in the nation’s interest. It pointed out that the High Court ought to have appreciated that it is always advisable that in such a foreign funded mega project, delay may have a cascading effect and many a times lead to financial burden due to delay in projects. “Therefore, there shall be minimal interference and/or no interference till the entire tender process or till the award of contract is completed," Justice Shah, who authored the 82-page judgment on behalf of the bench, said. The bench emphasized there shall be different considerations so far as the judicial interference is concerned between the foreign funded contracts and the ordinary public works contracts funded from public exchequer. The bench noted that it is difficult for a developing country to go ahead with such a high cost project unless the developed country is ready to fund, more particularly, when the developed country is ready to fund a huge amount at a minimal concessional rate of interest and on suitable terms and conditions of repayment. “Before entertaining the writ petition with respect to such mega projects funded by the foreign countries, one has to appreciate that funds of such projects by the foreign country is followed by a detailed discussion between the Prime Ministers of both the countries and to strengthen bilateral cooperation in the rail sector,” it said. The NHSRCL had rejected Montecarlo's bid and awarded the contract to another firm. Montecarlo moved the high court claiming that no reasons were assigned while rejecting its bid. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/judicial-interference-in-foreign-funded-mega-projects-not-in-nations-interest-sc-says-1076693.html
31-01-2022||Oasis||The 'should' syndrome||We may or may not be aware of it, but all of us carry into adulthood the voices that we hear as children. They may be affirmations of love, words that reflect the care and concern that parents, teachers and friends gave freely as we grew up. These stay in the mind, shaping our outlook and moulding us into the persons that we now are. Sadly though, not all messages are as positive. Some put a cap on our abilities, promote diffidence and even arouse fearfulness in inexperienced minds. Prominent among them are those built around the words ‘should’ and ‘should not’. They linger in the mind and become inflexible rules that determine our behaviour. What is worse, they also impel us to create new rules as the years go by. For instance, many of us can recollect being told that elders must be respected and disobedience of their commands will not be tolerated; or that we must complete all homework before going out to play. The resultant effect is that this becomes a habit well into adult life, making us bend to the will and wishes of others. No doubt, all of us have the responsibility of making others happy and of developing good habits, but some rules stem primarily from the preferences of others. They can be at odds with one's own style of functioning and make unnecessary claims on one’s time and energy. Consider these examples — washing the kitchen floor three times a week can stop one from taking a calming walk; reading every Whatsapp message and sending comments can eat into leisure-time; jumping to do dishes as soon as a meal is over can mean inability to join in the happy conversation that follows; working while having lunch can prevent one from interacting with colleagues and knowing them better. The examples are legion. The remedy lies in finding what suits the individual. Making a list of ‘shoulds’ and ‘should nots’ that cause discontent and inconvenience can help us to confront them. They may be related to diet, routine or relationships with family, work-mates and friends. New patterns that align with your true self will emerge and promote happiness. In short, it is better to erase the ‘should syndrome’ from your thinking!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-should-syndrome-1076314.html
31-01-2022||Opinion||Off the record: Of legacy and breaking rules||Fight for names and legacy Jaganmohan Reddy government’s plan of re-carving the districts went down badly in several parts of the state, evident by the protests there. While people are demanding that their locations be made the headquarters or kept closer to the nearest cities-towns, objections are being raised to the names given to some of the new districts too. For example, Tirupati and adjoining areas are notified as Sri Balaji district, a name for Lord Venkateshwara popular only in north India. Tirupati locals are asking the new district name to be changed to Tirupati, a place everyone instantly connects with. Though the YSRCP scored a political point naming the Vijayawada area after rival TDP founder, former chief minister NT Rama Rao, people are pointing out the oddity of leaving NTR’s birthplace Nimmakuru in adjacent Machilipatnam. While YSRCP leaders claim that they honoured NTR’s legacy which the previous Chandrababu Naidu government failed to, TDP reacted by questioning why then the state-run food kiosks Anna (NTR) canteens were shut down by Jagan. Prasad Nichenametla, Hyderabad When CM breaks Covid-19 rules Meghalaya CM Conrad K Sangma unfurled the national flag on this year’s Republic Day, five days after he announced on Twitter that he tested Covid-19 positive. Sangma had to hoist the tricolour as Governor Satya Pal Malik was also in home isolation due to Covid-19. This led both Opposition Congress and Sangma’s ally BJP to allege that the CM flouted the Covid-19 norms by attending a public function barely five days after testing Covid-19 positive. “If the CM flout the norms, can he ask the common people to follow the SoP for Covid-19?” BJP MLA, AL Hek asked. Sangma, when asked by reporters, however, did not have a clear response and said being a CM he has to perform a lot of responsibilities and he was doing so by following the Covid-19 norms. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Video on Nirbhaya Squadgoes viral  Coinciding with the Republic Day festivities, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and state Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil launched the Nirbhaya Squad, and now a video on the squad has gone viral on social media platforms. With a voiceover by superstar Amitabh Bachchan, the 2.08-minute video shows different women facing harassment by men at various public places and on the streets in Mumbai. The video titled “Laangh Ke Ab Tu Laxman Rekha, Ban Nidar, Ban Nirbhaya! Fearless women – a trademark of Mumbai!” - has been directed by ace director Rohit Shetty, who has made several police-based films. Several Bollywood celebrities have appreciated the video. The government has also activated Nirbhaya hotline number 103. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Matter between men and God Over the past few months, there have been several incidents, where thieves have stolen money and valuables from masjids in Kashmir. The thieves take away the money boxes where worshippers donate funds and in some cases UPS batteries. God helps people in many ways, but here, people seem to be taking what they want from God. They break into masjids with the intention of stealing money. Asking them to stop because it’s a sacred place is too much. Because for them, this matter is between them and the Almighty God. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-of-legacy-and-breaking-rules-1076319.html
31-01-2022||Opinion||The cost of Taliban takeover for Pakistan||"Afghans had broken the shackles of slavery," remarked Pakistan's Prime Minister M Imran Khan triumphantly on August 16, 2021, as the Taliban swept to power in Afghanistan. In less than six months, the cruel realities of the Taliban rule are staring Pakistan in the face. The Taliban's victory has encouraged Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and other terror groups to intensify their violent activities, increasing the threats of extremism and sectarianism. Despite its multiple promises, the Afghan Taliban has refused to restrain the TTP from continuing its attacks against the Pakistani security forces. The TTP's attacks have now reached Pakistan's heart. It assaulted a police party on January 17 in Islamabad, killing one cop and injuring two. Ironically, on December 17, as Pakistan convened an Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) foreign ministers meeting to seek humanitarian aid for Afghanistan, armed clashes took place between the Afghan Taliban forces and Pakistani border guards in the eastern Afghan province of Nangarhar on fencing the border. Previous Afghan governments had also objected to the border fencing, yet there had not been the use of force in recent times. Also, these clashes occurred, despite the Taliban forces being under the control of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) favourite, Sirajuddin Haqqani. The Imran Khan government had termed the TTP attacks earlier as the handiwork of India and the Afghan Intelligence under the nationalist government. With both removed from Kabul, why are these attacks continuing now? Another calculation made by the Pakistan government was that a friendly government in Kabul would help it check the reverberating Pashtun nationalism. Events have belied that expectation. Some Pakistani critics have asked if there has been a significant policy failure by the Pakistani state in gauging the affinity between the Afghan Taliban and TTP? Pakistan's Chief of Army Staff, General Qamar Bajwa, recently remarked that the Afghan Taliban and TTP were the "two sides of the same coin", implying that neither can be trusted. The Taliban victory has come at a considerable price for Pakistan. According to Imran Khan, Pakistan suffered over 80,000 casualties, displacement of 3.5 million of its nationals and lost over $150 billion in economy claims. Its support to the Taliban has led to the souring of relations with its major partners, including the US, European countries, China and others. Angry at Pakistan's duplicitous role, US President Joe Biden has not spoken to the Pakistan prime minister after taking over. The US has cut down most of its security and economic assistance to Pakistan. Pakistan's relations with China have come under strain as Islamabad is unable to provide foolproof security to the Chinese project personnel against the TTP attacks. Due to deceleration in economic growth, China has curtailed funding for its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) by about 55 per cent from $105 billion in 2019 to about $47 billion in 2021, which has also impacted financing for Pakistani projects. With little investment coming from other sources, Pakistan is on its knees to manage its economy. Pakistan's isolation and economic vulnerabilities prompted Imran Khan to announce a New Security Policy (NSP) with a geo-economic vision at its centre with considerable fanfare. But critics say the NSP offers only platitudes without any strategy or roadmap for implementation. It sounds like the Pakistan prime minister's clarion call of "Naya Pakistan". The publicly released version of the NSP has nothing new on identifying the problems or their execution. The Taliban 2.0 rule remains as regressive as that of the Taliban 1.0 except for some publicity garnering rhetoric. The Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid recently stated, "If the world does not want to be threatened from Afghanistan, they must recognise us." Some critics say that the Taliban does not embrace the idea of "governing for the people". To them, the role of the state is to bring the people into the fold of "true Islam" rather than to protect or serve them. While the UN is planning an $8 billion aid programme for Afghanistan and the US has issued some exemptions to its officials and the UN to deal with the Taliban, monitoring aid reaching the Afghan people remains a sticky issue. A European delegation told the Taliban Acting Foreign Minister, Amir Muttaqi, at the Oslo talks (January 23-25, 2022) that humanitarian aid would be tied to an improvement in the human rights situation, including access of girls to schools. Unless the Taliban moves away from its primitive orthodox beliefs and provides reasonable governance, the country is unlikely to see improvement in food, health and essential services or attain a modicum of stability and security. Without the latter, investments or infrastructure building for improved connectivity with the Central Asian countries and others will remain a pipe dream. Pakistan's National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf remarked on January 26 that the "Afghan soil was still being used against Pakistan and organised terrorist networks were operating there"; he was "not completely optimistic" about the Taliban government anymore. Thus, Pakistan's frustrations with the Taliban have started setting in and if the Taliban continues to behave like a terror group instead of a responsible government, the Pakistanis would increasingly question if the cost of rearing this child was worth the outcome and was it not a monumental failure of the ISI? (Yogesh Gupta is a former ambassador)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-cost-of-taliban-takeover-for-pakistan-1076414.html
31-01-2022||Opinion||Economic Survey returns home after a decade||The striking feature of the Economic Survey 2021-22 laid in Parliament by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is that it hews the closest to the Budget, due tomorrow, than any of its predecessors has been in the past decade. The Economic Survey also may have put an official stamp to judge economic conditions to an array of indicators instead of the venerable but often outdated quarterly and annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP).   After eight years, the Economic Survey, the Government of India's annual context-setting document on the economy, has stopped being a commentary of the chief economic adviser (CEA) of the day. It was no coincidence that there was no CEA since December last year, so we shall have to wait for another year to see if the new CEA, appointed last week, V Anantha Nageswaran sticks to the new script.  For now, the latest Economic Survey has stopped its recent habit of getting ahead of itself and trying to offer commentary on the Budget, days ahead of it being presented. It was often a delightful commentary and sometimes at odds with the finance minister's position. The preface to the document this time makes the discomfort clear. "It was also felt that the thematic chapters of Volume 1 were not adequately linked to the sectoral chapters of Volume 2." In 2019, Volume I of the Survey published data on revenue to GDP ratio for FY19 that differed from the revised estimates presented in the Budget documents. Since both were Parliament documents, Sitharaman had the unenviable task of defending the Budget numbers and contradicting the Survey data in Parliament.  Besides being a faithful record of the finance ministry worldview, what else does the Economic Survey do, which will help us understand what the finance minister shall say in her Budget speech tomorrow?  It offers some significant nuggets, like stating the government now has space for more fiscal interventions, which means it can breach the limits set by the targeted fiscal deficit. It means, as expected, there shall be generous additional spending commitments in key sectors.  The more significant takeaway is how it arrives at its conclusion. The "how" is couched in an array of high-frequency data, or HFIs the Survey deploys, demonstrably for the first time. The volume, written by a team under the Principal Economic Advisor, Sanjeev Sanyal, notes, "Government (has) leveraged an array of eighty HFIs representing industry, services, global trends, macro-stability indicators and several other activities, from both public and private sources to gauge the underlying state of the economy on a real-time basis. These include electricity generation, scheduled domestic flights, volume/value of financial transactions, capital flows, mobility indices, and so on." Happily, the list also includes the quarterly data on employment as seen through net enrolment in the Employees Provident Fund, released by the Ministry of Statistics every quarter. As its rationale for basing government policies on this range of data, the Survey notes that in a period of the pandemic, it is difficult for the government to come up with a response based on annual data. By the time those data arrive, the challenges have moved on. This is salutary.  As the Survey notes, the framework is based on feedback loops, real-time monitoring of actual outcomes, flexible responses, safety-net buffers and so on. The process borrows from the way the corporate sector works on data. "Planning matters in this framework but mostly for scenario-analysis, identifying vulnerable sections, and understanding policy options rather than as a deterministic prediction of the flow of events. The last Economic Survey did briefly discuss this approach, but this time it is a central theme," the Survey adds.  It is welcome, even though it leaves space for the government of the day to pick and choose. For every data that goes against its narrative, it can retort with one that is favourable. While that may be inescapable, for the government, however, it could be a most healthy development. In recent years, data has been one of the most contested territories in the arguments over the performance of the economy. More data has to be now put on the public plate—GSTN disaggregated data, for instance, is still not available. But as most of these data will need to be available publicly, both keeping them flowing free and keeping their sourcing free of political choices shall become essential for the people to assess the economic temperature themselves. (Subhomoy Bhattacharjee writes on business and economy) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/economic-survey-returns-home-after-a-decade-1076544.html
31-01-2022||Panorama||Revised Master Plan 2041 and its implications for Bengaluru’s future||As the year 2021 came to an end, print and social media were buzzing with news about the Bangalore Development Authority calling for the preparation of a revised Master Plan for Bengaluru, this time for the year 2041. Currently, the city is following (largely on paper) the Revised Master Plan 2015 that, as the name suggests, was to steer the growth of the metropolis till 2015. In other words, the RMP 2015 rendered itself redundant six years ago. On the one hand, the immense implications of this redundancy for a rapidly growing city such as Bengaluru are perhaps not beyond common citizens’ imagination. For a planner like me, the situation is catastrophic, even while acknowledging that the current Master Planning process is a faulty one, to say the least. By extension, the implementation of Master Plans has been poor so far. That the process to make the plan needs reform — starting with the statutory framework of the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act — needs no reiteration. On the other, it’s shameful that a ‘modern’ city like Bengaluru — the capital of a progressive and developed state like Karnataka — does not have an up-to-date planning instrument that will guide its growth. The mess that Bengaluru is today: Much has happened between 2016 and now, exacerbating the mess that the city is. The period witnessed a draft approval to a revised Master Plan for the year 2031. Subsequently, for reasons best known to the government, the approval was withdrawn. Reportedly, the RMP 2031 did not incorporate the philosophy of and the recommendations of a Transit Oriented Development Policy (2019). Recent news reports attribute the withdrawal of the draft approval to the lack of a Comprehensive Mobility Plan. The latter as is being reported will be prepared by the Bengaluru Metropolitan Land Transport Authority (the bill for which is currently under debate). Even as these conversations gain traction, there is little or no attention to how the Bengaluru Metropolitan Land Transport Authority will coordinate with the BDA or its Master Plan. In positioning the Master Plan and the Comprehensive Mobility Plan as binaries, the government seems to have wrapped itself in a chicken and egg situation. In effect, the two should be prepared together, feeding off, and into, each other. In a scenario where questions regarding who should prepare the Master Plan for the city continue to remain unanswered, the coordination between the two plans and the responsible agencies gains heightened criticality. Who plans for Bengaluru? The civil society pitch on the Bengaluru Metropolitan Planning Committee as the agency responsible for plan preparation is as faulty as the government’s claim that the BDA should be the planning agency. As per the 74th CAA, 1992, cliched as this may sound, planning is a local government function — urban and rural. The BBMP should prepare a spatial plan embodying socioeconomic development as its goal, through its ward committees. The Metropolitan Committee’s role is, in the first instance, to provide a framework for such bottom-up planning; and, in the second, to coordinate and collate such efforts across local governments within its jurisdiction to avoid overlaps and gaps, especially in large infrastructure planning and implementation. That the Metropolitan Committee is notified for the BDA jurisdiction — which has only one local body, the Bangalore Municipal Corporation — renders the coordination and collation function moot. Yet another blunder: The Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act mandates the revision of the plan every 10 years. Accordingly, the RMP 2015 was to be revised for the year 2025. However, at the time that the revision was being contemplated, it was decided that the revision would be extended up to 2031 to coincide with the Structure Plan. This was a progressive move by the government and would lead to a first-ever congruence between the timelines of the two plans, critical to achieving coherence in planning the region and the city. Regional and Master Plans: Any city — Bengaluru being no exception — is embedded within its region, hence the need to understand the city within the context of the region. Thus, the planning of the region is equally critical, if not more. Bengaluru metropolis is one of the few in the country that has an excellent statutory framework for the preparation of the regional plan for the Bengaluru Metropolitan Region. The Master Plan for the metropolis is mandated to be prepared within the framework of the regional plan. Thus, ensuring that the Master Plan and regional plan timelines coincide would provide the much-needed space to allow the two plans to speak to each other such that there is coherence in the approach to planning both the city and its region. With the horizon year extended to 2041 — for which there seems to be no rationale — the little progressive thinking around planning Bengaluru and its region has been thrown to the dogs. Amidst all this mess, large advertisements in various dailies inform citizens about the Rs 6,000 crore that the BBMP has received under the Amrutha Nagarothana Scheme to take up important infrastructure works. The allocation, as approved by the Cabinet, is towards the improvement of roads, lakes, parks, stormwater drains, solid waste management, slum development amongst others.  In other news, the BMRCL has proposed a skywalk to connect the Banashankari metro station with the BMTC terminal to create a pedestrian and a vending zone. While these may sound laudable and perhaps welcome initiatives, in effect, these are yet once again reactions to an officially created mess that the city is today. (The writer is a practising urban and regional planner and a visiting faculty at the NLSIU, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/revised-master-plan-2041-and-its-implications-for-bengaluru-s-future-1076320.html
31-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Mind the gap, and close it!||Senior citizens come in all shapes and sizes but the one common thing is a wish to have more meaningful engagement with the younger generation. I feel this gap is not due to active resistance from either quarter but because the world is moving fast. The harder we try to close the gap, the faster technology helps the younger generation to leave us far behind. I am reminded of the speed walkways at airports where passengers can jump on and feel younger as they seemingly stride forward. Those of us who prefer to use our own legs are left far behind. Youngsters will take pains to explain to us that technology can now empower us to keep abreast. But what if I ask the young to slow down to discover simpler joys and quote from the poem by WH Davies, “What is this life if full of care, we have no time to stand and stare?”  The other day as we were walking on the street. We paused at the intersection when a car swung towards us to take a turn and hooted impatiently for us to step back. Usually we senior citizens scramble to do just that, but that day I decided to resort to some hand gestures to imply… “Please wait. I will cross by and by. You will be able to turn in a moment!” I felt the young man got the message because I sensed a pause in the engine’s snorting and there was a moment of complete amity. Recently two young students studying design engineering approached me for an interview on smartphone use. “Have you used the alarm facility on your phone  to  remind you to take your medicines?” “Oh, yes”, I said, “ and then waited anxiously for the alarm to ring so I could switch it off!!” “How many telephone numbers can you memorise? “ they asked. They were taken aback when they heard me say, “upwards of 30!” But these are not superhuman feats. This is the way we lived and functioned. Knowing how to give directions orally and not by GPS, walking to the neighbourhood store to buy our provisions and stopping to have a leisurely chat with the vegetable seller are essential. When the pandemic hit us all, there was much concern about how the older generation would cope. But looking around me, I venture to say that we have done alright. We have endured these long house arrests and lack of social contacts with amazing grace! Understandably the younger ones have fretted much more at the lack of mobility. So why am I highlighting these differences? Only to say that the two generations can be of support and help to one another. There is much we can exchange as long as we have understanding and mutual respect.  Mind the gap? Yes, and close it!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/mind-the-gap-and-close-it-1076316.html
31-01-2022||Second Edit||Ukraine: Talks only way to end crisis||The possibility of a military confrontation between NATO powers and Russia is growing by the day. Russia is said to have deployed around 1,00,000 troops, artillery and missiles near its border with Ukraine. In anticipation of a Russian invasion of Ukraine, NATO powers are augmenting their military forces too. While Moscow has denied plans to invade Ukraine, the possibility of some kind of military incursion cannot be ruled out. It has seized Ukrainian territory before - in 2014, for instance, when Ukrainians deposed their pro-Russian leader, Moscow annexed Ukraine’s southern Crimean peninsula. Russia is worried that Ukraine, a former Soviet republic, will join NATO. Russia has demanded a ban on Ukraine joining NATO and an end to NATO’s deployment of troops and weaponry in Eastern Europe. In effect, Russia is calling for a rollback of NATO forces to their positions before NATO’s eastward expansion began in 1997. NATO countries are unlikely to accept these sweeping demands. To do so would encourage Russian President Vladimir Putin to press ahead with his expansionist ambitions. He wants the west to recognise a Russian sphere of influence. The situation is fragile and volatile, far more serious than it has ever been even at the height of the Cold War. Indeed, Russian officials have warned that the situation today is similar to that during the Cuban missile crisis when the Soviet Union and the US teetered on the brink of a nuclear conflict. The problem is that the decision to go to war now will not be based on genuine security concerns but on plummeting popularity of leaders back home. Both US President Joe Biden and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson are facing multiple domestic woes. A military confrontation with Russia is just the kind of ‘action’ that will boost their ratings at home. The US faces difficult decisions. To not act and only threaten will leave it looking weak and irresolute not just to its enemies but its allies as well. Sanctions are an over-used weapon that hasn’t yielded desired outcomes in the past. A limited military confrontation with Russia may not go in the US’ favour as the military situation on the ground now favours Russia. As for Russia, it may be able to invade Ukraine without difficulty. The problem lies in holding this territory, as it well knows from its decade-long occupation of Afghanistan. As in Afghanistan, in Ukraine, it will face a western-backed resistance as NATO countries are sure to supply anti-Russia rebels with arms. The talks option may seem futile at this point but it is the only way to stave off a military confrontation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ukraine-talks-only-way-to-end-crisis-1076322.html
31-01-2022||South||Actress abduction case: Dileep submits 6 mobiles as asked by Kerala HC||The direction was a part of an ongoing investigation launched by the Crime Branch police in a fresh case in which the actor is alleged to have conspired to do away with the investigating officers in the actress abduction case. On Saturday, the court asked him to hand over the six mobiles, even as he sought time till Tuesday morning saying that they have been sent to Mumbai for forensic examination but the court refused to oblige. The prosecution counsel was adamant that there were seven mobile phones – Dileep (4), his brother Anoop (2), and one used by his brother-in-law. After Dileep denied having the fourth phone, the court asked him to submit six mobiles. Last Friday, the probe team moved a fresh application which was supplementary to their original petition. In the petition, it said the actor had conspired to do away with the officials probing the case and it was after three days of questioning of the actor and his aides, that the fresh application was moved. After hearing the petition, the court had posted the matter for Saturday. The case took a new turn after director Balachandrakumar surfaced and claimed that Dileep was conspiring to do away with the investigating officers. Dileep had also seen the visuals of the attack on the actress who was kidnapped in a vehicle in 2017. The actor is presently out on bail after spending two months in jail. Apart from Dileep, his brother Anoop, brother-in-law Sooraj, aide Appu alias Krishnadas, and close friend Byju Chengamanad were also interrogated for 33 hours early last week over three days. Dileep has been in the news after a frontline South Indian heroine complained that she had been abducted and sexually assaulted by a gang of goons in 2017 and certain scenes were filmed to blackmail her. After the main accused Sunil was arrested and questioned, the prosecution charged Dileep with being the main conspirator in the case and arrested him. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actress-abduction-case-dileep-submits-6-mobiles-as-asked-by-kerala-hc-1076450.html
31-01-2022||South||Madras HC orders CBI probe into TN girl's suicide case||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) a case relating to the suicide of a 17-year-old student, after passing stinging remarks against the Tamil Nadu government and Thanjavur district police over their attempts to “derail the investigation.”  Justice G R Swaminathan castigated Thanjavur District Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya for forgetting the “virtue of silence” as she ruled out the conversion angle. In one of the videos shot before the girl died she had said her hostel warden had attempted to convert her to Christianity two years ago.  Referring to an interview of School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi in which he said a departmental enquiry and police probe ruled out conversion angle, the judge said the investigation cannot continue with the state police since a “high ranking” minister himself has taken a stand. “I, therefore, direct the Director, Central Bureau of Investigation, New Delhi to assign an officer to take over the investigation from the State Police. The criminal original petition is allowed on these terms,” the judge said in his 34-page order.  The 17-year-old girl, who was studying at the Sacred Heart Higher Secondary School in Michaelpatti in Thanjavur district, consumed poison on January 9 and died 10 days later at a hospital. While the BJP alleged that the girl died by suicide due to attempts to convert her to Christianity, the state police refuted the claim.  The father of the girl filed the petition in the Madurai Bench on January 21 seeking a CB-CID probe but he changed his opinion and sought a probe by CBI during the last hearing on January 28. The BJP welcomed the verdict expressing hope that the CBI probe will bring the truth out.  He also quoted a few films that talk about conversion and referred to a book that establishes the links which the Goan society developed in response to conversion, Christianisation and colonisation. The judge also said the place where the school is situated is known as Michaelpatti, and that it could not have been the original name.  “There is an interesting discussion as to how the various areas in Chennai acquired their respective names in V Sriram's “Chennai”. Someone can undertake a similar exercise for Michaelpatti also. Therefore, there is nothing inherently improbable in the allegation that there was an attempt at conversion. It could be true or false,” Justice Swaminathan said. The judge said the girl had directly and in unambiguous terms accused that the hostel warden had burdened her by assigning her non-academic chores and unable to bear the same, she consumed the pesticide. Instead of filing an alteration report based on the complaint of the petitioner, the judge said, a case was booked under various sections and the District SP chose to hold a press conference. “By stating that the conversion angle stood ruled out, the Superintendent of Police had brushed aside the petitioner's complaint made in writing and backed by the video of the child. Therefore, the petitioner was justified in entertaining an impression that if the investigation continued by the District Police, it will be biased,” Justice Swaminathan said in his order.   “I fail to understand as to why the Thanjavur Superintendent of Police reacted as if she had come in contact with a live electric wire. After all, an allegation has been made that there was an attempt to convert. The school in question is run by a Congregation,” the judge observed and referred to a verse in the Bible which seeks for preaching the “gospel” to every creature.  He also faulted the District SP for ruling out conversion angle and instead directing the jurisdictional police to conduct an investigation. “But the truth of the matter is that she had before her two more materials, namely, the private video and the parent's petition. Instead of ordering the investigation officer to take the additional materials to account, the SP directed the local police to register an FIR against the person who had taken the video,” he said.  The judge also said Lord Ganesh has been his favourite deity since childhood and that the idol he worships daily has been named “Fr Pillaiyar” because it was gifted to him by senior counsel Fr Xavier Arul Raj, who represented the school. “When the learned Senior Counsel asserted that he does not believe in conversion, I knew that he was speaking from his heart. But the question is whether Sister Saghayamary (the warden) and Sister Rachel Mary (school head) are made of the same fibre. I hope investigation by CBI will bring out the truth,” he concluded. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-orders-cbi-probe-into-tn-girls-suicide-case-1076456.html
31-01-2022||South||AIADMK, BJP part ways for Tamil Nadu local body polls but NDA 'intact'||As the AIADMK continued to play the hardball, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday parted ways with the regional party, albeit for now, by deciding to contest the February 19 elections to urban local bodies on its own to fulfil the “desires of the party cadre.” However, the BJP said its relationship with the AIADMK “remains strong” and that Tamil Nadu’s principal Opposition party continues to be part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) under whose banner both the parties will fight the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.  The BJP’s decision came after its talks with AIADMK on seat-sharing for the local body polls ended in a failure as the AIADMK was very stubborn in its stand that it cannot part with “beyond a specific number of seats” to the BJP, citing political compulsions at the local level.  The saffron party, too, was also not willing to compromise on its demand for a “respectable number of seats” eventually leading to a split. The decision to go alone, BJP leaders said, will help the party realise its “real strength” and plan for the future based on the results. The party also believes its strength has “increased” in the past few years. That the AIADMK and BJP will not contest in an alliance became clear on Monday morning with AIADMK joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami leaving Chennai for his home town of Salem after finalising candidates of his party. “BJP will contest the urban local body polls alone. We have taken the decision in consultation with the party’s national leadership. The decision was taken keeping in mind the interests of party cadres. However, our relationship with AIADMK remains strong. EPS and OPS are gentlemen, and are running the party successfully,” TN BJP chief K Annamalai said.  While the AIADMK was ready to give just 10 per cent of the total seats that go to the polls, the BJP demanded more. In the same vein, Annamalai made it clear that the BJP and AIADMK remain alliance partners at the national level.  “AIADMK is part of the NDA, and the BJP will contest the 2024 Lok Sabha elections in alliance with AIADMK. There shall be no doubt about this. However, we want our party to grow. We want Lotus (BJP’s election symbol) to blossom in every household, Annamalai said. The two parties sealed an alliance in 2019.  AIADMK was under pressure from its district-level office bearers and cadres to just allot a “limited number of seats” to the BJP, which they feel, lacks any base in many areas of the state. “Also, our cadres felt local body election is the right time to prove the AIADMK’s base. Our cadre wants to contest in as many seats as possible. For an ordinary cadre, local body election is everything,” a senior AIADMK leader told DH. The talks were also held amid visible strain in the relationship between the two political parties in the backdrop of an unsavoury remark on AIADMK MLAs by BJP floor leader in the Assembly, Nainar Nagendran, at a protest meeting last week. The BJP raising “forced conversion” in the suicide of a 17-year-old student studying in a Christian school in Thanjavur is also being blamed for AIADMK’s strident stance.  The AIADMK took “strong objection” to the remark forcing Annamalai to personally express regret to joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-bjp-part-ways-for-tamil-nadu-local-body-polls-but-nda-intact-1076485.html
31-01-2022||South||Fresh trouble for actor Dileep, probe sought in death by accident||The actress assault case of Kerala saw a fresh twist with the relatives of a mobile phone technician who died in a road accident two years ago raising suspicions over the death citing that the deceased person serviced actor Dileep's mobile phone. Relatives of mobile phone technician Saleesh, who died in a road accident on August 30, 2020, in Ernakulam district, have demanded a reinvestigation into the incident that was already closed by the police as a road accident case. The relatives raised the suspicion in the wake of the fresh allegations that Dileep was trying to destroy crucial evidence pertaining to his involvement in the actress assault case and conspiracy to murder investigation officers of the actress assault case. Saleesh's brother Sivadas filed a petition to the Angamaly DySP seeking a reinvestigation. Saleesh was working at a mobile phone service centre and Dileep's phone was given for service there, the family said.  Police sources said that the petition might be transferred to the Crime Branch team investigating the case pertaining to a conspiracy by Dileep to murder the investigation officers. Saleesh died after the car he was driving rammed into a divider at Angamaly in the suburbs of Kochi. Police's assumption was that drowsiness could have led to the accident. There were also unconfirmed versions that the accident occurred while Saleesh tried to avoid an over-speeding vehicle hitting his car. Meanwhile, Dileep and others accused in the conspiracy case to murder police officers surrendered their mobile phones before the Kerala High Court on Monday as directed by the court while considering the anticipatory bail applications of the accused. Dileep's lawyers told the court that they have no faith in the ongoing Crime Branch investigation and hence they would seek a CBI probe. Opposing the anticipatory bail, the prosecution said that the accused were tampering with the evidence and even one mobile phone used by Dileep earlier was not yet produced. Hearing in the anticipatory bail pleas will continue on Tuesday. A gang allegedly engaged by Dileep abducted and sexually assaulted the popular actress in February 2017 in Kochi. Dileep was arraigned as the eighth accused in the case and was arrested in July 2017. He was in judicial remand for around three months. The fresh allegations of hatching conspiracy to murder police officers came up following revelations made by filmmaker Balachandra Kumar that he was aware of the conspiracy. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fresh-trouble-for-actor-dileep-probe-sought-in-death-by-accident-1076496.html
31-01-2022||South||SC Collegium recommends elevation of Justice M N Bhandari as chief justice of Madras HC||The Supreme Court Collegium has recommended for the elevation of Justice M N Bhandari as Chief Justice of the Madras High Court. Besides, the Collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, approved for the elevation of 14 advocates and three judicial officers as judges in three other High Courts. In a statement, the Collegium said it recommended elevation of Justice Bhandari in its meeting held on December 14, 2021 and January 29, 2022. Justice Bhandari originally hails from the Rajasthan High Court. In another decision, the Collegium, in its meeting held on January 29, approved the proposal for elevation of seven advocates as judges in the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Those recommended are Konakanti Sreenivasa Reddy alias Srinivasa Reddy, Gannamaneni Ramakrishna Prasad, Venkateswarlu Nimmagadda, Tarlada Rajasekhar Rao, Satti Subba Reddy, Ravi Cheemalapati, and Vaddiboyana Sujatha. The Collegium also approved the proposal for the elevation of three advocates Maninder Singh Bhatti, Dwarka Dhish Bansal alias D D Bansal, and Milind Ramesh Phadkeas as judges in the Madhya Pradesh High Court. It also approved the elevation of three judicial officers Amar Nath Kesharwani, Prakash Chandra Gupta, and Dinesh Kumar Paliwal as judges in the MP High Court. In another statement, the Collegium said it has approved the proposal for elevation advocates V Narasingh, Sanjay Kumar Mishra, Biraja Prasanna Satapathy, and Raman Murahari alias M S Raman as judges in the Orissa High Court. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-collegium-recommends-elevation-of-justice-m-n-bhandari-as-chief-justice-of-madras-hc-1076551.html
31-01-2022||South||Kerala HC grants bail to husband of law student who died by suicide||The Kerala High Court on Monday granted bail to the husband of a 21-year-old law student who died by suicide leaving behind a note blaming him, his parents and a police officer for taking the extreme step. Justice Gopinath P said that since the husband has spent more than 65 days in custody and the final report has been filed in the case, his continued detention was not necessary. With this observation, the court granted him the relief subject to certain conditions which would be available in the detailed order. The victim's parents-in-law were granted bail by the court on January 4 on which date it had denied the husband the same relief saying the allegations against him were very serious. Subsequently, the husband had moved a second bail plea claiming that the police officer was responsible for the law student taking the extreme step. The victim's husband and in-laws were arrested on November 24 last year and a case registered against them under Sections 304B (dowry death), 498A (dowry harassment), 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. While the maximum punishment for dowry death is life imprisonment, it is three years' jail term for dowry harassment and 10 years for abetment of suicide. In her suicide note, Mofia Parveen, the third-year law student, had alleged that the then SHO of Aluva East Police Station had misbehaved with her when she went there with her father to give her statement regarding her complaint of dowry harassment and domestic violence against her husband and in-laws. The incident had created an uproar in the state and the officer was relieved of his charge and later suspended. According to Mofia's father, he went to the station with his daughter to give her statement and she had made it clear before going there that she did not want her submission to be recorded in her husband's presence. However, the officer spoke to them in her husband's presence and also spoke inappropriately and rudely to him and his daughter, the father told the media and added that it was the officer's conduct that demoralised her. After returning home, she was worried whether police would take any action in view of the officer's conduct at the station, the father of the student had claimed and said that she hanged herself in her room later that day.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-grants-bail-to-husband-of-law-student-who-died-by-suicide-1076557.html
31-01-2022||South||Language and NEET row: DMK ups the ante against TN Governor ||On January 29, Murasoli, the mouthpiece of Tamil Nadu’s ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), launched a blistering attack on Governor R N Ravi for his Republic Day message in which he “indirectly” batted for the introduction of Hindi in the state that has consistently opposed the language for decades together. Just two days earlier, on January 27, Industries and Tamil Official Language Minister Thangam Thenarasu had reminded the Governor that the state will continue to follow the “dual language” policy proposed first by DMK founder C N Annadurai after he took over as Chief Minister in 1967.  On Monday, MPs belonging to DMK and Congress from Tamil Nadu raised slogans against the Governor’s “delay” in approving a Bill passed by the state assembly seeking exemption from NEET for its students in Parliament during President Ram Nath Kovind’s address. This came hours after Murasoli again referred to the Governor’s speech, reminding “everyone” that the state never opposed any language but only their “imposition”. These developments indicate the DMK’s disappointment with Ravi, who assumed office on September 18, 2021, after being transferred from Nagaland, and its willingness to “take on” the Governor, who it feels, is “exceeding his brief” and trying to “impose the Centre’s policies” on Tamil Nadu.  In the initial months after Ravi took over, the DMK came under criticism from various quarters after Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu wrote to department secretaries asking them to be ready with powerpoint presentations for the Governor.  Though the “unease” between the two sides were visible for some time now, the articles in Murasoli, edited by Chief Minister M K Stalin’s uncle Murasoli Selvam and owned by his son Udhayanidhi Stalin, have brought out in the open the differences between the Governor and the government. The January 29 article castigated the Governor for his “depriving students of knowledge of “other Indian languages was unfair to all” remarking by commenting that Ravi should realise “Tamil Nadu was not Nagaland.” DMK has been upset with Ravi for the “delay” in approving the NEET Bill and sending it for Presidential consent – the Bill was passed in the Assembly on September 13, 2021 – and had even demanded his resignation.  The last straw seems to have been the Governor’s Republic Day message stressing that students from Tamil Nadu also learn other Indian languages like students in other states. The DMK, which is ideologically opposed to the post of Governor, has in the past taken objections to the constitutional head of the state “interfering in the functioning of the government” even when it was occupying the Opposition benches.  Senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh, who covered Tamil Nadu for four decades, told DH that the articles in Murasoli signal DMK’s willingness to confront the Governor. “The Dravidian political culture believes and demands not just state autonomy for their administration when in power but also a total independence from the national mainstream, whether it is the Congress or the BJP which is ruling at the Centre,” he told DH. Singh added that the DMK’s action not merely points to their long-standing “hostility” towards the Raj Bhavan but also denies opportunities of “learning another language” to the state’s youth.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/language-and-neet-row-dmk-ups-the-ante-against-tn-governor-1076578.html
31-01-2022||South||IIT-M research teams find protein that increases risk of diabetes in Indians||An international research team led by the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, (IIT-M) has identified a gene/protein variant present among Indians and other South Asians that increased their risk of diabetes, heart attack, and hypertension. The study found that 15 per cent of Indian and other South Asian populations had this variation, people carrying this variant are 1.5 times more likely to have hypertension, Type-2 Diabetes, and coronary artery disease. “This combination could account for the higher prevalence of metabolic diseases among Indians and other South Asians,” said the study whose results have been published online in the peer-reviewed 'Diabetes', the flagship journal of the American Diabetes Association. The research was led by Prof Nitish R Mahapatra, Department of Biotechnology, Bhupat and Jyoti Mehta School of Biosciences, IIT-M, while the research was co-authored by several others.  “South Asians are at greater risk of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Besides environmental factors, our genetic architecture is believed to be responsible for this observation. However, the key genetic variants that enhance our disease risk remain poorly understood. Our study identified one key genetic risk factor for cardio-metabolic diseases,” Prof Mahapatra said. He said the study has implications in the area of diagnostics and personalised medicine and the research findings may help in identifying individuals (at earlier stages of their lives — much before the onset of the disease — because the genetic makeup mostly remains unchanged throughout the life) who may be susceptible to type 2 diabetes. “This should be particularly useful for people with a family history of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases for preventive healthcare and better management of disease,” he added. Pancreastatin is a small part (peptide) of a protein called Chromogranin A (CHGA) found in mammals, including humans. It exerts important physiological effects, mostly with respect to insulin release. It inhibits the release of insulin in the body in response to blood glucose/glucagon and drugs like sulphonylurea, the IIT-M said. The team had earlier analysed the effect of this genetic variation on cardiovascular and metabolic disease states in a small Indian population (n≈400). They found that variation was associated with higher plasma glucose levels.   “We extended our sample to a larger population (n≈4300) and included people from South and North India. Our research team used a combination of experimental and computational modelling studies to unravel the mechanistic basis for the higher activity of the variant peptide (PST-297S) in comparison to the wild-type peptide (PST-WT) and to account for the higher disease risk in the carriers of the 297Ser allele,” he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-research-teams-find-protein-that-increases-risk-of-diabetes-in-indians-1076579.html
31-01-2022||South||Thanjavur girl suicide: NCPCR fact-finding team meets officials, others||A "fact-finding team" of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Monday met district officials and others in connection with the recent death here of a minor girl by suicide, amid claims that she took the extreme step after being coerced to convert to Christianity. Led by NCPCR Chairperson Priyank Kanoongo, the three-member team also visited the school in the district where the deceased girl was studying. Kanoongo had earlier requested those who wish to provide any information or help to the "fact-finding team" regarding the issue to meet them at the Railway Officers Guest House here, where the meetings were held today. In the closed-door meeting, the NCPCR team met with officials, including the district police chief, government doctors who had conducted the post-mortem, local villagers, representatives of the school and some present and former students of the institution. They later also visited the school where the girl was studying. The 17-year-old student of the missionary school in Thanjavur belonged to Ariyalur district. Days ago, she died of suicide. A hostel inmate, she was allegedly coerced to convert to Christianity. A video clip in this connection had gone viral. The school management had rejected the allegation and had blamed vested interests.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thanjavur-girl-suicide-ncpcr-fact-finding-team-meets-officials-others-1076591.html
31-01-2022||South||Karnataka textbook goes viral in Kerala after Malayalam actor featured as postman||A school textbook in Karnataka is going viral in Kerala as popular actor Kunchacko Boban has been featured as a postman in the textbook. The actor shared it on social media with a witty remark that he managed to get a government job in Karnataka. A photograph of Boban's character as a postman in a Malayalam film appears in the textbook featuring community helpers. The image is from the 2010 Malayalam comedy film 'Oridathoru Postman'. Boban played the role of the son of a lazy village postman in the film. The post went viral with many prominent film personalities making humorous comments. Over two lakh social media users liked the post within hours. Boban had shot to fame with his debut lead role in the Malayalam romantic drama film 'Aniyathipravu' in 1997. He has acted in around 90 films. His father and grandfather were also known film producers and directors. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-textbook-goes-viral-in-kerala-after-malayalam-actor-featured-as-postman-1076675.html
31-01-2022||State||IAS officers given additional charge||The state government on Monday placed Vandita Sharma, Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Development Commissioner as Additional Chief Secretary following the retirement of Amita Prasad. T K Anil Kumar, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, is placed in concurrent charge as Principal Secretary, Social Welfare Department following the retirement of N Nagambika Devi. M Imkongla Jamir is posted as Resident Commissioner, Karnataka Bhavan, New Delhi, in place of Amita Prasad. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ias-officers-given-additional-charge-1076605.html
31-01-2022||State||Panchamasalis to hold meet in Belagavi on February 2||Akhila Bharata Lingayat Panchamasali Community's executive committee meeting will be held on February 2 at Gandhi Bhavan in Belagavi at 11:00 am. The next course of action following the delay in providing 2 A reservation benefits to the Panchamasali Lingayat community will be discussed in the meeting, Kudalasangama-based Panchamsali Mutt Seer Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami said. Speaking to media persons, in Davangere on Monday, the seer said, the meeting is expected to take some key decisions on that day. Padayatra for Reservation Welcome Committee Chairman and MLA Basana Gouda Patil Yatnal, Akhila Bharata Lingayat Panchamasali Mahasabha National President Vijaynananda Kashappanavar, the community leaders M B Patil, Vinay Kulkarni, H S Shivashankar and others are expected to attend the meeting. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panchamasalis-to-hold-meet-in-belagavi-on-february-2-1076643.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru police ASI suspended after kicking differently-abled woman||An assistant sub-inspector who repeatedly kicked a differently-abled woman and abused her has been suspended after a video of the incident went viral on social media. The Bengaluru Traffic Police (BTP) suspended ASI Narayan, attached to Halasuru Gate traffic police station, for assaulting a the woman on the night of January 24. The incident took place near the Mysugar building on JC Road and the woman has been identified as Manjula. According to BTP officials, Manjula allegedly threw stones at the towing vehicle and the ASI suffered an injury below his eye. The ASI also registered a complaint against her at SJ Park police station on the same night. “The woman was throwing stones and one narrowly missed the ASI’s eye. So he lodged a complaint and the woman is in judicial custody,” a senior officer said. However, citizens and activists noted that the inspector violated law before filing the complaint. “It is wrong for a law and order officer to behave this way with any civilian, and the fact that she was a woman as well as differently-abled makes the situation even more serious,” said Vimala K S, state president, All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA). She said there was a need to see what prompted the woman to throw stones at them. Doubts were expressed about the woman’s mental status. “From the video, it looks like the woman is not in control of her mental faculties. Despite sensitisation and training, police officers still behave like this. They should have the basic sensitivity about how to behave with a woman and a disabled person. He should have taken action as per the law. This kind of behaviour is not acceptable in civil society,” said V S Basavaraju, former state Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities. DCP (Traffic) East K M Shantharaju acknowledged the problem. “He should have behaved appropriately and abided by the law and not behaved this way. We have now taken disciplinary action and suspended him and are also conducting further investigation into the matter,” he added. Reacting to the incident, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the government will not tolerate any high-handed behaviour from officials. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said in Shivamogga that the behaviour of the ASI was unacceptable and ordered an inquiry. “Nobody can take law into own hands and police are no exception,” he said, seeking a report on the matter at the earliest. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-police-asi-suspended-after-kicking-differently-abled-woman-1076383.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid recovery rate surpasses speed of infection||Record numbers of people are recovering from their bout with the novel coronavirus as the state achieves new milestones in the number of case discharges. On Friday, for example, Karnataka set a record in the number of discharges in a single day (71,092). All together, 2.37 lakh people have been discharged since January 27, which has slashed the active caseload from a peak of 3.62 lakh on January 24 to 2.51 lakh cases as of Sunday afternoon. Officially, as per the State Covid-19 War Room, Karnataka’s recovery rate is 150%. But not all districts are faring well. A handful have a low recovery rate which suggests the outbreak is still raging in these places with the number of new patients outstripping those being discharged. In the last one week, Bagalkot, Chamarajanagar and Yadgir had a recovery rate of less than 58%. At the other end of the spectrum, 15 districts (including Bengaluru Urban, Ramanagara, Hassan, Tumakuru and Mysuru) had a recovery rate of over 150%. Bengaluru Urban’s was 191%. Dr Pradeep Badanur, head of Nimhans’ Department of Epidemiology and a member of the state’s technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said that the recovery rate is an indicator of clinical management. “In the current Omicron wave, the recovery rate has been high because the variant has not caused a spate of serious hospitalisations,” he said. D Randeep, Health Commissioner, said the state’s focus on targeted testing was continuing to yield cases as evinced by an average daily test positivity rate of over 22%. “At the same time, the average duration of hospitalisation is just 2-3 days in this current wave,” he said. Dr Badanur added that the higher recovery rate of Bengaluru Urban and surrounding districts is because these places have witnessed a peak in cases. In other districts, however, case increases began late and so a high number of cases continue to be found. In Yadgir, where the recovery rate was a comparatively tepid 51.26%, District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Indumathi K Patil confirmed that the district started recording a higher number of cases later than other districts. “Even up to the middle of this month, the district was recording less than 20 cases per day. Now, it has started to increase. Yadgir is the last to see a decline in cases — this was the pattern in the second wave as well,” Dr Indumathi said, explaining this is the result of a floating population and a large quantity of interstate travel to and from the neighbouring Telangana. As per the state Covid War Room, the district recorded 870 cases in the last seven days and discharged 446 people over the same period. “As per official projections, our peak will only happen in the second week of February,” Dr Indumathi said. “However, hospitalisation is only 1%,” she added. Another district with a low recovery rate is Chamarajanagar, with 57.9%. DHO Dr K M Visweshwaraya said that only recently has the district’s daily caseload started to rise from 80 to over 600 cases. “Our test positivity rate is 38%, showing that cases are still there. However, our hospitalisation is about 5%. Most of our fatalities are people who are either only partly vaccinated or have comorbidities,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-recovery-rate-surpasses-speed-of-infection-1076385.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 24,172 Covid-19 cases, 56 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 24,172 new cases of Covid, 56 fatalities and 30,869 discharges. The number of cases on Sunday was 28,264. Bengaluru Urban recorded 10,692 cases, 8,813 discharges and 12 deaths. Bengaluru Urban witnessed 12 deaths, Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada districts 6 each, Ballari 5, Hassan 4, Kalaburagi 3, Chamarajanagara, Chikkaballapura, Mandya, Mysuru, Raichur, Shivamogga, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts two each. Mysuru recorded 1,327 cases, Tumakuru 1,090, Dharwad 1,044, Belagavi 900 and Mandya 809. The number of active cases across the state is now 2,44,331. The positivity rate and the case fatality rate were 17.11% and 0.23 % respectively. About 1,41,240 samples were tested, while 2,31,165 vaccine doses were administered. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-24172-covid-19-cases-56-deaths-1076611.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||FM Rainbow: Suresh Kumar wants focus on Kannada||Alleging that the Akashvani FM Rainbow has of late begun to allot time for programmes of other languages to be broadcast on the channel, BJP leader S Suresh Kumar has written a letter to Ramakanth, additional chief director of Akashavani, to roll back these programmes. In his letter, Kumar alleged that Ramakanth’s leaning towards content of other languages was hitting opportunities for locals. He said programmes from other local channels were being broadcast on the channel. There is also a conspiracy to air programmes from other languages, he alleged. “What is the need for news in languages other than Kannada in this channel,” he asked. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fm-rainbow-suresh-kumar-wants-focus-on-kannada-1076654.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Mohammed Haris Nalapad takes charge as Youth Congress president||Mohammed Haris Nalapad took charge as Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC) president on Monday. He has replaced Raksha Ramaiah. He inaugurated his office with rituals as per Hindu, Muslim and Christian customs.  Speaking to reporters, Nalapad said a formal event to mark the start of his tenure as KPYCC president will be held at the Congress’ office on February 10. “I requested Raksha Ramaiah and assumed office today, instead of starting from February 1,” he said.  Mohammed’s father and Shantinagar MLA N A Haris said he will be happy if his son can attract more youth to the Congress and strengthen the party. “There shouldn’t be any groupism. I am confident Nalapad will do this,” he said.  In the January 2021 KPYCC presidential election, Nalapad secured more votes (64,203) than Ramaiah (57,271). Still, Ramaiah was declared the winner while Nalapad was disqualified because of the 2018 assault case. The Congress said Ramaiah will be president till January 31, after which Nalapad will take over.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mohammed-haris-nalapad-takes-charge-as-youth-congress-president-1076655.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Being government staffer no ground for bail, says Karnataka HC||The high court has rejected the bail petition filed by an assistant executive engineer of Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL) in a case of alleged rape. Justice H P Sandesh observed that the petitioner is a government employee is not a ground to enlarge him on bail, when serious offence of rape is alleged. The petitioner claimed that a false case has been registered against him. He further contended that the alleged incident had taken place on September 14, 2021 and the complaint was filed on November 3, 2021. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that his client is in custody since November 14, 2021 and if he is continued in custody, it will affect his career. The high court pleader for the state government argued that the victim has given a statement under section 164 of the CrPC before the magistrate. In this statement, she has categorically stated that she was subjected to a sexual act and the accused had also issued a life threat. The court pointed out that in the statement, the victim has stated that her marriage was fixed with some other person and hence, after the incident, the accused had promised that he would marry her. The court rejected the petition, looking into the medical evidence as well as the opinion given by the doctor. “When such being the material available on record, the fact that petitioner is a government employee is not a ground to enlarge him on bail, when serious offence of rape is alleged against the petitioner,” the court said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/being-government-staffer-no-ground-for-bail-says-karnataka-hc-1076658.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Hacker Sriki's brother moves HC against travel restrictions||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday ordered notice to the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Ministry of External Affairs and Bureau of Immigration in response to the petition filed by Sudarshan Ramesh, brother of hacker Srikrishna alias Sriki who is facing several cases of hacking. The petitioner, who is a mechanical engineer employed at Brunel and based out at Eindhoven in the Netherlands, has prayed for a quashing of endorsement of January 13, 2022, issued by the ED restraining him from traveling. Justice Krishna S Dixit has posted the matter to Thursday. The petitioner claimed that he cannot stay outside the Netherlands for a period more than six months in order to retain the Dutch Residence Permit. He arrived in the country on August 12, 2021, to see his father, who is suffering from hypertension and Parkinson’s disease. The petitioner claims to be the only earning member in the family. According to the petition, Sudarshan had appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on three days - December 29 and 30, 2021, and on January 1, 2022. He said no summons was issued against him after his last visit to the ED office on January 1, 2022. On January 13, 2022, as he was about to board the flight to the Netherlands, the ED officials restrained him at around 4.20 am. Thereafter, an endorsement was affixed on his passport stating ‘cancelled’. Senior advocate Vikram Huilgol submitted that the action of the authorities has violated the fundamental rights of the petitioner, as enunciated in the Maneka Gandhi case by the Supreme Court. The petitioner claimed that he has no role in the alleged scam involving his brother as he was not in India at that time. He claimed that in order to retain the Dutch Residence Permit he should not be staying outside the Netherlands for a period more than six months or in the alternative should not be staying outside the Netherlands for a period more than four months every year for a total period of three years in a row. The violation of the condition may even amount to cancellation or withdrawal of the resident permit, the petition said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hacker-srikis-brother-moves-hc-against-travel-restrictions-1076661.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Rules to be simplified for housing in Karnataka, says CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that the state government will simplify rules to provide houses and sites for the poor. Speaking after distributing temporary title deeds for the eligible beneficiaries under the Chief Minister’s 1-lakh multi-storey Bengaluru housing scheme, Bommai said revenue sites without basic amenities would come up rampantly if layouts are not developed in accordance with legal provisions. “The government would simplify the laws to enable the poor to own sites and houses,” he said.  He said that 46,000 houses will be distributed to the urban poor in the coming days and directed officials to speed up the process of identifying beneficiaries for the remaining 54,000 houses expected to come up by December this year. Bommai also instructed the officials to prepare a plan to build a satellite township for the poor with all civic amenities. Housing Minister V Somanna said that 6,000 houses were complete. The process has started to select beneficiaries to 46,499 houses, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rules-to-be-simplified-for-housing-in-karnataka-says-cm-bommai-1076662.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||PM Modi's post-Budget speech to be screened across Karnataka||The state BJP unit will screen the speech of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address after the Union Budget on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, BJP general secretary N Ravikumar said that screens will be installed at district and taluk centres to telecast the Budget and the subsequent address. A series of seminars and media briefings will also be organised by the party from February 5 to 15 in all districts, he said. Businessmen, members of chambers of commerce, economists and others will participate in the programmes. The party will also hold meetings with various beneficiaries of the Budget during the period, he said. Following the Budget, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will address the media. A central minister will visit the state on February 5 to brief the Budget highlights, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pm-modis-post-budget-speech-to-be-screened-across-karnataka-1076664.html
31-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Dalit, OBC seers call on Karnataka CM Bommai, seek funds, special programmes||A delegation of seers from Dalit and other backward communities (OBC) met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and sought funds to the tune of Rs 5 crore for each of the mutts, here on Monday. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that the seers sought special programmes for the welfare of Dalit and OBC communities in the state budget. "They also urged the government to provide more opportunities for youth in their communities in education and employment, along with increased political representation," he said. The seers were accompanied by Rural Development a nd Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraju, Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary and others. The delegation sought funds for the educational institutions and hostels run by the mutts, Bommai said. Noting that the land allotted for the forum of various mutts was caught in a dispute, he said that the case was currently being heard by the High Court. The CM promised to look into their demands noting that the seers had also suggested alternate land for the forum. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dalit-obc-seers-call-on-karnataka-cm-bommai-seek-funds-special-programmes-1076665.html
31-01-2022||West||Gujarat: 5 suffer from smoke inhalation after fire in lab; 10 others rescued||Three patients and two other persons at a private hospital suffered from smoke inhalation after a fire broke out in a lab located adjacent to it in Gujarat's Junagadh city on Monday, officials said. The five people were later rushed to another hospital for treatment, a police official said. Ten other patients were rescued and shifted to the civil hospital, officials said. The blaze erupted around 4.30 am in the medical laboratory located on the first floor of a three-storey building in Sardar Baug area of the city, an official from B-division police station said. Dense smoke emanating from the lab quickly spread to the Kaneria Hospital located on the same floor, he said. "Three patients and two relatives of some of the patients admitted in the hospital suffered from smoke inhalation," the official said, adding that they were rushed to another private hospital for treatment. Ten other patients admitted in the medical facility were rescued and shifted to the civil hospital, he added. A fire department official said the blaze erupted in the SRL Diagnostics laboratory due to a short-circuit in an inverter. "It took nearly half-an-hour to control the blaze with the help of two fire tenders. The patients were shifted to other hospitals in ambulances," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-5-suffer-from-smoke-inhalation-after-fire-in-lab-10-others-rescued-1076463.html
31-01-2022||West||Mumbai logs less than 1,000 new Covid cases; positivity rate at 2.10%||Mumbai reported 960 new Covid-19 cases on Monday as daily count dropped below the 1,000-mark for the first time after December 27, 2021, while 11 more patients die due to the infection, the city civic body said. With this, the tally of coronavirus infections in the city rose to 10,46,590, while the death toll increased to 16,623, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a bulletin. In January 2022, Mumbai has reported 2,61,480 Covid-19 cases and 247 deaths as against 22,229 infections and 38 fatalities in December 2021, BMC data showed. The third wave in Mumbai had started around December 21 and peaked in early January. Mumbai had logged 20,971 Covid-19 cases on January 7, 2022, the highest in a day since the pandemic broke out in March 2020. On the second day in a row, the daily Covid-19 cases have gone down in the financial capital. The city has reported 200 less cases than the count on Sunday, when it had registered 1,160 infections and 10 fatalities. The daily Covid-19 cases have dropped below the 1,000-mark for the first time after December 27, 2021, when Mumbai had logged 809 cases and three fatalities. The city's positivity rate dipped to 2.10 per cent from 2.25 per cent a day ago. The rate indicates the percentage of people who test positive for the virus of those overall who have been tested. In the last 24 hours, 45,618 Covid-19 tests were carried out in the city taking their cumulative tally to 1,52,89,441.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-logs-less-than-1000-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-at-210-1076622.html
31-01-2022||West||Gujarat court to pronounce judgement in 2008 Ahmedabad serial bomb blast case||A special designated court is likely to pronounce judgement on Ahmedabad serial bomb blast case on Tuesday against 78 suspects who are accused of killing 56 and injuring hundreds of people in the city on July 26, 2008. After a prolonged trial of nearly 14 years, the court concluded the hearings in September and had reserved the order for pronouncement. Only two of the accused, one for treatment of schizophrenia, and the second for turning an approver, were granted bail while the rest of 76 suspects have been languishing in jail ever since their arrest at various points in time during the pendency of the trial. The case is considered to be one of the longest criminal trials in recent years. The special judge Ambalal Patel, designated court for trial of bomb blast cases, will be pronouncing the judgement virtually. On July 26, 2008, simultaneous bomb blasts had killed 56 persons in Ahmedabad and left over 200 injured. The police registered 20 FIRs in Ahmedabad while 15 other FIRs were registered in Surat, where bombs were recovered from various spots. Both the cases were merged for trial as police investigation claimed that "they were part of the same conspiracy" by a terrorist outfit Indian Mujahideen, a breakaway faction of banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). Among the suspects is Safdar Nagori, former head of SIMI, Hafiz Hussain Mulla, Saduli Abdul Karim, Kamruddin Chand Nagori, Amil Parvez Shaikh, Mohammed Yasin, Sibli Abdul Karim Muslim, Mohammed Ansari, among others. The investigation was carried out by Detection of Crime Branch (DCB), Ahmedabad which claimed that the motive behind the terror strikes was "avenging atrocities on Muslims during 2002 post Godhra riots." Numerous litigations are said to have delayed the trial. It was also affected following the 2014 jailbreak attempt by 24 key accused who were lodged at Sabarmati central jail. The DCB investigation claimed that a 213-feet long tunnel was dug up at Sabarmati Central Jail to escape. An internal report found that dozens of complaints had been filed against jail authorities alleging stripping in pretext of frisking, denying medical facilities, among other basic rights to the undertrials. The delay in the trial also resulted in several other controversies including changed appearances of the suspects. The prosecution wanted the accused to be identified in the court during trial by their photographs taken at the time of their arrests. It was argued that over the years many of the suspects' appearances changed due to moustaches and beards. This argument was rejected by the court. After hearing the case from Sabarmati jail premises initially, the trial was conducted through video conferencing. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-court-to-pronounce-judgement-in-2008-ahmedabad-serial-bomb-blast-case-1076678.html
