01-05-2021||---||India needs all hands on deck to fight Covid||WHILE hearing the matter on the health emergency precipitated by the second Covid wave, a Bench of the Supreme Court told the lawyers appearing before it on April 27, “Recrimination won’t save people’s lives. Let us all find a solution and that is my appeal to all the members of the Bar. Let this not be adversarial.” The judges’ wise appeal, at a time when India is facing its most difficult period since Partition, should be heeded by all citizens. For, this is not the time for anger and division but for calm and unity. This is also the time for strength and resilience.It is significant that the judges chose the word ‘recrimination’. Pocket Oxford English Dictionary defines the word as “an accusation in response to one from someone else”. Tragically, even during these days, members of India’s political class continue to point accusing fingers at each other. This is reflected in national television shows where spokespersons for various political parties try to show up others for their sins of omission and commission while defending the record of their own party. There is no attempt at constructively coming together to meet the grave national threat brought about by what Prime Minister Narendra Modi called the storm of the second Covid wave.It is not too late even now to give up recrimination and politics as usual and reach out across political divisions. That is the responsibility of the leaders of every political party and formation and the first step of this process can be taken by Modi himself. As part of this outreach, the Prime Minister can consider associating persons of proven political experience, administrative and technical competence, irrespective of their party affiliation or ideological persuasion, in Covid management. This will not diminish either the government’s or the ruling dispensation’s standing but will only display their commitment to unify the people to meet the many current and future challenges in different sectors, beginning with health, on account of the pandemic. It will also be a signal to the international community of how India has the vision and the capacity to come together as one to overcome great adversity.It is noteworthy that the Supreme Court judges used the word ‘recrimination’ and not ‘accountability’, which is derived from the word ‘accountable’. To turn again to the Oxford dictionary, accountable means “responsible for your actions and expected to explain them”. Before going further, it is necessary to clarify that “to fix accountability” is an altogether different idea from accountability in itself. To seek to fix accountability means to ask that responsibility be attributed for wrongdoing. There is no connotation of wrongdoing per se in seeking accountability which simply means, as the dictionary clarifies, to ask for explanations or clarifications.Accountability is the foundational and essential principle of India’s representative democratic system. Every institution and individual in public life, especially those holding offices of state, are accountable to the people through established procedures. They are, therefore, never immune from public scrutiny. Even when they cannot disclose their actions or spell out their thinking because of reasons relating to the security of the state, they remain accountable.It is important to recall the principle of accountability because it remains operative at all times, even in times of the gravest emergency. At no stage can any institution or person claim that he is not required to explain his actions. Asking for the rationale for a policy cannot be construed as exhibiting a lack of faith or a desire to apportion blame, though it has almost become a norm of Indian public discourse to level the charge of lack of patriotism on anyone who merely seeks a clarification of a policy or a governmental action. This is not restricted to any particular party. Naturally, those seeking explanations for government policy have to take care that they do not attribute motives or impair the morale of critical institutions, especially in times of distress.Thus, those who sought a rationale for why the government chose to send out a month’s production of vaccines earned the ire, if not the invective, of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. He called them ‘blame-game wallahs’ and added that it was ‘short-sighted’ to hold that vaccines should not have been exported. He further said, “Only irresponsible people, really non-serious people can make that kind of argument.” The minister justified vaccines exports thus, “Today, as Foreign Minister, I am pushing other countries, particularly some big countries, saying look please keep the raw materials flowing for vaccines to be made in India. Can I go around the world and tell people, ‘guys keep your supply chains flowing towards me and I am asking you for raw material but I’m not going to give you the vaccine’?” And that most countries understood the decision to stop exports when “things got tough”. It is good that Jaishankar responded to the questions being raised to give the rationale for vaccine exports. This was being accountable even if his arguments can be questioned. The attack on those seeking explanations was completely unnecessary.Stripped to its bare bones, the premise of Jaishankar’s justification is that international relations are transactional in nature. This is also the premise of what ‘sources’ are reportedly stressing to mediapersons that the ‘gifts’ and ‘donations’ of medical supplies being sent by some countries in the wake of the second Covid wave is a ‘return of favour’ for the emergency supplies made by India earlier during this pandemic. There is merit in Jaishankar’s viewpoint in as far as the transactional nature of inter-state relations are concerned. However, the problem lies in seeking to earn merit from what is essentially transactional. That sometimes becomes counterproductive as can be seen in the commentary of some sections of the international media on vaccine exports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-needs-all-hands-on-deck-to-fight-covid-246548
01-05-2021||---||Vaccine rumour-mongering||Last year at this time, the WHO put together groups of experts to project what a successful vaccine against the virus that was raging around the world could and should look like. The acceptable and ideal characteristics are referred to as the Target Product Profile and the Preferred Product Characteristics, and each criterion is debated, based on the potential for science and manufacturing to deliver. The criteria were published a year ago, and the minimum acceptable criteria were a vaccine for adults with the ability to prevent at least half of the disease with two doses for a minimum of six months, and a safety profile where the benefits outweighed the risks. The key preferred characteristics were for a vaccine with efficacy of 70% or above that worked in the elderly, prevented transmission and protected for a year or more.Studies show vaccines are working, and yet, we have conspiracy theories that sound convincing and come from seemingly credible sources.Every vaccine we have exceeds the minimum criteria, and there is at least seven-month protection. We can and should project a future where this terrible time is behind us and the pandemic is under control. And yet, what we hear about is not good news, but conspiracy theories and pseudoscience which sound convincing and come from seemingly credible sources. One particularly egregious example of cherry-picking to promote concerns about vaccines is from a widely circulated set of slides, interviews and a letter from a veterinarian, who claims to not be an anti-vaxxer but an independent vaccine consultant, but there are many others.The messages start with the idea that vaccinating during a pandemic is a bad idea because an incomplete immune response will result in new variants. While it is true that in people with immunocompromise, who are not able to fight off infection because of inherited or induced problems with immunity, viral replication can continue for a long time and result in viruses with some mutations, this group is a small part of the population. Almost everyone else who is infected makes an immune response that shuts down virus replication and much of the severe disease that we see is not because the virus is replicating unchecked, but because of a dysregulated immune response. Vaccines are intended to prevent severe disease, not infection—although prevention of infection was expected to be a bonus that could slow spread not only because there would be fewer sick people, but also no or less virus being spread from people protected from infection.Scientists have been working very hard on vaccine effectiveness studies, which are usually real world evaluations of how vaccines are doing, conducted not by the companies that make the vaccines, but by independent researchers. We now have data from these studies in the US and UK with the mRNA vaccines and the AstraZeneca vaccines, and the data are showing a better performance than could be predicted from the successful clinical trials. Protection is happening at levels that are at least similar to the carefully selected volunteers in trials—people, including the elderly, are protected from severe disease and deaths at 80-95% and people are protected from infection at 50-65%. This is good news, and shows that during the pandemic, we should be vaccinating more and not less.Other plausible sounding nonsense refers to asymptomatic infection momentarily weakening innate immunity without providing protective immunity—if that were truly the case, humans would not survive because we have asymptomatic infections every day. Many of these statements come accompanied by diagrams and graphs that claim to show that these sincere scientists have found issues that have been missed by the global research community. The narrative claims that this urgent message is being suppressed by either multi-national corporations with a profit motive, governments who want to hide facts from their citizens, or Bill Gates, who does this for multiple reasons, including intrusive data gathering and profits.In stressful times, credible data and news are important. Dr Anthony Fauci has been a beacon in the US. The UK medical science leadership has designed some of the best clinical, epidemiological and virological research studies in the world that are yielding data that has value for not just the UK, but the world.In emerging data, the UK’s strategy of giving a single dose to as many people as possible before getting to the second dose three months later has been effective—over 10,000 lives were saved in the first few weeks and we also know that vaccines are preventing severe disease, infection and transmission. The protection is good, not perfect, and while we do not yet know how long protection will last, indications are that it will be a reasonable duration.We know that most of the existing vaccines are working with the many variants of interest and the variants of concern. We have seen that the UK’s use of the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines has brought disease under control within two-three months of beginning their vaccination programme which started with the most elderly, and worked its way downwards to the age of 42 years this week, covering about 60% of adults with a single dose and a quarter with both doses. And this at a time when the B1.1.7 strain/UK variant predominated. For B1.351/South African variant, which is neutralised less well or rarely, not at all, by people who have been infected or vaccinated, a small South African trial with the Pfizer vaccine shows 100% protection, while an Israeli study also with the Pfizer vaccine showed little early protection against infection with the first dose but found no infections beyond two weeks after the second dose. Vaccines are intended to prevent severe disease. The studies we have so far show that this is happening.In India, based on laboratory data, the two available vaccines should protect against B1.1.7 and B1.617, and when we conduct effectiveness studies, one among the many kinds of research we should be doing, we should be able to confirm that protection is real. Science brought us the vaccines, but it is we the people who must use them to protect ourselves and our world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vaccine-rumour-mongering-246545
