02-05-2021||All governments||Keep govt out, what social media needs is self-regulation||It seems only the other day that the Prime Minister and the inept Union Health Minister were patting themselves on the back for having got the better of the Covid-19 virus. Then came the tsunami of tens of thousands of new infections, the shortage of life-saving oxygen, and of hospital beds. Meanwhile, election rallies and religious gatherings of lakhs of people continued, unhindered and unmindful of social distancing and the need to wear masks. All this was reported by the media and shown on the screen.But it was the social media, those with their “smart” phones, who went to the crematoriums, to hospitals, and to homes, that brought the unfolding tragedy into the consciousness of millions, here and abroad. The official figures of those infected, as well as the number of deaths, were hugely “underreported”, it turns out. Heart-rending images of car parks, and even public roads, being used to cremate the dead filled the screens of many cell phones.The conclusion was inescapable. The government bungled badly and the pathetic public health infrastructure simply could not cope. The authorities could do little against the reports of major papers and TV channels, but they could act against the social media, which is exactly what they have done. As I write this comes the news that Facebook blocked all posts that were tagged “Resign Modi”, before restoring these hours later. Was Facebook pressured by the government to do the initial blocking? Facebook has denied it, saying rather lamely that it was a “mistake”. Make what you like of that admission.Nevertheless, much the same reasons were given by the government as had been given earlier for the removal of Twitter posts. This was done, officials said, to “prevent obstructions” in the fight against the pandemic and escalation of crimes against public order. So, Facebook was obstructing the fight against the pandemic and also posing a threat to law and order? Make what you like of that accusation as well. The blocking was ordered by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEIT), on the recommendation of the Ministry of Home Affairs. This is nothing but sly censorship of the social media. I believe it is the sinister shape of things to come.For a fuller understanding of what is really going on, we need to go back to February 25 this year, when the same MEIT and the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting jointly released “Information Technology (Guidelines for International and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021”. Looked at closely, they are a cleverly disguised code for censoring the social media. The “Rules” must have been in the making for a long time. They were presented as a fait accompli, without even Parliament having been taken into confidence. The irony is that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has been the main beneficiary of the social media. Its IT cell used it to great effect in the 2014 General Election. But the Congress seems to have got its act together and is now not too far behind. Clearly, the BJP feels that it needs to retain its hold on the social media by enforcing these self-made new “Rules”. And incredibly, these are meant to be implemented by “mid-May”, which means in the next few days! They must be resisted by all those who value freedom of speech and expression.The power and influence of the social media has grown exponentially in recent years. There are an estimated 70 crore Indians who use the Internet and at least 30 crore who also have smartphones. They get most of their information from Facebook, WhatsApp, Google, YouTube, Twitter, and the like, which are also used as a means of communication. Then, there are news portals which tend to be more outspoken than the major TV channels. Critics of the government are gravitating towards them, after being squeezed out of the more established channels. These portals, too, are under threat from the “Rules”.Needless to say, the social media has its detractors, mainly those who feel it spreads “fake news” and carries material disturbing for young, impressionable minds. But the good it has done far outweighs the harm. The pandemic created a dangerous void for schools and colleges. Fortunately, it was filled by online classes and teaching. Without that, our education system would have been in a limbo. The choking to death of George Floyd by a policeman was filmed by a teenager on her cell phone. That provided clinching evidence for the conviction of the policeman. These are just two telling instances. Let’s be clear, the social media is here to stay with us in a big way. We don’t need the government to regulate it with any kind of “Rules”. That is the sure road to censorship. What is needed is self-regulation. The sooner the main stakeholders get together and formulate ways to keep the negative aspects out while retaining the positive, the better. But keep the government at a safe distance.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/keep-govt-out-what-social-media-needs-is-self-regulation-247060
02-05-2021||IN June 1972||Mapping the captured Pak territory||Off with a camera, binoculars, compass, maps and haversack meals, I was to pick up officers from the units deployed there to guide me through the safe passages as at many places mines which were laid during the war were still active. The Engineers had constructed a vast network of roads, tracks and laterals, calling these Sappers Highways. There were two axes — the eastern-southern and the western-southern — along which the two divisions of the strike corps had advanced and launched successful operations one after the other, striking deep into the hinterland of Pakistan.As I crossed the Sambha railway station, I was welcomed by a board, ‘Bash on regardless, you are entering the captured territory of Pakistan, kind courtesy Golden Hawk/Bison (insignia of 36 and 54 Infantry Divisions, respectively)’. My chest puffed up, after all I was a victor driving through the land which my ancestors once called home since I was born at Lyallpur. Moreover, this was the area where in 1965, a Param Vir Chakra was won by Lt Col Tarapore and in 1971 by Major Hoshiar Singh and 2/Lt Arun Khetarpal.The land appeared similar but barren as the trees had been cut. There were crops of wheat and sugarcane, some mowed down by assaulting infantry, some still standing and elsewhere burnt due to shelling by artillery and armour. The scent in the air, the chirping of the birds, the abandoned cattle grazing here and there, the flowing waters of Basantar, Devak and Oojh rivers too appeared similar — for it was the granary of combined Punjab.The villages were deserted though, houses and shops locked, schools and masjids shut. All over, there was devastation — it was a pathetic scene. The villagers were yet to return as military experts were negotiating modalities of a pullback and restoration of each other’s gains and losses at Suchetgarh.Not to be nostalgic, my mandate was to record and take photographs of areas that were tactically important — the profile of the terrain, weather, marshes, wild growth, natural obstacles, crossing places and bridges across the rivers and nullahs, the flood-prone spots and the anti-flood bundhs, built-up areas, etc. Over one week or so after walking through such tracts day and night, we were able to make many a mosaic and submitted it to the Chief of Staff.Fifty years later, as I look back, the panorama appears different. Surely Pakistan would have built roads over the brick-lined ones made by our Engineers, drunk water from the wells, prayed at the masjids, studied at the schools and lived in houses renovated by our troops.But the enemy in Pakistan, while not acknowledging the benevolence, continues to invest in a dangerous strategy, that too at its own peril — be it the Kargil misadventure, terror influx in the Valley, Mumbai siege, attacking the Pathankot airfield; and not even learning from the strike at Balakot.May sense prevail, and though it could be wishful thinking, as the pandemic teaches us new lessons of survival as also how fickle human life can be, one can only hope that the two neighbours embark on a path of harmony and co-existence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/mapping-the-captured-pak-territory-247034
02-05-2021||This past fortnight has been like none other in my memory. The daily sight of people literally dying on the streets and of bodies dumped on pavements as they await a slot for cremation or burial is enough to melt even the sternest heart. It will be a long time before we can forget these heart-rending scenes and for once||Ray of hope||That said, I will turn to why May 2 holds a special significance for Bengal, other than the day it will choose its next government. It is the day that will mark the centenary of one of its most famous icons: Satyajit Ray, a filmmaker like no other. Even after 50 years, I can clearly recall my first Ray film, ‘Pather Panchali’, which I saw in 1957 at the age of six in Lucknow. My mother, who had known Ray in Shantiniketan, and my father had taken me along because I was too small to be left at home. The film had no subtitles and was a grim black and white chronicle of rural Bengal. Yet, scenes from it stayed with me when I saw it almost 35 years later in Chandigarh at a film appreciation course in the Department of Theatre. I can never forget the images of Apu and Parvati running across a field to catch a glimpse of a steam engine, the dance of raindrops on the village pond with its haunting musical score by Ravi Shankar and the last scene when the family leaves the village.I don’t think I have missed a single Ray film and each one has moved me immeasurably. Ray’s ability to capture the human spirit is a gift that few are given. When I was translating my mother’s memoir of Shantiniketan, I came across some beautiful lines she had written when she paid him a tribute in an obituary that says it best: ‘What Ray placed before us was a thrillingly new visual universe — our everyday world with a completely new dimension. To every spectator — whether he was from Punjab, the far south or Maharashtra — Ray’s films did not present characters that were tied to a narrow parochial world. His characters spoke to us all equally. Every gust of breeze, every patter of raindrops in his films touched us all with the same intensity. The men and women we saw in his films had faces that we knew and empathised with because their wrinkles were etched with our pain.’Titled ‘Amader Shantiniketan’, the book is finally ready for release on May 20 except that in these Covid times, it will be all done virtually. It’s a slim book but gives us a picture of a Bengal that has all but vanished. At a time when this beautiful land has been reduced to a war zone and the legacy of its great writers and artists has sadly become a game of political football, it is vital that we remember the first flush of the great Bengal renaissance, ushered in by Tagore in his ashram. What is more, it illustrates how a simple lifestyle and a liberal institution where classes were held under an open sky, its wise gurus and the overarching presence of Tagore himself changed the lives of generations of students.I did not realise it then but I am told that this is also the centenary of Visva-Bharati, the university that Tagore set up. So, I am happy that the karma of the book has led it to be published now, even though it was written some 60 years ago, when some of its most important lessons need to be remembered and inculcated into our dying school system. Many have written of Tagore as a poet, musician, nationalist and artist but we must always remember why Mahatma Gandhi called him Gurudev: a wise teacher. His love for children and his unerring understanding of how to mould young minds into realising their potential was his lasting gift to all those who passed through his ashram.Let me also say how once again this country has shown us how in times of a crisis, it is the ordinary people, and communities such as our redoubtable Sikhs, who have provided help and succour to those whom the government has left to fend for themselves. Oxygen langars! Can any other country match the ingenuity of our gurdwaras where the sangat devised a novel way of providing oxygen through pipes that were set up as lifelines overnight? As far as I am concerned, this is what makes religion meaningful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ray-of-hope-247026
02-05-2021||I CAME across the following few lines and reproduce them here because they neatly sum up the situation in our country today||Good governance, RIP||“Baazar khali, Sadke sooni, Mohalle viran hain,Khauf barpa hai har taraf,Log hairan hain,Yeh woh khauf hai,Jo duniya ko darane aaya hai,Itihas gawah hai,Ki yeh masla bhi sulajh jayega”Not great poetry but it sums up today’s reality neatly and also concludes on a positive note. How did we reach this situation in such a short time and how have we been caught with our pants down a second time? The first wave was not a very virulent one and we fought it successfully with our limited infrastructure. There has been plenty of coverage of what went wrong with the second wave and I do not want to repeat it.However, there is one main reason for this tragedy — ‘hubris’ from the top to the bottom rung. The leadership was in a self-congratulatory mode and paeans were being sung in praise. The ruling BJP’s February 2021 political resolution states that India had ‘set an example in front of the world for what work can be done during Covid’. We claimed that we were on the verge of producing vaccines that would help the whole world. We had the highest capacity to manufacture vaccines developed by other countries and we could supply them to the rest of the world. Our External Affairs Minister told the western countries’ media that India would not run on the dictates of a few western newspapers and we would ‘push back’ if any governments tried to push us. We upped our claims to being the new economic powerhouse and also the ‘vishwa guru’. We boasted of our military power as exhibited by our stopping of the Chinese in their tracks — the jury’s still out on that one. Top ministers and politicians of our ruling party ridiculed the Opposition, so much so that the Union Health Minister had the audacity to write an insulting reply to the former PM Dr Manmohan Singh’s letter making some suggestions. The short point is that euphoria prevailed, and hubris hit our leadership.In spite of repeated warnings from various quarters that a second wave would come soon and would be a more virulent one, state after state started dismantling its anti-Covid infrastructure. On April 26, The Indian Express’ front-page story narrated this in detail: Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Bihar, etc, started dismantling the additional infrastructure early this year in the mistaken belief that the pandemic was coming to an end. Makeshift hospitals were folded up, contract health staff were laid off and little effort was made to ramp up critical health infrastructure like ventilators, medical oxygen, ICU beds, staff and additional temporary hospitals. The states should also have made independent plans to meet the next wave — after all, health is a state subject. The Centre should have drawn a national plan to meet all kinds of demands of technical equipment and other infrastructure, especially since they are controlling the vaccine rollout and the states have become totally dependent financially on the Centre.The Centre’s allocation for the health department has always been low, even in the last budget it was a mere 2 per cent. As the tsunami hit the country, the states started making huge demands but critical things like oxygen, ventilators, vaccines, etc, were not available with the Centre because there was no national plan in place. We did have vaccines but, in our over-confidence, and in the exercise of vaccine diplomacy, we gave away a lot of these to other countries, courtesy the MEA’s aggressive diplomacy. Having claimed a superior pandemic response than the rest of the world and after proclaiming victory, we are today forced to seek help from other countries, who were initially cold in their response but have now warmed up and are sending help. The western press also went after our leadership (especially our PM) hammer and tongs and depicted us in a very poor light. It never pays to disparage respected media giants; no need to kowtow to them but no need to needle them either.Meanwhile, the pandemic surges ahead with no signs of tapering off. We should learn our lessons and take corrective steps as there is already talk of third and fourth waves. We are currently facing a very tough situation and should step up our preparation. Manufacture what we can, import what we have to, add staff where needed, etc. The Centre and the states should take this opportunity to upgrade the entire health infrastructure of the country. As it is, the poor are always demanding better healthcare and educational facilities for their children. The Centre can be more liberal in giving financial help to the states for this purpose and avoid wasteful expenditure on self-aggrandisement such as statues and vistas which have no immediate utility in the war against the pandemic.Coming to the question of responsibility and accountability, I have not read anything in this regard. This is a very crucial issue as it has resulted in massive loss of life and hospitalisation of lakhs of people in urban areas (the rural countryside data is sparse). I have missed seeing any photographs of top political leaders visiting hospitals and affected areas. Most of these ladies and gentlemen have been fully vaccinated on a priority basis and they can wear masks and PPEs to visit the hospitals and raise the morale of the staff and patients. One has not heard from the Union Health Minister except for his response to Dr Manmohan Singh. When the going was good in the beginning, the bureaucrats of the Health Ministry were on TV daily to give briefings on Covid; however, they have been conspicuous by their absence in the face of the second wave, especially on the frontline where we have seen horrific sites of our citizens lying on roadsides and outside hospitals and crematoriums. Even the Health Minister, a doctor himself, has only rarely stepped out. I would have expected all MPs to go to their constituencies and look into the welfare of their citizens.Similarly, the responsibility of the states is even greater. The Chief Ministers, Ministers and MLAs should have been in the field in their areas. The bureaucrats in the Secretariat, and the DMs/SPs should have been moving around in their areas. I fail to understand as to what they are doing in their state or district headquarters. If they are not with their people in their difficult times, will they appear only during elections? Another very big segment that could have been mobilised is the workers and cadres of all political parties. The BJP/RSS have the largest, most disciplined cadre which could have been used, but unfortunately one hears the priority for their services was the election in West Bengal. This is applicable to the other parties as well.Last but not least, both at the Centre and in the states, responsibility should be fixed, especially in the departments concerned and action taken against bureaucrats, politicians, etc. A message should go out to everyone that this “sab chalta hai” attitude is no longer acceptable, and heads will roll. A calamity of this scale has happened because of criminal negligence of the Centre and the states, and they should be called to the bar of accountability. As far as our country’s leadership is concerned, I leave you with an old quotation of Shahab Jafari:“Tu idhar udhar ki na baat karYeh bata ke kafila kyun lutaMujhe rahzano se gila nahi,Teri rehbari ka sawaal hai!”— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGPI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/good-governance-rip-246997
02-05-2021||---||Debunking myths around Satyajit Ray’s oeuvre||THE birth centenary of Satyajit Ray (1921-1992) is an occasion to reflect on his creative output, mainly in cinema, as also in literature and related art forms. So far, the response has largely been unalloyed admiration in Bengali-speaking areas, and a respectful indifference in the rest of India, except among filmmakers and cinema enthusiasts. In the West, respect for Ray remained undimmed, but acclaim started waning for his later films. All this can be partially explained through the myths and images associated with the Ray phenomenon.The first myth is that his films deal with poverty, perpetuated by Nargis Dutt’s puerile remark in Parliament in 1980, accusing Ray ‘of distorting India’s image abroad’. Ray’s biographer Andrew Robinson quotes her from an interview, “Ray portrays a region… which is so poor that it does not represent India’s poverty in its true form', that people abroad 'want to see India in an abject condition… and a film that confirms that image seems to them authentic…” and the like.Unfortunately, to viewers not exposed to the range of Ray’s oeuvre, this wrong labelling seems to have stuck. Actually, of his 29 feature films covering most strata of society from the mid-19th to the late 20th century, three or four use poverty as a backdrop.The second myth is that his recognition in India followed his acclaim by the West. Before Pather Panchali (Song of the Road, 1955) won an award at Cannes, the film had played to full houses in Calcutta. Within a month of its release, Ray and others involved with it were feted at the Calcutta University Senate Hall by poets and intellectuals of the city. Everyone in Bengal, including veteran filmmakers, acknowledged that someone with extraordinary talent, seeking to break from the past and herald a new era, had arrived on the scene.Quickly, his fame started spreading throughout India. While Ray’s adventure to explore new themes and styles and experiments with this medium in order to expand its expressivity ended only with his death, most of the accolades, both popular and critical, came from his countrymen first. His films continued to win the best national awards and kept an expanding audience glued to their seats even after the West failed to appreciate many of his films after the mid-1960s. However, the Academy award (Oscar) was announced before the Bharat Ratna.The third myth is that his films after Charulata (The Lonely Wife, 1964), except for brief interludes, did not scale the artistic peak that the earlier ones like the Apu Trilogy (1955-59), Jalsaghar (The Music Room, 1958), Devi (The Goddess, 1960), Kanchenjungha (1962) and Mahanagar (The Big City, 1963) did. It has been argued that the absence of music directors like Ravi Shankar, Vilayat Khan and Ali Akbar Khan and cinematographer Subrata Mitra was conspicuously felt in his later films. This is contestable in light of the outstanding music of most of his films since Teen Kanya (Three Daughters, 1961), and high-quality camerawork in films like Shatranj Ke Khilari (The Chess Players, 1977).Admittedly, the world noticed Ray’s spectacular emergence through his early films. The impact was so dazzling that spectators and critics, mostly in the West, found it difficult to cherish when Ray started charting new grounds with contemporary themes, as in the Calcutta trilogy, or with the musical, satirical and fantasy genres. As a conscientious artiste, he sought to handle the harsh contemporary reality, often directly and sometimes through the veil of fantasy. This Ray, many found, was different from the earlier Ray they adored. But a careful observer would notice the hallmarks of Ray’s genius informing virtually all his films, surface dissimilarities notwithstanding.Another myth was that he was essentially an art filmmaker, appealing largely to a sophisticated audience. This is untrue as all his films would testify. Rejecting the artificial distinction between ‘art’ and ‘mainstream’ cinema, Ray made it clear that he considered cinema as the highest form of commercial art. He had drawn inspiration from stalwarts like Charlie Chaplin, Jean Renoir, John Ford and Billy Wilder. All of Ray’s films met with popular success with the viewers he had in mind, primarily in Bengal; some were superhits.In his convocation address at the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, in 1974, Ray said, “… Since a film cost a great deal of money to make, it had to be seen by a great number of people for the money to be recovered… Some of the commercial films were good, some were bad… I had my own definition of a bad film — it was a film which failed to achieve its objectives….” Blaming the public for failing to rise to the level of a film was unacceptable to him. He said, “This will be the cinema of young filmmakers who know their jobs, who love the medium for its own sake, who are able to resist the temptations of big money and quick success, who have something to say about their own country and their own generation — something that arises out of a feeling of being rooted here, and who however much they have absorbed their Bressons and Godards and Antonionis, are yet aware that they have to communicate not with Frenchmen and Italians, but with their own countrymen.”This was straight from his heart. One understands why Ray praised his contemporary Ritwik Ghatak who remained uninfluenced by him, and directors like MS Sathyu, Shyam Benegal and Adoor Gopalakrishnan, while sounding a note of caution to some other debutants.Though Ray’s primary audience comprised educated Bengalis, his vision and originality, command over every aspect of filmmaking, truthfulness and attention to detail, and his innate musical sense combined to create a product that appealed to viewers all over the world. His style converted the local into a universal experience and created beauty even in the ordinary. Consequently, his influence on filmmaking extended beyond the shores of our country.In 1929, Rabindranath Tagore wrote (quoted by Chidananda Dasgupta in The Cinema of Satyajit Ray, 1980), “Music fulfils itself in its autonomous flow of notes, without the help of words; why should not the cinema, with its flow of images? If this does not happen, it is because of lack of creativity…” This medium had to wait long for Ray to arrive with his luminous work. When the Time magazine commented on Mahanagar that, “The harrowing beauty of Satyajit Ray’s film is a quality both evanescent and palpable, as if the Indian director had found a way to take the lens off his camera and allow life itself to touch the raw film…,” the reviewer was expressing a deeply felt truth.Ray’s centenary should provide us an opportunity to discover this truth, and also the one great creative spirit of post-Independence India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/debunking-myths-around-satyajit-rays-oeuvre-246549
