03-05-2021||Psychiatrist & public health scholar||The way forward is together and the time’s now||Fifteen months after the first case of Covid touched down, India is a telltale case of missed opportunities despite getting many things right initially.With just about 9,000 daily cases in February 2021, things seemed more on the brighter side. However, our splintering approach towards public safety, lackadaisical approach towards social responsibility, vaccine distribution that excluded superspreaders, and a public health system that was devoid of an upgrade envisaging a subsequent surge are some of the many reasons adding fuel to the mounting catastrophe. As cases ascend, deaths soar and a health system falls on its heels, indulging in blame-game or scoring political points will do the country no good.Autonomy within states, given the enormous health system variances, is profoundly critical. Within states, lockdowns or smart restrictions will have to be implemented at the level of districts or municipalities. The rationale for decentralisation is to preserve districts or communities that are insulated from the current surge and protect them from an influx of cases.Districts become epicentres, not states. ‘Vaccine cards’ as a necessary prerequisite for mobility and essential services is akin to John Snow’s lock in the middle of the cholera epidemic. Such restrictions can be expanded or restricted, based on both case numbers as well as vaccination rates.The explosion of the private healthcare market in India since the 1990s has done little to alleviate the growing demand for quality health services within the public health system. Due to the enormous variances between the states and urban and rural areas, a large proportion of the population from the six lakh-odd villages depends on the public health system.The focus should be on building capacity within the public healthsystem. Existing budgetary allocations for infrastructure, including, but not limited to, bridges, stadiums, transportation and other such services, should be redirected towards enhancing the capacity of the ailing public health system. India still spends a meagre 1.26 per cent of its total expenditure on public healthcare, which is an enormous dichotomy in a country where three-fourth of the people pay out of their pocket for health services within the growing private sector.The devastation that is decimating India is unfortunate, given that two vaccines were available for public distribution around the same time the surge started to inflict the country. Mass congregations around religious practices or state elections may have played a significant role.Given where we stand, our course correction hinges upon swiftly vaccinating not just high-risk groups but everyone above 16 years of age. Two-dose vaccines, in addition to having a six-week window, bring logistical challenges of deployment, travel, human resource as well as cost. The single-dose JNJ vaccine, while being as effective, will alleviate several of these challenges. In addition, our fully vaccinated numbers will quickly rise, giving us a four-week advantage over the two-dose vaccines.Mobile vaccination clinics will serve to penetrate communities that are cut off from accessing public health systems, depending on geography. The Oral Polio Vaccine deployment strategy may be a good model to follow.Another important consideration has to be the notion of deploying them at no cost, given that the marginal cost can serve as a deterrent for the otherwise healthy population, who may feel a false sense of safety from the virus.Strict protocols for mask mandates with stringent implementation protocols have to be in place. Social distancing is a privilege, and likely unrealistic in a country as dense as India. The mask remains one of the greatest preventive tools instituting source control. While the type of mask depends on the type of setting, any form of face-covering has a non-zero degree of protection, with more formidable barriers coming from N95/FFP2.Studies on masks show up to 79 per cent effective protection from transmission within communities and a further increase when coupled with social distancing and sanitation measures. Public messaging should use social media platforms to engage communities, students, sports and media personalities to organise a #OneBillionMasks campaign.The risk of Covid infection is real and often, cumulative and individual risks are distributed unevenly. This is partly what makes it challenging and difficult to contain. While it may be possible to practise all safety measures, including masks, social distancing and frequent sanitation, and be fully vaccinated, Covid infection still remains a possibility.However, there is growing evidence from around the world that such individuals are protected from severe disease, notably death. Risk also enhances with repeated exposure/ high viral titers, with growing evidence linking severity to repeated exposure.Today, we know more about the disease, its progression, management and outcome than ever before. The virus adheres to an established set of rules of a biologically active entity. It spreads through respiratory droplets, mutates to survive, is extremely susceptible to frequent hand-washing and use of alcohol-based sanitisers, and protects transmission through good quality face-covering, including masks, and social distancing greater than six feet.More importantly, any vaccine that is available for public use will prevent transmission as well as mortality, and prevent new mutant variants from forming.If there is any time for the nation to break every barrier that separates us to come together against a foreign invading entity, the time is now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-way-forward-is-together-and-the-times-now-247522
03-05-2021||Senior Economic Analyst||Ailing healthcare to blame for Covid crisis||It is now over 13 months that my family and I have been sequestered at home. We get everything delivered and make all payments online. We wash and sanitise everything. Most importantly, we don't have any domestic help. Instead, we have a dishwasher, a clothes dryer and floor-cleaning robots that can be controlled through smartphone apps.So, in over a year now, we have had virtually zero human contact. This has been possible because my wife and I can entirely work from home. It is also because we have significant savings to dip into in case of need. This financial security gave me the strength to reject job offers and decline invitations for paid lectures.Not only is this luxury not available to 99 per cent of the Indians, even the top one per cent cannot afford to stay at home to avoid the coronavirus. If their workplaces open, they have to go to work. Others have to go out to run their factories, shops, restaurants and dealerships. The only people who can isolate themselves successfully are the super-rich. So, we hear of corporate honchos creating ‘bubbles’ with their families and staff. Others have moved to their holiday homes away from the cities. Still others have flown off in private jets to foreign shores.The rest have to risk exposure even if they are reasonably well-to-do. And that is where all calculations have gone awry.Till now, India’s affluent classes were confident that they have enough money and contacts to be able to get hospital beds if they got Covid. Our bet has been on private hospitals, with separate, well-equipped rooms, many nurses on each floor and specialists on call. We all have invested in large medical insurance packages because we know health costs money in India.The real state of India’s public health system has never been of any concern to us. While the government’s low health spending has been a topic of discussion in cocktail parties, we have never really cared that thousands die every year from entirely treatable diseases. They die because they couldn’t get a doctor, afford medicines or reach a hospital bed.A couple of numbers will help illustrate this. India has 1.2 million registered doctors for 1.38 billion people. That’s a ratio of one doctor for every 1,150 persons. This is very close to the ratio of one doctor per thousand recommended by the WHO. However, a majority of these doctors work in the private sector and are concentrated in cities and towns. When it comes to the poor, who need public health services, we have one doctor for every 12,500 people.Studies have shown that 39 per cent of Indians do not get any medical attention before death. Most don’t have a medical practitioner close to their home and others don’t try because they cannot afford it.When things get really bad, the poor take loans, leave their villages and camp outside city hospitals. Touts make money by helping them contact doctors and fill forms. It is common to see illiterate people standing near hospital pharmacies, asking others to help read prescriptions. Many of them are discharged from smaller private hospitals without being fully treated because they have run out of money.In fact, the loan taken for medical treatment is one of the biggest causes of indebtedness in India. A 2019 study suggested that 55 million people slipped into poverty that year because of medical debt.This is a systemic issue that has gone unaddressed by successive governments. Since the 1990s, our official strategy has been to encourage private sector investment in health, at the cost of public expenditure. Almost all of this has been concentrated in big cities, where hospitals have mushroomed.Along with private health, the medical insurance industry has boomed. The logic is that consumers as a community will pay for each other through annual premiums, instead of the government ensuring health for all. In fact, the Modi government itself has bet big on insurance, rather than building health infrastructure through public spending.There is no doubt that the urban upper-middle classes have much better access to health facilities today than they had 30 years ago. It is easier to get scans, MRIs and a multitude of other tests now. Complex procedures are done in many more hospitals today than earlier. In India’s premier hospitals, surgeons have access to top-of-the-line equipment and can offer cutting-edge life-saving implants to their patients. The installed capacities for such medical services are based on an estimate of how many affluent people will need it at any point of time.But no one prepared for a virus that does not require expensive interventions. All top doctors agree that Covid requires just a few relatively cheap treatment options. The first is paracetamol to control fever. The second, and most important, is oxygen. The third is an inexpensive steroid called dexamethasone, which is given to those who are already on oxygen. The fourth is a blood-thinner, which is easily available in India. Finally, there is Remdesivir, in a minority of cases, to reduce the duration of hospitalisation.Covid has shown us that what we need is publicly-funded inexpensive health for all. All we needed were mega ‘oxygen-bed’ hospitals and decently paid government doctors who could perform triage, to decide which patient needs how much care.It is the absence of such health facilities that is the reason for this tragedy that is unfolding before us. No amount of medical insurance or high-end equipment can tackle this crisis. It is a wake-up call for India’s policy-influencing, discourse-deciding, affluent middle class.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ailing-healthcare-to-blame-for-covid-crisis-247523
03-05-2021||Senior Journalist||Second best in Bengal||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) retained power in West Bengal, the most keenly watched state in the 2021 Assembly elections, thanks to an epic fightback by its leader and two-time CM Mamata Banerjee. She herself lost the pitched battle from the Nandigram seat against a former political associate, Suvendu Adhikari, for whose family the district is a long-time fief. Adhikari joined the BJP months before the polls. When he vowed to ‘wipe out’ the TMC, Mamata picked up the gauntlet.The TMC’s campaign was largely reactive, in contrast to the BJP’s agenda-setting proactivity.Contrary to exit poll projections of a close contest in the offing, the TMC cruised ahead of the BJP, its closest rival, restricting its tally to double-digit figures, as predicted by Prashant Kishor, Mamata’s strategist and adviser. The BJP’s showing belied the claims made by its top leadership that it would win over 200 seats and make history. The TMC’s campaign was largely reactive, in contrast to the BJP’s agenda-setting proactivity and poll leviathan.In Tamil Nadu, the other significant state from the viewpoint of parliamentary heft, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) returned to power after 10 years with a comfortable majority, although its opponent, the All India Anna DMK (AIADMK), was not entirely overcome by anti-incumbency. The election was remarkable because there were no towering leaders staring down the political landscape. The DMK was helmed by MK Stalin, the legendary M Karunadhi’s heir, who after trial and error, remobilised a cadre demoralised by successive defeats, bought peace with the extended family that includes his half-sister and Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi and sidelined his own brother, MK Alagiri, who once ruled over south Tamil Nadu but has since gone into a shell. Stalin has none of Karunanidhi’s oratorical prowess but he stayed the course for 10 years. He also tapped regional sentiments over the perceived imposition of a homogenous culture, shaped by north India, which to the Tamil Nadu voter means Hindi being forced down his throat. Here’s where the AIADMK found itself vulnerable. Although the Edapaddi K Palaniswami government was wedded to welfarism, the bedrock of Tamil Nadu politics, and won over a sulking ally, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), by announcing a sub-quota in reservation for the powerful Vanniyar caste, the AIADMK lost for another big reason. Palaniswami and his deputy, O Paneerselvam, were seen as kowtowing to the Narendra Modi dispensation to buy stability for their government that became a tad shaky after the death of party supremo J Jayalalithaa. What the AIADMK earned by goodwill for its welfare measures was undercut by popular resentment against the BJP that was critiqued for bringing in the CAA, allowing fuel prices to spiral, forcibly imposing NEET (which the DMK promised to end in its manifesto) and propagating the use of Hindi. The BJP has established a strong foothold in West Bengal but cannot take even baby steps in Tamil Nadu.The BJP kept Assam and enhanced its lead over the Congress since 2016. The BJP took comfort from the fact that its victory was largely self-made because its ally, the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), underperformed. There is speculation whether Sarbananda Sonowal will return as the chief minister or make way for the BJP’s North-east strongman, Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is called the architect of the comeback.One of the key takeaways of these polls is the inability of the Congress to revive itself. In Kerala, the United Democratic Front (UDF) was eclipsed by the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), bucking an established trend in a state whose electorate never returns an incumbent. The UDF turned in an impressive performance in the Lok Sabha polls, ostensibly gaining traction by Rahul Gandhi’s decision to contest from Wayanad. The Congress failed to not only build but retain the gains from 2019, emanating in one part from the perception that its Kerala big leaguers were at daggers drawn. Its ally, the Indian Muslim National League, which the UDF counted on to bring in the numbers from north Kerala, tripped up. The Gandhis counted on Kerala as a face-saver but that did not happen.In Assam — where the Congress lost a formidable leader in Tarun Gogoi and was unable to groom a successor — the party hoped to have a shot at power by stitching a ‘grand’ alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the Bodoland People’s Front, the Left parties and the Anchalik Gana Morcha. Although the AIUDF principally represents the Bengali and Assamese-speaking Muslims, and hence lays itself bare to the charge of being ‘sectarian’, the Congress took the gamble of partnering it to consolidate the minority votes. Clearly, the gamble didn’t pay.The Congress lost a government in Puducherry to the NDA. It was barely visible in West Bengal where it tied up with the Left Front and the Indian Secular Front. The ‘third front’ ran a campaign that consistently assailed the TMC and ignored the BJP, hoping to split the Muslim votes. Evidently, West Bengal’s sizeable number of minority voters rallied lock, stock and barrel behind Mamata.With the Congress being a straggler in the race, questions will be asked on whether Rahul will finally rise forth to lead the party. However, from the perspective of the next Lok Sabha polls, the prospect of a federal front looks more real than before, with Mamata’s historic victory and Stalin lending heft to it. The states have spoken against the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/second-best-in-bengal-247524
