04-05-2021||---||In the midst of life & death||Man’s main concern is not to gain pleasure or to avoid pain but rather to see a meaning in his life. — Viktor E FranklAfriend dies; a student narrates the horrifying experience of arranging an oxygen cylinder for her Covid-infected mother; a colleague passes through traumatic hours with severe breathing difficulty before a bed is arranged in a suburban hospital — the city I live in is crumbling. Neither the glitz of the malls symbolising the affluence of the aspiring class in neoliberal India nor the narcissism of our political masters is of any help. We smell death; we find ourselves amid unbearable pain and suffering; and we are broken and wounded. How much can we bear?Well, there are moments when we long for some scientific answer to this question. A medical expert’s opinion, a mathematical model predicting the shape of the curve of infections and death; or a specialised research on the power of the vaccines to minimise the severity of the disease: yes, science makes us alert, and possibly gives us the means to win the war against the virus. Yet, our inner restlessness refuses to wither away. There are moments when we become terribly angry, and blame the morally bankrupt and irresponsible political class for spreading the virus — the way they declared India’s ‘success story’ to combat the virus so early, allowed the Kumbh mela to happen, or encouraged large gatherings and rallies at the time of the recent elections. Yet, despite this anguish, we realise our helplessness. Or who knows we deserve what we are, and in the prevalent politics we see nothing but our own shadows?At this intense moment of pain and suffering, we also long for some sort of spiritual answer. Possibly, it is a quest for a meaning, an urge to understand the truth of existence, or a journey to the interiority of our consciousness. To begin with, let us reflect on impermanence. It is true that intellectually and theoretically we all know that the world we see, touch and perceive is impermanent; everything is changing. Yet, because of our blind attachment, we refuse to accept this impermanence. When life appears to be a picnic party, we tend to feel that fun and pleasure will go on forever. Or, for that matter, we are so attached to our egos that with the continual presentation of narcissistic selves, we tend to give the impression that we are immortal — beyond suffering, sickness and death. It is sad that even though we have mastered techno-science and cultivated instrumental rationality, seldom do we try to learn the art of living with this sense of impermanence. Is it that we need a pandemic to confront this fundamental truth of our earthly existence: the body I am so attached to (imagine the growth of beauty/fashion industry in our times) might not even get a dignified space at the chaotic crematorium; or despite having all sorts of medical insurances, you might not get a bed in the hospital, and just die without the presence of loved ones? It is not easy to accept this harsh truth of impermanence. Yet, we might experience something deep and profound with the acceptance of impermanence.Possibly, we begin to learn the meaning of gratitude. Things are impermanent; yet, for some time we have got an opportunity to find ourselves in this world amid this blue sky, these mountains, forests and rivers, or amid the presence of the loved ones. And to live is to live with this sense of gratitude. This is like seeing ourselves as humble wanderers or seekers, not egotistic conquerors. Again, ironically, it is the pandemic that is forcing us to realise the meaning of this forgotten virtue. These days after a traumatic night filled with the ever-flowing news of death and loss, when you see the rising sun in the morning what else can you do? With folded hands, you articulate your prayerful gratitude: ‘I am still alive; I can hear the whisper of trees, the chirping of birds, or I can see the tender face of my child’.And finally, with gratitude begins the abundance of love. Who knows tomorrow you and I can be merged with the statistics of Covid-related death? Isn’t it the time to give our best to each other and love deeply and intensely? Who knows today might be our last day? Why do we destroy this moment when we are alive with such bitterness, negativity, envy and jealousy? Possibly, the suffering that the pandemic has caused has also a meaning. It is conveying a message: there is no hypothetical ‘tomorrow’; to live is to live here and now, and at this very moment with a deep awareness of impermanence, loveand gratitude.The pandemic too is not permanent. Science will equip us with better medicines and vaccines to win this ‘war’; or the political class will come forward with more advanced ‘economic’ solutions to take this technocratic/consumerist world to ‘normalcy’. However, the moot question is whether humankind will learn something deep from this crisis, redefine the rhythm of life and death, and live with tenderness, humility and boundless love and gratitude. It will be really tragic if the survivors choose to play the same game with an illusory notion of egotistic pride and immortality of their ‘success stories’ before they are shattered by yet another catastrophe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-the-midst-of-life-death-247810
04-05-2021||---||Bengal provides an opening, shows a path||THE Assembly election verdict provides an opening to everyone who believes in the idea of India. A much-needed opening in these dark times when our democracy, federalism and indeed our republic are shrinking by the day. But we can seize this opportunity only if we recognise what it is not, if we acknowledge that we have not earned it yet, if we are wise to what is not to be done.The consequences of West Bengal’s verdict are truly momentous, beyond the normal calculus of electoral politics. In normal times, a popular chief minister getting a third term is not unheard of. In a normal election, the increase in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s vote share — from 10 per cent to 37 per cent — would be considered a giant leap. Normally, a political party has every reason to celebrate its arrival as the real opposition party in a state with 77 seats, up from just three in the last election.But Bengal 2021 was not a normal election. This was the most audacious political heist attempted in recent times. Bengal was the final frontier that the BJP needed to cross to consolidate its hegemony. And it chose this election to launch an all-out attack. It threw everything into it: money, media, organisational machine and, of course, Narendra Modi.And it threw every caution and norm to the winds — from the sanctity of the Election Commission to the neutrality of the security forces and Covid norms. The triumphalism of its leaders was unmatched, duly echoed by the darbari media. Yet, it was defeated. Not just defeated, but duly humiliated.A modern-day Ashvamedha yagna has been interrupted, a magic show disrupted in the middle of a trick. Just think of what would have happened if the BJP had actually succeeded in capturing Bengal — the celebrations, the claims, the fear. Our republic has reclaimed that much space within a day.At this juncture of history, an interruption like the Bengal result can open unanticipated possibilities. We are in the middle of one of the worst-tackled pandemics, one that has forced even die-hard bhakts to entertain second thoughts about this regime. We are not out of the lockdown-induced economic meltdown yet, and it could only get worse with the raging second wave. And we have a historic farmers’ protest that refuses to be cowed down.In this context, a verdict like this one exposes the vulnerabilities of the Modi government, wakes up its credulous supporters and emboldens the resisters. Results from Kerala and Tamil Nadu can consolidate oppositional spaces. Bengal’s verdict can break the spell that has had the country in thrall for the last seven years. This could be the beginning of the end of the Modi juggernaut.It could. It need not be so. It all depends on how we respond to this opening. The first step is to recognise what this verdict is not. While it shows the limits to dividends of communal polarisation, it is not a rejection of communal politics. If anything, the Bengal election has rekindled the pre-Partition communal fire that the state will have to deal with for a long time. Besides, mobilisation of anxious Muslim voters against the BJP is hardly a sign of secular politics.Nor is it a verdict against the Modi government for its many acts of commission and omission during the Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown. The biggest public health crisis of post-Independence India was not an electoral issue anywhere, except Kerala.As in the case of demonetisation, the people have not yet connected the consequences to the cause, their economic plight to the incompetent economic policies pursued by the Modi government. The Left Democratic Front’s victory in Kerala had little to do with popular acceptance of the Left ideology. And in all fairness, while the farmers' organisations led to a vigorous no-vote-for-BJP campaign, this verdict does not demonstrate farmers' rejection of the three farm laws. Not as yet.We must approach this opportunity with a modest admission that this reversal for the BJP was the product of many quotidian factors that do not add up to a grand story of reclaiming democracy. In Bengal and Kerala, the popularity of the incumbent chief ministers was a key factor. It was not a verdict on good governance. If that was so, the All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) should have been routed. CM Sarbananda Sonowal, too, should not have come back to power in Assam. Mamata Banerjee's governance record has also been moderate, at best. But some popular schemes did make a difference to the voters.And let's face it, deft election management played a key role in the Trinamool Congress's victory in West Bengal and the BJP's victory in Assam. These routine factors may not work against the BJP every time.It’s time we publicly acknowledge the harsh truth about who this opportunity is not for. There can be many claims about who the real winner is: Mamata Banerjee or Prashant Kishor, Pinarayi Vijayan or the Left parties, Himanta Biswa Sarma or Sarbananda Sonowal. But there cannot be two opinions about the real loser today: the Indian National Congress.The grand old party did not miss an opportunity to ensure it misses out on a regular opportunity to come back to power in Kerala, in the first Assembly election after Rahul Gandhi became an MP from the state. Similarly, in Assam, it allowed the BJP to come back to power despite massive anti-CAA protests in the state a year ago. It ceded power in Puducherry and sank to irrelevance in West Bengal. The message is as clear as it gets: the Congress in its current form cannot lead India in a battle to reclaim democracy.Again and again, state elections have punctured the myth of Modi’s invincibility. Yet, the myth persists because the disaffection at the state level fails to translate into a national sentiment. The 2021 verdict is different. It provides a clear opening and shows a path. If this is followed by the BJP’s defeat in Uttar Pradesh in early 2022, it would certainly be the countdown for the end of the Modi regime.Modi can be defeated, but not by the Congress, not by routine opposition unity, and not by knee-jerk anti-Modism. Here is an opportunity. And a challenge. Everyone who seeks to reclaim our republic must take this up.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bengal-provides-an-opening-shows-a-path-247811
04-05-2021||---||Barelvi assertion looks ominous for Pakistan||The three-day upsurge of the Barelvi assertion, led by the Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) witnessed in the major cities of Pakistan in mid-April, seems to have subsided, at least for the moment. While it lasted, it led to clashes between the TLP and security forces, leading to the death of several people, including police personnel, injuries to scores, arrests of many more and damage to property.What was ominous was that several police personnel were held hostage by the protesters (subsequently released) and clips on social media that went viral showed soldiers fraternising with the protesters and warning of taking matters into their own hands.The TLP was formed in the wake of the 2016 execution of Mumtaz Qadri, a police guard, who killed the then Punjab Governor Salman Taseer for sympathising with Aasiya Bibi, a Christian accused of blasphemy in January 2011. The founder was Khadim Hussain Rizvi (1966-2019), a former employee of the Punjab Auqaf Department. Rizvi used a mixture of earthy Punjabi abuses, humour, fiery rhetoric and poetry of Mohd Iqbal and Sultan Bahu to attract people. His catchy slogan was: Gustakh-e-rasul ki aik saza, sar tan sey juda (there is only one punishment for the blasphemer, beheading). His son, Saad Rizvi, succeeded him in November 2019.The Barelvis are the followers of Ahmad Raza Khan Barelvi (1865-1921) of Bareilly in India. Their trademark is popular sufism, a cult of shrines, and a profound reverence for the Prophet. This distinguishes them from the austere and literalist Wahabis and Deobandis. They are generally regarded as adherents of a gentler, more moderate approach, except when it comes to khatm-e-nabuwwat (finality of the Prophet-hood) and tauheen-e-risalat (blaspheming the Prophet). While both these elements are a fundamental matter of faith for all Islamic sects, it is the Barelvis who have operationalised them due to their philosophy of Aashiq-e-Rasool, or a ‘Lover of the Prophet’.Since the majority of the Sunnis in Pakistan are Barelvis, the TLP has a vast reservoir of support that is matched by the large Barelvi network of mosques and shrines that it has succeeded in tapping into.Apart from the movement around Qadri, several events since 2017 have catapulted the TLP into limelight and allowed it to capture the imagination of the people. These would include its three-week-long agitation in 2017, blocking the main route between Islamabad and Rawalpindi due to a perception that the khatm-i-nabuwwat oath of legislators was being watered down by the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PMLN) government. Then came its stunning maiden performance in the 2018 General Election when it received 2.2 million votes for the National Assembly, making it the fifth largest party in Pakistan in terms of vote share and the third in the critical province of Punjab.This was followed by the Supreme Court’s acquittal of Aasiya Bibi in October 2018 of the charges of blasphemy that led to another TLP agitation, forcing the Imran Khan government to capitulate and set a dangerous precedent for the future.Finally, the current protests are a follow-up to another capitulation of the Imran Khan government in November 2020 over sketches of Prophet Muhammad in France. The government had to sign an agreement with the TLP that it would take a decision in Parliament regarding the expulsion of the French Ambassador within three months, a deadline that was subsequently extended till April 20.Subsequently, however, the government expressed its inability to ‘implement’ the agreement and arrested Saad Rizvi on April 12 in a pre-emptive swoop that led to countrywide protests and violence. The government again capitulated and agreed to present a resolution in Parliament regarding the expulsion of the French Ambassador, though it also banned the TLP under the Terrorism Act. This, however, is unlikely to dent the fervour and street power of its followers or the sentiments of millions who sympathise with its ideology.Another factor has been the role of the military, which, since the 1980s, has promoted the rival Deobandis and Wahabis for use as jihadis in Kashmir and Afghanistan. Now, however, given the international attention on terrorism, the Barelvis have been brought to the foreground as a balancing force. The military also found the Barelvis useful in eroding the support base of Nawaz Sharif in the 2018 elections, especially in Punjab, at a time of heightened civil-military tension.Pakistan’s predicament is, according to the country’s media reports, that disrupting relations with France would be a near disaster. Quite apart from how the EU would react, France has an important position in the IMF that is bailing out Pakistan; it is the headquarters of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on whose grey list Pakistan has been since 2018; 30 per cent of Pakistan's Air Force is French (Dassault Mirage III and the Dassault Mirage V); all five of Pakistan’s attack submarines are French.Not surprisingly, the government has sought a compromise: a private member's resolution was introduced in the National Assembly, but only seeking a debate on the French Ambassador’s expulsion. At the time of writing, the Assembly has not been able to come to a conclusion due to procedural issues.The danger for Pakistan is that if not resolved, the issue could escalate. Banned terrorist outfit Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has offered support, as has the mainstream religious party Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam of Maulana Fazlur Rehman. Others, too, could join the bandwagon. The TTP has publicly threatened to take revenge for “each drop of blood of the TLP members.” This is, perhaps, the first time that a Deobandi organisation (TTP) is trying to forge an alliance with an exclusively Barelvi organisation (TLP) for non-political purposes.Another issue for the future is that if the ban continues (though speculation is rife that it won’t), would the TLP remain within the system or opt for the path of militancy and violence? This could have grave consequences for Pakistan.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/barelvi-assertion-looks-ominous-for-pakistan-247819
