05-05-2021||---||BJP’s Hindi belt template losing appeal||BengalI is the second most spoken native language in India after Hindi. In West Bengal’s rejection of the BJP and the thumping win of the regional powerhouse, the TMC, led by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, is mirrored the larger message of the limitations of the Hindi belt template that had so far worked successfully for the national party. Two years have gone into the second term of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the disenchantment is now showing.It's happening at a time when there has been a serious loss of face for the national regime because of the Covid crisis. There is, therefore, a clear image dent in losing Bengal, an election on which the BJP leadership staked so much. They made it a prestige election, so now there is, indeed, a loss of prestige. It’s that much more damaging as the votes have been counted at a time when the body count from Covid deaths is mounting. The BJP has much to ponder over, including the rising deaths, the scarcity of oxygen and vaccines and the flailing economy.But since the party is usually described as the ultimate election fighting machine, it may also ponder over the efficacy of its Hindi belt politics symbolised by the slogan ‘Jai Shri Ram’, through which it launched its aggressive high-decibel campaign in Bengal — and failed to generate enough friction on the Hindu-Muslim fault-line to actually win. Because numerically, the Hindi belt dominates, its nature of politics is often wrongly presented as an all-India phenomenon.This election is a reminder that India is a polyglot nation of many cultures and subcultures. Cow belt politics, it turns out, could have peaked and does not appeal across the land.It would be wrong, however, to conclude that communal polarisation was not a factor in Bengal: it was there, and was festered in the months leading up to the polling, but not all Hindus were convinced that they were in danger from the minorities, most are Bengali-speaking anyway. The state’s very large Muslim population (27 per cent) was alarmed enough to vote with their hand and feet for the TMC.Former journalist Swapan Dasgupta and BJP candidate for the seat of Tarakeshwar (that he would eventually lose) had once famously written in a magazine: “Between good governance and chaos stand the Muslims of India.” This line of reasoning is probably what the BJP would like to put out as the alibi for a resounding defeat.Yet, it would be a mistake to see the TMC as landing this mandate only through the Muslim voter bloc; the large vote share difference between the two parties, with the TMC ahead by over 10 per cent, should put an end to any such speculation. In the final reckoning, across the state, across castes, communities, urban and rural folk, Didi’s party was preferred over the BJP.The national party does now get to be the principal opposition in Bengal, with the Left all but gone into oblivion, along with the Congress.There were other factors responsible for the triumph of the extraordinary woman in hawai chappals, with her foot famously plastered, who got the better of the PM and the big guns of the Union Cabinet. For, when Goliaths rain down with all their might and fury Davids do come through as heroic. Mamata Banerjee, the only woman chief minister in India at present, has always been exceptional in giving women representation in both the Lok Sabha and the Assembly.The Bengal mandate was also a victory for federalism, as is that in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The BJP dream of ‘one nation one poll’ certainly looks more distant after this round of state polls. India’s federal nature has been reasserted and the numbers are not good for India’s pre-eminent party. Add to the Bengal defeat the zero balance from Kerala, a state where the RSS cadres are always in pitched battles with the Left cadres, the latter now triumphant; on top of that is the decisive win for the DMK-led front in Tamil Nadu, and we have a reminder that all of India is not under the sway of the Prime Minister and his resource-rich party.True, the BJP retained power in Assam. And IT cell chief Amit Malviya (also co-in-charge for Bengal) was spotted on a TV channel saying that it would be wrong to deduce that the PM’s popularity is coming down as the party is likely to be a partner in an alliance that has come to power in a front in the Union Territory of Puducherry. Since the BJP will not get the CM’s post there, Malviya’s serious defence on May 2 was a comic clutching at straws.The next round of state elections takes place in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh in early 2022. The protest against the farm laws is now a part of a lived reality of Punjab and there is nothing to suggest that the BJP could make a mark in the state whose farmers are shuttling between the borders of Delhi and their farms. And then there is UP that has just concluded a four-phase panchayat poll in the course of which reportedly 700 teachers forced to do election duty died due to Covid-19; that’s besides the thousands who have perished from the virus in the state accused of undercounting the dead.At this stage, there does not appear to be a strong political opposition in UP, but extraordinary circumstances have consequences. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had campaigned vigorously in Bengal where he promised to create, as he had in UP, anti-Romeo squads once the BJP came to power because he said women of Bengal were not safe with the TMC — his way of dog-whistling about minorities.Clearly, the people of Bengal had no desire for such offerings from the Hindi heartland Chief Minister. They have their own language, idiom, politics and culture to follow in the streams, forests and meadows of Bengal. They have sorely disappointed the BJP at a time the national party needed the oxygen of victory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjps-hindi-belt-template-losing-appeal-248258
05-05-2021||---||China-Iran pact lays bare their ambitions||WITH tensions between the US and China rising, both countries are trying to consolidate their relationship with other nations.After the high-level US-China talks in Alaska earlier this year did not go as well as China had hoped, Beijing has increased its moves in the Middle East, the Gulf and Africa.Barely a few days after the Alaska meeting, China signed an agreement with Iran to increase cooperation and trade over the next 25 years. The deal, signed in late March, grabbed global attention because it coincided with the Vienna talks to revive the US-Iran nuclear deal.The deal marks the first time that Iran has signed such a lengthy agreement with a major world power. Indicating its importance, Iran’s state-run TV telecast the signing live.China’s interest in Iran dates back to 1979 when it quickly recognised the new Islamic regime and began assisting the development of its military, and clandestinely, its nuclear capabilities. At that time, however, China was not strong enough and avoided antagonising the US or Israel, with whom it was trying to improve relations. Similarly, it avoided involvement in the Iran-Iraq War. After sanctions were imposed, China reduced imports of Iranian oil and gas because of US pressure. Nonetheless it preserved its relations with Tehran and admitted Iran into the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation as an ‘observer’.As China’s national power has grown, the country has become more assertive. The current deal would help China increase its influence over oil-rich Iran, give it a say in the West Asia region which has for so long been dominated by the US and expand the operational reach of its navy to these strategic waters.After eight years of courting the West with nothing to show for it, the deal allows Iran to build closer ties with China to balance Washington’s clout. China is Iran’s top oil importer and a lifeline for its economy that has been battered by sanctions and diplomatic isolation. China will not only give Iran a stable market for its oil but also allow it room to posture and negotiate with the US. As a former Iranian diplomat observed, “Every road is closed to Iran. The only path open is China. Whatever it is, until sanctions are lifted, this deal is the best option”.While the text of the agreement is unlikely to be published — although a draft was leaked last summer — reports say that China could invest up to $400 billion in Iran’s energy and transportation sectors in return for heavily discounted supplies of crude oil for the next 25 years. Although China has said the agreement does not include any specific contracts and goals, the energy-hungry country will be able to secure reliable, long-term supplies of oil and erode the US’s “petrodollar hegemony” by persuading Middle Eastern suppliers to accept payments in renminbi. China would also stand to gain significantly if Iran signs on to the Belt and Road Initiative with possible finance from Chinese banks.According to OilPrice.com, senior sources close to the Iranian government have indicated that China could use the end of the global arms embargo on Iran — ending on October 18 —to fast-track its military presence in the region. One of its priorities would be to ensure that Chinese and Russian firms which continue to work in Iran despite US sanctions are not vulnerable to attack. Five thousand Chinese soldiers could also be sent to Iran to oversee the ‘security’ of Chinese projects as well as of the military hardware and personnel that have been deployed there.The sources add that China is planning to build one of the world’s largest intelligence gathering stations at Chabahar port at the entrance to the Straits of Hormuz and the Persian Gulf. This espionage hub could include Chinese and Russian technology with a nearly 5,000-km radius range and about 1,000 staffers. Dual-use facilities could also be created at Iran’s key ports of Chabahar, Bandar-e-Bushehr and Bandar Abbas.Whether China genuinely intends to fulfil these expectations, or do just enough to ensure its oil supplies are maintained and Chinese warships are able to use Iran’s ports, is uncertain. What is definite, however, is that many countries will keep a close watch on China’s activities in Iran, especially given its strategic location. Beijing will need to tread carefully as any sign of Chinese military-related activity or joint Russian-Chinese activity is bound to invite a sharp and swift response.While the deal has significant support among Iran’s business community and at multiple levels of the government, others in Iran do not consider China a stable partner, since it has pulled out of deals in the past. China’s track record of actual investments in various countries is barely 6 per cent of its committed amounts.Former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad called it a suspicious secret deal that the people of Iran would never approve of — it is yet to be presented to the Iranian Parliament. Protests have erupted in Iranian cities against “selling out” the country to China. Social media showed people chanting “Iran is not for sale” outside Parliament, while in Isfahan there were slogans such as “China get out of Iran” and “we want the 25-year agreement cancelled.”The deal — signed on the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries — has been under negotiation since 2016, when Chinese President Xi Jinping visited Tehran. The Iranian Foreign Minister has also visited China numerous times, testifying to the importance Tehran attached to the negotiations.Regardless of whether this agreement finally materialises or not, it does reveal the ambitions of both countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-iran-pact-lays-bare-their-ambitions-248253
05-05-2021||---||Searing of the nation’s soul||April is the cruellest month, breeding lilacs out of the dead land…’ read the opening lines from TS Eliot’s poem, The Waste Land. India has suffered its own cruel month of April with its tortured land sprouting burning funeral pyres instead of lilacs. And May might bring even greater pain and suffering. How did things come to this pass? We need to reflect on this with calm and objectivity, difficult as this may seem in an environment full of pain, anger and frustration. If we do not acknowledge, with humility and brutal honesty, where we have gone wrong, the monumental task of repair and healing can neither take place nor prevent another tragedy from overwhelming our beloved India. We are a country whose soul has been seared. Our wounded spirits are more damaging than the countless bodies consigned to the flames or buried in Mother Earth. The living need hope of a brighter tomorrow.The insistence on weaving a fantasy while the world is crumbling around us is undermining whatever residual credibility is still left in our institutions of governance.We dropped our guard and became complacent as the first wave of Covid-19 receded. We ignored the fact that countries around the world were being hit by a second wave with new strains emerging. The successful development of vaccines within a remarkably short period of a year, reinforced the sense of danger having passed. I grant that ordinary citizens of this country should have continued with masking, sanitising and maintaining social distance. The educated among us have no excuse. They should have held off on marriage ceremonies, parties and large gatherings. But governments at both Central and state levels, in particular senior political leaders, should have led by example. We were witness to elections going ahead, with massive public rallies and processions, with leaders themselves either not wearing masks or having pulled them down to the collar level. How could social distancing be maintained in such situations? We had the PM and the Home Minister participating in these rallies and even boasting that such crowds were unprecedented. They cannot escape the responsibility of putting themselves as leaders and ordinary people at grave risk. And when it had become clear that we were facing a ‘tsunami’ of a second wave, why did the campaign still continue? Why did the Election Commission not suspend the elections forthwith and put the lives of the people ahead of polling? Why is it that despite the scale of the crisis having become dramatically manifest, the election show had to go on? As election results pour in, victory celebrations again bring crowds to the streets. There are commentators who declare that there is little evidence to link the rise in infections to the ongoing state elections. There is more whataboutery — why is the infection spreading in states that are not having the polls? Because this virus is blind to political boundaries, because millions of people are criss-crossing state borders daily, because we still do not understand the nature of this virus and its variants and why it behaves in certain inexplicable ways. In these circumstances is it not prudent to adhere to the preventive measures to reduce, if not eliminate, the danger that we face?We had the extraordinary spectacle of thousands upon thousands of people gathering on the banks of the Ganga at Hardwar in celebration of the Kumbh. People were streaming in from all parts of the country, and then, heading back to their towns and villages, several carrying the virus with them. This was a super-spreader event with a vengeance. Why was it allowed? Why was the leader of the state inviting pilgrims to come to Hardwar, even assuring them that a dip in the holy river would cleanse them not only of their sins, but also of the virus? Should we tolerate such obscurantism in this day and age? The PM, rather late in the day, urged religious leaders to observe the festival only symbolically, but even thereafter, the crowds continued to gather and the authorities were mostly missing in action. Today, Uttarakhand is one of the worst-affected states. Who will be held accountable for such complete lack of responsibility, for wilfully endangering the lives of people? The state should suspend the Char Dham yatra this summer, just as J&K should abandon plans for the Amarnath and Vaishno Devi pilgrimage. The gods will understand.The most uplifting part of this crisis has been the manner in which ordinary citizens, local communities and NGOs have come together to help their fellow human beings. Even in the locality where I live, a medical camp is functioning, set up by doctors, professionals and ordinary good Samaritans. They have been using social media to reach out and provide succour to those in dire straits. The least that the state can do is to get out of their way if they are unable to support them. The ill-conceived attempts to silence those who are conveying their desperation and asking for help on social media are adding insult to injury. The scale of the tragedy is so large that no attempt to camouflage it will succeed. The ground reality will keep calling out carefully constructed media narratives deployed by the state. This insistence on weaving a fantasy while the world is crumbling around us is undermining whatever residual credibility is still left in our institutions of governance.We must acknowledge that we are in an unprecedented crisis. Our people need help. We should, with humility, seek out and get help from wherever we can. Our diplomats around the world should be allowed to focus singularly on this objective. Many of them are doing just that and I commend their efforts. Burnishing India’s external image and bringing acclaim to its leader must wait for a congenial day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/searing-of-the-nations-soul-248251
