06-05-2021||---||Greed triggers gross vaccine inequality||This is disturbing. With only one-in-500 among the low-income countries having received the vaccine shot against one-in-four among the high-income countries, gross vaccine inequality has been at play. As per the World Health Organisation (WHO), poor countries have received only 0.2 per cent of the vaccine doses while the rich countries have walked away with a share of 87 per cent.So far, only 32 per cent in America, 27 per cent in the UK, 2 per cent in India and 0.3 per cent of the population in the Philippines have received both doses. At this rate, it may take years before the world can emerge out of the pandemic. The rich need to understand they cannot remain safely isolated from the deadly virus till the poor too have got the protective shield.What is coming in the way is the greed for more profits over public health. Instead of pushing for a speedier vaccination drive globally, a handful of vaccine manufacturers are actually using patent protection granted under the Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) Agreement of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to hold the world literally to ransom.Not only the Big Pharma, but also some of the developed countries have been hoarding the vaccines and oppose any move to temporarily lift the patent protection. The US was hoarding 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which it has now decided to share with other countries. Notably, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had not approved the AstraZeneca vaccines (called Covishield in India) for domestic use, and, therefore, it made little sense to withhold it anymore.Although India, South Africa and some other developing countries have petitioned the WTO to allow a waiver on patent protection for the Covid-19 vaccines, the rich trading bloc — the US, UK, EU, Japan, Canada, Switzerland, Norway, Brazil and Australia — are averse to any such move, thereby denying these countries the access to technology to go in for large-scale production of the vaccines.The pressure to oppose the IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) waiver comes from the pharmaceutical giants (and lobbyists) who have in a signed letter to the US President appealed to disregard the joint proposal put forward by India and South Africa, stating that it was without any evidence. It also urged the US Administration to continue to ‘oppose the TRIPs intellectual property waiver’. Hollywood, too, is siding with the pharmaceutical industry. The TRIPs Agreement provides for a patent monopoly for 20 years.Although there exists a clause in the TRIPs Agreement that allows the developing countries the option of using compulsory licensing, enabling the governments at times of national emergencies to permit local manufacturers to use the patented technology without worrying about the patent monopoly, developing countries are reluctant to use the option, fearing trade retaliation. No wonder, despite even the Supreme Court mentioning the option of using Section 92 of the Indian Patents Act under which compulsory licences can be issued to manufacture a patented drug, there has not been any visible movement on that front.Pfizer’s latest proposal says it has offered its vaccines to India at a ‘not-for-profit' price, but is quiet on the patent issue. It needs to be known that it was in February that TV channel WION had reported how the pharmaceutical giant was asking some Latin American countries for military bases and sovereign assets as a guarantee in exchange for supplying vaccines. It struck deals with seven countries, and was in negotiation with Argentina and Brazil.To Argentina, it asked for putting its bank reserves, military bases and embassy buildings as collateral. It asked Brazil for military bases, sovereign assets and an international fund to write off any expenses arising from probable law suits. The deals fell through.Even at that time, Pfizer Chairman Albert Bourla had in a press release claimed how the company was committed to providing equitable and affordable vaccines to people around the globe. It shows the double face of the pharmaceutical industry.Moreover, it is not that the Covid-19 vaccines were produced with the company's own financial resources and inhouse research. These vaccines were, in fact, developed with public money support. For instance, the US, through its Operation Warp Speed, spent $12 billion to finance research, production and delivery of vaccines produced by a handful of companies. The UK Government had provided 84 million pounds for manufacturing support to the University of Oxford and Imperial College, London. As we all know, Oxford University later carved out a global licensing agreement with AstraZeneca. The German Government had given Pfizer’s German partner BioNTech close to $445 million.Further, writing in Project Syndicate, economist Jeffrey D Sachs says: “The Intellectual Property held by Moderna, BioNTech-Pfizer, and others is not mainly the result of those companies' innovations, but rather of academic research funded by the US Government, especially the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The private companies are claiming the exclusive right to IP that was produced largely with public funding and academic science.”Billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates, too, has received brickbats for his recent statement opposing any move to transfer the vaccine technology to developing countries. To say that developing countries do not have the capability to effectively use the technology transfer is not true. There are a number of companies in India, Canada, South Africa and Brazil, among others, which have the potential to ramp up production. The IPR waiver can easily expedite the mass production of generics, making them cheaply available. That’s what the world needs at this critical juncture.Well, Pfizer alone is expected to swell its vaccine profits this year by $15 billion. This comes at a time when a horrible surge in virus infections is likely to push hundreds of millions of people in Global South at risk for want of vaccines and that too cheap.Let’s not forget, 3.22 million people have already perished worldwide from Covid-19. While the patent debate rages on, the big question is how the world can allow a handful of vaccine companies to profit over human lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/greed-triggers-gross-vaccine-inequality-248780
06-05-2021||---||Waging a war against Covid sans war room||India is more than one year into the pandemic and is currently facing one of the sharpest waves of the Covid-19 spread. Time and again, our leaders and government experts have invoked the imagery of war while talking about combating the virus.Prime Minister Modi has constantly exhorted people to join this war against the coronavirus. He spoke about a ‘second big war against corona’ while launching the so-called Tika Utsav (vaccine festival) on April 11, 2021.In one of his speeches in 2020, he also compared the ongoing war against Covid-19 with the two World Wars and called for the same level of preparedness to meet the challenge.If the Prime Minister thinks that we are in a war situation, then he surely must have a war cabinet and a national war room. As a natural corollary, there should be regional war rooms to tackle the situation on specific fronts (states with high burdens, for instance.As of now, we are fighting the war — a mega health emergency — without such instruments that are not just ornamental, but are supposed to represent a cohesive response to the pandemic. No official press release or tweet of Health Minister Harsh Vardhan is complete without parroting this line: “the Prime Minister is personally leading India’s pandemic response” and that “he has been holding review meetings” every few days. At the same time, nobody in the government is accountable to tell the people the outcome of such review meetings as the situation on the ground keeps worsening, be it the ongoing oxygen shortage or the vaccination mess, irrespective of such ‘high-level’ reviews.Other than the Prime Minister, who is credited for ‘personally’ supervising the response, we have some talking heads for television discussions. The most prominent is Dr VK Paul, a member of the NITI Ayog chaired by the PM. He is often assisted by Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, and Dr Balram Bhargava, Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Another official voice is that of Dr K Vijyaraghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser (PSA) to the government. NITI Ayog is a policy think tank, AIIMS is a teaching and research hospital, the ICMR is a research funding agency and the PSA is an advisory outfit.Missing from the public eye is the health ministry — sometimes represented by a joint secretary in press conferences — and its agencies like the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). In addition, national and state disaster management agencies have a role in pandemic management.Among all these agencies and men, there is a plethora of task forces, expert committees, empowered groups and so on. Yet, who reports to whom with what effect is all shrouded in mystery.For instance, nobody in the government is willing to tell who directed the ICMR Director-General to ask clinical trial centres to complete vaccine trials by August 15, 2020, or censor research data on sero-prevalence studies; who asked the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to send millions of doses of vaccines to countries around the globe without accounting for local needs; why the Election Commission of India was not warned by any of the expert committees or scientific advisers about the dangers of an elaborate poll schedule and allowing mega rallies; or, the Uttarakhand Government on promoting the Kumbh mela; who decided to allocate Rs 100 crore to the PSA for vaccine-related work when it is neither a research nor an implementation agency; or, why did the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) not use Rs 900 crore it was given in 2020 to boost the production capacity of vaccine companies.The most important question that begs an answer is: why the epidemiological data of the past year is not being shared with scientists, as demanded by many of them in an open letter last week?While every good step, like the availability of a vaccine, is promptly credited to the PM, there is nobody accountable for the plenty of missteps that have fuelled the deadly second wave. If it is the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) or the PM himself (as implied by the Health Minister and other ministers in their tweets, and BJP in its formal resolution) who are calling the shots, then let’s know who are the health experts, epidemiologists, economists and social scientists in the PMO who are in charge of the pandemic response or are advising him. For that matter, whether there is a document called a national pandemic combat plan or a national vaccination strategy, the country needs to know urgently.All we have is a set of ambiguous guidelines, standard operating procedures, sketchy press releases, and orders issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs — none of which constitutes a national response plan or vaccination strategy. This is clear from the floundering responses of Central Government agencies in various high courts across the country hearing public interest petitions on the pandemic management.Indian and foreign experts have been airing their views in scientific journals and other forums. The members of the India Task Force of the Lancet Covid-19 Commission have also recommended that the PM should convene a national war room consisting of chief ministers and chief secretaries of all high-burden states as well as leaders of all political parties to review the situation daily and coordinate their response. Such a war room should be assisted by an independent technical team of topmost public health experts, economists and social scientists.Along with this, the government should listen to civil society, industry, and religious leaders too — not just as a formality but in order to take their inputs into decision-making. Anthony Fauci, an infectious diseases expert who is the face of pandemic response in the US, has also suggested a national war room to meet the challenge in India. Some states like Kerala have established state-level war rooms to monitor the situation, take decisions and coordinate action in real-time.India needs a credible, transparent and accountable mechanism of decision-making to fight the second wave and be prepared for the next one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/waging-a-war-against-covid-sans-war-room-248747
06-05-2021||---||Not the end of the road||Every election in India brings new insights into the ground-level shifts that are taking place, both in society and in people’s thinking. So also is the case with the just-concluded elections to five Assemblies—West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and the UT of Puducherry.While a study of the poll fineprint will tell us more in the days to come, there are certain broad messages coming through.First, a credible leader, who has a ground connect and puts up a spirited fight, can take on and defeat a Modi-led campaign at the state level with all the might it represents. Mamata Banerjee has demonstrated this in no uncertain terms in West Bengal, increasing her tally to 213 from 211 in 2016 and her vote share.Mamata has always been a fighter. Taking on the Left even while she was inside the Congress in the early nineties, breaking away from the party in 1999, she went on to oust an entrenched Left in 2011, and took the place of the Indian National Congress in her state. Today, the Congress is totally wiped out in West Bengal. She did this without having a political mentor or belonging to a political family. This time she surpassed her earlier performance, taking on the might of the BJP, turning every adversity into an advantage. She took the huge risk of taking the battle into the enemy territory when she decided to contest from Nandigram against her trusted lieutenant-turned-foe, Suvendu Adhikari. Though she lost to him by less than 2,000 votes, she won the larger battle by enthusing her cadre with that decision.The presence of a credible face has also worked in Tamil Nadu, with MK Stalin leading the charge. In Kerala, the victory has as much to do with the emergence of Pinarayi Vijayan as a leader who people could trust as the government’s handling of the Covid challenge. It is not as if Kerala did not have a huge number of cases, but people saw a government that led from the front and put systems into place. The CPM, which believes in a collective leadership, is grappling with this new reality of the Pinarayi Vijayan phenomenon. But it may be possible for the individual and the collective to coexist.Arvind Kejriwal, too, had stopped the Modi juggernaut in 2015, and again in 2020. So had Nitish Kumar in 2015 when he was not with the BJP.Two, Election 2021 has shown, yet once again, that women are emerging as a vote bank. They have ensured Mamata’s victory, just as their votes had prevented Nitish Kumar from going under in the 2020 elections. In the past, women had not voted as a bloc, except during the Ayodhya movement in UP, and earlier in Andhra Pradesh, also in the nineties, supporting prohibition. This is now changing and parties will have to take note of the growing political consciousness among women.Three, there are important lessons for the BJP. The party over-reached in West Bengal. With the PM addressing around 20 meetings and Amit Shah and union ministers camping there for weeks, and Mamata as the target of the onslaught—all of this went to create sympathy for her. She turned it to her advantage, campaigning in a wheelchair after her injury, and speaking about the threat to Bengali culture from ‘outsiders’.The BJP also erred by not taking into account the diversity of India. It mounted a campaign in Bengal, as it might have done in heartland India, with cries of ‘Jai Shri Ram’, which Mamata countered by invoking Durga. Certainly, its tried-and-tested plank of Hindu-Muslim polarisation worked, as in Nandigram, where Mamata lost by less than 2,000 votes, but up to a point. The party may have to go back to the drawing board, not just about ‘where’ it could have done better, but the more fundamental ‘how’ it could have reached more people.Four, Election 2021 points to interesting possibilities for the future. It is clear that the battle against the BJP will have to be led by the regional parties, given the Congress’ poor health, which has once again been highlighted by the five elections. It lost everywhere, except in Tamil Nadu, where it won 16 seats, hanging onto the coattails of the DMK.The Mamata formula — a credible leader, plus a counter offensive — applies also to the Congress. A sharp Twitter onslaught is not a substitute for a comprehensive strategy. Or, indeed, for the leadership impasse that continues to bedevil the Congress.The Opposition’s strategy may have to be the very antithesis of the one being pursued by the BJP — of Hindu nationalism, a strong leader, a uniformity of approach and concentration of power. The Opposition’s politics and approach may have to become more federated, of supporting each other, while evolving a national narrative. The threat to India’s democracy and its institutions, like the Election Commission, which Mamata is focusing on, could become part of that narrative, but it has to be articulated in a way that Indians in far-flung villages also identify with it.The battle in Bengal — and in other states — has focused on issues of sub-nationalism (like Bengali culture coming under threat). In the past, caste alignments (Mandal) managed to counter community consolidation by the BJP (mandir).Can regional aspirations be dovetailed into a national narrative and become a potent mix? Can 2024 become an aggregate of state elections? It is early days yet. And we are not living in normal times. At the end of the day, it will depend on how the CMs, individually and unitedly, tackle the second wave of Covid which is raging and claiming thousands of lives. There are already disturbing warnings of a possible third wave in July which may affect children more. How will they press for a comprehensive vaccine policy that is needed so badly?The new — or old — incumbents in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry have their tasks cut out for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/not-the-end-of-the-road-248712
