07-05-2021||---||What India gains from revitalised ties with UK||India’s May 4 virtual summit with the UK is seen as a breakthrough engagement. The Roadmap-2030 is, perhaps, overambitious. It needs to be remembered that it is a part of a larger continuing engagement. The significant enthusiasm of the UK arises from Brexit and its need for new partnerships. Since the UK is adopting a wider worldview, pivoting to Asia, it is time to have a new measure of the India-UK partnership.Among the earliest initiatives of the UK this year was to re-engage with India. Boris Johnson was to be the chief guest at the Republic Day this year, which was, unfortunately, cancelled due to the pandemic. At the time, Britain applied to join the CPTPP (Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership). It also persuaded ASEAN to give it a dialogue partnership separate from the EU. This is coveted by many European countries, but only Britain has managed to get it.The fields in which India and the UK now want to intensify their relationship include defence and security, trade and investment, people-to-people engagement, climate change, and the pandemic. It is important to understand what India would get from this revitalised relationship. Where defence and security are concerned, the presence of the British Navy in our region and more frequent exercises are of limited significance since the UK has been unable to get China to abide by its agreement on Hong Kong. Their importance is the readiness of the UK to provide defence technology, share intelligence and participation in the Information Fusion Centre which contributes to FOIP (Free and Open Indo-Pacific).Defence technology for the LCA and next generation of air defence ships is important since the Rolls Royce MT30 engines have proven themselves and are used in the Indo-Pacific. HAL and UK Rolls-Royce have expanded their partnership for collaboration to augment the supply chain for both civilian and defence aerospace by establishing a maintenance centre for Adour Mk871 engines to support Rolls-Royce’s global customers. These could be a game-changer for indigenous production of aircraft and ships in India.Britain is not a major trade partner of India. An FTA needs to be carefully crafted to ensure that services and social mobility are adequately covered. These were among the issues which led the UK to seek Brexit. These will remain points of concern for India.The UK proposes to provide 3,000 work visas for Indian professionals for two years as part of the mobility and migration agreement. The price that is being paid for it is that India has finally agreed to readmit people that Britain thinks are illegally residing there. In the past, this has been a major sticking point because the verification of the nationality of these ‘illegal’ people, mainly from Punjab, could not be carried out. The Indian position has been that unless the verification of nationality is confirmed, they would not be readmitted. Their numbers are considerable and not being mentioned in the public domain could impact implementation. The professional visas will be available a year from now.The Education Partnership is important because many Indians still consider the UK a prime destination. When the UK made visa and costs more stringent, students turned to Germany. The UK would like to reclaim the Indian student market and try and make things easier. Many of the professional visas would, perhaps, go to the Indian students in the UK.The UK has publicly announced a 1-billion-pound trade and investment deal with India. A quarter of that is the investment by the SII in a new vaccine production facility in the UK. This looks like a ‘cut direct’ since India would have liked an expansion in India itself.The FDI relationship between India and the UK is quite imbalanced. India is the second largest job creator in the UK, through its FDI. Twitter is agog about an FDI for butter chicken, which would create jobs in the UK! The converse about Indian gains from the UK is not publicised.The question remains: what would India get out of the trade and investment engagement? Most UK investment in India, which is far behind that of Japan, Germany and others, is largely from the people of Indian origin. Will India benefit from a wider FDI, which will support Atmanirbhar Bharat and create manufacturing jobs in India?The worth to India of the investment relationship with the UK is in the services sector and new technologies. Among these are climate change and health-related aspects. Green technology upgrades for existing manufacturing technologies in India could be useful gains for India.The pandemic has created new opportunities which need to be better grasped. The UK is positioning Oxford-AstraZeneca-SII as a model, which could be replicated with British R&D and investment-supported manufacturing in India. If each of these initiatives leads only to reverse FDI into the UK, then interest in the FTA could falter.There are some tripwires. The India-UK relationship relies on the Indian diaspora as a supporter of economic partnership with India. Elements of the diaspora do try to embarrass India in the UK Parliament and outside by invoking domestic Indian issues. This is not going to go away and domestic UK politics will continue to use Indian issues as and when required. The UK needs to be sensitive to this.Another area of concern is the ease with which Indian economic fugitives find it easy to stay in Britain. This is different from the strategic partnership with the UAE, which led to the extradition of several wanted people. The UK needs to realise the value of such actions.Issues of retrospective taxation and non-fulfilment of arbitral awards, like in the cases of Vodafone and Cairns, evoke UK reaction. UK officials have indicated that the nature of doing business in India will depend on the resolution of these problems. Such elements may trip the relationship because these are important issues domestically for India and their public impact is deep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/what-india-gains-from-revitalised-ties-with-uk-249061
07-05-2021||---||Plug critical gaps in logistics & planning||INDIA’s corporate leadership seems to be moving towards the position that there is no alternative to declaring a total lockdown across the country, the way it was done last year, to tackle the ongoing Covid wave. This is the sense that comes through from the observations by CII president Uday Kotak.The received wisdom from last year’s quick and total lockdown was that it did more harm than good and that is why the government at the Centre has till now resisted going in for such a move again. Instead, it has left it to individual states to devise their agenda depending on how seriously they have been affected by the resurgence of infection.Indian industry has, on its own, gone in for lockdowns for short periods at manufacturing plants in order to break the chain of infection and thus save the workers from falling victim to the virus. Plus, through CII, it has offered a plan to tackle the emergency.With material aid coming in from all over the world and corporates coming up to do all they can, it is clear that the critical gaps are in logistics and planning. The oxygen, ventilators and medicines are there. The challenge is to get them in time to those facilities which are in critical need. Only functioning platforms which bring together the supply, demand and logistics can save the day.Planning has to address the immediate crisis at hand — with patients dying outside and in hospitals for lack of oxygen — and also look ahead. There is an urgent need to up the rate of vaccination and testing. While there can be some excuse that nobody expected a second wave of infection to come so suddenly and furiously, there seems to be no excuse for India’s poor record in vaccination. Only 9 per cent have received one shot each, compared to 44 per cent in the case of the US.Vaccination is not going faster primarily because there are not enough shots in hand. It is appalling to be told by the Serum Institute of India (SII), the country’s major vaccine producer, that the current shortage will continue till July when its monthly output will go up from 60-70 million doses to 100 million. Capacity would have been upped earlier had the SII received the orders.And it is not at all clear why even after the government has taken the decision to let in vaccines approved by leading global regulators without going through trials in India, the head of Pfizer had to go on record saying a few days ago, “Unfortunately, our vaccine is not registered in India although our application was submitted months ago.” The Indian government is still discussing an expedited approval pathway even as vaccination of those 18 or above cannot take off smoothly because there simply aren’t enough shots available.The measures outlined by Kotak focus on tackling the medical emergency in hand. The CII will in time be ready with an economic action plan that will have to counter not just one but what seems likely two successive years of severely stymied growth.The scenario that experts have visualised is that around the end of May the virulence of the second wave could begin to subside, allowing for economic activity to be slowly scaled up again. While doing so, it must be ensured that the country never makes the same mistake again. It will have to be assumed that there will come a third wave for which medical contingency plans will have to be kept ready.While micro lockdown restrictions are slowly lifted, it has to be ensured that people don’t say goodbye to basic precautions like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and not gathering in large numbers, particularly indoors. Unless this is done and the country plunges into further rounds of electioneering and large religious gatherings, the future will be doomed.The job of ensuring that precautions continue to be taken should not be left in the hands of the police but given to the volunteers of political parties which are important in individual states. Only they can ensure cooperation without intimidation. Who is missing in action?Delhi is the worst affected city and it has been left to a senior RSS functionary in the Capital, Rajiv Tuli, to bemoan the ‘virtual absence’ of the BJP there. On Twitter he has asked rhetorically, “There is a fire everywhere in Delhi, has any Delhiwalla seen BJP Delhi?” At the end of the day, it is only the political forces that can get people to act the way they should, not the threat of police fines or lathis.Current priorities are clear: tackle the medical emergency, try to ensure that economic activity is not stopped any more than can be helped, and make available some succour to the unorganised worker and his family who are on the edge of starvation.The corporate sector can, for its part, play a somewhat unusual role: come forward and tell the government — we will do the logistics for you so that every Covid patient gets a hospital bed and oxygen and whatever is necessary as a matter of course. The government was goaded into involving the private sector in vaccination after Azim Premji said in late February that 500 million could be vaccinated in two months if the private sector was brought in.Then India had given one shot to only 0.75 per cent of its population; today it is 9 per cent. I took my first Covid shot at a private hospital shortly after Premji spoke up, at the government-approved rate of Rs 250 (in a government hospital it would have been free). I would have gladly paid a multiple of that if only to ease the government’s resource crunch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/plug-critical-gaps-in-logistics-planning-249068
07-05-2021||Mamata Banerjee is back on her feet! We had become accustomed to associating her with a wheelchair. But as soon as it became apparent that her party’s victory in Bengal’s Assembly elections was a ‘thumping’ one she sprang to her feet||The Mamata phenomenon||What mattered most to people like me was that a predominantly Hindu electorate rejected the BJP’s persistent efforts to polarise the voters on communal lines. At every meeting and rally organised by the “party with a difference”, cries of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ rent the air! Appeals to religious sentiment floundered!The Election Commission of India (ECI), whose duty it is to ensure that religion is not used for gathering votes, did punish Mamata when she appealed to Muslims not to split their votes lest the BJP gains but failed to penalise the blatant misuse of the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan by the BJP from the start of the electioneering.But before I proceed further, I beg to tarry a while to apologise to recently retired CEC Sunil Arora for presuming that the story about his being nominated as the Governor of Goa was true! It was first printed in the Free Press Journal of Mumbai and taken up in a big way by social media. Many users of Facebook and Twitter in Goa were convinced that the news was true. It had not been contradicted, though the news was floating for more than a week.When informed by the Editor ofThe Tribune that Sunil Arora had issued a clarification and a denial, I phoned Mr Arora and apologised. That is the decent thing to do when one errs, even though the mistake was genuine and no offence or malice was intended.I heard poll strategist Prashant Kishor on television. He had predicted that the BJP would not get more than a hundred seats. It won only 77! And that despite the Herculean efforts it made over a period of many months and over eight polling phases as demanded by the party from a compliant ECI. Kishor is convinced that the BJP tally would have been much less if the ECI were true to its salt. He was convinced that the ECI behaved like an adjunct of the BJP, like sections of the media, the investigative agencies, the enforcement agencies and, unfortunately at times, the judiciary!With all these forces stacked against her and with the redoubtable Amit Shah concentrating most of his attention on Bengal, visiting each and every district, some even more than once, Didi single-handedly sliced through the attack and won!Suvendu Adhikari, once her right-hand man in the TMC, defeated her by a minuscule margin in his family’s pocket constituency of Nandigram. She nearly succeeded. That alone was quite a feat because the Adhikaris were the undisputed cocks of the walk in Nandigram. Personally I do not consider Mamata’s loss as significant. On the contrary, she should build on the fact that she bearded the lion in his own den and nearly laid him low.My view is that she should now leave the state to one of her more capable lieutenants like Mahua Moitra, for instance, and appear like a phoenix on the national stage, gathering all the regional satraps together to present Modi with a formidable Opposition in his own new Central Vista. Indian democracy will become really vibrant if Modiji and Amit bhai are not allowed to take the people for granted, like they have been wont to do.Some years ago, RSS ideologue Dattatreya Hosabale, who recently replaced Bhaiya Joshi as the Sangh’s General Secretary, had talked about a clean sweep of all states of the Union by the BJP so that the RSS dream of cultural uniformity in Hindu Rashtra would be turned into reality. Didi has put paid to this grandiose scheme. It is she who rules Bengal, as MK Stalin does in Tamil Nadu and Pinarayi Vijayan in God’s Own Country.Each of these regional satraps has his own ego. He or she should be allowed to nurse that ego in his own individual lair. To move on to the national stage, he or she will be welcome to do so if he or she wins the respect and approval of his or her counterparts like Mamata Didi has done after slaying Goliath in Bengal.If there were a concerted and united opposition to Modiji, it would have pounced on his tendency to embrace megalomania, apparent in his speech to the World Economic Forum in Davos earlier this year. Modiji really believed he had vanquished the coronavirus single-handedly in India, even as it raged in the economically advanced countries of Europe and America! The never-ending dollops of praise showered on him daily by assorted sycophants had affected his judgement!He disregarded the voice of science and scientists who had anticipated a second and even a third wave. He and his friend Amit bhai concentrated instead on ‘freeing’ Bengal from Didi’s grasp, with tragic consequences.The countries he preached to have sportingly come forward to forget his vain boasts and rush medicines, vaccines, oxygen and other help to an India reeling under a catastrophe resulting from undue praise that had gone awry.International criticism has been intense and consistent. The Economist of London, The Guardian, the New York Times, the Washington Post and Time magazine have all castigated us for failing to see the writing on the wall and reposing blind faith in the invincibility of our leader. The desi commentators of the liberal variety have not spared Modi for his wrong priorities of pursuing the goal of “one nation, one culture”, ignoring the imperative of people’s lives. From whatever gossip we hear, Modi’s popularity has taken a severe beating.I have no doubt he will recover lost ground but I do hope he gives up the RSS-inspired dream of a Hindu Rashtra with a homogenous culture which is impairing his natural abilities to lead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-mamata-phenomenon-249089
