08-05-2021||---||The vexing complexity of racist politics||Derek Chauvin, a former American police officer, was recently convicted of unintentional second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter for the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis last year. Though the verdict received an earsplitting response that resounded across the world, this is not the end of long-ingrained racism in America, even as Chauvin has now sought a new trial.The shooting of 21-year-old Daunte Wright in the same week as the trial has made many skeptical of any radical change in the mindset of the overzealous police force that is habitual of using pepper spray, tear gas, and rubber bullets at the smallest of provocations. Attacks on mediapersons are common. Chicago recently saw the shooting of Laquan McDonald in the back and the video conveniently disappeared; in North Charleston, we saw on video a police officer shoot Walter Scott in the back, and a Taser, a non-lethal electroshock weapon, dropped near his body to imply theft. All cases ended in a mistrial.Much needs to be done before the deeply ingrained racist mindset can be removed. Racism in America runs deep. We saw the volatile environment created by Donald Trump in the last few years, building his entire campaign on divisiveness, decrying diversity and lamenting that the white people and their culture have been overrun by other races. The voluble diehard had successfully tapped into this seething racial hatred, turning his regime into a flagrantly elitist drive to re-establish American greatness to where and how it was when the whites were dominant, and the colour of one’s skin determined one's status in life. He has given voice to racism that has been unapologetically felt, but not explicitly expressed.Such an ideology of racial divide brings the example of the Nazi race law being modeled on the nature and dimension of the ugly race laws and the research on eugenics in America. The era of the Jim Crow laws in the US provided the basis of the systemic anti-Semitism in Germany, resounding in the infamous Nuremberg Laws, the foremost anti-Jewish legislation, particularly the Citizenship Law and the Blood Law.The inspirations behind such discriminatory legislation were race-based US second-class citizenship and anti-miscegenation, as well as immigration laws. In particular, certain aspects of the US race law struck Nazi observers as alluring, especially the exceptional US practice of criminalising interracial marriage which was the genesis of the Blood Law. Legally enforced race legislation and jurisprudence was the lesson that the Germans picked up from the US.The concern to draw attention to this aspect of Nazism is to throw light on the character of America as a democracy with deep-seated racist undertones. It must not be forgotten that US racism has found a reflection in discriminatory practices across the world: in Europe, Africa, Asia and other multiracial societies which are witness to ethnic and religious strife. In fact, in many European countries, racial persecution predated American racial jurisprudence.It is a fact that on September 23, 1935, a delegation of 45 Nazi lawyers set sail to the US in luxury oceanliner SS Europa. This would be a study trip that would give a deeper understanding of the process of implementation of the anti-Jewish state policy that had taken more than three years for its successful enactment. Unfortunately for the voyagers, their arrival in New York was met by Jewish demonstrators who regarded the rise of the Nazi party, in the words of Louis Brodsky, the Manhattan Magistrate, as “an atavistic throwback to pre-medieval, if not barbaric, social and political conditions,” (New York Times, September 7, 1935).Indeed, white supremacy in the US was no less than Nazism. Understandably, it became a predominant link to worldwide racism since the times of Columbus in the 15th century. Subtle ironies glare us in the face with countries deceitfully breeding racism under the camouflage of equity, freedom and justice. For instance, the anti-slavery symbolism of the Statue of Liberty is often obfuscated and disregarded as an integral part of the national monument's history. More than upholding the torch of universal freedom is the shattered chain under the feet of Lady Liberty greeting millions of exiles and immigrants with hope and opportunity for a better life in America. It rouses the desire for universal freedom. The statue was the idea of Edouard de Laboulayae, French expert on the US Constitution and chairperson of the French Anti-Slavery Society. The Thirteenth Amendment, for which credit goes to him, took up the question of ending slavery in the US and found reaffirmation in the now famous lines, “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,” from a poem by Emma Lazarus, engraved on the plaque suspended on the pedestal of the statue.Sadly, the significance of the statue stands forgotten in the killing of George Floyd, but resurrected in the anti-racist storm that overwhelmed the globe recently. Democracy stands blemished the world over. Similar reactions in South Asia, Turkey, Myanmar and Hong Kong expose deep injustice and disparity under an authoritarian system. For instance, global public perceptions emphasise the infringement of human rights in India as well as the cause of much of the agitation against the right-wing bigotry of the leadership. India’s or America’s standing in the area of human rights is at its lowest.Due to undying racism and the widespread practice of neo-liberalism, inequality is apparent in the areas of education, property, economy, job opportunities, policing, justice, and media. The recent assault on liberal values has become integral to American politics. Institutions of justice have been left battered by brute majoritarianism.It is hoped that the democratic rule of law would return in Joe Biden's tenure. There is some glimmer of hope in the Chauvin verdict, but only if the practice of separating racism from democracy becomes the true commitment to equality.Though liberal-minded leaders have exhorted the world to acknowledge a life of equality and freedom for all, the question of civil rights remains a niggling complexity of race matters.The meaning of freedom calls for an investigation of the legacy of racism that haunts humanity today. And if Martin Luther King, Jr were alive today, he would have demanded not militarism but equality and justice, including free healthcare, for all. He would have demanded, what Howard Zinn says, “Not the puny reforms but fundamental changes” to usher in a secure and decent way of life for all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-vexing-complexity-of-racist-politics-249705
08-05-2021||---||Covid response should be driven by data||The rapidity and scale of the spread of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has caught India by surprise. It has overwhelmed the nation’s overstretched health infrastructure. The hospitals are overflowing with patients, with many more struggling to get admission. Health facilities such as medical oxygen and medicines are running out of supply. Patients are dying in large numbers and the suffering — physical and mental — inflicted on families and society at large is beyond words.How did we get to this situation? Multiple factors are responsible for the current wave. One is the emergence of new strains of the virus, which are at least 50 per cent more transmissible and could, at times, be more deadly than the virus seen in 2020. Besides those originating overseas, we have some homegrown ones, all of which are of great concern.Moreover, many of us, over time, have developed a sense of complacency and pandemic fatigue. People are no longer following the basic Covid-prevention protocols such as mask-wearing, social distancing and hand hygiene. We have had many social functions, festivals, and sporting events, all of which created an environment conducive for the virus to spread more quickly and widely.Young people seem to suffer from the delusion that ‘it cannot happen to me’ and do not follow the appropriate behaviour, thereby putting the elderly at home at risk. Mass gatherings during the Kumbh Mela and electioneering in four states and a UT have not helped matters at all.Also, we did not learn from Europe and the US that were battered by various waves of the pandemic. We did not utilise the relative period of lull before the second wave hit us to strengthen our pandemic-preparedness and response capacities, including the ramping up of health facilities and supplies such as oxygen that could save lives. Precious time was lost due to administrative apathy and lack of accountability.So, how do we now tame this wave? First, to face this public health emergency, we need to work in solidarity and with mutual support. The immediate priority is to create makeshift hospitals by building new structures or turning the existing ones such as schools, banquet halls, hotels etc into hospitals or care centres to cater to the huge surge in cases. At the same time, make all-out efforts to procure enough supplies of hospital beds, oxygen, PPEs, medicines, and ventilators. All this must be done in a war footing.We also need enough caregivers such as doctors, nurses, paramedical workers, etc. At present, there are not enough of them available and hence we need to find innovative solutions. The governments must not only fill the vacant posts of doctor and nurse without delay but also urgently enroll for Covid hospital duty the final-year MBBS or nursing students who are doing internship or are about to enter it.Doctors in private practice and those retired from government service and have received the two doses of vaccine can be roped in to work in Covid hospitals to tide over the crisis, with training and generous incentives.The second priority is to scale up the vaccination drive. Presently, we have vaccinated only 2 per cent of our population. Comparatively, with 40 per cent people in the United States vaccinated, the numbers of deaths and hospitalisations there have diminished remarkably.We must do everything possible to prevent or reduce deaths from Covid-19 and save lives. Given that the elderly and those having chronic non-communicable diseases, referred to as comorbidities, are most at risk for severe disease and mortality, attention is needed to protect this vulnerable group.Thirdly, we must remind ourselves that ‘prevention is better than cure’. We need to focus on behavioural change, communication, trust-building and community engagement. A societal approach is the bedrock of Covid prevention. The people of India must not fail in their social responsibility and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour: by using masks, maintaining physical distancing, frequently washing hands and avoiding crowded areas, including social gatherings.Finally, all those eligible must get themselves vaccinated. Community-based organisations must help bring about behaviour change in the community with inter-personal approach.Fourthly, the pandemic response should be driven by science and data. The government must bring in more transparency by sharing real-time epidemiological and genome-sequencing data and place it in the public domain. It must embrace modern technology such as big data management, artificial intelligence and communication and information technology for good impact. International collaboration and coordination in science and technology can help in the rapid sharing of disease data and scientific progress, ensuring development and equitable access to new diagnostics, treatment and vaccines.In the intermediate-to-long term, the government must invest more in the public health system, the central and fundamental building block of which is the public health workforce, in particular epidemiology and laboratory services. This can help us build public health surveillance that is sensitive enough to detect an outbreak early on and initiate a response rapidly so that firefighting comes into play locally before it turns into a wildfire.The strategy of ‘test, trace and isolate’ is critical for this purpose, especially at the district and primary healthcare levels.Finally, all sectors, be it government, private, civil society, academia, media and the community, must face this national crisis together and in a coordinated manner. As a resilient society, we have faced crises before and together we can overcome this one too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-response-should-be-driven-by-data-249704
08-05-2021||If the General Election were to be held now||The truth hits home||Is this the 2011 moment for the BJP? This is the primary question that begs an answer. Just two years after an impressive victory — re-election of the Manmohan Singh government and rout of the NDA — UPA-II began unravelling in 2011, reeling under the corruption baggage of UPA-I. Along with corruption allegations, a big setback for the UPA was the 2010 Commonwealth Games fiasco, which turned out to be a cause for national humiliation. The thin-skinned, post-colonial people, obviously, could not brook the scale of the disgrace brought in by the corrupt conductors of the international mela. There began the end of the UPA, which got hastened by Hazare, Ramdev, Swamy, Kejriwal & Co, ably promoted by infighting and leaks from the government, and the real force-multiplier — the TV media.Well, the Commonwealth Games was only a ludicrous example of an inept government inviting its own demise. But the Covid management failure is a national tragedy of unseen proportions, forcing India to seek global help with a hat in hand. Now, Kejriwal is in power, Hazare is in his village, Swamy is a BJP parliamentarian, Ramdev is heading an FMCG giant and there are no crusaders, no flag-waving messiahs, no activist-anchors urging their viewers to become volunteers; there are only wailing orphans, gasping patients and a nation in mourning. The international media are covering our Covid wards and crematoria better, for some of us are scared to step in fearing infection and death, and the rest do not want to tell the real story.Yet, the message of the lockdown misery and the ineptitude thereafter seems to have seeped into the masses of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and some of the UP panchayats. The vote against the BJP in these states is definitely a vote against the inefficiency of the Central government and the BJP leadership, which took on the local satraps in a one-on-one tackle. Nowhere, except perhaps in Assam, did the BJP fight on the strength of its local unit. It was the Central leadership that fought the local anti-BJP politician. And in these Assembly elections, the people got an opportunity to express their displeasure at what the Delhi High Court termed the failure of the Indian State. That, in fact, is the major contributing factor towards the loss of vote share for the BJP in West Bengal and Kerala. While the party lost about two per cent votes from its tally in 2019 in West Bengal, it lost over three per cent and the only seat it held in Kerala.It was not religious polarisation that won the General Election for the BJP in 2014 but the promise of “achhe din” — a well-marketed Gujarat model of development. Hindutva was not even an add-on. In 2019, of course, the Pulwama attack and the Balakot counter-strike scored over all other issues. In the height of war-like fever, all other issues and particularly the Opposition leadership seemed insignificant. But in 2021, there is only one issue — Covid. The Central government’s report card is as miserable as the death tally of the second surge. The Central government did not come across as any better than its local opponent. In fact, in Kerala, despite facing disgraceful corruption allegations, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sailed through because his performance during the pandemic was exceptional. His government’s management helped reduce the number of fatalities and his Covid kits and welfare pension ensure that nobody goes hungry during days of joblessness. This was in stark contrast to the news trickling in from Delhi, the seat of the Central government, or from the Hindi heartland. The Gujarat model does not hold good any longer; from now on the BJP would be judged on Covid management.Once again, these elections proved that Ram cannot win the BJP an election without promise of prosperity, good governance or minority consolidation. It is advantageous for the BJP if Muslims en bloc vote for the Opposition because only then can it successfully play its own Hindutva identity card. For instance in Assam, the Congress’ alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front came in as a godsend for the BJP. Apart from all the organisational inefficiencies of the Congress, its alliance with the Muslim party helped the BJP bring in a counter-consolidation. It did not work in West Bengal because Muslims were voting not for a cleric but for Mamata Banerjee. If Mamata had attempted the Left-Congress blunder of aligning with a Muslim cleric, the results would have been closer to those in Assam.Minority consolidation or overt appeasement triggers Hindutva sentiments and in its absence the BJP is forced to fight elections on issues of governance or even sub-nationalism, as was evident in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and even Kerala. Suddenly, a vote against the BJP acquired the character of a vote in favour of Bengali/Tamil/Malayali pride accentuated by inherent Indian diversities. The Left in Kerala deftly turned the minorities’ anxiety regarding Hindutva into sub-regional nationalism and a celebration of Malayali-ness. In Tamil Nadu, despite aligning with the ruling party and therefore winning four Assembly seats, the BJP’s vote share did not increase from that in previous elections. Clearly, governance matters more than the might of the Central government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-truth-hits-home-249660
