09-05-2021||Keep your heart in a box for now. Protect it from shattering every day||Death all around, but seize fundamental right to be well||“I don’t know what to do,” he replied. “Where do I start from?”“When you are in front of the camera again, the words will come on their own. Grief shows us the way.”In my head I continued this conversation as I returned to my own rhythm of recovering from Covid-19 at home. Grief debilitates us but it also illuminates the path ahead, inspiring us to find purpose in our loss. Rage offers the burst of energy to smash through seemingly immovable barriers. Disease brings a temporary loss of agency, but it also reminds us of the privilege of being well and our responsibility to be useful when we are strong.While the systems have always been dysfunctional and are now being exposed as apathetic and criminal as well, the shock of witnessing large-scale devastation during this second wave of Covid-19 in India offers us a chance to evaluate our own willing participation in a world order that has always excluded the poor, the underprivileged and minority communities. Many of us are experiencing the helplessness of loss of privilege for the first time. Our loved ones are sick, but we cannot be by their side physically. We may have health insurance and be able to afford medical interventions, but our country’s lack of preparedness has left us gasping for breath.Doctors and analysts remind us that during this second wave, the bigger killer is not the virus, it is lack of basic healthcare facilities — the most glaring among them being access to medical oxygen. The record-breaking infection rates and mass deaths in India have been triggered by super-spreader events like election rallies, the Kumbh mela and other gatherings like weddings and pilgrimages.The best news that we can get amidst this avoidable tragedy is that civil society has stepped up across the nation in solidarity with each other. Gurdwaras, mosques and churches have been converted into makeshift medical centres. Social media platforms have become the communication channel that people in crisis and volunteers are using to create support networks and exchange life-saving information about hospital beds and oxygen availability. Civil society groups are coordinating efforts to create the medical infrastructure that the working poor in urban and rural areas can access. Ambulances, oxygen concentrators and oxygen kits are being acquired by citizens and distributed to those in desperate need.The worrying news is that experts predict that a third wave may be even deadlier than the first two. What are the abiding lessons we must take forward from here?We need to keep pressuring our government, both at the local and national level, to wake up from their callous apathy and ramp up facilities equitably. We also need to stay alert and participatory as citizens of any working democracy must. We cannot afford to let our guard slip again. We must subvert attempts to distract us from real issues of governance with communal and divisive messaging.We are living in the season of our greatest despair, but this is also a time that has shaken us out of our helplessness. We have the right to be angry. We also have the right to be happy, to protect and nurture ourselves. One does not cancel out the other. Despite being oppressed by death, fear, helplessness and lies, we must seize the fundamental right to be well. To be kind and patient with each other. To come together again as communities of support. To enjoy moments and laugh out loud.Still recovering from my own bout of Covid-19, I had worried that I may not be able to submit this column. A voice from within reminded me that I must show up, despite the fatigue, the aching body and a general sense of disrepair. In a crisis, we learn to compartmentalise. We owe it to each other to speak up with clarity. To remind, to reassure, to recover. To live to fight another day.— The writer is a filmmaker and author. natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/death-all-around-but-seize-fundamental-right-to-be-well-250171
09-05-2021||“In the dark timesWill there also be singing?Yes||Looking for a way forward||We are trapped in the middle of a maelstrom, and can slowly feel ourselves being sucked deeper and deeper in the abyss of darkness. The images of people dying — with desperate and helpless family members scurrying for basic requirements — assault our sense of humanity. One feels stretched and shipwrecked with the sinking feeling of many things that one held precious being lost. This makes one turn inwards and search for those spaces within one’s imagination and ferret out something precious, something human. Sometimes I wonder, is all this really happening or are we imagining this apocalypse!The arts have been a survival tool in these terrible times, for not only the artist, but also for many others. The isolation has made me value the role of art and made it central to my sanity. Constraints in physical movement allowed me, through art, to move in fictional spaces. A favourite book, film, music or poem gave access to exotic spaces, enter other lives, sometimes far removed from ours.A sense of tomorrow ceased to exist. It’s all in the ‘now’, and the ‘now’ is fragile, tenuous, a puff of wind. Everything looks the same but in that sameness, there is unfamiliarity, alienation, a sense of distance that cannot be fully comprehended or grasped.Artists have made artworks during this isolation. It is the oxygen that the artist needs to survive, to feel the pulse of his being.It might be too early to write that book, paint that picture or make that play capturing the anxiety and fear that is being experienced. Individually and collectively, more time is needed to mourn a world that has passed us by, see it dissolve, merge with the shadows and create sepulchral images on the bare walls of our lives. How to give shape and form to experiences that are so close to the bone? A question that assails and haunts most of us — can art in any way capture the horror, the pain and the grief of the actuality? Yet, it is impossible to remain indifferent to the unfolding tragedy. It permeates into one’s being and becomes the lens through which reality is reassembled and reviewed.During these hard times, I made a play called ‘Black Box’. The crumbling of the edifice of belief and faith become the all-encompassing emotion, and I found resonance in the words of Charles Dickens’ ‘A Tale of Two Cities’.“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredibility, it was the season of light, it was the season of darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair. We had everything before us, we had nothing before us.”As an artist, we respond to the times, not always as a chronicler of the times, but as a witness. While making the work, the fear of the virus was all-pervasive, the loneliness of being ‘home alone’, the desperation to reach out, to speak, to connect, were manifest during the process of working.Images of people going home, trudging along highways and on railway tracks with a trunk on their back, homeless migrants, transportation shut down, everything immobilised — mobility too is immobile — clung to my consciousness with the protagonist of the play repeating constantly: “I can’t go, can’t reach.”A solo performance without text can be tough. Words, numbers and dates became the text, and the running leitmotif of the play. Numbers created conversation that ranged from anger to wonderment, humour, loss, helplessness and disgust. A language of numbers was created. Simple dialogues like ‘Let’s go for a walk’, ‘Hello, is anyone there?’ were played and replayed. But within that hopelessness, the actor created affirmations and set up a stage.What else can an actor do but tell stories? Sing songs of kings and courtiers, of deals within deals, anything and everything that is required to keep the imagination and sanity intact and alive. His audience is the dog and the sparrow.I realised that today, rather than pick up a big thick book to read, I gravitate towards a poem. Short stories have taken precedence over novels. I am unsure if the deadly virus will give me a tomorrow to finish that book, see the series on Netflix, or watch my lemon tree flower. I also understood that no matter how savage the times may be, we must sing and dance, write and share the poem that will keep us ‘alive’ and become the catalyst to move forward. Even if that forward is an empty road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/looking-for-a-way-forward-250172
09-05-2021||Until Pat Cummins showed the way||Cometh the hour, Cummins the man||Making money for those who already are super-rich is the IPL’s raison d’etre; it, too, serves as a plaything of the rich and the famous. The money, directly or indirectly, comes from fans of cricket, who buy stuff that the players peddle. This is business, and it’s OK — but it was beginning to appear sordid in these terrible times.Cummins, who turns 27 today, provided the IPL an alternate vision — of sharing rather than merely taking. On April 26, he donated $50,000 for procuring oxygen for India’s hospitals. The idea caught on — several other individuals followed in his footsteps, including Sachin Tendulkar and Shikhar Dhawan, and IPL teams followed suit.Cummins said that halting the IPL due to the pandemic was not the answer — he was right, of course, for the tournament does provide employment to thousands of people, including cricketers, coaches, support staff, catering staff, hospitality and security industry, bio-bubble creators, etc. By starting a trickle of funds for Covid relief, Cummins ennobled the IPL — surely a first in its history of 13 years.Cricket seems frivolous right now, as do so many other things that we deem important in ‘normal’ times. Yet cricket for charity is a noble idea; just as the Concert for Bangladesh in August 1971, in very sad and bloody times, was a noble idea; as the Live Aid Concert in 1985, which raised $127 million for famine-stricken Africa, was a noble idea. Cricket too has done its bit in the past, as in January 2005, when matches were organised under the World Cricket Tsunami Appeal to raise funds for those affected by the Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004. Then, for the sake of subcontinental solidarity, in 1996 a combined team of India and Pakistan played Sri Lanka in Colombo, to show that the country was safe for cricket.Moral compassCummins provided a moral compass to the IPL, and several players and teams saw light.Why did it take an Australian — who never peddled religion or nationalism — to stir the IPL’s soul? It’s a very difficult question. It’s not that Indians don’t do charity; but it’s obvious that we’re inured to suffering.For long, visitors to the country have wondered at the Indian people’s equanimity — the ability to deal with terrible misfortunes and just carry on. I’m reminded of a story from the December 1999 hijacking by terrorists of an Indian Airlines airplane to Kandahar. One of the passengers in the plane was a billionaire from Italy — Roberto Giori, aka the Currency King, who had a near monopoly on the world’s currency printing business.Giori was amazed by the calmness of Indian passengers on the plane — some of them played antakshari, sang songs, and birthdays were celebrated during the eight-day ordeal.Giori said later: “What I experienced on the plane has changed me forever… I don’t know what it is: Hinduism, the so-called fatalism of Indians. But the way the passengers stayed so calm throughout, even the children, was exemplary.”Not caring too much for one’s life, or the lives of others — is that good? The West, most of which believes in Nietzsche’s words that “God is dead”, puts greater emphasis on the life we know than the hereafter that’s unseen and unproven. Maybe that’s not a bad thing, after all.Covid-19 shutdownIt’s terrible that the IPL’s bio-bubble was pierced by Covid-19 just when Cummins had given a good answer to the increasingly insistent question: why must the IPL be played during these terrible times?The shutdown has caused embarrassment to the Indian cricket board. Its fabled money, or political connections, couldn’t provide immunity from Covid. The rich and beautiful are hiding their faces. Religious places are shut. The best hope is provided by science and scientists and doctors. There is a lesson in this for us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cometh-the-hour-cummins-the-man-250173
09-05-2021||At the moment it is hard to point out victors or the vanquished in our land. The virus has beaten us all. There has never been a worse time for the country. Kurukshetra and its 18-day war||Electoral battle & virus toll||But willy-nilly electoral battles are fought on the ground. Hence I was quite disappointed to find analysts like the once Prasar Bharati chairman shifting the scene to some mythical war in the skies — Durga Ma versus Jai Sri Ram. For too long has Hindu iconography dominated Indian thought, and even, by extension, Indian politics. Forget your legends, demons, demon slayers, Mahishasur Mardini. Get back to real struggles on the ground, and fight for the have-nots, the rice-less poor. That’s what Mamata Banerjee did — stay on the land, campaign, withstand the bullying. All bullying gets an element of untruth mixed in it, often unknowingly. Expose it. Watch the air armadas descend from Delhi, surfeit with well-fed denizens from the Hindi heartland, Gujarat, watch the Bishts from Pauri Garhwal — lately transferred to Gorakhpur — sport their ochre and grimace at this lone woman. Incidentally, is the Delhi party paying for all the air traffic they are taking part in? The money needs to come from party coffers, not government treasuries. (For the BJP, that would mean NRIs.)And she was vilified. Madam, you’ll be on the road, come May 2. There will be no Didi. She is in the chair, all the bluster from the opposing throats has ended in fluff. The BJP had all the odds in their favour. They had the backing of the Centre, the most partisan of Election Commissions we have had the misfortune of seeing. They had money power, were coming down a winning streak. And they had a fairly thriving communal agenda which had seen them through. But they got beaten on economic issues, social and communal issues. There was not an idea they could add to the old wornout ‘minority appeasement’ argument of LK Advani, who has to bear a lot of blame for all the riots that have befallen on this land of ours. The Hindi heartland was looking for a beating in the East, and it got it true and proper.Their tactics were all wrong. They got it wrong in the insider-outsider (Bohiragoto) streetfight. They got it wrong with turncoats. Any rickshaw-puller could have told them that turncoats are not to be trusted. Many of them had tainted records which had brought disrepute to the TMC itself. According to press reports, 148 tickets were given to such people and only six of them won their seats. That should be a record of sorts. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh blamed ‘campaign policies’ for the debacle.The TMC had worked hard, driven by their leader. The manifesto promised five lakh jobs a year. Even if this sounded overblown, the intent was there. And the farmer’s income had been raised almost three times. Poverty had been reduced by 40 per cent. Yes, much of this is blown, but something of this drive remained on the ground. There was free door-to-door ration delivery, which won grudging acceptance from the hard-bitten saffronites. The poor loudly claimed that they got rice during the lockdown ‘when we had no money’. The poor don’t forget, and a hungry stomach has a good memory. And no one needs to teach us gratitude. It comes naturally to us.Lastly, there were two schemes for women — the Kanyashree, the cash transfers to the girl child, and the Rupashree, a financial grant of Rs25,000 at the time of the adult daughter’s wedding. Did the Congress even think of such schemes? There lies the difference between the two. The Congress needs to recognise that their three are no match for the 20-odd intellectuals and old workers on the other side. The three have to let go of the reins. You can’t hold on to them forever, on the strength of genealogy and dynasty.These elections have long-term effects on the polity, which in a matter of seven years is no longer a fight between two parties, two ideological arms, one passionate, one tired, willing to let go, unsure even whether it wants to hold on to; one a passionate party with a wrong reading of history and the supposed wrongs it has heaped on it. Ideology cannot be sorted out easily, especially if it is tied to history, the invader from the North armed with his iconoclasm, carrying away the loot and also ruling over the people. There are also the language and cultural spikes, invasions, the Hindutva knock on the secular door. The South stands vulnerable, land to graze your cowherds. To borrow a syndrome from Pakistan, it is the Zia-ul-Haq freedom, he could do what he liked with Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.One has only to contrast the scenes — the end of the UPA-II, where Sonia Gandhi seemed to have wrested all powers, saddled with files she did not know what to do with, and a somnolent Manmohan Singh in the background. And watch the second coming of Modi, the bravado, Kashmir, CAA, and the chipping and chopping of the polity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/electoral-battle-virus-toll-250174
