10-05-2021||---||America’s wasted Afghan war of 20 years||In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terror attacks in New York and Washington and the death of around 3,000 office-goers and rescue workers in the twin towers, the then United States President George W Bush rushed the mighty American commando forces, with NATO in tow, into the target-impoverished, Taliban-ruled Afghanistan.Initially, the Bush Administration asked the Pakistan interlocutors to persuade the Taliban, who had been in power in Afghanistan since 1996, to hand over the prime suspect of the terror attack, Osama bin Laden, the leader of Al Qaida. The Taliban mulishly refused. And the American troops poured in.There were warnings then that it would not be an easy war for the Americans in Afghanistan. Two other great powers before them — the British in the late 19th century and the Soviet Union in the 1980s — had failed in their attempts to control the country.It seemed that the Americans had had the last laugh when the Taliban resistance collapsed. A lot many of the Taliban troops were captured along with Al Qaeda men. In violation of international law, these prisoners of war were transferred to Guantanamo Bay and other undisclosed centres of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) — the American spy oprganisation — in different parts of Europe and in some other places like Egypt.American troops scoured the Tora-Bora mountains and caves there in search of Osama bin Laden, but they could find no trace of the man.It was only a decade later that the American Navy Seals swooped on Osama’s hideout at Abbotabad in Pakistan, where he was found with his young wife and children onMay 2, 2011. Instead of being imprisoned and brought to trial, he was killed without ceremony and his body was thrown into the sea.Perhaps, the Americans feared that he would spill the beans about his American connections in his war against the Soviets in Afghanistan in the 1980s.It is estimated that in the years between end-2001 and up till now, more than 2,000 US defence personnel, nearly 70,000 Afghan security men and about 47,000 Afghan civilians have died in the war.The economic cost of the war is estimated to range between $800 and over $500 billion.These are but statistics. There is more brutality to the war in this poorest of the countries in terms of psychological scars of the young and old, and families and communities which were caught between the Taliban, the US-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and the Afghan government.Against this background comes the decision of American President Joe Biden to bring home the remaining 2,500 American soldiers stationed in Afghanistan and make way for the return of the Taliban.In effect, America has lost the war against the Taliban in the same way that it had lost the war against the Vietcong in Vietnam.Unsurprisingly, pundits in America and America-friendly pundits in India are literally skirting the issue of the return of the Taliban to the mainstream Afghan politics.The America-supported democratically elected government of President Ashraf Ghani is tottering in the face of the imminent dominance of the Taliban. Despite the ostensible international conferences in Doha, Moscow and Istanbul among the stakeholders, which include Pakistan, China, Iran, the US, Russia — and not India — the Taliban had been insisting that the American forces must leave Afghanistan before the puritanical Islamist group accepted the terms of peace and participated in the established political system.There is, however, no explicit guarantee that the Taliban will conform to the norms of the post-2001 democratic Afghanistan.It became clear after the Taliban regime was dislodged in late 2001 that there could be no political stability in Afghanistan without the participation of the Taliban. The armed Islamist group had sustained a credible insurgency over the past two decades, threatening the national and provincial governments of democratic Afghanistan. It is the sustained insurgency of the Taliban that has forced the Americans to bring them to the negotiating table.It is indeed a matter of speculation as to the role Pakistan played in nudging and propping up the Taliban. It is a known fact that the Taliban, when they ruled Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001, were amply supported by Pakistan, both diplomatically and materially.The Americans were very much aware of the Pakistan-Taliban nexus.There is general hostility towards Pakistan among the people of Afghanistan because they are aware that it is Pakistan that facilitated the Taliban’s repressive regime.Pakistan, in its desperate search for strategic depth, wants a Pakistan-pliant regime in Kabul.The reason for India’s opposition to the Taliban is the Islamist group’s Pakistan connection. That is why India's official stance over the last many years has been that there cannot be a distinction between good Taliban and bad Taliban, and that the Taliban are bad per se because of their ultra-Islamist tenor and their terrorising tactics against their own people.Pakistan has been trying to convince India through the backchannels that India should not maintain a rigid stance towards the Taliban, and that New Delhi should see the change in the attitude of the Taliban. This was nearly a decade ago.For two decades now, the Americans have tried to convince the world, including India, about the spectre of Islamic terrorism threatening the global order. It turns out that Islamic terrorism was only a pretext to unleash the American firepower in a post-Cold War world. Now that China has emerged as the new ideological adversary, the Americans are only too eager to turn their back on the spectre of Islamic terrorism because it was just a spectre all along, and it was the proverbial Frankenstein's creature created to unseat the Ba'ath governments of Saddam Hussein in Iraq and Bashar Assad in Syria.Saddam Hussein has gone, but Bashar Assad remains. And chaos reigns in the Iraq-Syria region, and the Americans have burnt their fingers with the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS).At least in the case of the Taliban, the Afghan Islamist group has no extra-territorial ambitions like the ISIS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/americas-wasted-afghan-war-of-20-years-250569
10-05-2021||---||Let’s fight Covid crisis calmly & collectively||In Haryana, the official figure for Covid-related deaths in Rohtak district is 267, whereas there have been more than 40 deaths in a single village, Titoli, in a fortnight. Reports in other journals and opinions of several independent experts testify to the discrepancies and distortions in the official figures of deaths. The shifting stance of the government in the courts, the media and the public discourse about Covid-related aspects add to the pain and anguish. The people are shaken by the deaths, disease, dearth and deprivation.The catastrophic second wave of Covid-19 is surging ahead at an alarming pace like a tsunami and has engulfed the entire country. More than four lakh people have tested positive in a single day! Thousands are dying every day for the want of oxygen, medicines, drugs, vaccines and hospital beds etc.The Allahabad High Court has observed that “death of Covid patients just for non-supplying of oxygen to the hospitals is a criminal act and not less than a genocide” by those responsible for the supply of medical oxygen. Nothing more needs to be added. The second surge of this pandemic has unmasked the ‘saints and swines’ simultaneously.Let us leave all this behind, no blame game, no politics, no panic, too. It can be left to the future to arbitrate whose insensitivity or incompetence, mistake or misdeed, had failed or faltered us.For the present, we are to face this horrendous reality collectively, calmly and concertedly. Now, all our efforts, all our emotions, all our knowledge and all our resources should be centered and concentrated on saving the lives of our people. Staying alive should be our only motto.As a first step to combat Covid comprehensively and credibly, it needs to be acknowledged and accepted that truth, transparency and trust — the hallmarks of good governance — are no less important than testing, tracing and treating the virus. Hiding the facts, fudging the figures deliberately by the government to avoid criticism is the root cause of all evils. It not only hampers the preparedness but also shakes the trust of the people in the government.Like respect, trust also has to be earned. It is public trust on which the edifice of governance and institutions rests. Moreover, the people cannot be protected by telling lies or creating illusions. For example, as per a report published in a newspaper (April 16, 2021), the official death toll in the Gujarat government’s health bulletin was 78, but 689 bodies were either cremated or buried following Covid protocols. The trend and tendency of undercounting the deaths prevails in all states.In Haryana, the official figure for Covid-related deaths so far in Rohtak district is 267, whereas there have been more than 40 deaths in a single village, Titoli, in a fortnight. Reports in other journals and opinions of several independent experts testify to the discrepancies and distortions in the official figures of deaths.The shifting stance of the government in the courts, the media and the public discourse about Covid-related aspects add to the pain and anguish. The people are shaken by the deaths, disease, dearth and deprivation.The second wave of Covid-19 differs from the first wave in two main aspects. One, its speed, spread and penetration is much more than that of last year. This time, it has reached rural areas, which have neither the medical infrastructure nor preparedness to handle the pandemic. Two, the patients infected by this variant of the virus need more oxygen and hospitalisation, which are inadequate.Haryana has only 43 dedicated Covid hospitals (of which only 12 are government institutions). They are equipped with 3,397 isolation beds, 602 ICU beds and 263 ventilators for a total of 1,15,842 active Covid patients. Therefore, the healthcare system has crumbled and collapsed.This is a huge crisis and this government cannot handle it on its own. We desperately need an accountable framework for healthcare administration.For that purpose, I suggest:In the end and in essence, to quote Viktor Frankl, “The world is in a bad state, but everything will become still worse unless each of us does his best.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lets-fight-covid-crisis-calmly-collectively-250568
10-05-2021||---||Why India is getting bad press||There is only one explanation why India’s Acting High Commissioner in Canberra and China’s Consul General in Sydney are on the same page, against the Australian media. Crossed stars? Bad fate? When Communist China and democratic India are together, but separately accusing the Australian media of malice, slander, ignorance and prejudice, it just does not seem right. This ought not be their common fight, but unfortunately, that is what it has become.Few officials from the Indian side now explain their government’s viewpoint to the global media. So the foreign media delivers its judgement on India ex parte by default.India has got off better than China in this unedifying fight. The Daily Telegraph, which calls itself the ‘voice of Sydney’, recipient of the Chinese diplomat’s letter to the Editor, tore the Consul General to shreds in a two-page spread by way of reply. It printed a point-by-point rebuttal of allegations in the letter that the Telegraph was seeking ‘attention and more Internet hits’ with its ‘false’ reporting of China’s coronavirus baggage.Nothing even remotely similar happened to India’s Acting High Commissioner who wrote to The Australian, a mass circulation paper. This is to India’s credit. It demonstrates respect for India’s democratic values, even if there are strong feelings in the Australian public domain, especially its media, that New Delhi messed up its response to the second wave of the pandemic. It is because Australians value India’s free speech and its free media that its diplomat got off scot-free, devoid of the public humiliation reserved for China.Australia’s gatekeepers of free and open public discourse believe that Acting High Commissioner Palaniswamy Subramanyan Karthigeyan has a right to reply to the newspaper’s charges that ‘arrogance, hyper-nationalism and bureaucratic incompetence have combined to create a crisis of epic proportions in India’, with a crowd-loving Narendra Modi, while citizens suffocate from lack of oxygen. No such right of reply for Consul General Gu Xiaojie.Since the Australian media is receptive to an Indian diplomat’s right to reply to allegations against his Prime Minister or his country, what would have been a better course for Karthigeyan in dealing with the damaging report in The Australian? In the old days, when the media and India’s government officials were not adversaries, the Acting High Commissioner would have invited the newspaper’s Editor-in-Chief, or more likely, the journalist who wrote the searing indictment of India for a drink. While lifting elbows through the evening, the Indian diplomat would have put across his government’s point of view.That no longer happens in Indian embassies and high commissions abroad, with rare exceptions. No wonder then, that Modi and India now routinely get bad press in most parts of the world. Few officials from the Indian side now explain their government’s point of view to the global media. So the foreign media delivers its judgement on India ex parte by default.During my three decades as a foreign correspondent in various parts of the world, Indian deputy chiefs of missions, with their ears to the ground, have been the go-to persons for the media in the countries where they are posted: not just for stories on India, but for exchanges of diplomatic gossip and behind-the-scenes goings-on in royal courts, presidential palaces and local foreign offices. Alas, no more. First, the then External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj emasculated the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) by making it their main job to repatriate a distressed Indian home or to send the body of an Indian home. Simultaneously, the perception grew in the IFS that journalists are enemies and that their careers could be damaged if a RAW station chief reported back to the headquarters that such and such a diplomat was hobnobbing with local journalists.In Washington, in the years when praise for India was fulsome in the US media, I have watched venerated American editors, senior opinion writers and diplomatic correspondents hang on to narrations of events in Afghanistan within the India-backed Tajik and Uzbek militias under the veil of secrecy, events about which the US media had no clue. Journalists invited to one deputy chief mission’s house for dinner would often stay past midnight exchanging stories with him from the time he was Joint Secretary for Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran. Because he had been on the ground in fractious Afghan provinces at a time when the writ of the central government did not run beyond Kabul’s city limits, he had anecdotes which the American media valued. Such give and take gave India good press in the US.Then there was a minister (Press) at the Indian embassy in Washington who was a drinking buddy of every leading anchor on major American TV channels, and was on first-name terms with opinion-page editors of major US newspapers. His relationship with them began when he was only a First Secretary at the Indian embassy in Warsaw and some of these journalists were posted in Poland, where the Iron Curtain was unravelling under solidarity trade union leader Lech Walesa. When he was later posted to Tehran, the relationship continued because the US media had no access to Iran. This diplomat, who later set a record as the longest-serving spokesman of the Ministry of External Affairs, proved to be such an asset for PMs Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh that they could get their views into the global media.It was such work by media-friendly diplomats that made editors from Australia to the US realise that India is not China, a notion that is now at risk as the events in Australia demonstrate. Media relationships are not built in a day. But it is easy to destroy those relationships in no time and they are not easily restored. No wonder that Modi is getting bad press abroad.Tailpiece: Karthigeyan’s predicament in Canberra was brought about by a quirk of fate. He was posted as High Commissioner to Fiji in January. Out of a sense of loyalty for his boss, High Commissioner Gitesh Sharma, he stayed on in Canberra till Sharma retired on March 31. Otherwise, Karthigeyan would have been quietly at peace in enchanting Fiji instead of being at the receiving end of bad publicity for his unimaginative letter to the Australian editor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-india-is-getting-bad-press-250567
