11-05-2021||---||Onus on Rahul Gandhi to take up the gauntlet||A moment of reckoning has come for Rahul Gandhi. The former AICC chief has to take a call whether he wishes to return as the 87th president of the grand old party or allow a non-Gandhi to head the Congress.The party’s interim chief, Sonia Gandhi, unwilling to continue particularly after another debacle in the recent Assembly polls in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu, has decided to accept the Madhusudan Devram Mistry report that had been gathering dust since January this year. Mistry heads the Congress panel on internal party elections, known as the Central Election Authority (CEA). Though the Covid-19 crisis has been cited to defer these elections, the Gandhis’ game plan seems to be to buy more time.The term of the new party chief is currently for just one-and-a-half years’ duration. According to Mistry, who heads the CEA, the new president will be elected by the 1,000-odd AICC delegates and not by the traditional electoral college consisting of PCC delegates (numbering around 13,000), spread all over the country. Article XVIII [h] of the Congress Constitution stipulates the election of a ‘regular president’ by the AICC if the party president resigns. Rahul Gandhi was elected as the 87th president of the AICC in December 2017 for a period of five years. He, however, resigned in May 2019 owning responsibility for the Lok Sabha poll debacle. The term of the ‘regular president’ will be till December 2022 when fresh polls have to be called in which the PCC delegates will get to vote.A section of the Congress thinks Rahul has been reluctant to don the mantle of leadership. In his scheme of things, neither he, nor a member of his family (read Priyanka Gandhi Vadra) should be in the fray. In fact, Rahul would not even want Sonia or Priyanka to indicate their preference for the new party chief. If Rahul stands by the parameters that he had articulated at the time of his resignation on May 25, 2019, the Congress’ internal contest would not only be democratic, but also full of interest.The outcome of the recently concluded Assembly polls in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry has been telling. It has come with the writing on the wall that every Congress leader wanted to avoid reading. It told them once again that the grand old party is incapable of winning on its own. The future appears bleak unless the Congress relies more and more on regional parties that are not part of the NDA. In other words, the Congress, rather a large number of Congressmen, is beginning to realise that the grand old party is no longer a national alternative to the BJP.In a more immediate sense, the 2021 verdict was a bigger setback to Team Rahul which was hoping to officially take control of the party apparatus. The stature of KC Venugopal, the AICC general secretary in charge of the party organisation, has in particular, taken a beating. Traditionally, the AICC general secretary in charge of the organisation is seen as the unofficial number two or three in the hierarchy. KCV, as he is addressed in the party circles, hails from Kerala and is said to be the chief architect of Rahul’s ‘Mission Kerala’. Congress insiders insist that while opinion and exit poll surveys kept predicting an LDF victory in Kerala, Rahul was convinced that theMay 2 verdict would prove them wrong. Apparently, Rahul was constantly flooded with ‘in-house’ reports forecasting a UDF victory in Kerala and the Congress-led ‘Mahajot’ alliance in Assam. Rahul perhaps has reasons to feel dejected as the entire ‘feedback’ system was ‘doctored’ or ‘tailor-made’ to stoke his desire.Dithering and reluctant post-defeat, Rahul is said to have retreated into a shell. Some of his close aides claim that the trio of Rahul, Sonia and Priyanka wish to take a back seat and let a non-Gandhi head the organisation. This strategy, according to its backers, would save the Gandhis from the constant criticism of controlling the party. The names of Mukul Wasnik, Bhupesh Baghel and Ashok Gehlot are doing the rounds.Some Congress leaders think Rahul somehow fancies himself in the mould of his grandfather Feroze Gandhi, an able parliamentarian who had created a niche for himself in the Nehruvian era. Among the many qualities that Feroze had, he excelled as democracy’s David. Old-timers recall how Feroze had brought down Prime Minister Nehru’s Finance Minister TT Krishnamachari, much to his chagrin. If Rahul focuses on the parliamentary wing of the Congress, would Priyanka Gandhi attend to the party’s organisational and electoral campaign?Incidentally, the fall of the Congress has not been sudden. There have been many decisions that systematically damaged the Congress over the decades. Rajiv Gandhi, for instance, after getting 400-plus Lok Sabha seats, had decided that those sitting MLAs would be denied a ticket where the Lok Sabha party candidate secured less votes than the Opposition despite winning. This witch-hunt of sorts had opened the floodgates for every aspiring MLA candidate to sabotage the elections to discredit the sitting MLA.Sonia Gandhi, who took over as the AICC chief in 1998, took an informal decision not to let a party leader who has lost elections twice, get nominated to the Rajya Sabha. Many Congress leaders of stature and roots missed Upper House berths even as Sonia went on to nominate retired bureaucrats, businessmen and politicians who had crossed over from other parties. Then came Rahul Gandhi’s saga of experimenting with the internal elections for the Indian Youth Congress and the NSUI where money and enmity entered virtually every block unit. It led to a lot of manipulation and acrimony but some utopian elements kept convincing Rahul to continue till he himself realised the futility of it.By December 2022, several Assembly polls, including in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, will be over and the countdown for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections would begin. Rahul would then perhaps be better placed to return as the Congress president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/onus-on-rahul-gandhi-to-take-up-the-gauntlet-251019
11-05-2021||---||Election verdict a pushback for BJP policies||The results of the just-concluded Assembly elections give us an indication of ground-level political changes in the key states of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. While it's important to understand the results in terms of state-specific factors, the overall political outcome indicates a successful assertion of local/regional politics against the majoritarian-authoritarian politics of the BJP. The centrality of the local is visible from the Lokniti-CSDS survey which underlines the primacy of local factors and state leaders with a mass base in determining the choices of voters. The reasons for this vary from state to state but the limits of Hindutva's expansionist politics and its agenda of polarisation are apparent. This has decisively dashed the BJP’s avaricious plans of conquering new territories.These setbacks suggest that the polarising rhetoric of Hindu nationalism doesn't thrive everywhere in India, especially in regions with a distinct culture, a history of social movements, strong secular tradition, and where vernacular languages hold primacy instead of Hindi. It showed how stunningly out of touch the BJP is from the political reality in these states where it was holding Uttar Pradesh (UP) Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s road shows, chanting slogans of Jai Shri Ram, talking love jihad and trying to excite Hindus with anti-Muslim dog whistles. None of this seems to have worked. The BJP lost decisively in Kerala (not winning a single seat), its alliance lost in Tamil Nadu (BJP won only four seats), and it lost spectacularly in Bengal (winning 77 seats, way short of 200 it boasted). The central point of the election outcome is that the majority of Hindus voted against the BJP to keep it out of power in three important states.But this rebuff did not occur in the core areas of BJP's support base in northern and north western India and these will be tested in the polls in 2022. The RSS has changed the political discourse in these states, especially in UP. But it would be a mistake to presume that issues of unemployment, jobs, farmers’ distress, regressive farm laws and the massive Covid mismanagement will not matter in India’s most significant state. In addition to Covid, the continuation of the farmers’ revolt, which began in November 2020, is likely to shift the balance of forces in many of these northern states, from Haryana to UP to Gujarat.The gross mismanagement of the public health crisis in UP makes it one of the worst hit states with high caseload and fatalities. UP has an archaic and creaky medical infrastructure which is collapsing as Covid rages unchecked through the state with people running from pillar to post in search of hospital beds, including in the big cities of Lucknow, Kanpur, Allahabad and Banaras. The situation in villages and small towns is much worse. The virus has now reached rural parts where people are struggling to breathe.However, the state government is claiming that it has the situation under control. This shows how completely unmindful it is of human suffering. Amid the surge of the virus, the Chief Minister has issued orders to set up help desks for the protection of cows in each district of the state and has directed that Covid-19 protocols are maintained at all cow shelters, including stocks of equipment like oximeters and thermal scanners “for cows and other animals as well”. The order comes while UP suffers from a crippling shortage of medical supplies and oxygen. Instead of tackling oxygen shortage, the government has slapped an FIR on a Lucknow city hospital, accusing it of spreading false rumours of shortage.While people in the state are desperate for oxygen, its Chief Minister denies there's even a problem. The denialist rhetoric and the government’s indifference to the crisis will impact the BJP’s popularity in UP. A report in Mint pointed out that even hardcore BJP supporters and party workers are sharply criticising the government’s maladministration in WhatsApp groups in UP. The growing anger against the BJP leadership's handling of the Covid crisis has found resonance in the panchayat polls. Opposition parties have won close to 50 per cent of all seats contested and swept districts which are BJP strongholds. The BJP is losing ground in Ayodhya, Varanasi, Mathura and Gorakhpur which is an important development given how much political attention has been showered on these cities by the government.But let’s not forget that Modi and the BJP have the ability to turn things around. They did it after demonetisation, sweeping UP in the 2017 Assembly elections even though everyone had predicted an adverse fallout for the party. However, the post-Covid situation is different. What the pandemic has done, unlike the disaster of demonetisation, is bring to the fore the BJP’s incapacity for governance. It has shown the sheer incompetence of the majoritarian model of governance based on a politics of hate and obscurantism which is just not suited for running a modern state. It’s not simply a failure of the Indian State but a failure of the BJP model of the State. The administrative ineptitude and the government’s insensitivity are impossible to ignore even for those intoxicated by the right-wing’s electoral successes.The huge governance failure in UP, in contrast to Kerala, for example, reminds us during the worst crisis, that a governance model can make the difference between life and death, and the absolute criticality of a politics based on empathy, concern, planning and human development in comparison with one based on building religious places of worship and vanity projects such as the Central Vista in the Capital in midst of the calamitous second wave.The BJP’s defeat in West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu shows the limits of Hindutva. It shows regional parties can overpower Hindutva at the state level and hence the BJP cannot assume a natural monopoly over state politics. However, regional politics cannot counter the hold of Hindutva in UP which has been the BJP’s pathway to power in 2014 and 2019. The Hindutva project has built an enduring communal majority in the Hindi heartland. Its overwhelming size and support in this region give the BJP an overwhelming advantage over its rivals. Therefore, majoritarianism and the claim of the majority to dominate have to be challenged in these states. The most effective way of doing this, apart from building big-hearted alliances, is to claim greater equality of rights of every section of the people and region, and not simply the inclusion of minorities through the revival of pluralism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/election-verdict-a-pushback-for-bjp-policies-251015
11-05-2021||---||China policy in the works||As of now all we have of the US-China policy are words, from President Biden, his aides like Secretary of State Anthony Blinken and his National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan. In his first speech to the Congress at the end of last month, Biden talked tough on China, saying that Washington ‘would stand up to unfair trade practices, subsidies to state-owned enterprises and theft of US technology and intellectual property’. Adding that the US would maintain a strong military presence in the Indo Pacific ‘not to start a conflict, but to prevent one’. But the bottom line was that the competition with China was not only military, but also economic and technological.Biden has repeatedly asserted that the real issue is US recovery and that the way to go is to outcompete China in a range of areas.The message sent out by Blinken and Sullivan is that the goal of the US policy is not to contain China, and that Quad is about an ‘affirmative agenda’ which involves upholding international law and human rights, as well as promoting strategies of development and mitigating climate change.The comprehensive review of a new US policy towards China is still being worked out, and it's not clear whether the Biden administration will follow Trump’s policy of selective containment, or craft a new one of selective engagement. The problem is that Biden must write on a palimpsest that is not exactly blank. The US-China tariff war, US sanctions on certain technology categories, Hong Kong developments, threats to Taiwan, eastern Ladakh faceoff, are realities that a US President cannot ignore. As it is, the mood in the US is very anti-China, and Biden has to worry about being outflanked on the issue by Trump who retains an iron grip on the Republican Party which will do its best to wrest away the House of Representatives from the Democrats in the off-year elections in November 2022.Whatever be the political imperatives, the US has to consider the ongoing economic costs of Trump’s ‘semi containment of China’. In a recent article, former US diplomat Chas Freeman noted that the US farmers have lost most of their $24 billion Chinese market, US companies have had to cut profits and wages and raise prices for US consumers, and almost no jobs have been re-shored back to the US. By 2025, the US can expect job losses topping 3,20,000 and a GDP $1.6 trillion less than what it would have been otherwise because of its China restrictions.Biden has repeatedly asserted that the real issue is US recovery and that the way to go is to outcompete China in a range of areas. Even the Interim Security Guidance issued by his administration notes that to be strong abroad, ‘the United States [needs] to build back better at home.’ Biden has unfolded a plan whereby this can be done, but so divided is the US polity that he is likely to face an uphill struggle in trying to get the Congress to appropriate the money needed to repair the decaying US infrastructure, raise federal spending in R&D and education.The US travails are there for all to see. The grip of racism in its political culture is only matched by the obstinate refusal by significant sections of Americans to accept that in their society today there are people — minorities, women, the poor — who need a leg-up. In the present situation, as Freeman puts it, the US needs to show that it is ‘better governed, better educated, more egalitarian, more open, more innovative, healthier, and freer society’.Biden is not seeking conflict abroad, leave alone with China. But the poison pills left behind by the Trump team are like landmines scattered around the landscape. For example, the use of the word ‘genocide’ for the persecution of Muslims in Xinjiang. What is happening in Xinjiang is unacceptable and a gross violation of human rights, but it is not ‘genocide’ of the kind the Nazis conducted against the Jews. If Xi Jinping was actually presiding over such an act, how could the US, or for that matter the world community, have normal relations with China?But the Democrats find themselves pushed by the Trump positions. Last year, the Democrats removed the phrase ‘one China’ from their election platform. And Biden became the first President, since the US recognised the People’s Republic of China, to invite the Taiwan ambassador to his inauguration. Last month, the US announced that it was easing restrictions on official US contacts with the Taiwan government. Not surprisingly, Chinese actions and rhetoric around Taiwan has become more belligerent. In his confirmation hearings in the US Senate, Admiral John Aquilino, the Biden administration’s nominee for the commander of the US Indo-Pacific Command, has said the danger of the Chinese use of force against Taiwan ‘is much closer to us than most think’. This cannot but have the most catastrophic consequences for China itself, and by extension, the rest of the world.But Biden accurately sees the challenge of China as being economic and technological. Militarily, actually, the US remains far superior to China, which today accounts for 30% of the world’s manufactures, and has become the largest consumer market. American, or for that matter Japanese and European prosperity, depend, in some measure, on stable ties with China. For that reason, Biden would much prefer a strategy of selective engagement. One that will seek to build the strongest possible coalition of friends and allies to push Beijing in the right direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-policy-in-the-works-251010
