12-05-2021||---||Crematorium workers deserve a life of dignity||THESE are dark times. Many people are losing hope of seeing their loved ones survive the Covid pandemic. Funeral pyres now require a queue and death is the word that is ringing across India incessantly. In this dire situation, one cannot even afford a decent cremation for one’s loved ones. A dignified death has become rare. But the only ones who are in service day and night to those departed are the crematorium workers, known as Dom. Members of Dalit castes all over India invariably are the ones who stand at the burning pyre for the last journey of the dead after the rituals are over.These crematorium and graveyard workers have no relationship with the person who has passed away but will dig the grave for those who must be buried till they have been set in their final resting place. And for those to be cremated, they will set the pyre with wood and stay till there is nothing but embers and ash. Death rituals are extremely religious and require the presence of a pandit for Hindus who will oversee the ceremony, which seems to have become a scarce ritual during Covid. Only the Dom and the Dalit caste men toil so that your dear departed may reach sadgati.It is well known to us that the work at crematoria is caste-based. Only a few lower castes, apart from Dalits, are in this occupation. Most villages do not have a designated crematorium or shamshan. The ceremonies of death are conducted next to a lake, river or some other water body, which acts as an unofficial crematorium. There is also no designated Dom. For millennia, it’s the Dalits and other lower castes that have been handling all the unsafe work in the villages and towns. For many years, it was unpaid begar with the dead person’s clothes as the remuneration. Urban municipalities use them as lowly paid municipal workers and village panchayats engage them on call.Due to lack of open places next to rivers and lakes in urban areas, special graveyards and crematoria are the norm and a few Dalits have ended up working in these unsafe and unwanted professions — a profession that has been created by the caste system. Doms and Chamars in north India and Mahars in western India take care of ceremonies related to death — both of humans and livestock. In South India, it’s the Mala, Madiga, Pariah, Pulaya and Holeya castes. No upper-caste members ever do any of this work because corpses have no value. They cause fear and disgust, and are probably riddled with disease. It can be seen that all the dangerous and unwanted occupations are done by the Dalits as their traditional caste occupations, imposed by the caste system.It is known to one and all that the fatality rate during Covid’s second wave in India is extremely high and the numbers shown officially in government records are far less than the actual figures. In cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Hyderabad, corpses are lined up for the last rites and theDom are working day in and day out in order to keep upwith the unprecedented rate of death. The reality is harshand heart-wrenching; there is no statistic of how many of these workers have passed away in recent days due to the disease.Recently, in Hyderabad, a young crematorium worker returning from work was thrashed by policemen during curfew. After a tough day, he and other workers had stepped out for meals. When the police asked them why they were drunk, they said, “No one works sober at a graveyard!” This holds good for many unhygienic professions, including sewer work.Even as the international and national media are splashing news and images of Covid cremations in India, nobody has spared a thought for the poor, wretched and hapless crematorium workers who are burning the pyres of lakhs of bodies day and night. When family members of the dead are refusing to attend funerals, it is these workers who have lit a pyre for the dead. These people have been working without regular pay, no protective equipment or masks, not even water and food on the crematorium premises.It seems that to the government, these workers, mostly Dalits, are worthless. On normal days, the family of the deceased would pay the Dom for his services. In these times, no one knows who the corpse belongs to, and these unfortunate workers go on to cremate them or bury them. The bodies pile up faster than they can burn or bury. The Covid-19 pandemic has changed many a tradition in our country. Brahmins who professed that funeral rites are a must have either disappeared or the few who are performing these rites are charging exorbitant rates.Unfortunately, not a single welfare measure has been undertaken for the crematorium workers by successive governments. One generation after another has been working, prone to diseases and stricken with poverty. Voiceless, they toil and bid the final farewell to the dead. It’s time we wake up to better the lives of these workers with welfare and dignity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/crematorium-workers-deserve-a-life-of-dignity-251586
12-05-2021||---||China ups the ante with Chabahar push||IN hindsight, the recent statement of Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif wasn’t unexpected: “China wants to play a role in the Chabahar (port) project”. It’s Iran’s nudge to India about the arrival of Beijing in a territory where New Delhi enjoyed prime privilege for some time. Does it constitute a major breakthrough by the Communist Party of China (CPC) by creating a coveted space for itself to counter and confront India in a strategic seaport in a third country? Can India avoid future pressure and tensions in a long, connected terrain spanning Pakistan, Iran and Turkey?Indeed, true to its fresh understanding of geography, the CPC has posed an extremely challenging task to India, dealing with which could be an arduous long haul, with unprecedented situations likely to emerge. What thus far appeared to have been trumpeted by India — that the India-Iran Chabahar project was New Delhi’s answer to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor’s (CPEC) fulcrum, the Gwadar port — now constitutes an acid test of India’s ability to continue with its avowed power play beyond South Asia.Although ‘unfriendly’ China started late, it learnt the geography of the sea fast. That subject has rarely been the forte of Indian rulers since time immemorial. Else, how does one explain the constantly changing political maps of India with virtually no naval tradition and an uninterrupted loss of territory from 1947 to 2021?Hence, compulsively, it’s time to learn from China the supreme importance of geography for a sovereign nation’s self-interest. Else, India will continue to be projected as a ‘future potential power’, which shows no sign of shedding its tag of laggard.Coming back to Chabahar, Iran has been forthright. It has given India the signal that the Chinese are more than welcome in Chabahar. “Chabahar is open to cooperation for everybody. It’s not against China or the Gwadar port. It’s a place where we can all come together to help Afghanistan... the Chinese are interested in playing a role elsewhere in Iran and also in Chabahar,” the Iranian Foreign Minister said. The choice of words is aimed at assuring China and Pakistan. But no mention of India means no assurance to India as such.The message is loud and clear: China looms larger than all South Asian nations taken together because Beijing is “interested in playing a role elsewhere in Iran” and “also Chabahar”. Chabahar may be a late addition to Chinese ‘interest’ in Iran, but its overall importance in Tehran’s eyes is long-term. And, why not? When India, owing to US pressure, stopped Iranian oil import in 2019, Tehran’s anxiety of dealing with traditionally friendly India was understandable. India couldn’t go on its own in the Delhi-Tehran bilateral. Rather, it’s been following instructions of the US. Little wonder, China wholeheartedly grabbed the opportunity for long-term fuel supply at financially favourable terms. Holding cold and calculated ‘national interest’ above everything else. Consequently, both Iran and China are today on the same page on Chabahar, where India was once perceived to be a weighty player.Of course, India still retains its position and visibility in the Persian Gulf; nevertheless, Beijing has marched a step ahead owing to New Delhi’s seasonal foreign power play.Chabahar is part of an important Iranian pivot, with the region adjacent to it accounting for 70 per cent of the world’s proven oil reserves and 40 per cent of its natural gas reserves. That one country-bridge connects the great Eurasian space, South Asia, western highlands of China, the great arc of the Sunni world with unrestricted access to the Indian Ocean after crossing through a narrow channel of a virtually landlocked water body called the Persian Gulf.Hence, what’s unique is the Chinese ‘sea sense’ of ‘forward deployment’. With mounting tensions in the eastern and south seas surrounding mainland China, it’s time to switch flanks for a fresh, flexible frontier. Chabahar opens up options for mobilisation during a crisis. In a straight east-west coastline of 365 nautical miles, the Chinese navy, mercantile marine and fishing vessels have attained advantage over others. From Pakistan’s Karachi-Gwadar stretch (289 nautical miles), it has now 76 nautical miles of the Iran-Pakistan Chabahar-Gwadar connect.The history of ‘forward deployment’ by the British at the height of European imperialism and the US command and control of oceans in the 20th century comes alive with 21st-century Chinese understanding of geography. No doubt Chabahar is prima facie projected for economics, commerce and trade. Nevertheless, no port in a strategic location can only be for economics. That’s highly unlikely, especially once China comes to the fore.China’s role in Chabahar should be seen beyond the Delhi-Beijing tug of war, as its span and scope are much larger and deeper than that. It’s a first step towards a Chinese navy foothold deep inside US Central Command territorial jurisdiction which has its headquarters at MacDill Air Force Base, Florida. The Chinese urgently need more than Djibouti for its expanding armada as its naval competition with the US becomes fiercer.It has to be admitted that the US Navy is no longer the force that it was at the turn of the 20th century. Today, the gap between strategy and resources is a stark challenge to the US in the West Pacific, arguably the most sensitive and strategic region. China, therefore, definitely proposes to create a fresh seafront in the Persian Gulf-Indian Ocean to expand and consolidate. China has already scaled up its naval inventory to more than 350 combat ships, thereby leaving the US stuck at around 300 vessels. The strategic US goal for 355 combatants remains unrealised. Hence, with three ports (Karachi, Gwadar, Chabahar) in a straight line of 365 km, China has laid the foundation for multiple options and opportunities for a multi-front crisis in the sea along with fresh availability of the Persian Gulf to the Beijing-Shanghai landline, thereby avoiding the potentially turbulent and choppy Indian Ocean-Singapore Strait-Pacific Ocean sealane. It’s real-time geography and economics of sea and port craft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-ups-the-ante-with-chabahar-push-251584
12-05-2021||---||Covid blows up in Yogi’s face||It’s a distinction that will not please Yogi Adityanath, who earned the honour of being the country’s ‘best performing Chief Minister’ each year for the four years he has been in office in the ‘mood of the nation’ survey. Today, his state, Uttar Pradesh, ranks among the five hardest hit by the pandemic. UP recorded 21,331 documented cases on May 10, taking the total to 15,24,767 and 278 reported deaths in a day. It’s important to qualify the data with the recorded count and the unrecorded numbers, because by the admission of officials, in UP’s backwoods, many families do not report deaths and privately dispose of bodies. Crematoriums and burial grounds are running out of space, besides wood, ghee and the paraphernalia demanded by Hindu rites have become expensive and scarce. Therefore, we will never get an accurate assessment of the lives lost to the pandemic. What the details give is a sordid picture of the UP Government’s mismanagement, skewed priorities and callousness.Were the Kumbh Mela and the panchayat polls worth the price they extracted? The UP Government owes an answer.Once the cities started to report endless death counts that vastly varied from the official versions and social media depicted pictures and videos of round-the-clock burning pyres, overheated furnaces and distraught relatives awaiting their turn with corpses, the government was left with no wiggle space. Adityanath ordered that Lucknow’s largest cremation ground at Bhainsakund should be shut off with painted sheets to hide the unfolding horror. Worse was to come. On Sunday, dozens of bodies washed up on the Yamuna banks in Hamirpur district near Kanpur, suggesting that families themselves disposed them of because the local administration would not help with the arrangements. One news report quoted a police official saying that the fear of the virus led the families to cast out the bodies in the river or burn them in the fields, eluding a census. The victims, who probably died gasping for air, were not even given a dignified departure. The survivors can never hope to get the closure that a death brings about when the rituals are appropriately solemnised.The CM, who presides over UP’s largest and richest monastery with unquestioned authority, rules the state similarly through decrees. The Opposition is barely visible and Adityanath’s own colleagues have been reduced to nameless, faceless entities. The pandemic was not an exception. In its wake came a series of commandments from Adityanath’s office that betrayed a lack of the empathy that human suffering expected from the powerful. He approached the medical crisis with the ruthlessness he exhibited when quashing the protests against the amended Citizenship Act in December 2019.He threatened to invoke the stringent National Security Act and the Gangster Act against those found ‘guilty’ of spreading fear and panic on social media and impound their properties—a measure he used against civil society activists. As UP hospitals faced a serious oxygen crunch, he claimed that there was no shortage of oxygen, hospital beds and life-saving drugs, belying ground truths. The panic-stricken hospital managements and doctors asked that unless the CM recognised the realities, what was the point of cracking down on the so-called offenders? The medical community invited him to personally audit oxygen supplies in hospitals and decide who left the facilities and the patients in the lurch: the doctors or the government that distributes the life-saving cylinders?The government’s top-down attitude was manifest when it mandated that a referral approval letter from the local chief medical officers should be obtained to seek hospitalisation at private and state centres. The procedure took inordinate time that itself cost lives, because even if beds were available, the hospitals would not admit patients without a ‘referral’. Under the Centre’s pressure, Adityanath partially revoked the fiat. An official letter is now required only to access government hospitals.Even as the government officially ordered ramping up Covid diagnosis through the RT-PCR, private labs were pressured to scale down testing and block sample collections by the administration to keep the numbers small.The deathblow in a chain of disasters came with the Kumbh Mela and the panchayat elections. With the Assembly elections in UP and its neighbour, Uttarakhand, scheduled for February-March 2022, not only was the humongous gathering of pilgrims brought forward by a year from the calendar date, the Centre and the two state governments were keen to keep the Hindu clergy on their side by not downscaling the celebrations. As if the mela was not tailored to become a super-spreader, the state election commission—bound by the Allahabad High Court’s order—went ahead and held the multi-phased panchayat polls. These elections caused 25 to 30 per cent of city-dwellers, mainly school teachers, to relocate to villages—so far largely untouched by the virus—on polling duty. The first round on April 15 reported numerous cases of teachers testing positive. On April 29, when all the votes were cast, UP’s Prathamik Shikshak Sangh, which claims to represent nearly five lakh teachers, listed over 700 casualties. The actual figures could be higher.The High Court did not reconsider its directive, although its strictures on the deaths resulting from oxygen shortage ought to have rattled any government. It called the lack of oxygen in hospitals a ‘criminal act’, ‘not less than a genocide’.The state government could have intervened and deferred the rural polls. However, the temptation to use the outcome and amplify the atmospherics in the prelude to the Assembly elections was too big for the BJP. The BJP was sanguine that as a ruling party, it would get a positive mandate that would augur well for its prospects 10 months hence. Although the polls were not fought on symbols, individual candidates were backed by the principal parties. The trends showed that the BJP came a poor second after the Samajwadi Party, which staged an astonishing come-back. But were the politically motivated Kumbh carnival and the panchayat polls worth the heavy price they extracted? The BJP and the UP Government owe an answer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-blows-up-in-yogis-face-251578
