13-05-2021||---||Vaccination, precautions can help rein in Covid||INDIA is in the throes of a rampaging second wave of Covid-19. Currently, India accounts for nearly half of the daily cases across the world and one-fourth of the deaths. Corresponding to these figures is the grim fact that test positivity is around 20%, with some states recording over 30%. The second wave is far more intense than the first one, when the maximum single-day caseload was slightly over 97,000.Other countries have also had multiple waves since the onset of the pandemic in January 2020. The US has had three waves, in April and July 2020, and January 2021 with the third being the most deadly; England has had three waves in April and October-November 2020 and January 2021 with the third wave being the most severe. A century ago, the Spanish flu, caused by the H1N1 influenza-A virus had four waves, with the second wave the most deadly. Though not studied at the time of the Spanish flu, the deadly second wave was attributed to variants of the H1N1 virus.Viruses constantly change due to changes in their genetic structure resulting in mutations and variants that carry the risk of increased transmission, increased severity or poor response to vaccination. The US CDC has classified these variants as Variant of Interest, Variant of Concern (VOC), and Variant of High Consequence. Some of these variants are: B.1.1.7 (US), B.1.351 (South Africa), P.1 (Brazil),and B.1.427 and B.1.429 (California). The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium found “a new double mutant variant” which carried features from two worrisome lineages; the variants first identified in California and those discovered in South Africa and Brazil. This new variant, B.1.617, has been declared a VOC recently by the US and the UK and has three further subtypes. In India, different variants are predominant in different regions and states, the UK variant in Punjab, double variant in Maharashtra and Karnataka, and the South African variant in Telangana. Scientists say that the recent surge can partly be explained by the emergence of new variants. A recent ICMR study has shown that the Indian variant led to increased severity of infection as compared to B.1, the first dominant variant of the virus, in animal experiments.There has been an apprehension that mutants may lead to lack of efficacy of vaccines, but so far, the available vaccines are effective against the commonly encountered mutations. However, there is a need to closely monitor the emergence of new variants by genomic studies to pre-empt their consequences.We have to treat the infected patients with concerted efforts, and secondly, prevent the disease and break the transmission by vaccinating 60-70% of our population.The ICMR recently issued guidelines for treatment of mild, moderate and severe cases. These clearly define that mild patients can be treated in home isolation, and that when oxygen levels drop below 94%, patients need consultation of a doctor. The use of different modes of supplementing oxygen and drugs like Remdesivir are clearly laid out. If these guidelines are followed strictly, our limited resources can be utilised optimally and patient outcomes can improve. Currently, there is lack of understanding among some medical personnel about the right indications of using different drugs and even tests and CT scans. There is a need to disseminate the treatment protocol widely, especially among doctors in smaller hospitals. At the same time, it needs to be reiterated that people should not panic or hoard drugs and oxygen at home.Apart from Covid-appropriate behaviour (mask, social distancing, hygiene) the most effective way of preventing Covid-19 is the vaccine. The Spanish flu had continued to torment the world as there was no effective treatment or a vaccine. Today, we have a number of vaccines, with all being 80-95% efficacious. India has already vaccinated over 17 crore individuals with 3 crore getting both the doses. Experience from across the world has shown that large-scale vaccination is the only way to open business, economy and travel. While 2.3% of India’s population has been fully vaccinated till the first week of May, the corresponding figures for full vaccination in Israel, the UK and the US are 56%, 33% and 24%. A recent article from Israel in The Lancet has shown that two doses of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine provided more than 95% protection against Covid-19 infection, hospitalisation and death. It is the effect of vaccination only that cities in the US, UK, Israel and many European countries are reverting back to normal life. Vaccine certificate or “vaccine passport” is required to travel in many countries now.Around 90 crore of India’s adult population is eligible for vaccination in the third phase, and if we aim to vaccinate even half of them, it will take till the end of the year with 40 lakh vaccinations being done each day. It is important to realise that effective protection after vaccination starts at least two weeks after the second dose. However, there is a tendency among some people to lower their guard after the first dose itself (Peltzman effect), which can not only cause them to get infected but also make them inadvertently transmit it to others if they are asymptomatic. Another issue plaguing many people was the reluctance to get the vaccine. To allay vaccine hesitancy, we should generate local data on adverse effects. We have to cut vaccine wastage as well by using the last drop in the vial.We hope the second wave will flatten soon, with statistical modelling predicting a peak in mid-May. However, there will still remain the prospect of a third wave till enough herd immunity is generated with enough vaccination. For that, we have to rely on preventing person-to-person transmission by enforcing social distancing and using masks. It has been proven now that the virus is transmitted by droplets as well as through aerosols. The latter mechanism calls for precautions to be taken even when indoors. A cloth mask of two or more layers should be used and it should cover the mouth and nose snugly. The US Centre for Disease Control in its Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (February 19, 2021) has shown that double masking is superior to a single mask. A cloth mask over a surgical mask protected to nearly 90%. It must also be emphasised that cloth masks have to be washed regularly, and surgical or N95 masks be disposed of after every use; and a loose handkerchief and a bandana are poor substitutes for masks. Some studies even suggest that masks might reduce the severity of infection by decreasing the inoculum load.We, therefore, need to reinvigorate ourselves in our fight against the virus. People should follow Covid-appropriate norms strictly and go for the vaccine when their turn comes. This will also help reduce the magnitude of the postulated third wave in the coming months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vaccination-precautions-can-help-rein-in-covid-252068
13-05-2021||---||IPR waiver best bet to boost vaccine output||THE US decision to support the proposal made by India and South Africa for waiver of intellectual property rights (IPR) protection for vaccine production has been unexpected and a dramatic fillip to the initiative. Significant roadblocks still stand in the way of implementing the idea as other rich countries like those in the European Union need to be convinced about it. But there is no doubt the surprising, though very welcome decision by the Biden administration, will help sway even those strongly opposed to it. The move indicates that the new US regime is taking a radically different approach to global policies. It has always staunchly opposed any dilution of IPR on any ground at multilateral fora in the past. American interests will still be paramount, but it is bowing to public opinion which says that the international pandemic needs to be dealt with by global cooperation rather than insularity.The decision to support the waiver at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) came on the heels of the other welcome announcement that it would help India to overcome its Covid crisis by humanitarian aid and by allowing the export of vaccine-related products. It must not be forgotten, however, that the decision to aid India came only after the US had managed to fully vaccinate one-third of its population and is thus in a good position to vanquish the virus — a lesson learnt for India which tried to be a model global citizen by exporting vaccines, but in a reckless manner without taking its own needs into account. Even now, the US is sitting on stockpiles of surplus vaccines without any sign of exporting them to countries facing shortages.The waiver by itself must be viewed as a long-term gain for India as well as other developing countries. It will not solve the immediate emergency facing this country in terms of dire shortages of hospital beds, oxygen, medicines and even vaccines. It will also not give an impetus to the medium-term requirement of enhancing healthcare infrastructure. The initiative, in case it ultimately succeeds, will bear fruit only by next year at the earliest. Negotiations at the WTO typically take months due to the mandatory consensus needed from all 164 member countries. The other considerable obstacle is the pressure bound to be put by the powerful global pharmaceutical industry on Western governments to stall the move. It is already arguing this could stifle innovation and prevent companies from reaping the benefits from investments made in research and development.In the case of Covid vaccines, however, most of the financing has come from governments concerned and not from the private sector pharma industry itself. Billions of dollars were poured into Operation Warp Speed by the US while Germany and the UK also provided unprecedented financial support so that a Covid vaccine was produced in the amazingly rapid time of less than a year by Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson and Johnson and AstraZeneca. At the end of the day, the pharma companies cannot say that public funding should not lead to public good. Corporate profits in the global drug industry have already skyrocketed over the past year and stock values of these companies have risen exponentially. Great noise has been made over the dip in share prices recently after the US decided to support the IPR waiver, but little over the steep rise in the past year.Yet it will still take considerable negotiating skills to bring about the needed consensus at the WTO. At this stage, one must recall the pioneering efforts of previous negotiators who enabled this country to become a leader of the South in ensuring IPR does not curb access to affordable drugs in poorer countries. Both Manmohan Singh and Pranab Mukherjee were involved in the original multilateral trade negotiations that led to the creation of the WTO as well as the IPR regime now in force. Indian negotiators ensured for many years that this country stayed out of the product patents regime and maintained the system of process patents right up to 2005 when Indian laws had perforce to be brought in line with WTO regulations. The clause allowing compulsory licensing in case of public health crises was incorporated in TRIPS (trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights), largely due to India’s efforts.One must also not forget the role of the then Commerce Minister Murasoli Maran at the Doha ministerial conference in 2001. It was his aggressive advocacy that led to the WTO recognising the seriousness of public health problems of poor countries. It acknowledged that TRIPS should not hinder countries from taking measures to protect public health not only by issuing compulsory licences to local firms, but also by allowing imports by countries with inadequate manufacturing capacities. The terminology was that imports could be used for dealing with HIV/AIDs, malaria, tuberculosis and “other epidemics”, a phrase which resonates darkly today.The current initiative is for a waiver of IPR on a global basis, rather than by individual countries, in a bid to prevent delay in increasing vaccine production. There will still be some wait even after the decision is taken, to enable technology transfer and ultimate ramping up of output. It is here India should have a clear advantage over other countries owing to its large unutilised vaccine production capacity. There are as many as 24 vaccine manufacturers and even other pharma companies are capable of making various types of vaccines, including the much-vaunted mRNA vaccines that require storage in extremely cold conditions. The good news is that hyper-cold temperatures are no longer needed and several vaccines can be stored in a way that will make them viable for use in developing countries like India.The process of negotiations for ensuring the IPR waiver is finally concluded will be long and tedious. It should thus not be cited as a victory of any kind for this government, even if the US has decided to lend its weight to the proposal. The tendency to be triumphal on such issues needs to be resisted by the government right now as the country is in a sombre mood, having become the calamitous epicentre of the global pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ipr-waiver-best-bet-to-boost-vaccine-output-252065
13-05-2021||---||Sectarian strife in Pakistan||The two major schools of Islam, which emerged in the 19th century in the territories of present-day India, have traditionally been described as Deobandi and Bareilvi. The sects emerged from the efforts of many Muslim clerics and thinkers who fled from Delhi following their persecution by the British after the Mughal rule ended. Deobandi practices were widely adopted in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, and by virtually all Pashtuns in Afghanistan. The Deobandis thus established a firm foothold amongst the Pashtun population in both Pakistan and Afghanistan. Most importantly, while the Bareilvis remained content with their influence in the subcontinent, the Deobandis reached out to people in the Arabian peninsula in the 19th century. This was an initiative that has paid rich dividends through Saudi financial backing of Deobandi organisations.Thanks to the FATF and actions by the US and its allies, Pakistan is being squeezed to end support to such groups.The most far-reaching decision by India’s Deobandi leaders was to make common cause with the secular ideals of India, while supporting the struggle led by Mahatma Gandhi for India’s independence. The main centre for study and learning of the Deobandi school of Islam was and remains the Darul Uloom, located at Deoband in UP. While sections of the Bareilvi leadership initially shared the views of their Deobandi compatriots, those mainly living in Pakistan, eventually chose to support the Partition. On November 3, 2009, Jamiat-i-Ulama-i-Hind, a group of Deobandi scholars, dedicated to the welfare of Muslims in India, met at Deoband and condemned suicide bombings and attacks targeting innocent civilians. This amounted to direct criticism of Pakistan’s propensity to use terrorism as an instrument of state policy.The Bareilvi population in Pakistan’s Punjab province soon found that it had little political space to operate in. The military extended support to groups like the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and the Afghan Taliban that worked jointly with the military establishment. While the JeM organised the attack on the Indian Parliament in 2001, the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attack was masterminded by the LeT. Moreover, the ISI midwifed the close relations of these groups with the Taliban in Afghanistan. The Bareilvis were soon finding that despite their influence and political support in Pakistani Punjab, they were losing political relevance in Pakistan. Ever since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the Pashtuns, who are predominantly Deobandi, dominated the attention and patronage of the ISI, and, indeed, in the world. The Taliban also have what they believe to be Deobandi credentials and collaborate closely with Wahhabi-oriented groups like the LeT and the JeM.Pashtun Deobandis in Pakistan’s northwest and in southern Afghanistan became natural allies of Gen Zia-ul-Haq, after he overthrew and hanged ex-PM Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. General Zia brought in a new phase of ‘Islamisation’ of politics and developed close relations with radical Islamic elements in Pakistan, most notably the Jamaat-e-Islami in Punjab and Sind, and the Pashtun Deobandis in the north. The Soviet Union then made the folly of invading Afghanistan, enabling the US to join Pakistan in waging a Saudi-backed, Deobandi-oriented jihad against the Soviet forces. Wahhabi-oriented organisations in Pakistan joined this jihad. The ISI developed links with the Jamaat-e-Islami in J&K and used this Deobandi-oriented force to facilitate its jihad in J&K.Given Bareilvi practices of virtually worshipping the Prophet, Saudi Arabia treats them as heretics. According to Najam Sethi, the Editor of Pakistan’s Friday Times, the Bareilvis in Pakistan, and particularly in the majority Punjab province, have responded to critics by actions ‘borne of the religious passion to defend and uphold the Prophet of Islam, from blasphemy by Muslims and non-Muslims alike, at home and abroad’. This led to the establishment of a politically oriented, militant organisation called the Tehriq-e-Labaik, which soon swept across towns and villages, preaching religious intolerance in Pakistan’s military-dominated Punjab.The first victim was a Punjabi Hindu woman, Asia Noreen, popularly known as Asia Bibi, who was convicted and sentenced to death for allegedly making blasphemous comments. She was arbitrarily handed the death sentence by hanging — a verdict that was overturned by the Supreme Court in 2011. She, thereafter, immediately fled to Canada.The Tehriq-e-Labaik attained notoriety, when one of its members, a security guard, assassinated the Governor of Punjab, Salman Taseer, for supporting Asia Bibi. The guard was treated like a revolutionary hero by the outfit. It now has substantial political clout in the Punjab province. It virtually brought Punjab to a standstill during recent demonstrations to demand the expulsion of the French ambassador, because of alleged disrespect shown in France to the Prophet.Thanks to the threats of sanctions by the Financial Action Task Force and strong actions by the US and its European allies, Pakistan is being squeezed to end support to such groups. Pakistan is also realising that faith alone cannot hold a nation together, especially in the face of sectarian differences. Neither the Tehriq-e-Taliban, which is now waging a low-intensity conflict within Pakistan, or even the Taliban leadership in Afghanistan has ever recognised the Durand Line as an international border.India has done well to establish a back channel for talks with Pakistan’s military. A major result has been the signing of an agreement for a ceasefire across the LoC in J&K. Pakistan’s mercurial PM, Imran Khan, meanwhile, has rejected a proposal to import Indian agricultural products, which he had initiated and approved earlier. He certainly does not enjoy global popularity. The world has noted that it was General Bajwa who first met Crown Prince Salman in Saudi Arabia, before the Crown Prince gave an audience to Imran Khan last week. US President Biden is yet to meet or speak to Imran Khan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sectarian-strife-in-pakistan-252063
