14-05-2021||---||British defence policy review has lessons for India||Long delayed, the India-UK meet was marred by the virulent spike of Covid-19 in this country that resulted in the Indian delegation, led by Foreign Minister S Jaishankar, being confined to a London hotel. A key defence engagement was curtailed, though a British battle strike group led by aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth will this month embark on its maiden voyage of ‘tilt towards Indo-Pacific’. The mission follows ‘once in decades’ integrated review of British defence and foreign policy which has lessons for India whose strategic and security thinking is still British-oriented.India is on the cusp of the most wide-ranging defence reforms since the Kargil Review Committee report 2001 was partially implemented. At the heart of tumultuous change is the creation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Department of Military Affairs and Theatrisation — the three combine the most dynamic integration of civil-military staff and jointness in tri-services. On April 7, CDS General Bipin Rawat made a compelling presentation at Vivekanand Foundation, Delhi, about the nuts and bolts of transformation. Even as these fundamental reforms were being implemented, intrusions similar to the ones at Kargil were executed by the PLA across the LAC last year, triggering a set of operational re-adjustments and rebalancing of forces. The stand-off in Ladakh was accompanied by the ongoing pandemic which has exposed the need for greater investment in health and social security even as Rs 21,000 crore was immediately necessary for emergency acquisitions for the new deployment.The government ordered the transformation more to reflect its political will in implementing its election manifesto (like it did with OROP) than an intent to revitalise the defence reforms process. Otherwise, it should have gone for a more holistic integrated review of security, defence development and foreign policy rather than fast-tracking and polishing up the existing products. As the third largest armed forces (after China and US), India is unique as it has never produced a defence White Paper or a National Strategy doctrine or a Strategic Defence and Security Review (SDSR). Surprisingly, Parliament has never demanded one. The US and even China are required to present such reports periodically.We can learn from the UK, now a medium power out of Brexit which has in the new era of Great Power competition recently published its Integrated Review (IR) of security, defence and foreign policy based on SDSR 2015, setting out ambitions for the UK’s role in the world for the next decade along with matching resources.Integrated Review is billed as the most far-reaching policy document since the end of Cold War, engaging all departments of government to produce a united vision of the UK’s role in the world, sketching its interests with priorities for a global Britain. In addition to Integrated Review, two adjunct papers accompany: Defence Command Paper and a Defence and Industrial Security Strategy. Dovetailed is a capability and deterrence review, tied to the Comprehensive spending review and Modernisation defence programme with additional funding of £16.5 billion till 2024-25.For defence of British interests across multiple domains and acquiring global influence, reliance is put on the Royal Navy’s new carrier battle group with the Royal Marines and a future commando force that will secure shipping lanes and uphold the freedom of navigation operations in a rules-based international system. This month, HMS Queen Elizabeth, accompanied by the battle group will make its Indian Ocean and South China Sea debut in a return after half a century following the suspension of East of Suez operations. The CBG will reflect a meaningful tilt (not pivot) to the Indo-Pacific without weakening response to Europe where Russia remains the greatest threat. China is mentioned as an economic and security challenge. Greater reliance is placed on minimum credible nuclear deterrence to compensate for reduction in conventional capabilities. The nuclear warhead cap has increased from 180 to 260 warheads. The Defence Command Paper makes clear that while NATO will cover Russia, the Indo-Pacific tilt will lean on China. But global Britain will not be able to do another Falklands.General Rawat’s confidence in India’s capability for prosecution of a full-spectrum war and projection of interests abroad while ensuring prosperity at home are achieved through a whole-of-government approach, but his observation that not having a national security strategy did not mean “we do not possess the framework and experience” struck a jarring note not in sync with his outstanding handling of the transformation process. When the appointment of the CDS suddenly appeared in the Gazette of India on the last day of December 2019 (Rawat was to retire the next day), along with his Charter of Duties, no one was wiser on how the troika of defence and security reforms was born. Especially the DMA, an innovation that is unique to India and seems a perfect fit. Unlike in the US, the UK and other democracies, an Integrated Review or SDSR is ordered periodically by the government, and its team members and mission are widely known. The last significant effort towards defence and security reforms was during the UPA-II by the Naresh Chandra Task Force which recommended a watered-down CDS as permanent chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee. Though the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was keen on its implementation, it never saw the light of day as the then Defence Minister AK Antony was unwilling to allow the diminution of his Defence Secretary by the CDS.So, it is a minor miracle that Modi 2.0 not only appointed a full-fledged CDS but also the DMA which has made the Defence Secretary irrelevant as most of his charter and responsibility has shifted to the CDS/DMA, leaving mainly the defence policy with him. Why the government kept such a wide-ranging orbit of transformation under wraps, is unclear. Let’s be clear: no SDSR or IR was done, otherwise a two-and-a-half front war might have been avoided. A legitimate opportunity was missed to institutionalise the SDSR and IR for arriving at apex reforms, cohering all departments of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/british-defence-policy-review-has-lessons-for-india-252407
14-05-2021||---||Devastating pandemic raging in rural UP||Ask a simple question to anyone from rural India: ‘How many persons have died in your village in the last 50 days?’ Don't bother to ask about the cause of death, just the total number.Also ask: ‘What’s the population of your village?’Then do a simple calculation. If the number of deaths, from all causes, during this period exceeds one per 1,000, you are looking at “excess deaths”. If it is more than 1.5, you can be sure it reflects a significant deviation, a major disease. If it is more than two — more than double the number of deaths we would normally expect — we are looking at a calamity.I requested a few friends from Uttar Pradesh to call their villages and ask these questions. I got information from 14 villages of Varanasi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh, Meerut and Bulandshahr. It is not a scientific random sample, but neither is it a sample of badly hit villages.The proportion of deaths was much higher in the poorer and smaller villages of eastern and central UP than in the relatively prosperous areas of the west. Since the beginning of the second wave of Covid in the last week of March, these villages have recorded 101 deaths against their combined population of 33,600. That gives a ratio of 3.005 per 1,000 persons during this period — about three times of what you would expect normally.If this ratio is projected for the entire state with a population of 23.5 crore, about 4.7 lakh excess deaths could have taken place during this period. These excess deaths could be attributed to the second wave of the pandemic. Compare that to the official figures of Covid deaths: just 2.5 lakh for the entire country and merely thousands for UP since the pandemic began last year.Even unofficial projections don't get the scale of expected deaths. The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, an independent global health research centre at the University of Washington, estimates that by the end of August, UP may have 1.7 lakh to 2.1 lakh deaths due to Covid. This looks like a gross underestimate.Even if we take the ratio of deaths per thousand for the last 50 days to be a conservative 2.5 (lower than the 3.005 that we found in our crude survey) and project it to just the next 50 days as well, UP is likely to witness at least seven lakh additional deaths due to Covid in the months of April, May and June.For the entire year, assuming that we don’t have a lethal third wave, the figure could be well over 10 lakh deaths.This is not just a calamity; we are in the midst of a public health catastrophe, one of the worst this century.My colleagues and I have also been tracking media reports on how the pandemic is panning out in rural UP. While we work on a fuller report, our initial impression is that at every stage of response to the epidemic — from testing to cremation — people in UP are facing desperation and defeat.One thing is clear. Official statistics give you no idea of the devastating pandemic that is raging through rural UP. The state is officially reporting about 20,000 cases per day now. This is a joke. Widespread ignorance, lack of nearby or adequate testing facilities, official and unofficial caps on testing, and inordinate delays in test reports have meant that in village after village, virtually no one has been tested, even as scores of people complain of a ‘strange fever’. There is a callous and deliberate under-reporting of deaths.Then, there are reports about a large number of dead bodies washing up along the banks of the Ganga.Media reports suggest that the public and private health infrastructure in UP began crumbling by mid-April, just when the second wave began. Newspapers are full of reports of shortage and black marketeering of drugs like Remdesivir and equipment like oximeters, even in the big cities. Ambulances and hearses were hard to find. Hospital beds were already unavailable by the third week of April.And then, like everywhere else, there is oxygen shortage. Lack of oxygen leading to the death of a hospitalised patient was reported by a newspaper as early as April 22 from an Etawah district hospital. While the crisis of oxygen in the metros gets attention, the situation in the small towns of UP is infinitely worse. There is rampant black marketeering of oxygen and even attempts to loot oxygen cylinders.What was the response of the government? To be fair, a pandemic like this one is a challenge to any government. The challenge is manifold in a state like UP with dismal medical infrastructure. Granting all these limitations, it must be said that the response of the UP Government has been shocking, arguably the worst response anywhere in the country.For the record, the government announced a slew of measures, including steps to augment hospital beds and ICU facilities, oxygen supply, concentrators, availability of medicines and free treatment in private hospitals. Much of this remained on paper. The Allahabad High Court had to step in with strongly worded orders: "We will not tolerate your paper work anymore for tackling the situation. Now you do what we order."The situation on the ground kept worsening. The HC had to intervene again. UP continues to have one of the lowest vaccination rates in the country.Instead of managing the situation, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is fixated on managing perceptions and images. In a video-conference with select journalists on April 24, he asserted that there was no shortage of oxygen in any Covid-19 hospital and that the real problem was hoarding and black-marketing. He reportedly asked officials to take action under the National Security Act and ‘seize the property’ of those who spread ‘rumours’ and propaganda on social media and try to ‘spoil the atmosphere’.In one of the most brazen cases of Covid denial, the state government forced schoolteachers to conduct panchayat elections through the state. More than 577 teachers reportedly died in the process. Despite the Supreme Court orders to not harass whistleblowers and critics, the UP government went ahead with booking those who drew attention to the gravity of the situation. Barring a few exceptions, the media in UP has limited itself to pointing out local problems and has not questioned the state government and the CM.The story of UP is not unique. Now we know that this second wave has spread deep and fast in rural India across the country. We hear similar stories of the collapse of the medical infrastructure in many poorer states. Attempts to ‘invisibilise’ the number of cases and deaths have been reported from many states, including Gujarat and Delhi. Adityanath is not the only self-obsessed leader occupying the CM’s chair.Yet, a combination of it all — depth of rural penetration of Covid infection, poor quality public health infrastructure, collapse of private health services, lack of planning or response by the government and sheer political callousness — makes rural UP the epicentre of one of the worst and preventable disasters in 21st-century India, and, perhaps, the world.Saving rural UP from this catastrophe must be a national mission. The time to act was yesterday. But we can still save many lakh lives. We must act now.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/devastating-pandemic-raging-in-rural-up-252421
14-05-2021||Areader of my column deplored the fact that I had uttered ‘not a single word of mourning’ (sic) for those who were murdered in cold blood in post-election violence in Bengal. I have one awkward explanation to offer||Post-election mayhem||Mamata’s victory was front-page news. The disturbances were not so prominently featured. In Bengal, post-election violence has been reported over time, as consistently as clashes during electioneering. During the first few elections, the violence enveloped supporters of the Congress and the Left, then those of the CPM and the Trinamool Congress (TMC), and now the TMC and the new entrants in Bengal’s political arena, the BJP.Tensions, quarrels and fisticuffs are common during election times in most states. The exuberance of youth finds more outlets during victory marches and celebrations. Normal police bandobast keeps the revellers and the hotheads in check but the BJP has changed the rules of the game in Bengal by emasculating the state police machinery during these elections and replacing it with a massive paramilitary presence that seems to have taken over the control of law and order.The Election Commission of India (ECI) has used its inherent powers to replace the key players in the police setup, the DGP and the ADGP (Law and Order). If the replacements were not able to pull their weight, things were bound to go wrong. The usual practice in vogue was for the ECI to indicate the officers suspected to be unduly friendly with ruling party politicians, as voiced by the opposition parties and order their replacement. The choice of replacements was mutually agreed between officials of the ECI and the state’s senior bureaucrats.In my time, the power to distribute or allocate duties to the paramilitary was left to the state government. The rules of deployment seem to have changed in Bengal this time around. If the ECI has now been saddled with keeping order on the streets, it will be difficult, nay impossible and unfair, to blame Didi’s administration for the post-election violence till she is again sworn in and competent officers are again in charge of quelling disturbances. The earlier rules were very clear. Outside forces, even those not asked for by the state, were squarely under the state government’s control. They worked under a Magistrate if trouble was expected and under the command of the senior-most state police officer present, if there was no Magistrate deployed. If this time-tested arrangement was disturbed, then the fault lay with the Union Home Ministry or the ECI, whoever was responsible for weakening the authority of the state.From newspaper reports it did appear to a practised eye, like that of this old policeman, that the Home Ministry had taken over control from the state. This offered Mamata the excuse for freeing the state police from its responsibility to answer for post-election vandalism. To my mind, the blame should now be shared by the Home Ministry and the ECI for creating this new format of law enforcement where no one appears to be in charge when troubles start.The ministry has despatched a team of four senior officials, headed by an Additional Secretary, to probe into the violence that followed the election results. Several BJP supporters and some TMC men also lost their lives. The team will find it difficult to blame the MHA, and even more difficult to point a finger at its own political boss. The team should begin its inquiries with the firing by the CISF at Sitalkuchi. Who deputed an armed CISF party to that spot? Did its mandate permit such deployment by the ECI without consulting the state government authorities? If so, these orders and new rules should be placed on the table so that people can understand how India is now governed.Ever since the new government was installed, many rules of governance in the Home Ministry have changed. Is the change for the good of the country and its people or only with the sole intent of snuffing out all legitimate opposition to government policies?The ministry’s investigative agencies, like the CBI, the NIA, the NCB, and even the Finance Ministry’s ED and IT department have all become hyperactive during electioneering days, and also when political considerations required their participation, like in the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case. The Congress also used these agencies for political purposes, but this administration has honed this skill into a fine art!Egged on by its success in the use of the investigative arms, the Home Ministry has turned its attention to its armed forces — the BSF, the CRPF, the CISF, etc, that were, till now, isolated from political manoeuvres. This does not augur well for the health of the polity. I should know because I spent six years in the CRPF as a DIG of Police and six months as a Special Secretary in the MHA, where I oversaw the deployment of several battalions for Assembly election duty in Assam in February 1986.The reader who interacted with me assumed that the persons killed were all BJP supporters and that the culprits were all TMC men. It may be so, but it needs to be checked and verified. Nothing should be believed till proof is forthcoming. Lumpen elements, formerly with the Congress or CPM, even with the TMC, crossed over to the BJP before this election. Lumpen elements continue to find a place in the Trinamool Congress. Most political parties in India have such elements in their ranks. None can claim innocence! And since it is these elements that are used for murder and mayhem, we have to be doubly sure of who did what, when and where.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/post-election-mayhem-252442
