15-05-2021||---||Time to optimally use armed forces during crisis||As the nation battles the mega second wave of Covid along with an infodemic tsunami, questions that rankle the hapless and desperate population are — when will the armed forces take over and why are they not being given responsibilities of oxygen supply and managing hotspots like Delhi? Two former Army commanders and many senior veterans have felt that the forces are being utilised sub-optimally. Yet, the government has stated in court that it cannot ask the Army to take over in Delhi. The Delhi High Court has concurred with this argument.The forces have finite medical resources and the existing medical system in Delhi, even in normal times, works on support from the field hospitals of formations in the vicinity. Unlike civil hospitals, paramedical and nursing support in Military Hospitals (MHs) and Base Hospitals (BHs) has been a cause for concern. This can be attributed to spartan manning norms. The flexibility in the emergency response system was further eroded with the winding up of medical TA (Territorial Army) civil hospitals in 2014.An objective assessment would establish that niche capabilities, especially in logistics of forces, including the Air Force and the Navy, are being extensively utilised. It is most evident in the transportation of cryogenic oxygen plants and containers. The Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) has also repaired and resuscitated non-functional oxygen generation plants. In addition, the forces have helped to set up the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) hospitals, including manning them. It is a matter of concern that locations for the so-called DRDO hospitals appear to have been chosen more for optics and parochial considerations. Even the naming of such temporary facilities has some political overtones. It would be better to honour medics like Maj Laishram Singh (Ashok Chakra) and the Covid Yodhas by naming them.The MHs have raised bed capacities by 10-15% to accommodate civilian patients, subject to availability. It also bears mention that the veterans are up in arms and letters have been shot off to the Raksha Mantri (RM) lamenting this step, even when many veterans are running from pillar to post to find beds. This fact has been acknowledged and put on record by the MoD, which has questioned the very relevance of the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS).The unfortunate part is that bureaucrats prefer to raise objections and queries, whereas they are responsible for finding solutions. It is indeed time to fix accountability, release adequate funds and reduce the pendency of unpaid bills. The bottom line is that the liability of healthcare for veterans is absolutely non-negotiable. While it is accepted that the system is literally swamped, yet more empathy and better communication will help to alleviate the veterans’ plight to some extent.The demand for handing over the situation to the armed forces is primarily due to loss of confidence in the existing crumbling infrastructure and inefficient logistics. Shortages have been exacerbated due to most reprehensible tendencies of profiteering and cornering of resources by the power brokers and fixers. The only solution is nabbing them and exemplary punishment through fast-track tribunals. Such criminals should be publicly shamed and socially ostracised. Contrived shortages have fuelled rumours and panic.The armed forces can help in setting up centralised war rooms and coordinated communications network extending to regional nodes. Oxygen supplies and distribution can be managed by departmental TA units, which have domain competence in supply and distribution. These units can be assisted by a regular technical and logistics unit, which can handle any situation. The biggest gain would be the elimination of local manipulation.The present government has junked a large number of colonial-era laws, but our response is still driven by the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. It is time a contemporary statute is drafted and operationalised. Concurrently, the Disaster Management Act, 2005, should be updated and include an addendum on pandemics and health emergencies. Notwithstanding the fact that ‘emergency’ is abhorred in political lexicon, yet it will be a good idea to lay down norms for national emergencies. With our resilience, we should be able to overcome this crisis, but it is axiomatic that we learn lessons and are better prepared to avert the next lurking challenge. The frequency of such emergencies in all probability is likely to increase in future.The response has to be institutionalised and driven by statutory and mandated bodies. The NDMA and NDRF are not seen to be active, it will be appropriate that they are empowered in staffing and given due authority. Even states, except a few like Orissa, have notional state-level structures. Our disaster management matrix is based on response time and quantum of force. In all eventualities, the first responders have to be well-trained organic elements, civil defence, Home Guards and the police. In remote areas, the Army, due to its location, could also be concurrent, the first responder. They have to be supplemented with the NDRF, CAPFs, armed forces and NGOs, depending on the scale of tragedy.The NDRF is the designated primary responder, but has very limited capacities and only nominal ones in public health. Secondary responders include all others with the Army called in only as the ultimate responder. The raising of the NDRF and proliferation of demand for the Army has resulted in marked hesitancy on the part of the forces to get sucked into routine functions. Capability building for disaster relief in the forces needs to be funded. It is worrying that the forces are not represented in any of the 11 empowered committees and even the Supreme Court has not included them in the specially constituted task force, despite a stellar record and domain competence. It is time the expertise of forces is tapped in planning and management of critical functions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-to-optimally-use-armed-forces-during-crisis-252978
15-05-2021||---||How China’s anti-India blitz backfired||For authoritarian regimes, channels of information and communication like the press and social media are strategic domains to be controlled and manipulated — unlike in democracies where they are meant for free expression and information. This is because they have huge political incentives to keep the people in a sugar-coated bubble as a matter of regime security.Precisely for this reason, the Beijing regime maintains a near monopoly over the nation’s social and media landscape to protect its interests. A usual practice of the Chinese media is to multiply and magnify all the negative things befalling other countries while its domestic coverage creates the image of all-is-well under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). This tradition of reportage has indeed earned its media an apt epithet called — China’s happiness and the world’s suffering.Recently, this practice glared up when the CCP social media post on the official Weibo page of the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission (CPLAC) mocked India in the most indecent way possible by juxtaposing an image of a Chinese rocket launch with that of a mass cremation in India with the caption — ‘When China lights fire v/s when India lights fire’. However, the post was taken down after being criticised by Chinese netizens, calling it “insensitive” and a “classic case of propaganda failure”.However, the CPLAC is not only the official organ mocking India’s pandemic situation, the Ministry of Public Security (MPS) has also published a similar post on its official page with the picture of a temporary hospital in Wuhan, comparing it with the image of a crematorium in India. This time, the caption read — ‘China’s Fire Mountain, India’s Fire Mountain’, along with the sentence — India’s cremation ground for dogs is used for humans. It was also deleted after the backlash.The question is: how official are these posts on official pages? Some Indian China watchers have said the post seemed not to have been vetted or endorsed by the Chinese government since it was eventually deleted. However, such arguments sound too simplistic, given the highly centralised nature of the Chinese system. It is extremely unlikely for junior officials to publish such posts on official pages without the prior approval of the higher authorities. In fact, it is the senior authorities who are mostly taking a call on to what to post, when and how.Two Chinese official entities published the posts — the Ministry of Public Security on April 30 and CPLAC on May 1. The former is under the State Council, in charge of police and public security while the latter is a central party organ responsible for political and legal affairs of the CCP. The MPS posted first and then the CPLAC followed it. To begin with, how much weight and significance they have in Chinese politics?As central state and party entities dealing with public security, politics and law enforcement, they are not only important but have tremendous power and influence in China and the party leadership keeps a close eye on the functioning of these structures.As a regime obsessed with social and political stability, they are seen as linchpins for its security — and moreover, they are equally important for individual leaders to survive in the jungle of Chinese factional politics and power struggle as they play crucial roles in the politics of purge and rectification. To put it straight, without some inputs from the higher echelons of the party, no such posts will be published on these official pages poking inappropriate fun at a fellow neighbour going through the most painful time.It is also interesting to note that on the same day the Ministry of Public Security published the post, President Xi Jinping sent his message to Prime Minister Modi — expressing his condolences and solidarity. The next day, the CPLAC followed suit with a more jeering caption.To my observation, this is a usual Chinese diplomatic style where it comes up with a two-in-one-approach — holding out an olive branch in one hand and a stick in the other. This is a psychological warfare to put the other party in an uneasy position in order to understand how it reacts to the two scenarios. In the present context, how PM Modi would react to Xi’s message of support while his government also mocks India’s tragedy in the most obnoxious way. Should India accept the offer by swallowing the scorns, or ignore China to its immaturity?However, more than the international dimension, it is the domestic imperatives factoring here. After the origin of the coronavirus and its early mismanagement — China launched a massive propaganda offensive to change the narrative by portraying itself as the new saint saving the world — instead of the original sinner. This it did by suppressing information and report on the Covid situation in China while its channels have only reported on the awful Covid situation in other countries. The message has been how efficient and strong is the Chinese authoritarian system in controlling the pandemic as compared to the ‘incompetent democracies’ like the US, European countries and now India.The other factor is, as the CCP prepares for the celebration of its centenary in July this year, its propaganda machinery has been recalling the glorious history and achievements of the party. To stoke nationalism and burnish the regime’s image, the tragedies wreaked by the virus on the rest of the world have added fuel to the fire through the propaganda war machinery.But the one on India went too far and hit too low. Even at personal risk, some Chinese netizens found it too crass to ignore without protests. China’s propaganda blitz meant to polish its image ended up making a mockery of itself in the eyes of the civilised world — instead of downgrading India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-chinas-anti-india-blitz-backfired-252972
15-05-2021||---||Brace up for recession||In February this year, a restaurateur friend turned optimistic. Business was back to 70 per cent of pre-Covid days and things could only get better. There could be no stronger signal that India’s economy had turned the corner. Experts had predicted that restaurants would be the last places to see a full recovery. They are closed spaces where masks have to be taken off to eat. Customers were expected to be scared of returning to this basic normal behaviour after a year of social distancing. So, if people were back, other parts of the economy would be on their road to recovery.The wave has hit rural areas too. Apart from the unimaginable human tragedy, it could cut farm output and disrupt food supplies, causing food prices to rise.As we now know, this optimism was short-lived. Within a month, lockdowns began across major metropolises. Car sales, which had recovered in the first three months of this year, dropped sharply in April. CMIE’s jobs data tells us that about 73 lakh people lost their livelihood over the month, and because of lockdowns, the number of people actively looking for work dropped to its lowest level since May last year. CMIE’s consumer sentiments index, which had seen a steady rise from November last year, dropped below that level in early May. Less than five out of every 100 people surveyed, expected their incomes to rise this year.Lockdowns shut down factories and businesses in key industrial states like Maharashtra in April and May. Fuel consumption in April dropped to its lowest level since September 2020. Railway freight slipped to below November 2020 levels. Finished steel production dropped below June 2020 output, as did steel consumption. Some of this was because of supply shortages caused by lockdowns. However, as the example of tractor sales shows demand dropped at a faster pace. CRISIL’s data says retail sales of tractors dropped by 40-45 per cent in April compared to a month earlier, but wholesale supplies to dealers dropped by only 20-25 per cent.This is a repeat of what we saw during the first Covid lockdown of 2020. Sales of goods dropped sharply across industries in April. The trend is most likely to have continued in May as more cities came under lockdowns. Most companies will see their sales volumes drop in the first quarter of this fiscal, even if a general rise in prices stems the fall in revenues. Last year, there was a global recession which caused raw material prices to collapse across the world. This helped India’s big corporates make record profits, because costs dropped faster than the drop in revenues.This year, the picture is different. All other big economies are opening up. And as these countries begin to achieve their vaccination targets, economic activity is likely to revive, unleashing a year of pent-up demand. This recovery in the developed world is already causing a big rise in the prices of fuel and other industrial inputs. Indian companies will not be immune to this, since domestic prices of raw materials are influenced by the global commodity cycle. That means input costs will go up. If India’s second wave continues for longer, and if there is a third wave, then we will see a sharp fall in demand. Sales will continue to fall, but input costs will rise. This could mean that corporate profits will shrink this year, instead of expanding.India’s stock market boom in 2020 was entirely rational. It tracked the expansion in profits, even though the economy tanked. Markets go up as a whole when the share of profits relative to interest and wages goes up. That is exactly what happened in India in 2020. Real wages fell and the RBI ensured that interest rates remained low. If profits contract this year, there is a danger that the markets will drop in response.On the face of it, fluctuations in the stock markets are par for the course. However, in an economy like India, where the top 1 per cent of households drive a large part of additional consumption demand, stock market falls affect consumer sentiments. People who invest in markets or have significant mutual fund portfolios, tend to track their financial wealth on a regular basis. When markets go up it generates a ‘wealth-effect’ amongst such investors. They feel more confident about buying new cars, upgrading their refrigerators or even spending more on holidays. The reverse happens when markets fall. Affluent households with financial investments cut back on discretionary spending.If private profits shrink, corporate sector jobs will also take a hit. People will either not get increments, or have to take pay cuts, and in some cases even lose their jobs. Again, these people form the backbone of India’s consuming classes. If their income reduces, demand will shrink further, forcing companies to cut prices. It is a vicious cycle where input prices, determined by global growth, will rise, while the prices of finished products will fall. Companies will cut back on production to meet the lower demand. That means they will have no reason to invest in new factories or offices.There is another warning sign for India’s economy and that is coming from the rural sector. We are seeing reports of Covid spreading to villages in this wave, and our healthcare system is simply not equipped to handle that. Along with the unimaginable human tragedy, this could also affect the Kharif sowing season. This could reduce farm output and disrupt food supplies causing food prices to rise. That will be a double whammy — high food inflation in the middle of low income.One can only hope that the babus in our ministries are reading these signals and are working out a detailed plan on how to tackle it. We have already witnessed how overoptimism about Covid turned out. Hopefully, the government will prepare for a worst-case scenario this time, rather than hope that things will be resolved on their own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/brace-up-for-recession-252971
