16-05-2021||When a State cannot provide justice in its most fundamental form||The emperor’s new clothes||The provocation to write comes from reading about our finance ministry pontifying that the second wave will have a muted effect on the economy (front page of The Economic Times, May 8, giving the ministry’s April review) — it probably holds true for the world they live in. For, it has to be a different world, devoid of corona and its devastation, because no rational human being could give such statements in the wake of all the death and destruction that surrounds us, and the havoc it is playing with our lives and our economy. Respectable international agencies are continuously downgrading our projected growth rates.Our first response to the pandemic was in true Trump style — ignore it. However, it was subsequently followed by a national lockdown which broke the back of the labour and the economy. There came a slight pause in the march of the pandemic and our Central leadership proclaimed victory and claimed that we had shown the way to the world on how to beat the pandemic under dynamic crisis management. India had arrived as the ‘Vishwa Guru’. Having dealt with this minor problem, the top leadership moved to the state of West Bengal to wage a life and death struggle with an evil greater than the pandemic in the form of state elections. This was in spite of warnings of a second severe surge, to which no heed was paid. No control room was put in place from where the whole country could be mapped, no special crisis management team was set up, no orders were placed for hospital beds, ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen, vaccines, ambulances, etc. The matter had been dealt with and the Covid file closed.On the other hand, the lions roared in Bengal and promised the faithful 200 seats — never mind the danger of the rallies acting as super spreaders. Additionally, the Kumbh Mela was also being held where millions were propitiating the gods. This also took the form of another super spreader — never mind, Bengal will be ours. Meanwhile, nature, ‘red in tooth and claw’, was exacting vengeance. State after state reported a humungous number of infected and dead people. But they didn’t look back and kept baying for the blood of Mamata Didi — ‘Didi’, a revered word everywhere, became a figure of ridicule. However, reality began to catch up as the world sat up and began to notice. The international media called it a catastrophe and mismanagement of Herculean proportions. Hospitals began to cry out for oxygen, ICU beds, ventilators, vaccines — in short, everything that was needed to help people. But we had no reserves, we had placed no orders, we had not ramped up production, so we began to do what we thought we had put behind us. Back to PL 480 days — back to the begging for aid from all countries, aid of any kind. Slowly, the world began to respond but, it was a measured response because of our leadership’s recent claims of victory. Most of this aid landed at Delhi but there were negligible arrangements at the airport. There was no control room, no inventories for aid coming in, no details as to where it was to be sent and no transport mobilised. Questions regarding distribution of this aid from Delhi were raised at White House press conferences. The opaque nature of this mismanagement continues to haunt us with states and aid agencies not knowing what is coming or going.The states began to compete in making huge demands but there was no one in Delhi to allocate aid to states as per some worked-out formula, or coordinate our resources as well as the international aid coming in. Again, it was politics — charges and counter-charges of favouritism. One has not heard of any initiative taken by the disaster management force to mobilise its own resources and those of other departments. Why could not the Army have been asked to set up field hospitals — after the earthquake at Bhuj in 2001, the Israeli army set up a field hospital in 24 hours which was capable of giving treatment right from minor injuries to heart problems. They did not borrow a single item from us, except the land on which the hospital was set up. We too can do it, we have the men, the experts, the institutions, but they are not allowed to function independently and grow. Every decision in this country, right from cricket to the pandemic, is political and our politics is corrupt. Corruption has consumed every cell in our body politic and with every passing year, it only gets worse.As the disease wreaks havoc, the leadership, comprising the numerous pillars of government, hides in denial or issues orders reminiscent of Don Quixote charging the windmills. The ‘brahmastar’ they wield is that of shutting everything… congratulations to you all, well done, you are dousing the fire. However, you may want to consider the fact that you fanned this fire by allowing all the super spreader melas and rallies. You ignore that minor detail of unemployment, hunger, school fees, EMIs, rent, salaries… no worries on that count, ‘the impact on the economy is muted’. It is so easy to shut everything, the bureaucrat and the politician love the power of it. Leadership at any level is defined as the ability to give to society and not to extract from it. Such leadership has been personified by men such as Gandhi, Mandela, Lincoln. Their leadership gave peace, succor, justice — you have nothing to give but pain, and yet, you snatch liberty and freedom with such abandon that would shame a hardened autocrat.Nothing — ‘nada’, zero.The list is a long one, yet the rulers continue to build their vistas, buy fancy airplanes, splurge on electioneering and advertisements showcasing schemes and plans to befool the common man. How do you befool the dead and dying, how do you befool the families who have lost members? I do hope that this Central Vista, if completed, will in time stand as a monument to the misplaced priorities of our leadership during the time of unmatched tragedy. A reminder to a nation that our leaders should be held accountable.The basic duty of the State is to provide security of life and property. When a State cannot provide justice in its most fundamental form, it loses its right to rule. Where is justice when citizens have to pay thousands to carry their dead and buy slots for funerals? Where is justice when they are turned away from basic medical care? What happened to all ESI hospitals to which every business contributes? What happened to all health plans and insurances which hard-working citizens paid for? Most did not even get admission to hospitals, forget about reimbursements. Anyway, the dead seek no reimbursement but, justice, yes. There should be justice for all the lives lost and for the ones that remain behind. The truth can no longer be clothed in lies — it is out on the streets for all to see and the delusion of our leaders and the illusion they seek to cloak us with is laid bare.Has the Ganga been cleaned as part of the ‘Swachh Bharat’ campaign? The answer lies in the hundreds of bloated corpses of what once were human beings — corpses floating in the Ganga, maybe they will find solace in her embrace, a solace they never found while living.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-emperors-new-clothes-253504
16-05-2021||Today||Forget, we won’t||I do not know what will become of us after this long nightmare is over but of this I am sure that if we survive, I will never take our happiness for granted. Nor will I ever foolishly believe that if one has been good and law-abiding, one has the right to a happy life. Over and over again, I recall that famous Buddhist parable of a mother asking the Buddha why her only child had been snatched away by death. He listened to her appeal to do something and calmly replied, ‘Get me a handful of grain from a home that has never experienced death, and I will bring your child back to life.’ This is one lesson that we can never internalise simply because death, after all, happens to other people. All of us know that we will die one day, but put off that day from our minds and everyday life. Christianity and most other faiths speak of how we can seek happiness, but it is only the Buddha and the Sufi saints who say that life is an unending saga of suffering enlivened only occasionally by joy.Today I doubt if there is a single family that has not been touched by corona. Whether it is someone related by blood or a close friend, someone somewhere has left your life forever. Will we ever be able to celebrate Eid or Diwali or Christmas without that absence haunting us? This is why those who say public memory is short and that the people will not punish those who were caught napping when the pandemic was about to engulf us and will forgive the leaders who led us into this dark phase, are so wrong. No one will forget and if they do, then there is no hope for us as a nation. Where are the confident political leaders who said we had won the battle, defeated the virus and were on the brink of an economic miracle? Not a peep from them and their absence is now a slur on those who still persist in defending them or who resort to what-aboutery.The pandemic has also taken the curtains off our basic selfishness and greed. Even as people die in the corridors of hospitals for want of oxygen or ventilators, there is a thriving black market being run by denizens who are supremely indifferent to human suffering. How do such people sleep at night? If only they had joined hands with those who have fought the battle even at the cost of their own lives, or of those who have quietly provided food and succour to the suffering, what may we have not done to save precious lives? I have applauded the spirit of the Sikhs before and I will say it once again, that this is the religion that has taught us to become better human beings. On behalf of all the bigots in my own religion and others, I hang my head in shame.In the life forward, we will have to change our priorities. So healthcare and education must take precedence over defence and commerce. Our health centres, particularly in rural areas, have been hollowed out and the government hospitals (many have risen magnificently to this challenge) have been starved at the cost of private healthcare for the rich and powerful. The result of this crass commercialisation is there for all to see. Similarly, primary education has been depleted of its teachers because they have all chosen to work for private schools and teaching shops. The rampant spread of this disease and the resistance to scientific advice is a sad consequence of this error. That our leaders have actually promoted clapping and voodoo medicines over vaccination and pharmaceutically sound and proven cures is a crying shame. All these so-called sants and babas should be publicly shamed.Finally, the utter confusion over our vaccination programme is incomprehensible when the man at the helm of the Health Ministry is the very person who spearheaded the polio drive and conquered public prejudice and problems of outreach efficiently and successfully. Has everyone lost their sense of right and wrong? Why does the government centralise what needs to be decentralised and decentralise what needs to be centralised? To my simple mind, vaccines should be procured by the Central government and then handed over to the individual states to handle at the block and taluka level. Is this so difficult to do? When the power to say yes and no resides only with one person, then that person has to take the blame for all that is going wrong today. Our international reputation is in tatters, our self-confidence is at an all-time low and our people are dying on the streets and thrown into our rivers to hide data.Wah, India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/forget-we-wont-253513
16-05-2021||Many of us who were in uniform when he was the Army Chief||The one and only Sam Bahadur||Having just taken over as the Army Chief, General Manekshaw came as the Reviewing Officer for our Passing Out Parade at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, on June 15, 1969. It was a huge honour that the Chief himself would take the salute as we got commissioned as Second Lieutenants.Just two months later, he visited our armoured regiment at Ahmednagar. It was a new unit being raised with soldiers brought in from Artillery, Engineers and the Infantry, and from different castes like Marathas, Ahirs and Gujjars. This mixed bag was a first-time experiment for the Armoured Corps. Sam had just introduced name tabs for officers and we were all wearing these as we lined up for introductions.As he came to me at the end of the line, my Commandant told him that I had just joined the unit from IMA. He turned a stern face and asked, “Who commissioned you?” I told him, “Sir, the Chief.” Sam took a step forward and with a grin dealt a solid blow to my chest and said, “Even I make mistakes, don’t I?” I staggered four steps back and could only grin back. The name tab had snapped into two!Sam then walked around the garages where the men were busy maintaining the Vijayanta tanks — grease, oil, cleaning material, etc. Troops wearing soiled dungarees, dirty hands, some under the tanks. Not all spit and polish as would be the norm when a Chief visits. Sam walked up to one jawan and smiled, “Kahan se aya hai?” The jawan replied, “Infantry se, Saab.” “Main bhi Infantry ka hoon, haat milao.” He warmly shook hands. This got repeated a dozen or more times during his walk through the garages.His own hands were now soiled with grease and sweat but he did not look at them. When he was past the tanks, he accepted the cloth which the Risaldar Major had been carrying for him to wipe his hands on and told the Commandant, “Boy, you got a fine unit here!” He left behind a regiment whose troops’ morale had soared sky high.In later years, I had the opportunity to be addressed by Sam on several occasions and each time would admire his presence and charisma. He did not build it — he was just made that way. People around him felt good and he made sure that his public image inspired confidence.Just before the 1971 war, Sam visited all forward operational areas and spoke to the men and the officers in large and small groups, depending on the availability and deployment of troops. When he addressed the group I was in, near Muktsar, he spoke of many things. One of these I remember: “I will be sending you into Pakistan. When you do go, keep both your hands in your pockets. I have been around the world and assure you that Indian women are the best. So, keep those hands in your pockets and think of Sam, till you get back.”I doubt that we will have a Chief of his stature again. He truly was a colossus. God rest his soul in peace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-one-and-only-sam-bahadur-253525
16-05-2021||Let’s forget the blame game. One thing is certain||Every govt chose to neglect healthcare, not just this||Heart-rending narratives have been rife on both television and social media — of patients being taken by car, even rickshaws, struggling to breathe, trying to find a hospital bed, but being turned away. Many have died outside hospitals. In this second wave, more cases have been reported in India than in all other countries combined. A third of all the deaths worldwide have taken place here. Even that is probably an underestimate, as there is mounting evidence that the actual number of deaths could be five to 10 times the official figures. Little wonder then that the world’s spotlight is on India these days. There have been horrific images of scores of bodies floating down the Ganga. Giant earth excavators on the banks of the holy river are digging makeshift burial and cremation grounds for the bodies. Last Wednesday, a TV channel visited the biggest hospital in UP’s Etawah. It had 100 beds, but a far more number of patients were compelled to lie on the floor. That was bad enough but, unbelievably, there was not a single doctor or nurse to be found, nor anybody from the administration. And just as incredible, not a single toilet was functional as the sanitation staff had scooted off. Till now, the pandemic has largely been restricted to urban areas. What happens when it spreads into the countryside, as is now being seen, where the state health infrastructure is even worse and, in many villages, non-existent?When India got its Independence 73 years ago, it had to decide its priorities for economic and social development. Sadly, two vital areas were neglected: primary education and primary healthcare. Many world-class institutes of higher learning and excellent hospitals were set up. But not nearly enough primary schools, medical clinics and primary health centres, especially in the rural areas. As a result, literacy rates, especially among girls, remained low, as did the expectancy of life (which is a sure indicator of good public healthcare). China, and even Muslim-majority Indonesia, to take just two large countries, got their priorities right. They placed emphasis on primary education and primary health. Both had lower literacy and life expectancy rates than India’s in 1947. By the 1980s, they had overtaken us in these two crucial areas.The failure to build an adequate public health infrastructure must lie at the doors of all governments that have been in power since 1947, which means mainly the Congress. But the other parties which have been at the helm must share some of the blame. The low priority they gave to public health and sanitation can be gauged by the calibre of those appointed as Union Health Ministers. The Janata Party had the likes of Raj Narain, the Congress AR Antulay. Over the years, even well-established, top-class institutions have been run down due to mismanagement and corruption. Kasauli, a small hill station in Himachal Pradesh, boasted of the Central Research Institute (CRI), first set up in 1904, and once the manufacturer of several vaccines and serums, some of which were exported. During Dr Manmohan Singh’s first term, Anbumani Ramadoss was made Union Health Minister He belonged to one of the Congress’ alliance partners. It was, in my opinion, a wholly incorrect choice. An adverse report by the WHO led to the CRI being downgraded from being a major manufacturer of vaccines and serums to just a “testing” laboratory, which is what it is now.The present government may not be entirely responsible for the shambolic state of our health infrastructure, but it has done little to improve it. However, where there is cause for serious concern is the irrational and unscientific mindset of some of the ruling party’s leading lights. A modern, rational and scientific milieu is necessary for setting up an up-to-date state-run health infrastructure. But what do we see around us? Astrology is taken seriously as “science” and courses are being proposed in universities, “alternative” medicine is considered superior to allopathy, august seminars are held extolling the so-called scientific and medical discoveries of ancient India. The waste by-products of cow are cited as cures for various ailments, even cancer. A ‘baba’ whose claim to fame is his expertise in yoga is given all kinds of concessions to enable him to run a flourishing “Made in India” pharmaceutical business, producing dodgy medicines, even the “first-in-the-world vaccine” to combat the deadly virus (mercifully, that did not pan out, despite our Health Minister paying obeisance to him).With so much superstition and mumbo-jumbo around, can an effective and modern health infrastructure be established, even if funds are forthcoming? The Constitution states, “It shall be the duty of every citizen to develop scientific temperament, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform.” Those words need to be placed prominently at every future meeting dealing with science and medicine.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/every-govt-chose-to-neglect-healthcare-not-just-this-253528
