17-05-2021||Former DGP||Tackle the wave of crime amid the pandemic||An ambulance driver demanded Rs 50,000 for carrying a Covid patient from Noida to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram which should normally cost about Rs 2,000-3,000. A relative of a patient bought a Remdesivir injection in Delhi for Rs 70,000 as against its normal cost of about Rs 4,000 or even less. In many cases, spurious injections and drugs are being sold at exorbitant prices.A hospital bed in Bengaluru was being sold for Rs 1.20 lakh, an amount in which you can buy an excellent hospital bed from the market. An oxygen concentrator costing less thanRs 50,000 is being sold for aboutRs 1.50 lakh. Oxygen cylinders are being sold at many times their price and in some cylinders sold, there is no oxygen. The same is the case with the cost of refilling oxygen cylinders. In some cases, fire extinguishers were sold as oxygen cylinders.Only a few such cases have come to notice. There are thousands which have escaped notice.Every essential thing connected to Covid has become prone to black marketeering. Middlemen, hoarders and profiteers are making hay amid the pandemic.Add to this the ghastly crime of selling of old dirty gloves by just washing them with water or the making of RT-PCR kits with dirty hands, looting cash and jewellery from dead bodies in hospitals or the fleecing of people at cremation grounds. Topping it all is the taking off kafans, sheets and shawls from the dead bodies and selling them as new after washing.Then there are some social media criminals offering all kinds of help, including plasma donation, but committing cybercrime by demanding money digitally at the last moment and then siphoning off the money from the bank accounts of victims after getting the credit card details.The list of crimes can go on. There are also offenders among the pillars of our democracy.In the legislature, many politicians are flouting Covid safety protocols by holding or attending big wedding receptions and rallies where masks and social distancing go for a toss.In the executive, quite a few in the Central Government did not plan, execute and monitor proper action in various dimensions either before or during the severe second wave, leading to agony and deaths. The failure is regarding the ramping up or upkeep of medical infrastructure, the supply of oxygen, vaccine policies and a lot more.The state governments have also failed as they went about dismantling temporary medical infrastructure rather than scaling them up during the lean period of February/March this year. Many states allowed big religious gatherings like the Kumbh Mela or funeral processions like the one noticed at Badaun in Uttar Pradesh recently, big rallies during the Assembly elections, holding of panchayat elections, allowing the crowding of public places and markets without strictly enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour — all of which led to a huge surge in Covid cases spreading fast even to rural areas.Many hospitals in the states are in a bad shape on various counts and there is no accountability. Enough testing and tracing are not being done because there are an inadequate number of labs. Some ventilators sent by the Central Government to states like Rajasthan and Punjab for government hospitals have been given on rent to private hospitals and many are still lying in stores.The worst is the concealing of the correct information about the number of cases and deaths by the states. But cremation grounds don’t lie and deaths are much more than those mentioned by the state governments.Some of these are criminal activities and those responsible must be identified, sacked and dealt with under the law. There has to be some accountability. The Allahabad High Court has gone on to call the deaths due to the unavailability of medical help as ‘genocide’. The Election Commission is also responsible for not enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour during the elections, leading to a surge in cases. The Madras High Court had recently asked why EC should not be charged with murder for not banning election rallies during the pandemic.Strong action needs to be taken against all criminals from all fields as per the law. Enforcing the National Security Act (NSA) against them can also be considered. Where there is no law or inadequate law, it should be initiated and strengthened with ordinances at once.Such crimes should be made non-bailable offences. Fast investigation and fast-track courts should be formed and exemplary punishment given. The properties of the guilty should be confiscated as per the provisions built into these laws. Rewards to whistleblowers should be included in the new laws. Some of these provisions exist in the recently amended Drugs & Cosmetics (Amendment) Act, 2008, but it is only for drugs.Further, such criminals should be socially boycotted by extensively naming and shaming them. And, as a society, we should learn from countries like Japan that are at their best behaviour during tragedies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tackle-the-wave-of-crime-amid-the-pandemic-253853
17-05-2021||Ex-Secretary||Political class must rise to the occasion||It is axiomatic that it’s the responsibility of a country’s political class to maintain the coherence of its political system. This is all the more so during periods of political, economic and social stress and crisis. If at such times, a political class gives priority to the interests of its parties or sectional support bases and ignores the overall concerns of the entire people, a country can go into a downward spiral which can result in enduring problems, if not disaster. In the face of emergencies, if a political class loses the ability to come together, refuses to curtail personal and political egos and continues to give salience to its ideological preferences and abandons the people in the hour of their need, it abdicates its essential function and duty and simply loses its raison d’etre.India’s own history is replete with examples which validate these propositions, as does the continuing tragedy which has gone on for almost five decades in Afghanistan. It is vital that the Indian political class, especially those who hold the senior-most positions in the land, pays heed to the striking lessons of this country’s past, as also draws them from the Afghan catastrophe. For, overall, India is passing through its most critical phase since Partition, necessitating that all elements of the political class from the highest to those at the ground level look to people’s welfare. There are disturbing reports from the grass roots that this is not so. But first a look at Afghanistan and the lessons it holds for the Indian political class at this critical stage in the nation’s journey.The Afghan crisis began with the coup against King Zahir Shah in 1973, initiated by his cousin Daud Khan who abolished the monarchy and became President of the republic. The coup broke the overall stability of the country and provided space to contradictory ideological forces — Islamic and communist — that were growing in the country’s social and political space. In 1978, the communists, with the help of the army, not only deposed Daud Khan, but also killed him and members of his family. The communist party was divided into factions itself and their contestation, too, was bloody. They also let loose a reign of terror and killed a very large number of people considered to be opposed to the programmes and policies of the party which were meeting stiff resistance from a conservative people.The conflicts and murders unleashed by the factions led to the Soviet intervention in 1979. That led to the migration of millions of Afghans to Pakistan and Iran and beyond, the intervention of Western countries, the establishment of Islamic Mujahideen resistance groups based in Pakistan who launched a violent campaign against the Soviet presence and the communist regime. A decade later, the Soviet forces withdrew from Afghanistan, leaving behind the Najibullah government. There was now an opportunity for reconciliation, but that was ignored by the Islamic groups and violence continued, and so did the suffering of the Afghan people.With the collapse of the Soviet Union, Najibullah’s position became untenable and the Mujahideen groups formed an interim government in 1992, but they could not reconcile their differences and a violent civil war ensued. That led to Pakistani intervention and the rise of the Taliban. With Pakistan’s help this obscurantist group established sway in large parts of the country, captured Kabul and established a system of medieval misery. Their abhorrent regime lasted till 2001, when it was ousted after 9/11 by the forces of the Northern Alliance with US and NATO assistance.The Afghan political class, with the help of the international community, had now the opportunity to establish a viable system under a democratic constitution. It could also sink its differences and unite an ethnically motivated polity. However, the political class leadership failed to do so. That provided the Taliban space to regroup, and with the assistance of the Pakistani army, get back into Afghanistan. Despite the endeavours of the coalition forces, the Taliban expanded their hold over the country till the US was forced to negotiate with them, accept a strategic defeat and decide to withdraw. That withdrawal process is currently on and the country’s future again hangs in the balance, while the people’s misery continues. Even at this critical time, the Kabul political elite has been unable to sink its political differences.The Afghan experience will never happen in present-day India, but over many centuries, the lack of unity in India’s political class provided ground for successful foreign invasions from the north-west, and later the establishment of British power. The lessons of that disunity and not standing along with the people during emergencies should never be lost by the political class. To its credit, it has displayed unity after Independence during periods of armed hostilities initiated by Pakistan or China. That same resolve and unity have to be shown now, when India is combating the pandemic. Unfortunately, overall, it is lacking.Worse, it would seem in Uttar Pradesh local political leaders of all political parties are showing unbelievable lack of concern for the travails of the people during the pandemic. They appear to be busy politicking for the formation of committees after the local body polls in the state, instead of addressing the health concerns of the people. According to reports of fearless young journalists who, at great risk to their own health, are covering the state, some MPs and MLAs, cutting across parties, are not among their constituents for giving them succour. This is no different from soldiers abandoning their posts in the face of the enemy. It is a manifestation of the irresponsibility and lack of cohesion of the political class, and it is tragic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/political-class-must-rise-to-the-occasion-253874
17-05-2021||Former Secretary||All at sea on the vaccine front||India finds itself caught in the web of premature and pompous vaccine nationalism, disproportionate efforts at vaccine diplomacy and unwarranted vaccine complacency. National need and vaccine equity figured, it appears, tepidly somewhere.India could have compulsorily licensed Covaxin to 18 domestic manufacturers to take the moral high ground.As per their manufacturing capacity, the two designated companies have manufactured 28 crore doses in four months. But the government has administered 15 crore doses. Six crore doses have gone to various countries under India’s Vaccine Maitri scheme and the gap must have been covered by the Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) own licence obligation.At this rate of vaccine availability, the country would surely miss the third wave whose impact is difficult to predict as of now. True, there is a plan of the SII increasing its monthly manufacture to 100 million and Bharat Biotech to 70 million doses per month, starting from August.The Government of India will pick up 50 per cent of the product, amounting to 54 crore doses by December. Since only the above-45 age group is taken to be the Centre’s responsibility, it accounts for 45 crore doses. This means that the remaining nine crore doses are meant for vaccine diplomacy.It is wise for nation-states to tend to their own economy rather than overstretch themselves. India, at best an aspiring power, is fast becoming a one-trick pony; imitating China, regardless of the huge gap in their strengths.The country missed out on the opportunity of pre-ordering vaccines in time in the seller’s market, and expanding capacity. It is now caught in the net of non-availability. Even the use of a CDL-like testing lab in Hyderabad and the one in Kasauli, which would have saved time and improved logistics, has not been thought through yet.Now comes the issue of shifting of the responsibility of vaccination of the 18-plus age category to the states. The Centre’s budgetary provision of Rs 35,000 crore would have taken care of this category too. If inadequate, putting on hold the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project could have made funds available for meeting the additional need of a booster dose when required.For the first time, the Central Government has washed its hands of vaccination, even though it is its constitutional obligation under the Concurrent List (entry 29).But there are deeper problems here. The 50 per cent stock left with the manufacturers after the Centre takes its share does not clearly divide the claims of the state governments and the private sector.In this uneven tussle, the states will be the losers. The vaccine price fixation has been left to the manufacturers and outright profiteering is evident in the prices they have fixed for the states and the private sector.If the SII was making a profit when the price was Rs 150 per dose, fixing the rate at Rs 300 gives it at least a 300 per cent increase in profit. The rate of Rs 1,200 by Bharat Biotech for the private hospitals jacks up profit by 400-1,200 per cent. This also becomes a reference priceline for the new entrants, though these rates are much higher than the rates at which they are being sold to other countries.Already, the vaccination drives in different states are sputtering for lack of availability of vaccine. The manufacturers will be more inclined to sell it to the private sector than to the states whose rate is either half or one-third of the former. The states, with their limited resources, will have to fork out double or triple the price that the Central Government paid.The right to life apparently comes with different price tags for different age groups. The Centre’s declaration in its affidavit to the Supreme Court that the market should determine the price of the vaccine shows a convoluted understanding which would have put even Milton Friedman to shame.The state governments will not only compete with the private sector, but also end up competing with each other. Are we waiting for a rerun of the chaotic situation that the US saw?The Central Government has finally managed to shift the crisis to the states and created chaos. The country has missed out on coordinated vaccine purchase with the advantage of the economy of scale like the National Immunisation Programme.The Indian Government’s proposal, along with that of South Africa, for a TRIPs waiver for the vaccine, has received the support of the US Government. But it still faces resistance from the EU, Japan and Australia. If finally the waiver comes with some caveats on technology transfer, confidential information and trade secrets, the objective would not be met.Given the enormity of the crisis, India could have compulsorily licensed Covaxin to the 18 domestic manufacturers of the vaccine. This would have helped India take the moral high ground for seeking compulsory licensing of international vaccines. We are seeking vaccine equity internationally while not ensuring it within the country.India’s vaccination programme is already tottering. Go to any state, you will find unavailability of doses, the drive being limited to second dose cases, and a perceptibly slow pace.Finally, there is an ambivalent attitude to vaccine producers and we may end up paying a huge price for it. There is a Tamil proverb, “I will pretend to beat you, you will pretend to cry and we will continue as before.” It appears we will not be ready for the third wave as and when it comes.The problem with tardy vaccination is that the virus will move, mutate and become more virulent and it is likely to hit young people, precisely the ones who are caught in our messy vaccination policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-at-sea-on-the-vaccine-front-253875
