18-05-2021||---||Pandemic has laid bare flaws in healthcare||Almost 220 years ago, a three-year-old girl in Mumbai became the first Indian recipient of the smallpox vaccine. This was just around five years after British scientist Edward Jenner invented the smallpox vaccine. This was possibly the first case of vaccination outside of England, but it firmly placed India on the vaccination map.Slowly and steadily, India became the pioneering base of vaccines. The cholera vaccine was tested and developed in the 1890s in India, and so was the vaccine for plague. For over two centuries, India acquired expertise in vaccination that no country has ever possessed.One of the most significant boosts came when our then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made immunisation one of the five technology missions. India became a stellar example of vaccine production, delivery and last-mile logistics. The massive two centuries of progress in vaccination has come to naught, courtesy the monumental incompetence of the Narendra Modi government.In 2004, when the tsunami struck the Indian Ocean, the government led by Manmohan Singh took a historic decision — he announced that India will not accept foreign aid, stating that India now possesses the resources and potential to take care of itself. India had reached a stage of development where it could take care of its own needs without external help. Post the 2004 tsunami, a massive cyclone adaptation exercise was initiated to create a vast infrastructure to safeguard people against such disasters. Subsequently, the Indian example of preparedness was cited globally as a country that could ward off the devastation unleashed by natural disasters.Today, because of the missteps of the NDA government, India has again become an aid recipient, with almost 40 countries having donated to relief operations in India, stumbling from a donor to a receiver.The image of India has suffered an unprecedented dent, which might take a generation to make amends. Two months ago, Indians were proudly announcing that as part of the Quad agreement, the country will produce one billion doses of the Covid vaccine to be primarily sent to the Indo-Pacific and that India will also take the lead in humanitarian assistance. Today, in May, this announcement is not even finding a mention as the world is trying to get its act together to help India.Besides abandoning other countries where India was busy making commitments of aid and relief, the Union Government seems to have abandoned its own people and states as well. By asking states to purchase their own vaccines, the Union Government has abdicated on its responsibility and conceded a virtual defeat in governance. How can India now claim to be a global pharmacy or the world’s largest producer of vaccines when the government itself is now abandoning its own states during its darkest hour?Handling the pandemic is the singular biggest failure of the Union Government since independence. Let me enumerate a few aspects. Despite its massive team of experts and Centrally funded institutes at disposal, the Union Government failed to anticipate and inform the states of the impending catastrophe. Individually, each state cannot and does not have the experts to deal with such situations. That is the reason why our first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had created the Central institutes.If the early warning systems failed, so did the delivery systems. Out of the 320 ventilators supplied by the Union government to Punjab, over 280 are faulty. Oxygen supplies have failed to arrive, vaccines are in short supply, medicines are not available, and the situation is more or less the same with PPE kits. This amounts to criminal negligence.Third, over-centralisation has meant that bureaucratic red-tape is holding up aid that is arriving from abroad. NRIs and international community have provided help, but it remains stuck in the Byzantine bureaucracy. The Punjab Chief Minister has repeatedly asked the Centre to consult the state governments while formulating their Covid plans because it is in the towns, cities, tehsils and districts that the plans have to be implemented. The Union Government can continue issuing advertisements, patting its own back, but it should listen to the states in order to save people’s lives.Petty politics has overpowered national and humanitarian interests. The PM participated in political rallies, and he was featured prominently in what are described as super-spreader events. If he is encouraging tens of thousands of people to attend his events, how can we ask people to stay indoors?I hope urgent measures are taken to remedy the situation. It should commence with a nationwide free vaccination campaign — the way so many successful immunisation campaigns have happened in the past. This should be a concomitant to expansion of domestic vaccine production. The PM will do his image no harm if he can allocate Rs 35,000 crore from the nebulous PM’s relief fund to this cause. The Union Government must immediately cease the controversial Central Vista project and divert these resources to combat the pandemic. It must also abandon the farm laws that will pauperise the farmers and abet profiteering. The government must quickly come out with a pan-India citizen relief package based around food supply and direct cash transfers for the poorest sections of our country.In every previous crisis or blunder, PM Modi has escaped through his characteristic bluster. This was possible because he could control sections of the media. That influence is waning because journalists are seeing the distress of their fellow citizens first-hand. They refuse to buy into the government’s spin-doctoring. In fact, India has lost some of its finest journalists in the line of duty in the Covid pandemic. But this sacrifice will not go waste. Professor Amartya Sen wrote that an alert media can prevent a famine, citing the Bengal famine, when the colonial government tried its best to suppress information, but an active media ensured that the picture of death and government callousness reached the world. The Indian media’s selfless service in the last few months has firmly put the focus on this government’s incompetence in managing the crisis.Modi should realise that the time for equivocations and obfuscations is gone. It is time to show real results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pandemic-has-laid-bare-flaws-in-healthcare-254419
18-05-2021||---||Redefine learning as we know it||Even amid the pandemic and associated darkness all around, our sacred longing for life-affirming and emancipatory visions refuses to wither away. It was in May that this land gave birth to two great souls — Rabindranath Tagore (May 7, 1861) and Jiddu Krishnamurti (May 11, 1895). And today, even though in May 2021 we are all broken and wounded, it is still refreshing to invoke them, feel the light of illumination, and rethink what goes on in the name of standardised and mainstream education. Well, in this age corrupted by the market-driven notion of 'productivity', ‘utility’ and ‘efficiency’, not many may be willing to walk with a poet and a wanderer. Yet, those who see the discontents of the prevalent form of education — oppressive schooling, utilitarian coaching centres, rote learning, exam obsession, hyper-competitiveness and spiritual dumbness, ought to converse with Tagore and Krishnamurti, strive for emancipatory education, and raise a dissenting voice — even if the Establishment and its techno-managers as policy makers devalue it as utopian.Let us reflect on what modern schooling with its regimentation and techniques of discipline and surveillance has done to our children. It has created artificial armours, restrained spontaneity and creative flow of life energy, and denaturalised their existence. Huge walls, CCTV cameras, the tyranny of the clock time with the dissemination of discrete and fragmented knowledge capsules (physics at 9.30 am; poetry at 10.15 am, and clay modelling at 11 am) and the continual pressure to perform: schools are like prisons. Is it that this sort of schooling eventually transforms one into an alienated worker, or a reckless consumer? And now imagine Tagore’s poetic wisdom, his critique of regimentation, his urge to dismantle these prison-like structures, create a modern ‘tapovan’, and nurture a learning community in which children and their mentors evolve together through a deep communion with the abundance of nature. Nature heals; and the ways of seeing and relating to the whisper of trees, the play of monsoon clouds and the radiant moon give a new meaning to education. It is not like reading Keats (‘A thing of beauty is a joy forever’ ) in a closed classroom within the stipulated time period; it is like becoming a poem itself. In other words, it creates the ground for the creation of an aesthetically enriched and ecologically sensitive relational self. This, as the poet felt, is the real substance of education. It is sad that in a prosaic world, seldom do our headmasters see beyond English grammar and algebra.Second, see the way the prevalent form of education has killed the spirit of being a wanderer, or a seeker continually transcending the boundaries of the conditioned mind, and evolving through a ceaseless process of learning and unlearning. These days, we want our children to be smart strategists, exam warriors, or potential toppers. And their schooled consciousness is conditioned to believe that knowledge is nothing but the official curriculum (or, for an IIT aspirant, physics is nothing but FIIT-JEE physics; or maths is essentially what coaching centres offer at Kota — the town in Rajasthan known for all that is black and ugly about our education system); it is a product to be consumed. For Krishnamurti, this conditioning limits the growth of consciousness; it makes one incapable of learning and unlearning from the rhythm of life — its freshness, its unpredictability and uncertainty. Truth, Krishnamurti reminded us, is a ‘pathless land’. However, our education makes us one-dimensional. No wonder, a conditioned mind of this kind is always fearful. It can’t take risks; it can’t see beyond the established pattern; it cannot walk through what Robert Frost would have regarded as ‘the path less travelled’. Furthermore, as the ritualisation of examinations is based on comparison, it activates the fear of failure, the fear of lagging behind, or the fear of being stigmatised. Through his life-long conversations with teachers, educators and children, Krishnamurti was urging us to see the worth of education as awakened intelligence, self-discovery, sensitivity to life, or a quest.Think of the world we have created. Religion is a dogma; nationalism is some sort of hyper-masculine aggression; ‘good living’ is centred on the pleasure principle that seductive consumerism cultivates; nature is an obstacle to be conquered through techno-science; social Darwinism is the cherished mantra; and success is the thrill of defeating others. And what goes on in the name of education cannot take us beyond this ugly world. In fact, this education further reproduces this culture of violence. The ugliness of this sort of education manifests itself once again at the time of the pandemic. The academic bureaucracy refuses to be reflexive; it cannot imagine anything beyond ‘online teaching’, covering the official syllabus, conducting exams and grading students. Even at this moment of psychic and existential crisis, it wants teachers to be just data providers — supplying the required information to the higher authorities: students’ attendance and grades. There is hardly any serious reflection on the hollowness of this sort of approach to education when the taken-for-granted world has crumbled.Yet, there ought to be people amongst us who dare to think differently. And as a teacher, I believe that they would contemplate, converse with Tagore and Krishnamurti, and reimagine a kind of education that teaches us to live and die intensely, gracefully and meaningfully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/redefine-learning-as-we-know-it-254401
