19-05-2021||---||Israel-Hamas violence fuelled by emotive triggers||Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between my herdsmen and thy herdsmen; for we be brethren. — Abraham, Old TestamentRAMZAN’S Laylat al Qadr, the Night of Destiny, catapulted Israel and Palestine to a crescendo of violence. With more than 200 killed in Gaza and at least 10 in Israel, the battle has entered its second week. Hamas, having fired about 3,000 rockets in salvos, and relentless Israeli air, land and sea bombardments on hundreds of targets are edging the protagonists towards an expanded conflict.The combat comes at a time when Israeli Premier Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas are both in political quicksand. Netanyahu may gain a lifeline as his opponent Yair Lapid is unable to engineer support. President Abbas will, however, sink deeper, ceding vital space to Hamas. Al Fatah and Hamas took birth in the Palestinian Intifada of 1987. While Fatah and Arafat took centre stage in the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO), Hamas unrelenting, fundamentally divergent, bided its time. Post elections in 2006, Hamas expelled Fatah from the Gaza Strip, resulting in a fractured Palestinian Authority: Hamas in Gaza and Fatah in Palestine territories, to the East of Israel.The conflict between Hamas and Israel is endemic, manifesting itself in the wars of 2009 and 2014. The present firestorm was preceded by a slow but definite burn. Stoking the fires of Palestinian resentment have been the US-supported declarations on Jerusalem, the Golan Heights and the ill-conceived Trump ‘Deal of the Century — Peace Plan’.The night of May 8 was nestled in an unfortunate convergence of emotive triggers: Heavy Israeli hand in crowd management for Ramzan; Israeli celebrations of their 1967 victory and capture of East Jerusalem; and Israeli Court permitting the eviction of four Palestinian families from Sheikh Jarrah (suburb of Jerusalem) for Jewish settlers.Consequently, this time, in an ominous departure, the Arab population within Israel has raised its hand. This explains the violence in the areas of Bat Yam, Lod, Sheikh Jarrah and the West Bank. While the move for eviction impacts 700 Palestinian families, the court order is seen as a precedent. The incendiary role and active precipitation by Hamas is, however, writ large in the fire. Hamas repeatedly threatened violence, treating Israeli actions in the vicinity of the Al-Aqsa Mosque as a Red Line.Hamas, equipped by Iran, modelling itself on the Lebanese Hezbollah, seeks supremacy in the Palestinian affairs. Its mass appeal is enhanced by its ability to confront the Israeli forces and take casualties. Civilian deaths are an unfortunate but necessary consequence of ‘The Struggle’. Violence works to its political advantage and diminishes the political signature of Fatah.Israel faces tough choices. Standoff attacks have a limited deterrence since Hamas cadres welcome death. Hamas has embedded its facilities deep into the civilian habitation. Enormous casualties are on show. The present targeting by Israel of the HQ, leaders and military facilities orchestrates casualties. Israeli polity is in turmoil. Sections of the resident 21 per cent Palestinian population are inflamed. They have challenges on both sides of the border. The Gaza Strip is one of the densest urban entities in the world. Concrete rises and spreads with little gaps. It is a nightmare for the land forces. Past land interventions have caused high casualties and had had no enduring gains.The Indian response has been nuanced. With a history of support to the Palestinian cause, a multi-dimensional robust, flourishing relationship with Israel since 1992, this is mandated. While Israeli centrality is unambiguous, India is autonomous on the larger issues. This has been echoed in the response of TS Tirumurti, Ambassador of India to the UN: deep concern over all clashes and violence, with specific reference to Hamas rocket attacks and violence on Temple Mount; concern over evictions in Sheikh Jarrah; insistence on maintaining status quo; adherence to UN Security Council Resolution 2334, which stigmatises Israeli settlements, calls them flagrant violations; and commitment to the Two-State Solution.While India has stayed its hand on Hamas in the UN, the present specific reference to its rocket attacks is also due to the fact that Hamas initiated the violence as an act of war.Historic Indian commitment to the region also included a large presence in the UN Mission, UNEF I from 1956 to 1967. The mission had illustrious Indian Force Commanders — Generals PS Gyani and Inderjit Rikhye. While the mission was largely deployed in Gaza, Indians were a welcome presence in the region, as they continue to be today, in the UN Mission UNIFIL, Lebanon.It also bears mention that India’s support to the Palestinians has been unfailing and since 2018, the Indian contribution to them has been quadrupled to $5 million a year. The assistance has been sharpened with project-based interventions. Indian outreach is both in Gaza and the Eastern Palestinian territories.Hamas military spokesman Abu Ubaida has threatened: “…we have prepared for your kind of deaths that would make you curse yourselves…” Hamas may have chosen the moment well, but the Israelis will not oblige it. Israeli institutions are strong, their crisis response is outstanding and defence and security capabilities have a wide spectrum and bleeding edge.Hamas, undoubtedly, has an eye on the impending Palestinian elections, which President Abbas has postponed. This conflagration will possibly give electoral margins to Hamas for realising its dream of control over all territories.Israel will have to introspect. Its hard-line, extreme-right approach is pulling it into a black hole. The prospects of Hamas East and West, Hezbollah to the North and restive Palestinians within the country do not bode well for the long-term security and prosperity of its populace.When asymmetric entities engage in conflict, outcomes are unpredictable. Rocket salvo attacks by Hamas have broken through the Israeli Iron Dome, challenging its invincibility. There is a blurring of focus for Israel, with the incidence of domestic violence.Hamas is presently poised for political gains. Israeli military superiority will not transcend to assuage damaged psyche and heal emotional wounds. Hamas is on track, while Israel will have to review its existential challenges. We must pray for the innocent victims. We must also, in time, assist them to pick up the threads of their lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/israel-hamas-violence-fuelled-by-emotive-triggers-255028
19-05-2021||---||Don’t overdo leasing of military equipment||Beset by a continuing financial crunch, India’s Ministry of Defence (MoD) and its armed forces have seized upon leasing an assortment of badly needed platforms and equipment from abroad to mitigate enduring operational gaps.Hyped as an ‘innovative’ alterative, leasing was introduced as yet another procurement category in the Defence Acquisition Procedure 2020 (DAP-2020) launched last October.The DAP-2020 claims that leasing military equipment was ‘advantageous’ as it enabled the armed forces to swiftly acquire assets without incurring large capital expenditure and other administrative costs, besides allaying obsolescence handicaps.Consequently, all three services had initiated a flood of inquiries and negotiations to lease varied platforms like naval utility helicopters (NUHs), mid-air refuellers, basic training aircraft, minesweepers and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), among other kit.But in their keenness to haphazardly pursue this unexplored leasing option, the MoD, military, defence analysts and media appear to have disregarded that lease rent and other associated costs have to be disbursed from the existing stressed budget outlay. Besides lease rent payable to potential lessors over pre-determined intervals, the high cost of modifying platforms or equipment to meet the military’s operational requirements and insuring them too would have to be borne by the respective services from their annually shrinking outlays. As, of course, would the eventual cost of rendering the equipment, upon its lease expiry to its original state in keeping with the accepted standard international practice.Maintaining the equipment to standards stipulated by the lessor too would be the respective services’ responsibility, unless otherwise specified. This cost could even be higher if the equipment were to be serviced and maintained by the lessor as such an eventuality would entail stationing an upkeep crew in India for extended periods.Principally, however, whenever equipment is procured or leased, it is subordinate to the MoD’s already overstretched budget due to shrinking outlays and large committed liability payments for previously acquired materiel.Hence, unbridled equipment leasing by the services will not only pressure their shrinking capital budgets but also impact their revenue budgets which will have to bear the expense of maintaining the leased equipment.In short, the leasing of materiel sounds appealing, but indiscriminate renting, given the MoD’s penurious financial milieu, would be problematic. In the fiscal year 2020-21, for instance, the MoD was allocated Rs 1,24,203 crore towards capital expenditure for all three services against the Rs 2,01,286 crore which they had demanded. Even for operating revenue expenditure, the allocation was Rs 48,298 crore less than what was claimed. This, in turn, led to the Parliamentary Defence Committee cautioning the MoD against the embarrassing possibility of it defaulting on its committed liability payments, as it could reflect on India’s solvency in the global arms bazaar.On a lighter note, one analyst remarked that the MoD’s prevailing adverse fiscal situation could end up mirroring the dilemma of an indigent, but indulgent, British aristocrat. In his unplanned and financially profligate existence, this worthy had once expansively declared that since he had no money to pay his tailor, he would simply order another suit. In all likelihood, such reasoning would find no takers in the cutthroat armament marketplace.Meanwhile, the Indian Navy — presently operating INS Chakra, its second nuclear-powered attack submarine leased from Moscow and with a replacement boat similarly agreed upon — is the first of the three services to have fast-tracked leasing. Late last year, it had leased two non-weaponised Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance (MALE) MQ-9B Sea Guardian UAVs from the US to monitor for one year. These UAVs have been operating from INS Rajali in Tamil Nadu, but their leasing terms remain classified.And, last month, the Navy had invited responses from overseas vendors by June 18 regarding its planned five-year lease of 24 NUHs and related support equipment to replace its fleet of legacy licence-built Chetak helicopters, inducted into service since the 1960s.The Navy’s April 15 Request for Information to original equipment manufacturers, authorised leasing firms and government-sponsored export agencies stated that five-ton rotorcraft were needed to execute search and rescue and medical evacuation missions from ships at sea and to perform communication tasks and low-intensity maritime operations by day and night. The proposed helicopters — to be delivered to the IN within two years of the contract being signed — would need to have a residual service life of 15 years at the commencement of the lease. The lessor would also be responsible for training the rotorcraft’s air and technical crew in keeping with the delivery schedule.The MoD is also in advanced negotiations with the French Government to lease one Airbus Defence and Space A330 multi-role tanker transport aircraft for the Indian Air Force (IAF) for training purposes. The proposed tanker that would be operated by the IAF, but maintained by the French Air Force, would in all likelihood be succeeded by leasing five more A330s to augment the reach and, hence, combat capability of the force’s combat aircraft.The A330s have been under consideration after these tankers, operated by the French and UAE air forces, had refuelled 21 Dassault Rafale multi-role fighters to India from France since July 2020. The IAF’s remaining 15 Rafales will also be similarly refuelled by the A330s. The IAF is also considering leasing 20 basic trainer aircraft to make up for the existing shortages.In January, the Indian Army (IA) leased four Israel Aerospace Industries MALE UAVs in response to the continuing face-off with China’s People’s Liberation Army that began last May. Proposals for additional equipment for the IA are anticipated.In conclusion, while there is no argument regarding critical equipment voids in the military or about selectively filling them via leasing of equipment, opting indiscriminately for this conduit will adversely impact the MoD’s already pressured kitty. Fiscal and force planning remain critical.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dont-overdo-leasing-of-military-equipment-255020
19-05-2021||---||Resetting global image||A country’s international stature and credibility draws in no small measure from how it is perceived by partners and adversaries alike. Creating a positive external image of the country is, therefore, a major objective of its foreign policy. However, such an exercise cannot remain unaligned with the ground realities of a country for any length of time. Image cannot supplant reality, though it can give it a modest sheen. In my experience as a diplomat, credibility counted for more than perception in advancing India’s interests. India never faltered in its rejection of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as discriminatory and violative of India's interests despite often being in a minority of one. Its stand was backed by an impressive domestic nuclear energy programme which was sustained despite international sanctions. This won respect, sometimes grudgingly, but reinforced India’s credibility as a country that despite its relatively modest economic and military capabilities, would uphold its vital interests. This international perception emerged from India's consistent and unbending record on the issue and not on an image-building exercise.I was serving in the Prime Minister’s office during the critical years of 1991-92 when India faced imminent bankruptcy, and then, redeemed itself through dramatic economic reforms and liberalisation. Then, too, India's external image was of a country with unstable politics and poor governance. Its economic prospects were considered bleak. And yet within the space of just a couple of years, India's far-reaching decisions on economic reforms and their positive impact, dramatically altered external perceptions of India. In this instance, too, it is substantive change at home that expanded India’s diplomatic space.The last instance relates to the period between 2003 and 2007 when India’s economy was growing at the rate of8-9% per annum. It was the rest of the world which put India in the category of emerging economies, made it a member of the BRICS club and projected it as the next China in terms of commercial opportunity. In fact, the external image to some extent outpaced the Indian ground reality, but it was nevertheless based on credible assumptions. As Foreign Secretary during 2004-06, I was conscious of how the country’s diplomatic space had expanded, allowing us to pursue ambitious objectives such as the Indo-US nuclear deal.So does this history hold lessons for us as India's external profile takes a severe beating as it grapples with an unprecedented health crisis? There are growing apprehensions about the political and social consequences of what is truly an ongoing tragedy of unprecedented proportions in Independent India. I know that many of us are angry at the sharp criticism of the Indian Government's handling of the crisis and growing scepticism over India's economic prospects for the future in foreign media. We should realise that these external assessments are not very different from what most of our citizens too feel about the current crisis. One cannot prevent horrific images from being circulated globally, just as we are unable to prevent their circulation among our own people. This is the age of instant communications across political boundaries. Nothing can be camouflaged. Attempts at such camouflage and fevered reactions to external criticism only serve to undermine our credibility. They invite ridicule. But there are inspiring stories of ordinary citizens reaching out to one another, human stories of people turning private grief into a surge of fellow feeling to help and support others. This second wave has brought out the worst and the best in our people. That best, too, is a reality and that is an India that commands respect and admiration as well. That image deserves to be better known and not be seen by the government as somehow undermining its carefully built image as a source of sustenance and relief to its distressed citizens.India has a long history of resilience as a society, but it is also a history of dangerous vulnerabilities arising out of fragmented polities and festering divisions. One cannot build a bright future as a modern nation by re-igniting ancient battles and conjuring up a glorious past that tempts us back into medieval obscurantism. This unfortunate image of India sits uneasily with that of a space-faring nation. I have said in another context that pride in India’s shining past can be an inspiration, but does not guarantee its future luminescence.India's strength lies in its ability to manage immense diversity and democracy has been a critical and indispensable instrument in that management. Its democracy has been underpinned by strong and independent institutions which are empowered by an enlightened Constitution. Even in the most difficult of times in our recent history, it is this enduring and unique character of India which has contributed to its generally positive standing in the world. Our falling short in preventing, and then, managing the pandemic is the result of our steady drift away from these sources of strength in pursuit of an illusion of uniformity, of the promise of faster development by opting for a charismatic and decisive leader, bypassing institutions or hollowing them out. A country of India's complexity with myriad moving parts cannot dance to just one Piper's tune, no matter how alluring this may seem for some time. India's problem today is too little democracy rather than too much of it. There is no basis for what one may call ‘dictator envy’— the hope that a dose of authoritarianism will deliver the country from its perceived ennui. India needs to be more India, and not mimic China. There may be a temptation to treat the current crisis as an opportunity to discard democracy altogether and to pursue a more ambitious authoritarian agenda justifying its need in order to bring matters under control. That must be resisted.It is time to end our experiment with concepts that are alien to our plural culture. We are at the brink and need to step back before it is too late.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/resetting-global-image-255016
19-05-2021||---||Gaping holes in Israel’s ability to crush Hamas||The present Israeli-Palestinian war was anticipated in April 2015 by Moshe Ma’oz, a leading Israeli academic, in a Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung paper. The clash so far has claimed 130 lives, mostly civilians on the fifth day (122 Palestinians, including 31 children and eight Israelis).Yet, leading powers like the US and Germany are only speaking about the “Israeli right for self-defence”. Only the United Nations and the global media are highlighting the war’s disastrous effects on Palestinian children.Additionally, serious communal riots have broken out within Israel due to the factors mentioned by Ma’oz, Professor of Islamic and Middle Eastern studies, Hebrew University, Jerusalem. He had warned of the possibility of serious clashes between Jews and Palestinians on the issues connected with the Temple Mount/Al-Haram Al-Sharif (Al Aqsa) and the East Jerusalem/Al-Quds Al-Sharif. He had feared that this would spiral out of control, far beyond East Jerusalem.For this, he had blamed right wing leaders, especially Benjamin Netanyahu, for flagging emotive issues like the Jewish sanctity of the Temple Mount for political reasons and on the inability of Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas in controlling the fears of his people on the alleged Jewish intentions to destroy the holy Al-Aqsa mosque.Ma’oz had said that the Zionist-Jewish campaign which began in the late 19th century had also included purchasing Arab lands in Palestine and thus, indirectly, evicting Arab peasants. This trend was exploited by Hajj Amin Al-Husayni, the grand Mufti of Jerusalem, who was the first to allege that the Jews were conspiring to destroy the Temple Mount mosques and rebuild their ancient Solomon temple of 957 BCE.All these factors had vitiated the atmosphere and had led to the 1929 riots which started at the Western Wall and spread throughout Palestine, killing more than 300 people. On the other hand, moderate voices in both communities wanted only peaceful coexistence. Moderate Jews only demanded to control the Western Wall as a historical national symbol.The 1936-37 “Palestine Royal Commission”, led by Lord William Robert Peel, grandson of the legendary creator of “Bobbies” had recommended that Palestine should be divided into three areas: one for Arabs, another for Jews and a neutral territory, including Jerusalem, under British control as “holy territories” for the three religions.The United Nations Resolution 181 passed by the UN General Assembly in 1947, which was accepted by the Jewish leadership followed this principle of dividing Palestine into three areas: Arab and Jewish states and the city of Jerusalem declared as a corpus separatum (Latin for “separate entity”) to be governed by a special international regime. The UN map shows these three areas in different colours.In 1948, Jordan captured the eastern portion of the city of Muslim Jerusalem during the Arab-Israeli War. Under the Jordanian regime, Jews were barred from entering the Old City till June 10, 1967 when Gen Yitzhak Rabin (later Prime Minister) captured it during the Six-Day War, allowing Israel’s control of the Al-Aqsa compound.There are three immediate reasons for the present crisis: It started with daily clashes for nearly a month between the Israeli police and Ramzan worshippers while controlling some of Palestinian gatherings outside Al-Aqsa. Unfortunately, this coincided with the efforts of Zionist “nationalists” to celebrate “Yom Yerushalayim” (Jerusalem Day) on May 9-10 when East Jerusalem was captured by Israel in 1967.Another reason was the recent ruling by a Jerusalem district court evicting several Palestinian families living for years in the Sheik Jarrah neighbourhood of East Jerusalem which were claimed to have been purchased originally by the Jews before 1947. The matter is now before the Supreme Court which has delayed hearing that case. This has severely agitated the Palestinians who feel that the Jews are now evicting Muslims even from East Jerusalem.Hamas elevated the tension from May 10 onwards through rocket attacks on Israel in support of the 300 Arabs who were alleged to have been injured during clashes with Israeli police and right-wing “nationalists” outside Al-Aqsa.The Israeli Defence Forces (IDF) responded by missile attacks on pinpointed targets claimed to be Hamas military and intelligence centres. The IDF has now massed ground troops for action if necessary.Israel had tried the same strategy in 2009 and 2014, but failed. The Guardian (UK) said that Hamas had fired 8,500 rockets into Israel in 2009 and Israel retaliated with an air strike every 20 minutes. During the 2014 war, Hamas fired 4,000 rockets into Israel. On both occasions, Israel could not locate where the Hamas had stored its rockets. Instead, they bombed apartment complexes and police stations.The New York Times (May 13, 2021) reported that Israel believes that Hamas has about “30,000 rockets and mortar projectiles stashed in Gaza.” The question is why is Israel not able to detect where Hamas stores such rockets? Is it not better to bomb those targets instead of causing civilian deaths?There are many reasons for this, including misjudgement and capability. On January 1, 2009, famous pianist-conductor Daniel Barenboim wrote an Op-ed piece in The Guardian (UK) that Israel had encouraged Hamas to weaken Yasser Arafat. Israeli journalist Ronen Bergman confirms this by quoting former Chief of AMAN (military intelligence) Amnon Lipkin-Shahak: “In a certain sense, the Shin Bet grew the jihadist.”In 2011, Prime Minister Netanyahu was forced to order the humiliating “Gilad Shalit” exchange in which a lone Israeli soldier, kept hostage by Hamas since 2006, was exchanged for 1,027 Hamas prisoners. This was because Israeli intelligence agencies, despite their legendary technical prowess, could not locate Shalit, although Gaza is only 365 square kilometre in area (one-fourth of Delhi’s area).Bergman quotes another instance of 1992 how a wrong decision by the IDF chief Ehud Barak (later Prime Minister) to clandestinely expel top 200 Hamas operatives to Lebanon in December 1992 had paved the way for Hamas getting closer to Shia extremist group Hezbollah and then to Iran for rocket technology.These examples would indicate gaping holes in Israeli capability of vanquishing a diehard enemy like Hamas. As a result, innocent civilians are suffering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/gaping-holes-in-israels-ability-to-crush-hamas-254418
