20-05-2021||---||India, Pakistan need to prioritise nuclear stability||OPEN government assessments of the state of India-Pakistan deterrence are rare. A recent US intelligence overview considered a ‘general war’ between the two countries ‘unlikely’, although ‘heightened tensions’ remain a ‘concern for the world’, raising the risk of ‘conflict between the two nuclear-armed neighbours’.While awaiting the first major statement on South Asia by US President Joe Biden’s administration, the words of the previous administration’s Secretary of Defence, spoken last July, are still relevant. I had asked specifically about the nuclear and crisis stability. The six-sentence answer repeated three times that the matter was under close US observation. On short-term prospects for escalation, the statement was categorical: ‘I don’t see any indications right now that’s happening at all’.Ten months on, there is indeed no imminent crisis. Since February, there are even signs and reports of decreased, rather than increased tensions.Yet today, a new analysis published by the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS) provides comprehensive evidence of the persistence of major unresolved sources of instability at the heart of the India-Pakistan nuclear deterrence relationship, 23 years after they overtly tested nuclear weapons.There exist grave deficiencies and asymmetries in the nuclear doctrines of India and Pakistan, which are compounded by mutual disbelief, existing and emerging military capabilities, and the prolonged absence of related dialogue mechanisms.There is no indisputable yardstick to judge a nuclear doctrine. Yet a universal perspective is possible: with nuclear weapons, necessity and proportionality, as cornerstones of the laws of war and civilised conduct outweigh claims of regional or cultural exceptionalism. Moreover, nuclear doctrines, while not immutable, are designed to last. They carry weight and deserve respect.Strategic instability is to be expected, especially when there is a large size differential between two nuclear-armed countries, as is the case between India and Pakistan. Conversely, striving for strategic stability is good for avoiding war. But this has no single end-state and requires careful attention, one new weapon system at a time. Seeking an edge over the opponent is more dangerous when official statements show peace is fragile and rhetoric is high during moments of tension.In the specific case of nuclear doctrines of India and Pakistan, textual analysis finds these are not symmetrical. Most worryingly, neither side believes the other side’s core tenets. Doctrines suggest a scenario in which both sides could use nuclear weapons disproportionately. Meanwhile, that India’s no-first-use commitment is a bedrock of its policy is not in doubt.Capabilities-wise, in conventional weaponry, neither side has a qualitative edge, even if India outdoes Pakistan by every measure of quantity. Based on numbers of nuclear warheads only, the growing arsenal sizes of both are broadly equal as far as can be determined. India and Pakistan claim to already possess sufficient weapons to ensure a robust, largely stable mutual nuclear deterrence. Both have a fledgling capability to mobilise enough nuclear weapons to strike back after being struck. But neither can yet launch a first strike against the other’s military with any assurance of success.Each is developing new missile types in addition to India’s seven and Pakistan’s nine nuclear-capable missile designations in service. Apart from the high cost of the arms race in the post-pandemic era, nuclear expansion casts doubt on their stated policies of having minimally-sized nuclear arsenals.Beyond, India and Pakistan seek relevant technologies and capabilities in the naval or space domains. Sober analysis can identify which threshold capabilities may or may not become actual military options. But the strategic whole is arguably greater than the sum of the parts: India and Pakistan may continue to dangerously undermine each other’s defence under the nuclear threshold and this could further affect future crisis stability negatively.Meanwhile, crisis triggers persist. In February 2019, tensions saw India and Pakistan make unprecedented use of airpower in each other’s territory. The uncomfortable truth is that, based on what is known, chance played an ameliorative role in this episode. Whichever the lessons learnt from past crises, India and Pakistan are in uncharted territory requiring enlightened judgement.The diagnosis is incomplete without considering the manifest fatigue in both capitals about confidence-building measures (CBMs). Over a dozen past agreements remain in place, an often unsung achievement. But CBMs have in-built limitations and a chequered history in South Asia. Not one has been adopted in the prolonged diplomatic lost decade since the 2008 Mumbai attacks. Yet enabled by top-level political will, CBMs can lay a foundation upon which trust can grow.Overall, these many challenges to nuclear deterrence stability do not mean that the proverbial next crisis between India and Pakistan, one major terrorist attack away, will necessarily hit the nuclear threshold. But they make it more likely that the situation may come close to it. India and Pakistan could stumble into using their nuclear weapons through miscalculation or misinterpretation.The stakes keep rising. A nuclear exchange would have catastrophic consequences for the two countries, including appalling ones for human security. Economically, even compared to the cost of the Covid-19 pandemic (both countries’ worst post-independence economic shock), the damage from nuclear use would likely be several times higher.For onlookers, the use of a nuclear weapon for anything else than the tallest order of national interest — to ensure survival of the state — would be entirely unacceptable because the effects would be multidimensional and uncontainable, well beyond the breach of a norm in place since 1945. Among others, the hit to the global economy would be severe and systemic.The UK, during the 2001-02 tensions, conservatively estimated at £20 billion the hit to its economy from a nuclear use in South Asia. In today’s currency and context, this figure alone might translate into nearly two- thirds of what that country is spending, supporting individuals and families in the pandemic.Wider damage, however hard to assess, would be commensurate to India and Pakistan’s joint rising share of global GDP and trade over the last generation. A recent US intelligence report suggests a doubling of India’s share of world GDP by 2040, lifting it to the third position, from sixth today. Since India now discusses technology and supply chain resilience at the Quad high table with the US, Japan and Australia, the future shared costs of a disruption from an imprudent or mistaken use of nuclear weapons in the region could rise even higher.Growing consensus on seeing Asia through the Indo-Pacific lens is also reshaping the matter. China’s evolving profile as a nuclear-weapons state compounds India’s security challenges. But control over the drivers of the India-Pakistan nuclear deterrence and stability equation remains almost entirely in the hands of leaders in New Delhi and Islamabad. Yet implications for crisis management are unclear.With such facts and many more, this situation and its policy implications become more widely accessible. For its part, the report concludes neither India nor Pakistan can afford to be complacent. Only they can choose to creatively overcome the challenges to nuclear deterrence stability. To this end, the study proposes 15 measures India and Pakistan’s leaderships can choose from to prioritise nuclear stability, without conceding that each can deter the other; that nuclear weapons are instruments of last resort, and mutual vulnerability can be a factor of stability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-pakistan-need-to-prioritise-nuclear-stability-255427
20-05-2021||---||After lives, jobs at stake in second wave||A misleading impression is gaining ground in India’s policy circles. The impact of the second wave of Covid-19 on the economy is not going to be as severe as the first one, says the Reserve Bank of India ‘State of the Economy’ report. This follows Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s assurance to the industry that “2021 shall not be about Covid, in spite of the second wave”.There is a grain of truth in this. The restrictions on economic activity this time cannot possibly hit the economy as badly as the hurriedly announced national lockdown during the first wave. Therefore, some of the macro economic indicators won't dip as low as they did last year. Some of these may show even buoyancy.Yet this argument distracts and deludes. It distracts our attention from the widespread destruction of human capital, severe loss of livelihood, sharp fall in family incomes and deterioration in the quality of life. It deludes us into thinking that not much needs to be done for economic revival, that there is no need for an economic package for the vast majority of our poor citizens.We need a different approach this time. We need economics that puts people at its centre. We need an economic policy that prioritises the well-being of millions of families battered by the second wave of Covid. We need to learn from the experience of handling the first wave.A recently released report shows us the way. ‘State of Working India 2021: One year of Covid-19’, a report released by the Centre for Sustainable Employment at the Azim Premji University packs some robust lessons that we can use in handling the second wave. A team of economists, led by Professor Amit Basole, has mined through data from the regular Consumer Pyramid Survey of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) and other studies to provide a glimpse of how the first wave affected lives and livelihood. I picked five lessons from this timely and well-written report that is relevant to how we approach the second wave.First, rumours of economic recovery are premature. Just as we should have been cautious in celebrating our victory over the coronavirus, we need to take claims of V-shaped recovery with a fistful of salt. Employment and income did bounce back somewhat by year end. But of the 10 crore workers rendered unemployed by the last lockdown, 1.5 crore were still out of job in December 2020. Even after the ‘recovery’, the average per capita monthly income at the end of the year was about Rs 1,000 lower than at the beginning of the year, a drop of 17 per cent.The challenge of recovery in 2021 faces a triple whammy: the de-acceleration of the economy prior to the first wave, the impact of the first national lockdown and now the second wave. This lesson needs to be kept in mind as the CMIE data once again shows double-digit unemployment this month.Second, informal economy continues to be the real Indian economy. While much of our discussion on economy focuses on the formal, organised sector — corporates, IT, big industry — it was the informal sector — daily wage labourers, hawker-vendors, petty business, farming — that came to our rescue. The 2020 lockdown forced nearly half of regular salaried workers to move into self-employment, irregular salaried jobs or casual wage labour. Shockingly, at a time when the country should have been adding health workers, nearly one-sixth of the salaried workers in the health sector quit. Informal business and farming offered employment during this crisis. Any economic stimulus for the second wave must keep this sector at the centre.Third, obsession with supply-side economics must give way to focus on demand. Most of the claims about economic recovery are based on figures of GST collection, freight movement, electricity generation and production of some goods. But an economic recovery would need consumers for these goods. That is where the real challenge lies. The lockdown also affected food consumption in 90 per cent families; two-third of these families had not gone back to their earlier level of food intake by 2020. Similarly, 84 per cent that borrowed during 2020 did it in order to meet their basic needs of food, medicines and other daily necessities. This is bound to constrain any recovery from the impact of the second wave. The CMIE has recently reported a consistent fall in consumer sentiment for the fifth week.Fourth, recovery must begin from below. The pandemic, like any other natural or human-made calamity, affects the poorest first. We know the story from one end, of the rise of corporate and super-rich income during the pandemic. The Azim Premji University report presents the story from the other end: The bottom 10 per cent families lost their entire income for the month of April and May last year, while the loss for the top 10 per cent families was just about one-fifth of their earlier income.Instead of lifting about 50 lakh people out of poverty, as was the norm in previous years, the year 2020 added about 23 crore to the number of poor in our country. It is likely to be aggravated this year due to the second wave. The Economist estimates that India has already lost 10 lakh lives this year. The number is likely to multiply manifold as the pandemic rages through rural India. As millions of families cope with the loss of an earning member, loss of workdays due to illness, the steep cost of hospitalisation and other medical expenses, many more families are likely to fall below poverty line. The report reminds us that free ration continues to be the most impactful way of helping these families cope with the crisis.Fifth, women and youth must be the focus of policy. The most shocking fact in this report is how gendered was the impact of the lockdown. Nearly half of working women (47 per cent) lost their job during 2020, compared to just 9 per cent of men. The share of women in India’s workforce was already going down and this could be the worst push. Similarly, about one-third of the young workers, below 24 years, lost their livelihood and could not regain it.If these five lessons do not inform the government’s response this year, we should be prepared that the second wave would do to livelihoods what it has already done to lives.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/after-lives-jobs-at-stake-in-second-wave-255430
20-05-2021||---||Justice beyond borders||The opening decades of the 21st century brought a rush of right-wing populists to power across the world. The consequences are well known: an inordinate emphasis on an exclusionary nationalism and an almost complete rejection of cosmopolitanism. India forgot the virtues of a radical cosmopolitanism to which Nehru had been deeply committed. In TheDiscovery of India, Nehru wrote that ‘isolation was both undesirable and impossible. The future that took shape in my mind was one of intimate cooperation… between India and other countries.’ He believed that a society can only enlarge hearts and expand imaginations when it looks beyond borders, and makes common cause with people in other places.The cultivation of a cosmopolitan sensibility neutralises an inward-looking and xenophobic nationalism. Always the statesman who looked beyond the immediate present, Nehru was conscious that the world order was highly iniquitous. It tilted heavily in favour of western powers, the former colonisers. The only way the global south could neutralise this domination was by forging alliances. The Non-Aligned Movement, which built bridges between countries of the newly independent world, and brought contentious issues to the forefront of global consciousness, was born.It was precisely this commitment to the global south, and combined resistance to western domination, that was swept away by populism. India closed down and became indifferent to others, however needy they may be, like the Rohingya. Solidarity born out of a cosmopolitan sensibility was replaced by a neo-tribalism constructed on the belief that we only have obligations to our ascriptive group.Then the pandemic struck. We realised that we can neither be atmanirbhar nor indifferent to others, because we belong to an integrated global community. Developments in one part of the world impact other parts, whether it be climate change, trade laws, or disease. No country can survive unless it recognises its interdependence with other countries as well as the concept of mutual obligation. Significantly, governments of India and Brazil have suggested that intellectual property rights (IPRs) on vaccines and medicines produced in any part of the world should be waived. The response from the US, Canada, and some countries in the European Union has been encouraging. Other western countries hum and haw. These countries have become the hub of medical technology, which they jealously protect by IPRs. Whatever help they have given India is inspired by aid, philanthropy and even charity, but perhaps not by the mutual obligation we owe each other, particularly in times of need.This is ironic, because for at least four decades the notion that the affluent West owes the global poor has overwhelmed philosophy departments in the West. The debate was sparked off by an essay written by the philosopher Peter Singer in 1972 on ‘Famine, Affluence and Morality’. Singer suggested that suffering and death from lack of food, shelter, and medical care, in any part of the world, were simply bad. If it is within the power of citizens of the affluent West to prevent something bad from happening, ‘without sacrificing anything of comparable moral importance’, they are morally obliged to do so. The need of strangers is as compelling as the need of neighbours and fellow citizens. This is not charity, it is duty.Western philosophers began to justify the notion of global justice on at least three grounds. One, citizens of the rich West owe the ‘global poor’ the same duties of justice as they owe their fellow citizens. Two, the West owes humanitarian assistance to the global south, but justice to its own citizens. Three, elected governments of powerful western countries dominate global institutions, and participate in the enactment of unjust laws on trade, the Law of the Sea and the IPR regime. Citizens who elected these governments have the moral responsibility to ensure justice beyond borders. In a globalised world, justice is interpreted as equal sharing of the benefits and burdens of an integrated community.Though scholars in the global south saw global justice as another manifestation of the ‘white man’s burden’, undeniably the message of obligations beyond borders is enormously significant. The global south needs to come together once more and forge bonds of solidarity to reform unjust global institutions. For the moment, however, a waiver of IPRs on medicines will go a long way in averting more deaths. We belong to a nation by virtue of being a citizen; we also belong to humanity. The duty to protect human lives in other countries is as significant as our obligations to fellow citizens. It is only then that we will be able to prise open the bars of a narrow nationalism that has crippled our ability to connect to others.We have to once again look to Nehru and to Gandhi. ‘So long as man remains selfish,’ stated Gandhi, ‘and does not care for the happiness of others, he is no better than an animal and perhaps worse. His superiority to the animal is seen only when we find him caring for his family. He is still more human, that is, much higher than the animal, when he extends his concept of the family to include his country or community as well. He climbs still higher in the scale when he comes to regard the human race as his family.’ What better justification of cosmopolitanism/global justice can India give to the world?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/justice-beyond-borders-255440
