21-05-2021||This is a tale of two IAS officers from Maharashtra. One is Iqbal Singh Chahal||Two bright stars amid gloom||The other, Dr Rajendra Bharud, a tribal from the Bhil community, the son of a single mother who toiled in the fields of landowners to feed and educate her three children. He is presently Collector and District Magistrate of Nandurbar, a tribal-dominated district of Maharashtra, bordering Gujarat and MP. The Bhil community predominates in the triangle that comprises contiguous land traversing the three states.But let me begin with Maharashtra’s CM, Uddhav Thackeray, whose positive leadership qualities enabled these officers to demonstrate theirs. When he installed Chahal as Municipal Commissioner of Mumbai, a post much coveted by the state’s senior bureaucrats, he told the officer that in the case of success in combating Covid, he (Chahal) should take all credit and feel free to speak to the media without looking over his shoulder for the CM’s approval. If, however, success eluded him, then the CM would take the rap and speak to the media. These are words and thoughts of a good leader. It is the duty of the political leadership to select the proper man for the right job and then leave the execution of the task to the one selected.Chahal came with the reputation of cutting corners, at times, but getting the work done. Covid presented an opportunity to officers to prove their worth. People facing possible death want to know what you are going to do to give them hope and succour.And that hope Chahal provided in ample measure. He assumed the mantle of the city’s Municipal Commissioner on May 8 and hit the ground running. He began with a mammoth meeting of his 24 ward officers and their seniors, many of them from the IAS, that very evening. The meeting lasted several hours, enabling the new MC to acquaint himself with the problems and the men and women who would be assisting him in the task of solving those problems.He has emerged triumphant. The citizens of Mumbai have declared him a hero. Hard work, common sense and his father’s Army background all contributed to the success of his mission. The Control Room in his office was relieved of the thankless task of allotting beds. Twenty-four ‘war rooms’ were established in every municipal ward. Each of the wards had to keep track of the beds available on a daily basis and allocate them to patients in relation to the severity of each individual case. ICU beds with ventilators were assigned to the really bad cases and oxygen-hooked beds to those whose oxygen saturation level was below 92. Doctors were on duty in three shifts, their number having been supplemented by hiring 1,100 recently qualified medical graduates, each on a salary of Rs 50,000 per month. These young boys and girls are on an eight-hour shift in ambulances, 10 of which are on call in each war room at any one time. Nearly 800 Innovas were requisitioned and converted temporarily into ambulances. As the first point of contact in homes, these young doctors were to decide whether the patient required hospitalisation or whether he or she could be treated while at quarantine at home.In short, Chahal restructured the entire Covid response mechanism and made it function as clockwork. He was ably assisted by a newly motivated staff. He is preparing for a third wave. Seven jumbo hospitals with a thousand beds each have been set up. Equipment, personnel, medicines, oxygen, etc., have been taken into account. The management of these hospitals will be entrusted to nearby private hospitals with established reputations. The idea is to associate the name of the well-known hospital with the new centre. All in all, a great job by a great son of India, and of Punjab! More power to his elbow.The dedication to a task displayed by Chahal has found an echo in the achievements of Dr Bharud, a medical graduate selected for the IAS in 2012. This 33-year-old officer had to contend with primitive medical facilities and a population of 16 lakh, mostly illiterate or poorly educated, living in far-off villages and hamlets and lacking even simple mobile phones. He had to adapt to a system of communication that relied on physical contact through messengers. The villagers were reluctant to take the vaccination jabs and that was another job he was compelled to undertake — to educate his own people on the need for protection from the dreaded disease. He improvised, planned, and motivated his juniors and his might-have-been fraternity, the local doctors’ community, to rise to the occasion.His exemplary work was brought to my notice by my friend and fellow activist, Shailesh Gandhi, who spent a few fruitful years with the Central government as a Central Information Commissioner appointed from the ranks of RTI activists. Shailesh intends to honour Dr Bharud in a virtual meeting later this month, where he has invited me to participate. It is important for citizens to acknowledge any exemplary work done by our public servants in order to motivate others of their ilk to work for the public good.Dr Bharud’s district now has five oxygen plants installed in-house in the five hospitals spread over the district. It cost Rs 85 lakh to install each plant and it took just 10 days to construct each. The funds were available with the District Planning and Development Council. He recruited 200 doctors/nurses/ancillary staff to man the 2,000 extra beds he had added in the hospitals between the first wave and the second. He is ready for the third, should it strike.Like I saluted Chahal, let me salute Bharud, another great son of a great country. While Chahal came with a small silver spoon in his mouth, Bharud is a shining example of what education and perseverance can do to lift the poor and the dispossessed out of the morass in which they are born.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/two-bright-stars-amid-gloom-255997
21-05-2021||---||How India frittered away vaccine gains||Ablack-and-white image of Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, Health Minister in Nehru’s Cabinet, receiving a box of penicillin at the Palam Airport surfaced on WhatsApp groups in February this year. The consignment was a gift from the Canadian Red Cross to fight infectious diseases. The picture was juxtaposed with the news of Canada seeking the Covid-19 vaccine from India in 2021. The allusion was that while India was dependent on western countries for medicines in 1947, those very donors are now depending on India for vaccines.But, within a few weeks, there was a dramatic role reversal. The Ministry of External Affairs started sharing pictures of planeloads of medical supplies coming from dozens of countries. The shipments were rushed to distant locations straight from the airport, reminding one of the ‘ship-to-mouth years’ of food imports in the 1950s and 1960s.How did a country which declared in the United Nations not long ago that it had exported more Covid-19 vaccines to countries across the globe than it had administered to its own people, turn into a vaccine-deficient country so rapidly? The answer is simple — due to lack of planning, along with too much bravado and politics.Indian companies joined the Covid-19 vaccine race early on, drawing from their experience with developing a ‘pandemic-scale’ vaccine during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic. Using the seed strain supplied by the WHO, the Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Panacea Biotec developed H1N1 vaccines within 12 months. The Health Ministry supported them with Advance Market Commitments (AMCs) even though the spread of H1N1 in India was not alarming. The companies were also given Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the national regulator.All this incentivised vaccine production, helping India build a stockpile for a potential surge. Advance purchase commitment was critical in covering the risk of private companies.In the interim, 1.5 million doses were imported from Sanofi-Pasteur to vaccinate healthcare workers in the worst-hit city of Pune.The need and mechanism for creating a stockpile of vaccines in case of emergencies were reinforced in the National Vaccine Policy adopted in 2011.For reasons best known to the Health Ministry, the pandemic template of 2009 was not immediately activated in 2020. The SII and Bharat Biotech, which contributed to the stockpiling exercise in 2009, anticipated advance purchase commitment this time too as the task at hand was more challenging than that at the time of H1N1.In contrast, governments in the western world were pumping billions of dollars into vaccine development and helping companies through AMCs. They are now reaping the benefits with the bulk of their populations vaccinated and have been successful in bending the pandemic curve.Even after Bharat Biotech announced its vaccine on June 29, 2020 and the SII signed up with AstraZeneca on June 4, 2020 to supply one billion doses to the global markets, the policymakers showed no alacrity to explore options like the AMCs and the need to mop up available production capacities.Instead, the PM went on a solo three-city ‘vaccine tour’. Firm orders were placed only in early 2021, by which time the SII and Bharat Biotech had made commercial commitments to other countries. No efforts were made to expand the capacity of the two manufacturers or book spare capacity with other vaccine manufacturers (that were contracted by Russia to produce Sputnik V) or license Covaxin (jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the ICMR) to public sector vaccine manufacturers.The first meeting of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, tasked with all aspects of vaccine delivery, including financing and licensing, took place on August 12, 2020. This was three months after the SII had signed up with international buyers. All that the expert group decided was that ‘India will leverage domestic vaccine manufacturing capacity and will also engage with all international players for early delivery of vaccines not only in India but also in low-and middle-income countries.’Vaccine export was on the agenda even before the government had booked a single dose for the Indians. It was a classic case of misplaced priorities. The bravado continued as long as January 2021 when the vaccination drive began for healthcare workers. The Prime Minister spoke of ‘saving the lives of citizens of many countries by sending Covid vaccines there’ in his speech to the World Economic Forum (WEF) on January 28, 2021.In addition, the government could never make up its mind on the vaccination rollout plan. Three days after the first meeting of the expert group (on August 15, 2020), Prime Minister Modi announced that the government had prepared ‘an outline to ramp up production of the vaccines and to make it available to each and every person in the shortest possible time.’Was it the recommendation of the expert group to vaccinate all Indians, and did it prepare a plan between August 12 and 15 to procure two billion doses for ‘each and every’ Indian? Apparently not. Because soon thereafter, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan spoke of getting 400-500 million doses available by mid-2021, implying that all Indians would not be covered. On December 1, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan further contradicted the Prime Minister by stating that the government never spoke of vaccinating the entire population.Between June 2020 — when it became clear that the two vaccines would be available in India — and April 2021, vaccine-related policymaking was in limbo.Meanwhile, the ruling party politicised Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin by dubbing it a ‘swadeshi’ vaccine and projecting it as a personal achievement of the Prime Minister (BJP leaders in Delhi launched the Modi Tujhe Salaam campaign when the vaccination started). Free vaccines were promised in election campaigns and the MEA launched an extensive ‘Vaccine Maitri’ drive.As shortages became apparent and public anger mounted with the second wave surging, several hurried steps were announced: schedules for different age groups, separate procurement by states, dual pricing for private and public sectors, increase in the gap between two doses to suit reduced availability etc.Early leads of 2020 that could have helped India become vaccine-sufficient were frittered away, reducing the world’s vaccine capital to a mess.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-india-frittered-away-vaccine-gains-256005
21-05-2021||---||Make tax concessions viable for Covid drugs, vax||Should the government tax vaccines, medicines and medical equipment essential for fighting the pandemic, particularly when a deadly second wave is sweeping the country, claiming lives at hitherto unprecedented rates?This issue, raised by several Opposition leaders, is finding resonance in the public discourse. Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian has sought the suspension of GST and import duties on all goods and services related to fighting the pandemic. This has lent credibility to the demand for tax waiver.The government’s answer, put out through Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, to the demand is that if the 5 per cent GST on vaccines and the 12 per cent GST on medicines were to be removed, the consumer would end up paying more. Since the manufacturers would then be denied input tax credit (ITC), they would pass it on to the consumers, who would thereby be paying more than what they are doing now.GST or ‘goods and services tax’ —which combines the earlier excise duty levied by the Central government and sales tax levied by the states — has been introduced with the support of all (both the states and the Centre) to avoid what is called the ‘cascading effect’.Earlier, a manufacturer paid excise duty to the Centre when the product left the factory. And then when the product was sold by the seller, he had to collect sales tax levied by the relevant state government on the post-excise duty paid value. So, sales tax was levied on the excise duty also.Now, when the manufacturer sells the product, he pays neither the excise duty nor sales tax but a single GST at the rate levied for the particular product, with the collections shared by the Centre and the states.The big change is that before depositing the GST that the manufacturer has collected, he deducts the GST that he has paid on the inputs that he has purchased. This is the ITC he gets. If there is no GST to be paid, then he cannot recover the GST he has paid on purchased inputs and so has to pass on the burden to the consumer. So, no matter how well intentioned the move to abolish the GST on vaccines and medicines can be, it is counterproductive because as a result, at the end of the day, the consumer ends up paying more.Sitharaman’s argument is based on the above premise. It implies that Opposition leaders, by asking for the removal of GST, are ending up playing to the gallery without actually benefiting the consumer.But tax experts say that there are ways in which you can serve the purpose of abolishing GST without hurting the consumer.One solution they have suggested is that instead of giving a tax waiver on the final product that the consumer buys, what can be done is to waive taxes on the entire supply chain that goes into the making of the vaccine or the medicine. If the manufacturer has paid no GST on inputs, the absence of ITC for GST paid on supplies bought by him does not arise.Another way out is to make the vaccines and medicines ‘zero rated supply’, which is making the supply chargeable at nil rate with refund of ITC. If this were done, the manufacturer would be able to get input tax refund on all the GST he has paid.This facility is currently available to the exporters as also to the suppliers to special economic zones. As the exporter does not have to pay GST and so does not bill the importer GST, he gets a refund on the GST he has paid on inputs.Different state ministers, who represent their states on the GST Council (the interstate body that is the final authority on GST), concur with this move. Some of them have said that they would move a proposal before the council to exempt all Covid-related supplies and raw material from GST by making the applicable rate zero.If this looks like a major concession with serious revenue implications, then it can be undertaken on the understanding that it would be a temporary measure to tide over the period of the pandemic.There is an obvious incipient danger in undertaking such a move. It would set a precedent. It could prompt state governments in the future to seek exemptions on other items of high public interest by using this route.But one can hardly decide to not do something simply because it can set a precedent which can create trouble later. In fact, there is already a precedent. When the GST first came, it was levied at 12 per cent on sanitary napkins. Then after vociferous protests by women’s rights organisations, it was removed the next year and the NGOs have not complained of a price rise as a result.There is yet another way out. It involves levying a nominal 0.1 per cent GST on Covid-related items, which would enable the manufacturers to claim ITC.This is also, in fact, already being done when exports are undertaken by merchant exporters, that it is not the manufacturer but an entity which only does the exporting. The manufacturer pays taxes on inputs and input services, sells the goods to a merchant exporter at 0.1 per cent GST, and then gets a refund of ITC. The merchant exporter can get ITC on the 0.1 per cent GST he has paid and export the goods.As things stand, those asking for the abolition of GST on Covid-19 related vaccines and medicines seem to be winning the argument. If the Centre wants to go on collecting GST on this account, to carry credibility, it has to come up with better arguments than it has done so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/make-tax-concessions-viable-for-covid-drugs-vax-256008
