23-05-2021||Grief||Grief, rage and compassion, the choices we must make||If we bottle them up or suppress them to pretend that we feel nothing, then sadness and anger will metamorphose to affect our own mental and physical health adversely. Our attempts to numb ourselves to the pain now will estrange us from ourselves in the future. It will create cracks in our most intimate relationships. It is not a sign of weakness to express deep emotions. In fact, it needs strength of conviction to be able to allow oneself to break away from the boundaries imposed by social etiquette that equates the expression of feelings with loss of control.As we come face to face with mass deaths, suffering and helplessness every day, we must find ways to sublimate the grief that is weighing down on our body and soul. Some days the brush with bad news is so close that we find ourselves overwhelmed. We need all the defence mechanisms that help us to remain functional in these times of relentless loss.Along with grief, we need to make space for rage. “I have had years stolen from me,” a friend writes about the death of her father, who died from Covid-related complications and secondary infections. “I have rightful anger against a system that caused harm to the vulnerable who it was supposed to protect.”A mismanaged pandemic is not the only callous reality we are dealing with. As cremation grounds continue to overflow, we are discovering bodies rotting on riverbanks, being torn apart by dogs and crows as they flow from one state into another along our holy rivers. Every day we contend with the news of governance that is choosing this time to suppress criticism, use the law against peaceful dissenters, and quash the rights of minorities, prisoners, and others on the margins with unimaginable cruelty. Healthcare workers are exhausted from neglect. Citizen volunteers creating networks of support are being hounded as if it is a crime to offer help to those in distress.Our role in the tattered democratic fabric of our country right now needs us to react with fury. Our outrage has the power to push back those who have become complacent from access to unchecked power. We must speak for each other and find ways to amplify each other’s voices. There is no other way to defend human rights.Finally, we must foreground compassion as a response to the times we live in. We are living through the toughest, most brutal times most of us will witness in our lifetimes. I hope it doesn’t get worse than this. All these experiences — this grief, these losses and this rage — will have long-term consequences in our lives. Despite everything, we must go on. We must try to have normal days. Hours. Interludes.In the last few weeks, I have had grim conversations with my children that are strangely uplifting. “Our country is not at war,” I say, sharing with them the news from Palestine and other war-torn countries. “We are not trapped in refugee camps. We are together. Our home is still a haven for us. Our communities and extended families are being able to support each other.”When the news cycle is inducing trauma every day, we need to develop the capacity to acknowledge the truth of the suffering of others. Our personal brush with pain helps us imagine what others are experiencing. It shines a light on what other people’s needs might be and what role we can play in offering solace, however limited it may feel in the moment.We must acknowledge that nothing else matters right now more than reaching out to each other. Slowing down and being gentle. Extending ourselves to our children, parents, neighbours, staff, colleagues and strangers. We are human, this is our superpower. Let nothing defeat our ability to love, to console, to break down and to heal. To eventually demolish the systems that victimise us.— The writer is a filmmaker & authornatasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/grief-rage-and-compassion-the-choices-we-must-make-256949
23-05-2021||I was in school when the problem in Nagaland erupted. A family acquaintance posted there had been killed in an ambush. The news came||Winning people over, the Army way||My first posting to Nagaland came in 1970. I landed there with considerable trepidation. I took over a post located on a forested hill a kilometre from the village. Many from the village were serving in the outlawed underground army. During the change-over, my predecessor took me to attend the Sunday church service. A section of men accompanied as escort. They took positions all around while we listened to the midday sermons inside. Attending church service was one of the prescribed methods of fraternisation.After attending the church service a few times, I realised the incongruity. If locals had to be won over, it could not be done looking at them through the rifle foresights. I reduced the escort to just two men, and gradually did away with it altogether. After the service, I would walk into the non-Christian part of the village, incongruously called the ‘Hindu khel’. I would join them in drinking madhu, the rice beer that is made in every household. Having been a commando instructor, I had no difficulty in enjoying the snails that formed their staple snack; you picked one up from a pass-around bowl, sucked out the snail and threw away the shell.Gradually, a routine was set. After games with the troops every evening, I would go to the village and visit different houses, drinking madhu with them. I played rural games and joined the village folk during their weddings as well as burials.I returned to Nagaland in 1978 as a Commanding Officer. The battalion was deployed in a remote area of Tuensang district. We held a string of posts, guarding infiltration routes of insurgents from Burma. My headquarters were in Kiphire alongside the office of the Additional DC. His bungalow was just across the fence from our tented complex. Every evening, I would join his family for a game of badminton. He had three grown-up sons and two daughters. In time I became a part of the family. As a high point of her hospitality, the lady even learnt how to make chapatis and desserts that are alien to Naga diet. “I must take you to Changki,” the ADC, Lima Aiyer Ao, would often tell me, adding with a naughty wink while his wife smiled benignly, “The prettiest Naga girls come from that village.”Lima was a great administrator who handled his charge with a firm hand, rules or no rules. He had a practical approach. I met many others during frequent dinners in his house and the contacts helped me greatly in performing my task.My third stint in Nagaland was from 1995 to 1997 as a Major General. Having been there twice earlier gave me a running start. My friends, Mrs and Mr Lima, had since passed away but their sons and daughters, now parents themselves, often visited and stayed with us. We also hosted many other friends and my earlier acquaintances. At the end of my two-year tenure, we succeeded in bringing the insurgents to the negotiating table. The ceasefire, effected on August 1, 1997, is still holding. I have also visited the state privately after retirement.Initially, our methods of dealing with insurgency were based on the US experience in Vietnam. The major difference was that unlike the Americans, we were dealing with our own countrymen. Our people in the North-East are simple, straightforward, warm-hearted, and totally without avarice. They are ever cheerful and live for the day.One cannot win people over by applying abstract theories. The only way is to be one with them, heart and soul. And the Army has done just that. This non-gun contribution of the Army, with far-reaching consequences, unfortunately remains underrated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/winning-people-over-the-army-way-256943
23-05-2021||Sushil kumar||Sushil Kumar & the lost glory||Flight is usually considered a sign of guilt — is India’s greatest sportsperson a murderer or an accomplice in murder? When his bail application was heard by a Delhi court, the public prosecutor disclosed that there is “electronic evidence” of Sushil “with a stick and hitting” during the brawl that left one young man dead. If this evidence does exist, it would provide a sad and depressing addendum to the champion’s exploits on the wrestling mat.Sushil, a two-time Olympics medal-winner — an unprecedented feat for an Indian in individual sport — and a one-time world champion, had animal strength and speed that baffled the eye and made him such a dangerous fighter. His two Olympics medals, a bronze and a silver, gave Indians something to cheer about in the 2008 and 2012 Olympics. He was lauded and lionised and showered with money and honour. The Haryana government offered to make him a Deputy Superintendent of its police force — an upholder of law and justice. He seemed fit for the job. After winning medals, he spoke noble words that evoked the greatest ideals of India’s sanskriti — reverence for the elders, love for dharma and the nation, willingness to sacrifice everything for the National Flag. Who wouldn’t want such a cop?But, as we’ve seen, words are often nothing more than expression of wishful thinking — the wish to do great deeds for the people and the nation.Sushil didn’t take up the Haryana Police offer — which is just as well because, over the years, he got increasingly involved in unsavoury controversies. He was at the top of his game in 2008-12; interestingly, his decline on the mat coincided with distractions from wrestling — there were great economic rewards for him, and he got involved in businesses and administration of sport. He never really won a world-class medal after the 2012 Olympics — the Commonwealth Games wrestling is not a top-drawer event — and he skipped the Asian Games in 2014 and lost in the first round in 2018.In 2017, he was crowned the national champion in the 74kg category in Indore — but it was a farce. In the quarterfinal, the only movement that his opponent, Parveen, made towards Sushil was to touch his feet — he simply conceded the bout. In the semifinals, Sachin Rathi of Uttar Pradesh did the same. In the final, Parveen Rana gave him a walkover, citing a thigh injury.The walkovers were explained by some as a sign of respect younger wrestlers have for the legend that Sushil is; but there also was a gangster-type menace that emanated from Sushil and his acolytes. In late 2017, for a trial to pick up the 74kg wrestler for the 2018 Commonwealth Games, Parveen Rana faced Sushil Kumar in Delhi. This time Rana did not concede the bout but decided to fight hard — he lost an ill-tempered bout, and later he and his brother were attacked by Sushil’s supporters. A criminal case was filed against Sushil, but it went nowhere.In short, the behaviour of Sushil or his followers was thuggish, and it remained unchecked and unpunished. His stature as a wrestling legend seemed to provide him immunity against legal action. There are systemic issues here — his offences could be termed minor misdemeanours in a justice system struggling with a massive number of much more serious cases. Sushil’s achievements opened doors for him, too — he was appointed an Officer on Special Duty by the Delhi government and elected president of the School Games Federation. He is also employed with the Railways. Clearly, he has his fingers in too many pies and is no longer a simple lover of national honour and National Flag that he may have been once.When Vijender Kumar beat a Chinese opponent, Zulpikar Maimaitiali, in 2017, the most memorable reaction came from Amitabh Bachchan, who wrote on Twitter: “Jeet gaye!! Bharat ne Cheen ko de maara!! Vijendra beats China opponent to keep his title!! A slugfest but WE won!” This is not a gleeful child but a man who himself is a superstar, at the ripe old age of 75. Sportspersons often evoke such reactions; they give us a sense of pride which all people and all nations need — “we’re not weaklings!” Sushil, a champion in a primeval, martial sport, fed that sense of pride among us, making us blind to the dark side of his personality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sushil-kumar-the-lost-glory-256939
23-05-2021||One constant that has invaded my life ever since Covid-19 cast its shadow last year is that my phone keeps on buzzing non-stop with calls from people desperately seeking help. We get nearly 40||The journey has just begun||I try to stay alert and remain on my toes all the time. There are, however, moments when I feel helpless and anxious, particularly when I’m not able to help them.It saddens me when I think of how many innocent people, who deserved to live, lost their lives just because they were unable to get an oxygen cylinder, an injection or a hospital bed. These are basic infrastructure facilities that they should have got.I’m never going to forget this phase of my life. Every single day of the last one year will forever remain etched in my memory. I have seen people die in front of me — the lives I tried to save but couldn’t.Each day I come across incidents that completely shake me. Recently, I received a call from a girl who was at a crematorium. She had just performed the last rites of her mother, who had Covid-19, and was seeking help for her brother, who was struggling for life on a ventilator. I had never imagined I would be shouldering responsibilities of such magnitude.During my shooting days, my co-actors would often tell me that what you can do, no one can, but I never thought I would be doing something so fulfilling. At my end, I’m trying to do the best I can. Whenever I’m in doubt, my late mother’s words inspire me: “Kabhi muthhi khol kar dekh. Shayad tere hathon ki lakeeron mein kissi ki jaan bachana likha ho.”My mother would always say you can consider yourself as successful the day you are able to bring a smile on the face of an unknown person. And this is what keeps me going. I feel a sense of satisfaction knowing that the families are together because I was able to reach out to them at the right time.The weight of expectations people have from me sometimes unnerves me. Though I try my best to help, there are times when I fail. Sometimes, it’s not possible to reach out to so many people, however hard I may try. But no matter what or how long it takes, the effort is to make sure that help reaches the needy.This phase of my life has brought me immense satisfaction. The next few years, I would like to continue the same. The whole country is like my family today. Every single life I have managed to save, every single family I have touched has brought joy to my life. I know their wishes and prayers are with me.Whosoever needs me, whenever, whether the pandemic is there or not, I’ll just be a phone call away. The responsibilities I take I’m never going to give up. Even when I was Covid-19 positive, I was helping people at home. It doesn’t matter what stage or state I am in, I’m there for everyone who needs me.I have already formalised this mission in the form of Sood Charity Foundation. An entire team is helping me carry forward this mission. I have trained the team to help, reach out and trust an individual. For them as well as for me, every single day is a learning process. We plan to develop proper infrastructure and have an efficient system in place which can touch many more lives. The foundation I have floated is the most precious thing I’ve done in my life. Whether I’m there or not, the coming generations are sure to get help from this foundation. People will remember that it started during the pandemic, and the philanthropic work will be carried on from one generation to another. A lot of people have joined me in my endeavour. Many brands I have worked with are pouring in aid. I channel them so that their help can reach more and more people.Today, everyone is helpless — whether rich or poor. These tough times have taught us that there’s nothing above being a pure soul and doing good to others. The pandemic has taught people empathy. We often take our loved ones for granted. These times have taught us to value our relationships much more and realise that nothing in the world is more precious than your family. Shopping, money, all material comforts are meaningless when your loved ones are not with you to share those moments.I miss my parents very much but I know wherever they are, they must be watching me and feeling happy that I’m making them proud. When I was leaving Moga to become an actor in Bollywood, I had told my parents that I was going to Bombay to make them proud. Today, finally, it has happened but it wasn’t with the 100 movies that I did in different languages, but by bringing a smile on many faces that needed my help. My mom and dad have been my icons. They taught me empathy as a kid. I hope I will be able to pass this on to my children as well.There are many more things that I want to do. I want to open orphanages, schools and hospitals. My dreams are big. The journey has just begun but there are miles and miles to go.To my fellow Punjabis, I would like to say that Punjabis are known to help people. Woh bahut logon ki madad karte hain... Please karte rahiye. These are the times when we all need to come forward and help others. I feel proud that we Punjabis are helping people.— As told to Seema Sachdeva||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-journey-has-just-begun-256917
