24-05-2021||---||Shot at universal vaccination||THE Covid-19 pandemic continues to be a nightmare. People are inundated with never-ending, depressing news of the widespread suffering and death of near and dear ones, neighbours and colleagues. The Covid war has become heartrending. There is a feeling of despondency and helplessness all around. A common person is not interested in the political blame game. The only question on his mind is whether this nightmare is going to end. Much can be said about the mismanagement of the Covid catastrophe but I propose to restrict this article to only the most critical aspect, namely, the imperative of universal vaccination inthe shortest time.Scientists are warning of not just a third wave but a succession of waves. The frightening projections of persons likely to be affected daily range from 4 lakh, which we have nearly reached, to 1 million cases. The ever-changing mutations of the virus are adding new dimensions to the gigantic problem. There are fears that unless urgent steps are taken, India is likely to go the Brazil way in terms of the spread and continuance of the epidemic.The overall positivity rate in the country is now 21 per cent. As many as 533 out of the total of 718 districts are showing a positivity rate of over 10 per cent. While more than 60 per cent of Covid cases were from the rural and semi-rural districts, only about 12-15 per cent of the inhabitants had received one dose of the vaccine by May 14, 2021. In contrast, an estimated 30 per cent inhabitants in urban and 19 per cent in semi-urban areas have received at least one shot. As for India’s whole population, barely 10 per cent has received the first dose, and less than 3 per cent is fully inoculated. Thus, we have a long, long way to go.According to the union Health Ministry, only 1.8 per cent of the population has so far been affected by Covid-19 and the remaining 98 per cent of the population still faces the grave risk. There is an agreement among experts that universal vaccination is the only way to deal with the situation. Considering the gross inadequacies of the healthcare infrastructure in the country generally, and particularly in the semi-urban and rural areas, this is most important. In tribal and remote rural areas, such facilities are nearly non-existent.In the US, which was badly affected by the virus, the massive vaccination drive has led to a significant reduction in the number of hospitalisation cases. The death rate has also come down perceptibly. The same was true for the UK. For India, vaccination of the entire population, or at least 70-80 per cent to ensure herd immunity, is the only answer to the gigantic problem.Against this background, I am unable to understand why India has been dragging its feet in laying down an unambiguous policy for universal vaccination in a definite time frame by which vaccination of the whole population would be completed, and the stages in which this would be achieved. The policy statement should also transparently bring out how equity will be maintained between urban, semi-urban and rural areas, and different sections of society. The details could be left to the state governments to work out.The Centre had provided free vaccination to front-line workers, and those above the age of 60. Thereafter, suddenly, it has withdrawn itself and has left it to the states to fend for themselves. The cost of supplying vaccine free must be compared with the price India is paying for huge dislocations due to the pandemic, loss of livelihood for millions of daily wage-earners and migrants, loss of millions of salaried jobs, acute shortages, and so on. Providing vaccination free of cost nationally has to be a political decision and I am unable to understand why PM Modi is dithering. He should immediately announce that the Centre would provide free vaccination to all. Simultaneously, he should make an appeal that those who can afford, should make a voluntary contribution to the designated government bank account, not just for their vaccination, but also as a donation for vaccination of others who cannot afford it. This will get a massive response, as in his appeals to people to voluntarily give up subsidy for LPG gas and railway concessions to senior citizens.The responsibility of procurement of the required vaccine doses should also be taken over by the Centre. This will include procurement from domestic manufacturers, as also imports from abroad. It makes no sense to ask the states to arrange such supplies. In fact, some municipal corporations are now poised to issue tenders for their requirements. This will be counterproductive. Apart from having to pay a higher price, several advantages of centralised purchases will be lost.Finally, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the danger of resurgence of the virus can be avoided only if the whole population is vaccinated. India cannot afford the luxury of leaving the decision of vaccination to individuals, as in Western democracies. It is, therefore, imperative that vaccination is made compulsory for every inhabitant of India. The Centre has powers to issue such orders under the Epidemic Diseases Act. But, if there is any legal impediment, an ordinance could be issued for the purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/shot-at-universal-vaccination-257507
24-05-2021||---||India walks a tightrope on Gaza conflict||It does not augur well for peace that three days after a ceasefire was brokered to end 11 days of fighting between Israel and the Palestinians in Gaza, both sides may be said to have achieved victory in the conflict. The short war was inconclusive. In coronavirus terms — which is a marker for most things these days — the fighting destroyed the only facility in Gaza undertaking coronavirus tests for the small coastal territory of two million Palestinians. Thirty health facilities in Gaza were crippled in the fighting, according to the World Health Organization (WHO) and testing for Covid-19 has been halted.But the Hamas, which rules Gaza, is unbowed. Despite losing 243 of its people, at least 100 of them women and children, damage to Gaza's near non-existent infrastructure and facing a continued blockade from both Israel and Egypt, Gazans quickly returned to what has been their ‘normal’ life as they live from one fight to another.In their third war with Israel since Hamas broke away in 2007 from the widely recognised “State of Palestine”, now confined to the West Bank, 4,300 rockets rained on Israel since May 10. Some of these reached Jerusalem and Tel Aviv for the first time, but both cities were protected by the “Iron Dome”, Israel’s durable missile shield. It is the increasing capability of Hamas to strike farther and farther into Israel with each conflict that makes Palestinians claim victory in the latest war.Israel, of course, has such overwhelming strength in entire West Asia that it is capable of overrunning all of Palestine by ground invasion, attempted successfully several times in the past. Its Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, praised the Iron Dome and said a ground invasion was not necessary to protect Israel this time. All the same, Israel’s Air Force conducted several hundred bombing raids and claimed that 1,600 military targets in Gaza were destroyed. Israel is also claiming victory as the rationale for a ceasefire.At the centre of the latest fighting is the divided city of Jerusalem, which is among the holiest places for all three Abrahamic religions — Judaism, Islam and Christianity. Alleged desecration of the Al Aqsa mosque and plans by new Jewish settlers to evict Palestinians from East Jerusalem triggered a rocket barrage towards Israel from Gaza this time. Hence, the Hamas is describing the latest war as “defence of Jerusalem”.India explicitly referred to this root cause in two statements last week — one to the United Nations Security Council and another to the General Assembly + by its Permanent Representative in New York, TS Tirumurti. This is India’s first major West Asian diplomatic challenge since the country became a member of the Security Council on January 1.However, deluged by the tweets, statements, counter-statements and press conferences through most of last week after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal invented a Singapore strain of the coronavirus, India’s foreign policy enthusiasts largely missed a fine balancing act by their country’s diplomats in the national capital, New York and in West Asia.That India’s stand on the latest round of violence between Israel and Palestinians left neither side entirely happy is proof of its correctness and its impact. For most of the seven decades since India’s independence, New Delhi’s stance on the Arab-Israeli conflicts was one-sided. It inevitably made Israel very unhappy every time such a stand was articulated, while the Palestinians were ecstatic. In transactional terms, India got nothing out of this policy. That has changed in recent years.What last week saw, however, was a contradiction between bilateralism and multilateralism in India’s West Asia policy. Bilaterally, one of India’s most important relationships is now with Israel. It spans national security, defence purchases, irrigation, high technology, and most recently, jointly fighting Covid-19. But when Tirumurti made his two statements at the UN, this close relationship did not influence those statements. Instead, he commendably inserted a national element into what is at stake in Jerusalem. “Jerusalem has a special place in the hearts of millions of Indians, who visit the city every year. It also houses the Al Zawiyya Al Hindiyya — the Indian Hospice, which is a historic place associated with a great Indian Sufi saint, Baba Farid, and located inside the Old City. India has restored this Indian Hospice. The historic status quo at the holy places of Jerusalem, including the Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount, must be respected.”Tirumurti’s harsh criticism was also directed at Hamas. “We condemn the indiscriminate rocket firings from Gaza into Israel, which have caused deaths of a number of civilians.”National interest was again reiterated. “India has also tragically lost one of its nationals during this rocket fire — a caregiver living in Ashkelon in Israel… We deeply mourn the loss of the lives of innocent civilians, including the Indian national, in the current cycle of violence. We reiterate our strong condemnation of all acts of provocation, violence and destruction.”Tirumurti’s statements were not off-the-cuff. A fly on the wall in South Block, seat of the Ministry of External Affairs, said several drafts went back and forth between New York and New Delhi. The Prime Minister personally authorised the final statements. It is necessary to underline this, lest an army of trolls, self-styled Indian supporters of Israel, go after the public face of Indian representation at the UN.Israel, of course, would have preferred India to wholly support it against Hamas. But they will understand India’s compulsions. The Palestinians also know that India has much at stake bilaterally with Israel, although they too would have preferred the pre-Narasimha Rao line of all out support for them. Palestinians also know that when they desperately needed help after the United States under Donald Trump and Canada under Stephen Harper cut all aid, Narendra Modi was there for them. In 2018, one month after Modi visited Palestine, he increased four-fold India’s contribution to the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees.India’s recent policy of separating its bilateral interests from the multilateral outlook on West Asia deserves praise. Threats to such innovation come not from direct stakeholders Israel or Palestine, but from irrational supporters of Israel within India’s ruling party, who are fortunately not decision-makers, and fail to understand the nuances behind South Block’s considered views on West Asia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-walks-a-tightrope-on-gaza-conflict-257508
24-05-2021||Food & Agriculture Specialist||Growth should take the poor into account||Ever since the first wave of Covid-19 pushed countries into a lockdown, the central banks, mainly in the rich countries, printed $9 trillion of surplus money. Well, the underlying objective was to infuse this surplus money into the pandemic-hit economies, which had been left gasping for breath.According to economist Ruchir Sharma, Chief Global Strategist at the Morgan Stanley Investment Management, this pandemic stimulus in turn made the rich add on to their wealth. “Much of that stimulus had gone into financial markets and from there into the net worth of ultra-rich,” he wrote (Financial Times, May 16). The total wealth of the super rich has increased in the same period to somewhere between $ 5 trillion to $ 13 trillion. No wonder, markets are awash with money, while countries are struggling to pull the economy out of slump.The sad irony is that what appears to be an ingenious way to indirectly transfer wealth from public coffers into the pockets of the ultra-rich happened at a time when Brookings estimated that an additional 144 million people globally, in 2020, slipped below the stringently kept poverty line. Using the World Bank and IMF poverty estimates, the calculations show that India has surpassed Nigeria when it comes to having the largest population of people living in extreme poverty. India added another 85 million poor to its existing huge numbers that have somehow been surviving below the poverty line. The devastating second wave of Covid-19 may leave a still bigger dent in poverty estimates.But perhaps what we do not realise is that all it requires to eradicate extreme poverty from the globe is $100 billion, a tiny fraction of the pandemic stimulus that was pumped in to revive the global economy and instead ended up rewarding the billionaires by helping them to amass more wealth. This is not the first time that such astonishing amounts of surplus money have been pumped indirectly into the hands of the super rich. For quite a number of years, central banks in rich countries have been printing surplus money. However, what remains unexplained is how come there is all the money for the rich, but the world is still unable to find enough money to fight poverty.If only a fraction of the pandemic stimulus had gone to where it was needed — to remove poverty, the world would have been a muchbetter place to live in.Meanwhile, the pandemic has further widened income inequality, taking it to obnoxious levels. In America, the Institute for Policy Study says the combined wealth of its billionaires increased by 44.6 per cent during the pandemic. During the same period, an estimated 80 million people lost their jobs. In any case, the top 50 super rich in America hold as much wealth as the bottom 165 million. In India, the income inequality is no less glaring. Just to give you an idea, the average farm income as worked out by the 2013 National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) report, for roughly 50 per cent of the population dependent largely on farming, stands at a paltry Rs 6,426 per month (roughly half of it coming from non-farm activities). That is why protesting farmers have been demanding an assured income by way of an assured price for their produce.Compare this with what an Oxfam’s ‘Inequality Virus Report’ brings out. The combined wealth of India’s billionaires has risen by 35 per cent during the pandemic, and to explain how the increase would translate in simple terms, the report states that the rise in wealth of just top 11 billionaires alone is enough to pay for MNREGA work for ten years. In any case, the top 1 per cent holds four times the wealth that the bottom 953 million has.To understand how an increase in income works wonders for the poor, look at the outcome of this experiment on the feasibility of universal basic income. Two years before the pandemic struck, in early 2018, Foundation for Social Change, a charitable organisation, along with the University of British Columbia in Canada, gave $7,500 Canadian dollars (or US $6,206) to 50 homeless families in the Vancouver region. A year later, during which time the charity kept a tab on how the money was being utilised, the results that emerged were not only astounding, but equally encouraging. More or less, the same results have been achieved in almost similar kind of studies conducted elsewhere.Contrary to the public perception wherein it is generally believed that the poor don’t know how to handle money, the results clearly brought out how wisely they made use of the limited financial support, spending it on necessities like food, clothes, housing and other utilities. According to news reports, while the consumption of basic food needs went up by 37 per cent, the poor had actually cut down on drug and alcohol by 39 per cent. By moving fast into housing, these homeless actually worked to ensure a roof over their head. What the study, therefore, conclusively established is the significance of roti, kapda and makaan for the poor households everywhere in the world, and their strenuous efforts to work towards attaining it. In other words, such petty cash transfers have the potential to uplift the poor from the clutches of poverty.Instead, we see more money being routed to the rich by way of tax concessions, economic stimulus packages, bank write-offs, bailouts and massive subsidies in the name of incentives for growth to bolster corporation profits with the faulty assumption that some of it will trickle down to the poor and needy. When it comes to giving poor their share, the argument is that by giving surplus money directly into the hands of the poor, everyone will have more to spend, and that will lead to higher inflation.The economic growth model, therefore, has been very cleverly designed to help widen income inequality, and make the fat cows still fatter. The poor are expected to fend for themselves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/growth-should-take-the-poor-into-account-256674
