25-05-2021||---||Statute needed to curb gender-based cyber crime||Often, the discussion on safety of women pivots on how women should be protected. But there is a thin line of demarcation between protection and security. Instead, what we need to focus on is remodelling an unequal space that is conducive to women participating freely in society. Although we are yet to live our lives free of the pandemic, we have reached a point where it is possible to assess the cumulative impact wreaked by the virus. In the absence of physical proximity as a coping mechanism, the question that arises is: where do women congregate in a Covid-infested world? The prolonged lockdown and social isolation have precipitated a push into digital spaces that are neither equal nor safe. It is now a proven fact that cyber Violence Against Women and Girls (VAWG) bears a causality with the digital exclusion of women worldwide. This has created an exigency to overhaul and sensitise digital spaces.Violence is all-pervasive, it erodes at the already porous wall between online and offline, real and reel. This is why VAWG has percolated to the digital realm. It is this anonymous non-confrontational form of VAWG, devoid of physical contact, that must be viewed as an impeding factor to gender justice in the 21st century. Essentially, if women are at the receiving end of systemic gender-based violence, then the same will translate into an inequitable cyberspace. Terming cyber harassment as passive detracts from the trouble it perpetuates. For far too long, issues of gender-based cyber crime have been labelled elite or “first world” problems. But on a closer look, it seems apparent that cyber crime follows the seamless stream of affordable Internet connection, cheap cellular network and access to smartphones. If we look closely at cases of cyber crime faced by women, the language of power cuts across the variables of age, religion, caste and class. The only constant parameter is gender.The continued fetishisation of women and their bodies is an indicator of what causes proliferation of gender-based cyber harassment. A skewed power dynamic between men and women is another example of what sustains digital attacks on women and girls. Not so long ago, social media was awash with the ‘Bois locker room’ incident that circulated obscene images of under-age girls via leaked chats from an exclusive group. With this as our frame of reference, it is time we pause and acknowledge that ‘Bois locker room’ is not an isolated incident of young boys enabling rape culture, but instead is symptomatic of our societal mentality. What this incident did bring to light was the paucity of resources to hold perpetrators of gender-based cyber crime accountable for voyeurism, blackmailing and harassing women if not for encouraging toxic masculinity and normalising a culture of misogyny.Cyber harassment, rape and death threats clutter the already overburdened headspace of the average 21st-century woman’s emotional bandwidth. Being routinely subjected to objectification and fetishisation has resulted in a lack of self-worth among the many women I spoke to while writing this article. We have reached a point where we have unknowingly normalised women being so hounded, sexualised and besieged with cyber harassment that talking about it is deemed frivolous. Reports of increased cyber bullying and cyber harassment have escalated over the past few years with the NCRB data showing 6,030 cyber crimes registered by women in the year 2018. The bitter backlash received by women and girls when reporting cyber crime is also of mythic proportions. We need to understand that the digital space is no different from the offline/real world. In other words, those toxic nurturing practices, based on myopic gender stereotypes that operate offline are reinforced online via social networking websites.Laura Bates in her seminal book, Everyday Sexism establishes “a clear link between consumption of sexualised images, a tendency to view women as objects and the acceptance of aggressive attitudes and behaviours as the norm”. Cyber harassment has managed to put a premium on what constitutes the most glaring manifestation of sexism, patriarchy and sexual harassment currently existing in our society. This harassment routinely starts out small, with seemingly small transgressions that gives way to an average urban woman having to block/report people. In all of this, there is a conjunctive that weaves together the threads of cyber harassment and sexism: impunity, power and social capital.For the uninitiated, and given the current climate of virology, let us imagine cyber VAWG as a virus. Here, we are talking about a very specific, violent, sexualised hatred intended to wreck a woman’s psyche and release emotional toxins. Attempts have been made by cultural anthropologists and feminists to understand the genesis of cyber VAWG; ‘organised misogyny’ is one such hypothesis, and the most plausible one.In the largest ever global survey on online violence, Plan International makes a case for awareness on the opportunities as well as risks of being online, with a focus on online abuse. For the demography of India’s crime rate, a digital sensitisation curriculum along with state-funded, sex-disaggregated data on online gender-based violence could be the first course of action. A gender-responsive digital sensitisation curriculum for our police and the judicial system will create a mechanism that enables women to address the digital divide. Having a repository of sex-disaggregated data will allow us to prioritise those digital policies that allow for an integration of a much-needed gender lens into our policies and budgetary allocations.With that said, this is not a malady without cure but will require multi-dimensional measures to combat the encumbrance posed by gender-based cyber crime. It is at this juncture the question arises — how do we balance the scales between sensitising our institutional responses and engendering the digital space with sanctions? The answer, on the surface, seems simple but given the evolving terrain of digital technology will require subsequent modifications and an active approach to work within the international human rights framework. To conclude, we need a targeted legislation that criminalises cyber VAWG. In the absence of any special legislation, both the IT Act and the IPC are interim solutions inadequate to contain the magnitude of problems. The reason for this is that the IPC predates the digital era while the IT Act was formulated to enhance e-commerce as opposed to sensitising a hitherto unequal space. Hence, devising a statute that exclusively addresses cyber abuse, harassment and violence faced by women will go a long way in changing the existing discourse on safety and equality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/statute-needed-to-curb-gender-based-cyber-crime-257838
25-05-2021||---||Leadership test lies ahead for Xi Jinping||WITH less than two years to go for the 20th Congress of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) — scheduled in the latter half of 2022 — the political climate in China is beginning to hint at some uncertainty. The popular perception that Chinese President Xi Jinping, who heads most of the Communist Party’s powerful small central groups is the ‘Chairman of everything’, could be questioned. This is despite the official Chinese media’s sustained efforts to project Xi Jinping and his activities almost double the number of times than his two immediate predecessors.These signs of possible dissent come at an inconvenient time for Xi Jinping, who harbours global ambitions for China. Seeing himself as the Child of Red Destiny, he considers himself best suited to steer China to its rise. After all, when he announced the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) in 2013, his acolytes acclaimed that ‘China under Xi Jinping has embarked on a third 30-year era like those of Deng and Mao before him’.Xi Jinping is making a determined bid to secure China’s three top and most powerful posts of General Secretary of the CCP, Chairman of the Central Military Commission (CMC) and China’s President for a third term — unprecedented since 1980!To reduce opposition, including in the provinces, Xi Jinping is highlighting the success of his flagship campaigns. He underscored the ‘success’ of his poverty alleviation project, acclaimed as a complete success at the end of 2020, at a seminar in Beijing on January 11, attended by “main leading cadres” at the provincial and ministerial level.He has also been positioning loyalists in leadership appointments. At least five provincial capitals announced the reshuffle of top appointments on May 7. This was followed a month later by leadership changes in Shenzhen. Xi Jinping has continued to use the ‘stick’ too and the party’s anti-corruption watchdog body, the Central Discipline Inspection Commission (CDIC), has this year alone placed at least 129 senior provincial officials under investigation. There have also been reports of the dismissal of a couple of CCP Central Committee (CC) and National People’s Congress (NPC) members and People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Generals.Nevertheless, there are possible signs of disquiet inside the party. Intellectuals, academics, students and business entrepreneurs have been critical of Xi Jinping and the CCP leadership for the deterioration in relations with the US and China’s growing isolation.Chinese leaders have, over the decades, often used the Hong Kong media to bypass domestic opposition or float ideas controversial within leadership echelons. A prominent example is Deng Xiaoping’s well-known “southern tour” (or nanxun), which he undertook in 1992 to bypass opposition to his ‘open door’ and reform policies and mobilise popular support.Former Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao (80) now appears to have followed a similar route and published an article serialised (March 25-April 15) by the little-known Macau Guide. The concluding remarks of Wen Jiabao’s article attracted public attention. He wrote: “However, only sincere, simple and kind emotions cannot be faked. I sympathise with the poor and the weak, and oppose bullying and oppression. In my mind, China should be a country full of fairness and justice, where there will always be respect for the human heart, humanity, and always have the temperament of youth, freedom and struggle. I have screamed and fought for this. This is the truth that life taught me, and it was also given by my mother.” His remarks resonated with Chinese netizens and went viral on China’s social media.As China’s Premier too, Wen Jiabao had occasionally made ambiguous comments hinting at the need for reform and democracy and his latest remarks could have been interpreted as criticism of Xi Jinping’s policies. The authorities appeared to endorse this by taking the post down overnight.More recently, on May 13, the CCP’s official authoritative newspaper People’s Daily front-paged a box item on the 13th anniversary of the Wenchuan Earthquake which occurred on May 12, 2008. Since normally it is the quinquennial or decennial anniversaries that are commemorated in China,this item was intriguing and could allude to Xi Jinping’s failure to visit Wuhan at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic in contrast to Wen Jiabao visiting the site of the earthquake within hours of its occurrence. This had provoked criticism on China’s social media at the time.Another hint of opposition was one pointing to the party’s revised history issued last month. The new ‘Brief History of the Communist Party of China’, significantly downsized coverage of the Cultural Revolution and, instead of blaming Mao, credits him with fighting against corruption, special privileges and bureaucratism within the party and government. Surprisingly, a China Daily (May 11) article captioned ‘The Path to Glory’ described the ‘cultural revolution’ as “dealing the Party, nation and the Chinese people the most severe setback and losses since the founding of the People’s Republic of China."It will be interesting to observe whether other hints of opposition to Xi Jinping’s bid for a third term emerge in the run-up to the 20th Party Congress. In the interim, Xi Jinping cannot afford to appear weak and this will dictate his policies on domestic and international issues. On territorial issues, there is unlikely to be even a suggestion of willingness to yield ground. The situation on the India-China border needs to be viewed in this backdrop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/leadership-test-lies-ahead-for-xi-jinping-257848
25-05-2021||---||Need sooner, not later||The thought that comes to mind when we think about Prime Minister Modi’s BJP is muscular nationalism, Hindutva, and over-the-top-theatrics. Actually, the defining trait of the government is incompetence. Those other things are merely a cover for ineptitude. The record ranges from misreading and mishandling China, demonetisation, the shoddy GST rollout and slowing economy. But what has really revealed its true incapacity is the handling of the Covid vaccination programme.In extenuation, supporters of the government say this is a ‘once in a century crisis’, forgetting World War II and the Partition. But we’ve begun hearing this phrase only now. Till February, the government was revelling in the masterly way it had dealt with the pandemic. Covid was not even discussed in any detail at the apex meeting of the Niti Aayog on February 20, chaired by the PM and attended by most Chief Ministers.The PM’s virtual address on January 28 to the WEF in Davos was an essay on hubris. He declared that India’s health infrastructure, trained staff and technology application had contained the Covid challenge. Not only had India vaccinated 2.3 million health workers in 12 days, but also planned to vaccinate 300 million older people in the ‘next few months’, and supply vaccines to other countries as part of India’s humanitarian tradition.At the onset of the pandemic last year, the union government seized the command and control of the Covid response. Lockdowns were enforced and loosened through the mildly menacing Home Ministry circulars. The pain and suffering that migrant workers faced in their sometimes epic journey to reach home was simply ignored. The government also took charge of the national vaccination campaign, creating a National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration to centralise the vaccination process through the CoWin app and dishing out certificates with the Prime Minister’s picture on it.But no one had done any calculation about the actual number of doses that would be needed in India. The government, dependent on just the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, waited till January 2021 to place orders for their vaccines. On May 3, the SII head, Adar Poonawalla, said his company had received orders for 260 million doses, of which 150 million had already been supplied and the company had received an advance for another 110 million doses for the May-July period. Even with the 20 million Bharat Biotech Covaxin doses, these numbers would barely scratch the surface of the country’s requirements.The second wave has consumed the narrative of bravado and bombast. As people scrambled for beds in hospitals and fought for oxygen cylinders and cremated and disposed of the remains of their near and dear haphazardly, they looked for direction and leadership and there was none.There were no stern Home Ministry directives, no prime ministerial homilies. The decision to lockdown was now left to the states who were suddenly told that the responsibility of coping with the situation was actually theirs. As the vaccination programme began faltering, rules were changed and states were told to buy their own vaccines from wherever they could.As the second wave intensified, the pace of vaccinations has faltered on account of vaccine shortage arising from poor decisions of the Central government, which now compounded the problem by opening up vaccines for all adults as of May 1. A government advisory group has since revealed that this was a purely political decision. This led to a huge surge of demand which has sent the vaccination programme into a tailspin — the number of shots declined from an average of 3.6 million a day on April 10 to just about 1.4 million on May 20.Instead of ‘cooperative federalism’ that we desperately need to deal with the situation, what we have been getting are made-for-TV spectacles where the PM interacts with District Magistrates and Chief Ministers in a one-way monologue where no questions are asked nor answered.Last Sunday in an interview, the Prime Minister’s Principal Secretary PK Mishra came up with all the usual platitudes and excuses — India has the fastest rate of vaccination, had vaccinated third highest number globally, the slowdown was not policy failure but a consequence of previously stockpiled vaccines running out and so on.Mishra repeated the boast that India had vaccinated 19 crore people, the equivalent of half the US population. A look at the figures collated by Our World in Data shows, as of May 21, China has administered 483.34 million (48 crore) doses as against India’s 187.89 million (19 crore), nowhere near the PM’s claim of doing 300 million at the WEF meet.There is now a publicity overdrive on the enormous vaccine bonanza headed our way in the coming months. As Mishra noted, ‘While kicking in with a time lag of a few months, the supply is slated to increase from 7 crore per month in April to 16 crore in July and 25 crore in October.’This will be of little comfort to those whose near and dear have been dying at the rate of 4,000 per day since mid-May. Possibly a hundred thousand or more will be dead before ‘things kick in with a time lag.’And all we have is the promise of vast quantities of vaccines in future. We have no way of knowing whether they will arrive, or whether the government which has singularly bungled the vaccination programme so far, can deliver it to the people. Meanwhile, those who will lose a near and dear one while waiting must take it on the chin, this is part of the resilience and positivity expected from people whose country is destined to be a Great Power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/need-sooner-not-later-257879
25-05-2021||---||Vaccine policy must be guided by transparency||Governments are generally known to be economical with the truth. In the case of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, it is more so. This can be seen especially in the case of its vaccine policy. Bits of facts have been tumbling out from the affidavit filed in the Supreme Court by the Central Government and from the press conferences of BJP spokespersons.Last month, there were reports in the media that the Finance Ministry had approved the release of Rs 4,500 crore to the two vaccine manufacturers — Serum Institute of India (SII), the maker of Covishield, and Bharat Biotech, the maker of Covaxin — and that the government had to go beyond the existing rule framework because there was no way of releasing government funds without guarantees, but that the waiver had been given. Of course, there was the allocation of Rs 35,000 crore just for the vaccines which was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during the presentation of the Union Budget on February 1.It is in the Centre’s affidavit we get the nugget that the government did not spend any money on the research and manufacture of the Covid-19 vaccines, and that it has spent just Rs 46 crore to support the clinical trials at Pune-based SII and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. It was also revealed in the same affidavit that the government paid an advance payment for the vaccine doses for May, June and July an amount of Rs 25,200 crore —Rs 17,325 crore to SII for 11 crore doses and Rs 7,875 crore to Bharat Biotech for five crore doses.So, who had paid for all those doses from January 16 to April 30 for the health workers, frontline workers, the above-60 folk and those between 45 and 60 who had comorbidities? The total vaccine doses administered till April 30 were 15.48 crore.It is through BJP spokespersons Sambit Patra and Gopal Agarwal that we came to know that not all of the 6.5 million vaccine doses of Covishield and Covaxin were part of the government’s diplomatic gesture, and that a majority of the doses sent abroad were part of the commercial commitments made by the two vaccine manufacturers. They said that only 1.6 million doses were part of Vaccine Maitri.Also, it has not been made clear how many of these doses were contributed to the World Health Organisation (WHO) common vaccine pool and how much India drew from the pool as it was eligible to do so. Did Covishield and Covaxin doses that went out of the country to the WHO come back to the country from the WHO’s common stock?Perhaps, these details will only be revealed under duress — when asked by the Supreme Court or through a parliamentary panel or a question by a Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha Member when Parliament reconvenes during the Monsoon Session.But the issue of how the money was being allocated both for Covid management and for the vaccines was raised in the July and August 2020 issues of the Journal of Indian Medical Research (JIMR) by two public health research scholars Indrani Gupta and Rama Baru under the title ‘Critique Economics & Ethics of the Covid-19 vaccine: How prepared are we?’They laid out the issue most clearly: “While a number of steps have been taken to tackle the pandemic in India, one area that remained unclear is that of public financing. Testing and treatment have been steadily ramped up, but it is not clear how funds have been raised and resources allocated across different needs.”They follow this up with this observation: “This opacity in public financing and policy should be avoided at all costs in the case of vaccines.”And they make the suggestion: “Thus, it might be useful for India to bring out a White Paper on Covid-19 vaccine and share it with citizens. All policies around the vaccine must be guided by the principles of accountability and transparency.”The sequence of events shows that there has been a huge fumbling at the level of implementation. As early as June 30, 2020, Prime Minister Modi, at a high-level meeting, had already envisaged how the vaccination programme should be implemented across the country and had talked of identifying the priority groups to be vaccinated, starting with the health workers.Buoyed by the PM’s involvement, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had announced on July 3 that Covaxin would be launched on August 15, 2020. When the scientific community expressed concern about the haste, this was retracted on July 4, saying that that was meant to “cut red tape”. And, there is a strong hint of “indigenous vaccine” and the implied vaccine nationalism.It is on August 8, 2020, that a task force was set up under Dr VK Paul of Niti Aayog and Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan to deal with the issues of the raising of finances to procure and distribute vaccines, and ‘inventory management’. And, on August 23, 2020, Health Minister Harshvardhan announced that the vaccine would be ready by the end of the year, and there were three vaccine candidates — those of SII, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila.Then, on November 17, 2020, a member of the expert team on vaccines said that the government was looking at all vaccines, including Pfizer, Moderna and Sputnik. There is then confusion beneath the hyper-activity.Today, five months into 2021 and the rollout of two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, the government is looking for adequate supplies, unable to decide about the distribution of the vaccines and about the moneys that these would entail.The government representatives have a lot of explaining to do about India’s vaccine uncertainties and the procurement of the required doses from home and abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vaccine-policy-must-be-guided-by-transparency-257509
