26-05-2021||---||No evidence yet of Covid paediatric impact||There is a lot of discussion going on that the third wave would affect mainly children. In a hearing, a Bench of the Supreme Court has asked about the government’s plan to protect children from the third wave. Maharashtra has set up a separate state task force for Covid-19 in children. The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has recommended the setting up of paediatric task forces on Covid-19 in every district. Some health experts have suggested that special paediatric Covid-19 intensive care units, catering to up to 5 per cent of the child population, should be set up.These developments have been interpreted by many as confirmation that the third wave would primarily affect children.A number of countries have already experienced three or four waves of the pandemic and there is no scientific evidence and epidemiological data from any part of the world that children were more commonly affected in any subsequent wave. In fact, states such as Delhi have already seen four waves and the children have not been affected disproportionately.Fifteen months into the pandemic, we have a better understanding of SARS CoV-2 and Covid-19. Successive sero-surveys in Indian cities and states and even national surveys have revealed that children have developed a proportionately similar rate of infection as any other age-group. It is just that they simply don’t develop a moderate or severe disease. The reason is that ACE-2 receptors on which SARS CoV-2 binds are underdeveloped in children and the virus fails to find its way to their lungs.Yet, why is it being thought that children could be more widely affected in the next wave? Let us examine the possible reasons.One, in the second wave, doctors attending Covid-19 children reported to have seen more cases than in the first wave. The children admitted reported to be sicker than in the previous wave.A few weeks ago, Niti Aayog and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) released facility-based data comparing age distribution in the two waves. It found that in the second wave, of the total admitted patients, 5.8 per cent were 0-19 years, and this was 4.2 per cent in the first wave. The age group constitutes nearly 43 per cent of the population. Clearly, Covid-19 infections in children remain low.Therefore, if paediatricians have seen more infections and cases of children in the second surge, it must also be noted that the overall Covid-19 cases in the country have also increased by four to five times and sustained for a few weeks.An epidemiologist will explain that to make any correct inference, the data from both groups — the clinicians (who have a better sense of admissions of children, the numerator) and the data experts (who have a broader picture of the overall cases in the entire population, the denominator) — is needed and they must work together. This will address the ‘numerator-denominator dissociation’ to make a correct interpretation.Two, for illnesses which require hospitalisation, people always try to ‘seek care at the next level of healthcare facility’ than the one closer to them: those in villages go to the city, those in the city go to a major city, and those in a major city, seek a hospital in metropolitan cities. This care-seeking behaviour is seen more frequently for children. Therefore, most of the higher-level facilities in large cities and catering to Covid-19 children might have received a higher number of sick children than in the other age-groups, leaving the impression (to the attending doctors) that more children were affected in the second wave.Three, there is no evidence that the virus or the new strains have increased transmissibility or pathogenicity to the younger age-groups or children. Yet, we know that while additional Covid-19 facilities were opened to cater to the increased caseload, the proportion of Covid-19 facilities for children did not witness a proportionate increase.Therefore, due to a shortage of beds and ventilators, only those with moderate or severe conditions were admitted to Covid facilities. This triage of already sick patients for hospital admission, to a treating physician, gave the impression that the severity of the illness was higher, while it was a selection bias.In short, there is no data from India to support that children were more commonly affected in the second wave (in comparison to the first wave) or would have a higher risk of disease in the third wave.However, to ensure an effective pandemic response, the government should analyse the available Covid-19 data by age, gender and other stratifiers with comparison between the two waves and make it public. That is essential to develop evidence-informed strategies and dispel the unsubstantiated assertions, which may create fear.Also, both the Centre and states should prepare for all possible scenarios (informed by data and not merely opinion) to respond to the third wave. There is merit in ensuring that Covid-19 testing and treatment services for children are also strengthened.The genomic sequencing and clinical studies regularly examine transmissibility or pathogenicity of the circulating strains in all age-groups. Setting up a separate task force for Covid-19 may be an attractive idea, but it has the risk of a fragmented response. It would be better if a single task force at the state level, with the participation of child health experts, were to look into the strategies and plans holistically.Consideration on the opening of the schools and plan for vaccination of children should be a part of the overall plans for the pandemic response.Health experts need to support their assumptions not merely based on their clinical experience but in the broader epidemiological context to avoid any possible panic.As of now, there is no reason to conclude that children would be at a higher risk of contracting Covid-19 in the third wave, as and when that happens. However, preparation without causing unnecessary alarm and panic has to be the approach to be followed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/no-evidence-yet-of-covid-paediatric-impact-258482
26-05-2021||---||Challenging, eventful two years of Modi 2.0||Destiny deprived the Narendra Modi-led government of another chance to celebrate an anniversary. In 2020, when Prime Minister Modi completed one year of his second term on May 30, the country was facing the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. An unexpected and unwanted fallout of the disaster was that it emptied out the cities of their working class migrants, who held aloft the organised and subterranean economies, after the Centre announced a long national lockdown.One year hence, a brief lull that induced optimism and complacency in the government has resulted in a bigger catastrophe that shows little sign of subsiding. If anything, experts have warned of a third and a more intense wave looming large.Still, by the reckoning of the faithful in the large BJP fraternity, Modi’s first year in 2.0 was creditable, barring the electoral reverses in Delhi, Jharkhand and Maharashtra. The BJP, nonetheless, managed to put together coalition governments in Haryana and Bihar.Considering that electoral outcomes have become an index of Modi and the BJP’s popularity like never before — even Atal Bihari Vajpayee, BJP’s first Prime Minister, took defeat on his chin and went about the business of governance with equanimity — it looks like the party is unable to live down the loss in West Bengal.Indeed, as the second anniversary approached, the Centre and the BJP had hoped that a success in the eastern state would be the crowning glory of their record of electoral “conquests”, quite unlike even Uttar Pradesh, which the BJP is used to winning now and then.A win in West Bengal had several implications, not the least being vanquishing an ideology that was anathema to the RSS from the start. Therefore, even celebrations on a limited scale were in order, regardless of the devastation the pandemic wrought in the countryside. Mamata Banerjee robbed Modi of his moment of glory.Premature triumphalism marked the government’s approach to pandemic management. The flight of migrants, the job losses, the beating taken by the economy, particularly in the manufacturing, construction and service sectors, and the inadequacies evident in the sphere of health were not factored in the “feel-good” mood which the government infused among people after the first wave receded.Hospitals, health centres and pharmaceutical companies managed to cope ably because the severity of the virus was less than the magnitude that followed.There was hope that a vaccination programme would kick off on a large scale with the help of indigenous manufacture and imports. The government's confidence was not entirely misplaced but there was little evidence that the sentiment was commensurate with hardcore efforts to launch mass vaccination of the scale seen in earlier programmes. India has a legacy of successful immunisation policies and projects and there was no reason why the Covid immunisation would not take off.In retrospect, the project’s beginning was wrong. It reflected a sense of misplaced priorities. The ‘Vaccine Maitri’ diplomacy, however well intentioned, saw the Centre dispatching Covid vaccines to multiple countries in the belief that India would not require huge doses because it had “contained” the virus.The exercise began in January 2021, when forewarnings of a second and possibly more severe attack were issued by experts. Was the seemingly goodwill gesture intended to enhance the PM’s image in the global community? If it was, the endeavour took a serious beating within months when the virus spread uncontrolled, this time to the rural areas that were relatively untouched in the first phase, and vaccines remained short.The health infrastructure collapsed, death counts were inaccurate because the villages were largely impenetrable and life-saving medicines and oxygen ran scarce. The images of cadavers floating on rivers and devoured by dogs and vultures will linger on for a long time.The government’s approach was marked by callousness, that some mistook for helplessness, over-centralisation, giving a wide berth to the non-BJP states and their chief ministers, allowing RSS-aligned quacks a free play and a curious reluctance to share critical information.Fortified by the 2019 mandate, the government did not let the RSS down or compromise on its ideological commitment. Modi 2.0 started on the right note from the Sangh’s perspective: the government passed the Bill criminalising the practice of ‘triple talaq’ among Muslims; revoked nearly all of Article 370, of which 35A is a part, and which formed the basis of Kashmir’s complex relationship with India for nearly 70 years; amended the Citizenship Act to disenfranchise Muslim immigrants in West Bengal and the North-East and confer citizenship rights on the non-Muslim settlers from Bangladesh and other countries; and strengthened the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), empowering the state to designate an individual as a terrorist and impound his properties. The tweaked UAPA was employed with impunity to crush dissent, notably the protests against the altered Citizenship Act from students on Delhi campuses, some of whom are still languishing in jails.The pinnacle of achievements on the BJP’s core ideology was the start of the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya with the Supreme Court’s green signal. Modi promptly set up a government trust to oversee the construction that capped a “movement” dating back to 1984.The other big — and unforeseen —political challenge was the fight by the farmers of Punjab and Haryana against the new farm laws that were packaged as a major step towards reforming agriculture. The protests spread to parts of Uttar Pradesh and partially revived the state’s dormant Opposition.The farmers show no sign of backing off as the Centre seems equally determined not to revise its stance.Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls in February-March 2022, will be the first big test of how people view Modi 2.0 because the BJP proposes to showcase the PM more prominently in its campaign than the Chief Minister, Yogi Adityanath. The only source of comfort for the BJP is that the Opposition remains disunited and largely passive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/challenging-eventful-two-years-of-modi-2-0-258458
26-05-2021||---||China’s Buddhism card||As we celebrate the 2565th Buddha Jayanti, it is time to reflect on how the ideas and symbols of Buddha have gradually vanished from the land where he attained enlightenment.Buddha neither exists in temples nor is Buddhism about kneeling down before a statue to save one’s soul. It is not about performing rituals and sacrifices. Yet, this might seem strange, given the growing relevance of Buddhism elsewhere, it is assuming less importance in India.India needs to seriously reaffirm its central role and embrace its own tradition of Buddha, dharma, sangha.But sadly, India's deviation from Buddhism and its historical essence could do more harm than good to its global image, for the world outside continues to relate India’s greatness, despite its modern achievements, with Buddha’s wisdom.Surely, the builders of the Indian nation were aware of the essence. Nehru particularly elevated his profile through Buddhism — adopted Buddhist features and symbols in the making of the Indian state. According to historian Madhavan Palat, Nehru viewed Gandhi as Buddha’s avatar and himself as Ashoka’s incarnation. Both rejected dogma but stood for the law of truth. Buddha’s ethical approach and principles of change deeply influenced Nehru. If Buddha gave India a temper for peace, Nehru applied it to his foreign policy — to draw back from conflict and from competing with one another.But today the issue is that of leadership. As India loses most of its legacy, China is taking the leadership over global Buddhism. And, as China plans to become a Buddhist superpower along with its financial, political, and marketing clout, it would come as India’s worst fears.Certainly, China and Buddhism go a long way. In fact, contrary to popular belief, Buddhism remained firmly rooted in China even after the Communist Party took over power. China has been opposed to superstitious practices but not against religion. But, in recent years China is witnessing a growing passion for Buddhist renewal. The spectre of economic affluence seems to steer people’s quest for spirituality, forcing Buddhism to make a strong comeback. Millions of Chinese are seeking their ‘yin guo’ (karmic) connections with Buddha Amitabha. From students to businessmen, ordinary Chinese are beginning to link their existential happiness to the interdependent nature of karmic cycles.Chinese Master Jingzong once said China’s intent to realise its economic and political destiny would pale compared to the urge amongst millions to accomplish their spiritual fortunes. He cannot visualise China’s future without Buddhism.But, it is none other than President Xi Jinping who has been working on a Buddhist globalisation drive since he was 29 years old, serving as a junior official in Hebei province.Xi has shown bias against ideologies that deemed foreign i.e. Christianity, Islam, and democracy. He had helped rebuild several famous temples in the past, but ordered thousands of crosses be pulled off the steeples of churches while he was chief of Zhejiang province between 2002 and 2007.Xi could be following a policy akin to Vladimir Putin’s spiritual feat of adopting orthodox Christianity, which is seen as giving him the moral legitimacy to be the leader of the Slavic world. This is despite Article 14 of Russia’s constitution declaring the country ‘a secular state’.Nobody knows whether Xi is a practitioner, his wife is; but he has firmly been putting Chinese Buddhism on the global stage since 2005. At the domestic level, it looks as though he is turning to religion not just to bolster his rule, but to save the party from falling, and to arrest the flagging moral values in China’s social fabric through anti-corruption drive.It looks as though he is reimagining China’s future along the lines of the imperial Chinese state. With humanist Buddhist values diffusing into society, China is likely to see in the future what we witness in countries like Thailand today. To be sure, this is having consequences for the rest of Asia, where 97% of the world’s Buddhist populations live and where Buddhism is their core values.The fear is that China will translate its economic weight into spiritual might. It is already on a Buddhist globalisation spree — building spiritual links with the people of other nations and regularly hosting the World Buddhist Forum that draws thousands of monks and scholars from across the world, and is building Lingshan as the Vatican of Buddhism.China controls the World Buddhist Sangha Councils and bodies, helping to repair, renovate, and resurrect Buddhist institutions across Theravada and Mahayana countries, fervently participating in major international events such as the UN Vesak Day.Becoming a guardian of Buddhism helps Xi promote China as an acceptable world power with a soft image. Buddhist globalisation helps Beijing push its economic projects — makes diplomacy easier to win geopolitical influence in Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, and elsewhere. Taking a cue from the imperial-era practice, China could be even using the powerful Tibetan Buddhist links for expanding its outreach. Whether asserting territorial claims in the South China Sea or pushing connectivity under the BRI initiative along the Silk Route, Xi seems working on the political geography of Buddhism. His approach towards linking trade, connectivity with Buddhism seems to bear that out.The BRI is pushed into Nepal to link with the Buddha’s birthplace, Lumbini. CPEC is being termed the ‘Gandhara trail’ to link China with Buddhist centres such as Lahore, Taxila, and Peshawar. Taxila relics are being sent to Sri Lanka for a public exposition. Asian monks, including those from Bhutan, are invited to the Saidu Sharif monastery in Swat Valley (the birthplace of Padmasambhava).India needs to seriously reaffirm its central role and embrace its own tradition of Buddha, dharma, sangha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-buddhism-card-258452
