27-05-2021||---||A thousand lies can’t dwarf the giant Nehru was||Today is the day when Jawaharlal Nehru left us in 1964. He was so much in our lives that it was hard to dispel from our minds the fact that he was no more.Whenever I see the Bhakra Canal and the green fields of Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, which were barren sand dunes barely 58 years ago, I reverently remember Pt Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India. Along with Nehru, I remember my father Ch Ranbir Singh, who was the Irrigation and Power Minister of Punjab, when Nehru dedicated the Bhakra Dam project to the nation on October 22, 1963. As a 16-year-old, I had accompanied my father to the inauguration. I also recollect how diligently and dedicatedly Nehru evinced personal interest in the completion of Bhakra project and made his team, including my father and the team of engineers, work day and night. As Prime Minister, he visited the project 13 times and even signed the Panchsheel agreement with the Chinese Prime Minister at the site of the Bhakra project. Needless to say that this transformed the lives and livelihoods of millions of half-starved people in this regard.Likewise, several big hydroelectric projects on major rivers of the country were built during his tenure as the Prime Minister. When India became independent, millions of its people were dying of hunger and the nation was struggling to survive on ship-to-mouth conditions. Nehru who had great empathy with his people, famously said, “Everything can wait but not agriculture.” Heavy investments were made in irrigation projects, technological research, fertilisers and agri infrastructure that paved the way for the Green Revolution in the country. Lal Bahadur Shastri, known as the alter ego of Nehru, gave more impetus to this policy and changed the image of India from the holder of a begging bowl to a self-reliant and self-respecting country.Nehru was essentially a nation- builder. If we assess the major achievements or successes of our country after Independence, we can unhesitatingly claim that it is a democratic polity. He was a passionate democrat. Everyone knows that he vehemently argued in the Constituent Assembly for universal adult suffrage, knowing full well that an overwhelming majority of his countrymen were poverty-stricken illiterates. He silenced his critics and cynical opponents with his emotionally powered arguments. He could do so because he had tremendous faith in his people.Nehru respected dissent and believed that divergence of opinion, debates and discussions were integral to democracy. He was of a firm conviction that in a democracy, the majority has its way but the minority must have its say and not the ‘My way or the highway’ approach. Nehru included in his Cabinet stalwarts like Dr BR Ambedkar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and C. Rajagopalachari who did have views different from Nehru and founded their own separate political parties later. This was dubbed as the Team of Rivals. Yet, rising above his personal liking and in the larger interests of the country, he roped them in to utilise their talent for building the nation. He carried no rancour even against his bitter critics like Dr Ram Manohar Lohia, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and others, rather valued their views.Thus he laid strong democratic traditions, processes and conventions on whose foundation our democratic institutions were built. Every Indian can feel proud that he built such a strong base of a resilient and vibrant democracy in the country that no attempt to dismantle it can succeed.Nehru was indeed the architect of modern India. It was a most daunting task to build a nation from scratch. He was a votary of scientific socialism and helped the country to imbibe a scientific, secular temperament. He was a visionary statesman and established a concrete base for scientific and technological advancement of the country by establishing IITs, AIIMS and other premier institutions of study and research.Nehru was a multifaceted and charismatic personality. Besides all, he was a warm human being and took personal care of his colleagues and friends. My father used to fondly recount an interesting anecdote about him. Someone told Nehruji that Pratap Singh Daulta, the first elected Communist Party MP from Jhajjar parliamentary constituency in Punjab (now Haryana), was a close relative of my father. Nehru was curious how a communist could win in Punjab, a comparatively prosperous state with no strong base for the Communist Party of India. When my father met Nehruji, he asked how Daulta was related to him. The fact was that Daulta was the brother of his real aunt. He humorously said, “My relation with him is that when Daulta had to get some work done, I would be his jija and when he had none, I would be his sala” (brother-in-law is the word in English for these relations). Nehruji burst into laughter.No doubt, Nehru trode the political firmament like a colossus and shall remain so. No vicious propaganda against him can belittle his contribution to this country and a thousand lies cannot dwarf the giant that he was.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-thousand-lies-cant-dwarf-the-giant-nehru-was-258860
27-05-2021||---||India in need of viable political alternative||The black flag protest by the farmers’ movement on the occasion of the seventh anniversary of the Narendra Modi government on Wednesday told us something about the need for political alternatives. It also offered a hint as to how such an alternative might come about.In the seven years since he took oath, Modi’s government has never looked as shaky as it does today. Its aura of power is melting. For Modi sceptics, the botched-up handling of the second wave of the Covid pandemic — under-testing the patients and under-reporting the dead, lack of preparedness, unavailability of oxygen, and vaccine mismanagement — has confirmed its callousness bordering on cruelty. For many die-hard Modi believers, the absence of the government during this crucial period has punctured the myth of omnipotence built around the Prime Minister. They have begun to entertain a suspicion that the PM is not quite in control of things, and not as powerful as he appears.The carefully designed image of the all-powerful PM is coming unstuck in the political arena too. The anti-CAA protests showed that a small but determined group could stand up to this government. The farmers’ movement has already demonstrated that this government can be pushed on the back foot. West Bengal has called the bluff of the electoral prowess of the PM and his party. After seven years of untrammelled exercise of power, the Modi government has to contend with a truth that troubles all authoritarian rulers: power corrodes, absolute power corrodes absolutely.Momentarily, the Modi government resembles the second innings of the Manmohan Singh government, whose countdown had begun in 2012. It might seem that the PM has lost his charm, that the government would collapse under the weight of the mountain of lies that it has spun to cover up its misgovernance and misdeeds. The Opposition has to just wait and watch, and possibly unite.Here lies the danger. The danger is in assuming that the Modi government’s countdown has begun, in believing that democracy’s self-correcting mechanisms will control the excesses of this government, that history will do the job for us.Nothing can be farther from the truth. At this moment, we are liable to over-read popular anger with the Modi government and under-estimate its reserve of popular support. There is certainly widespread discontent, disappointment and disaffection with the Modi government today, but it need not result in its popular rejection. There is a fairly large section that might back the incumbent irrespective of its governance record. For the rest, disappointment may not turn into disgust that leads voters to throw out the incumbent at all cost. In any case, the sight of all Opposition leaders holding hands together may not enthuse the voters; it might only reinforce the impression of one man against a gang.Besides, the Modi government is bound to come up with a counter-offensive. At this moment, we are liable to underestimate the sheer power of propaganda at the command of the ruling establishment. Its spin-doctors are waiting for the storm to blow over before they launch the usual games of deflecting the blame, distracting the public and delaying the encounter with the public. They are waiting for an opportune moment to launch a vicious attack on the challengers. Its stories would be amplified with the help of money, media and organisational machinery. One thing is for sure: Unlike Dr Manmohan Singh, PM Modi will not fade away without fighting to the finish, without exhausting all the vast means at his command, fair and foul.Let us be clear: Despite all his blunders, mere Modi-bashing won’t lead to his defeat; the people look for an alternative before they can discard what they have. And let us face it: such an alternative does not exist, at least not on the menu that an ordinary person gets to see. This is not to discount the existing Opposition parties, nor to dismiss the need for their unity. Opposition unity is necessary, but not sufficient. The Opposition needs a glue that holds it together and a glow to radiate hope among the people. As of now, it doesn’t seem to have either. This is why we need an alternative to supplement the existing Opposition.Such an alternative to Modi would need, first of all, a positive and believable message about India’s future. Beyond a point, people do not want to hear what has gone wrong in the past; they want to know how things can get better in the future. This time it cannot be fake dreams and jumlas. Having fallen for it once, the people now need something solid, something believable. The message must be universal, simple and inspire confidence. That message does not exist in the public domain today. It cannot be conjured up from the ideologies of the 20th century. The language of the old ideologies of the bygone era does not work with today’s India. A fresh message must involve a coming together of fresh ideas, a fresh combination of policies and positions.Once we have a positive and believable message, we need credible messengers. Their words must carry more weight than run-of-the-mill politicians. The Opposition is deficient in this respect too. We do not have a Jayaprakash Narayan with us today. At the same time, Indian public life is not bereft of leaders with proven track record of selfless public service, integrity and intelligence. Some of them must step forward to respond to this historic need.Finally, we need a powerful machine to carry this message across the country. This machine needs two parts: Organisation and communication. Today, there is nothing in the oppositional space that can match the BJP on both these counts. Many of the Opposition parties have their cadre, no doubt. Therefore, bringing the existing Opposition parties on board is necessary for building an alternative. But it is not sufficient. A new alternative must involve a large-scale mobilisation of citizens, mainly younger citizens, who have hitherto remained outside the political domain. Bringing this fresh energy into political life is a must to meet the current challenge. A powerful communication machine, with an IT team to match the BJP’s, must supplement the organisation on the ground. India needs a Truth Army to take on the troll army of RSS-BJP.The creation of such a positive and viable alternative is the most pressing political task for those who believe in the idea of India, those who respect our constitutional values, those who despair at the erosion of democracy, and those who are committed to reclaiming our Republic.Would someone respond to this call of our times? If yes, how would this process unfold? We do not have answers. But Wednesday’s protest offers us a clue: the farmers’ movement took the lead, followed by trade unions and other organisations, before the political parties extended their support. Is that a model for the future?Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-in-need-of-viable-political-alternative-258841
27-05-2021||---||Quad’s China strategy||There have been debates on whether India should discard its hallowed ‘non-alignment’ in an emerging world order which China seeks to dominate. While there is merit in abiding by the ideals of non-alignment, the reality is that we face security threats and economic challenges from China, led by an aggressive President Xi Jinping. Beijing now makes no secret of its ambitions to use its growing economic and military muscle to dominate the world order. At the same time, there is determination in India to ensure that China does not trample over everyone else in its quest for ‘greatness’. We are now dealing with a Chinese leader who appears determined to dwarf the role of historic Chinese reformers like Deng Xiaoping, while crafting a new imperial role for China.The crude belief of the Chinese establishment is that Beijing sets the global rules. China’s policies towards India are clear. Xi Jinping aims to contain India using military force periodically for ‘salami slicing’ of Indian territory. While China’s concentration was earlier on seizing territory on our eastern borders, Ladakh now appears to be the focus. After a bitter faceoff, involving the deployment of tanks on the Himalayan heights, agreement was reached this year on a disengagement of troops confronting each other. The understanding was that Chinese troops would return to positions they held in April 2020. The Chinese, however, remain in possession of Indian territory in Depsang, Gogra, Demchok and Hot Springs.Over the past five decades, China’s policies have been aimed at the strategic containment of India by adopting measures, like providing Pakistan the designs, technology and material for its nuclear weapons and missile programmes. China has also spared no effort to provide political, economic and military support to political parties and leaders in South Asia who are prone to adopting anti-Indian policies.There is substantial evidence of Chinese backing for anti-Indian elements, sometimes with Pakistani support, in the Maldives, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. The arrogance of China’s behaviour was crudely manifested when its ambassador in Bangladesh, Li Jiming, warned a group of Bangladeshi journalists on May 10 that China’s relations with Bangladesh would be ‘substantially’ damaged if Bangladesh provided any support to Quad. He described Quad as a ‘narrow-purposed clique’. The outraged Bangladeshis reacted strongly. Foreign minister Abdul Kalam Momen described the ambassador’s statement as ‘very unfortunate’ and ‘aggressive’.Quad has been primarily focused on building close military ties to deter and counter Chinese aggression. Very little attention has been paid to China’s vulnerabilities, particularly in relations with its neighbours, with many of whom it has territorial disputes. Recent academic studies focus on the fact that China has 18 neighbours that have been intimidated by Beijing’s expansionist policies.Across its eastern shores and in the South China Sea, China’s territorial disputes are with Japan, Vietnam and the Philippines. China has differences with Japan over the Senkaku and Ryukyu Islands, marked by constant tensions, involving Chinese ships violating maritime boundaries. There are also tensions in the South China Sea, with the Chinese intruding into Philippines’s waters. China regularly violates and challenges a ruling of the International Court of Justice which upheld the claims of the Philippines.China’s territorial differences with Vietnam are based on what it avers are areas ruled by its Ming dynasty (1368-1644). When Deng Xiaoping invaded Vietnam in 1987, he was forced to pull back, facing resistance by the Vietnam army. This struggle continues, as a powerful China uses naval power to enforce its boundary claims on Vietnam. China also has territorial disputes with North Korea, Russia, Singapore, Taiwan, Laos, Brunei, Tajikistan, Cambodia, Indonesia and Malaysia. In South Asia, China has territorial claims on its land boundaries with Bhutan. Beijing also has old claims on its borders with Nepal, while its claims on its borders with India are legendary!While the focus of Quad has, thus far, been on expanding military cooperation between its members, there has been no effort to use international and regional forums to increase global awareness of China’s ambitions. A concerted diplomatic effort has to be made by Quad to unite countries in the Indo-Pacific, to be prepared to raise the costs for China, if it resorts to force across the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The combined maritime strength of Quad is enough to deny passage to any ship carrying energy supplies from the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean eastwards. The US has fleets with aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines in the Persian Gulf, Indian Ocean and Pacific Ocean. China gets the bulk of its oil supplies from Iran and Gulf countries through the Indian Ocean.An important development in recent days has been the effort to introduce a measure of understanding between the US and Russia. Major energy-related issues were addressed and the way was cleared for a Biden-Putin summit, during the recent meeting between Secretary of State Blinken and Russian foreign minister Lavrov. This will, hopefully, lead the US to review its efforts to place barriers on India’s military ties with Russia. A US-Russian détente will also adversely affect Chinese efforts to undermine Russia’s relations with India. President Putin would hardly relish playing second fiddle to Xi Jinping.Any policy which makes it clear to China that India and its partners have the capabilities to respond appropriately to Beijing’s territorial ambitions needs consultations between Quad members and potential partners, including the EU and ASEAN. The US has taken measures to enable Taiwan to continue with its independent policies. India must open the doors for more economic exchanges with Taiwan. Both Taiwan and South Korea can be key partners in enabling India to modernise and expand its electronics industries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/quads-china-strategy-258837
