28-05-2021||---||Vaccines the key to global economic recovery||International financial institutions are aware that vanquishing the Covid-19 virus is the first step towards global economic recovery. No wonder then that the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has outlined an action plan to defeat the pandemic with vaccinations as its cornerstone. The proposal envisages vaccinating at least40 per cent of the population in all countries by the end of 2021 and at least60 per cent by the first half of 2022. The cost of vaccinations and related health measures are considered affordable at $50 billion, given that the benefits amount to an estimated $9 trillion. This is a strategy that rightly looks forward to global cooperation to resolve a global crisis, even though there has been little coordination in the international response to the pandemic.The plan has been presented in the backdrop of IMF’s growth projection of a healthy 6 per cent for 2021 following the 3.5 per cent contraction in 2020. But the bulk of this upgrade is due to the revival of advanced economies. Even in this group, only the US is expected to have a significant bounce back while the euro area is likely to revive more slowly. The linkage between vaccinations and higher growth has been well established. The US, for instance, is poised for faster growth as it has managed to fully vaccinate about 39 per cent of its population. Similarly, the UK has rapidly covered about 34 per cent of its population. On the other hand, even rich countries like Germany and France with relatively smaller populations have only reached about 14 per cent. Other developing economies, including those in Africa, are lagging in the vaccination race. And while advanced economies may feel comfortable in moving ahead of the curve on vaccination, the virus is no respecter of geographical boundaries. Few countries will remain safe if the rest of the world remains unvaccinated.As far as India is concerned, the IMF has cautioned that things cannot go on as usual. The government will be well advised to heed these warnings. If vaccination policies are not altered, it expects less than 35 per cent of the population to have been covered by the end of 2021. It has thus proposed that one billion doses of vaccines be bought to enable at least 60 per cent of the population to be covered by this time. Despite the Central Government suggesting states do their own procurement, the IMF is confident that the former has enough resources to make these purchases sans external support.The comments of the IMF come at a time when the entire vaccine programme in the country seems to be grinding to a halt. In spite of assertions made by the Covid Task Force about adequate stocks when the programme was rolled out in January, it seems plans for supplying vaccines to the entire country did not factor in the need to place advance orders on manufacturers or to provide funding to ramp up capacities. One reason for this apparently lackadaisical approach is the notorious reluctance in this country to invest in areas that require research and development. In sharp contrast to this attitude, many nations unquestioningly poured billions of dollars into the highly successful Covid vaccine programmes last year. Another factor is the historical deeply ingrained distrust of private industry in the bureaucracy that seems to have permeated more deeply into the Modi government than even the previous administrations. Reports had appeared about an antagonistic approach by the economic ministry officials at preliminary meetings with corporate leaders after the government took over. This suspicious mindset could have been the reason that funds sought for enhancing capacities were not given right away to the two major vaccine manufacturers as would be expected during a crisis of such epic proportions.The policy response to criticism over the vaccine strategy has also been extremely reactive and has laid policy-makers open to even greater censure after changes were made in the initial approach. The charge of over-centralisation was met with the decision to allow states to carry out procurement of their own vaccines. This was clearly not a viable strategy, as is evident from the fact that global manufacturers like Pfizer and Moderna have rebuffed state governments, maintaining they only deal with Central governments. It is also not ideal for individual states country to compete in global bidding for vaccines.A recurring demand was also made to involve the private sector in vaccine distribution. The response has been to allow private hospitals to purchase vaccines and allow significantly higher rates for vaccinations. This is not a proposal that should have been acceded to given the fact that the Covid pandemic is a public health crisis. Offering vaccines at higher prices to those who can afford to pay is clearly creating a situation of inequity. Such inequality should not be allowed to enter the arena of public health. In the current situation of shortages, supplies will naturally gravitate to the highest bidder, hence the rich will get quicker access to vaccines than the poor. The original system of supplying vaccines through private sector medical facilities, but at a slightly enhanced rate should have remained in place. Allowing the private sector to purchase and sell vaccines is a viable plan only in the long run when vaccines are plentiful and it is useful to provide multiple options to consumers.The IMF's global plan comes as a timely reminder of the critical interdependence among nations during this unprecedented health emergency. India would do well to heed the advice to either purchase or create sufficient manufacturing capacity so that one billion doses are available this year. The policy must also be tailored to keep procurement in the hands of the Central Government and give distribution to the states. In addition, direct financial support needs to be given to domestic manufacturers so that production capacities can be raised to meet the country’s needs. The IMF’s comment that pandemic policy is economic policy needs to be kept in mind. Unless the vaccine imbroglio is resolved, economic revival will be a distant dream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vaccines-the-key-to-global-economic-recovery-259591
28-05-2021||---||Ladakh has lessons for India’s China policy||Soon after disengagement from the Pangong Tso Lake in February during which India generously surrendered its vital ground on Chushul heights for the Chinese vacating the Fingers area, it was clear even to the blind that for the PLA, it was the end of disengagement from friction areas, despite commitment to follow up within 48 hours after the 10th round of talks to address other friction areas. Fifty days lapsed before the notional 11th round was held. The PLA had drawn curtains. Editor of Global Times Hu Xijin wrote gratuitously that India should be happy with Chinese withdrawal from Pangong Tso. The PLA added it hoped India could ‘cherish the positive trend in de-escalation’ but did not acknowledge the remaining unresolved friction areas. The statement came from the Western Theatre Command, Chengdu, not the usual MoD in Beijing.State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi continued to harp on ‘rights and wrongs of last year’s crisis’ (blaming India) adding that the boundary dispute which was left over by history was not the whole story of India-China relationship, suggesting that it needed to be decoupled from bilateral relations. Wang has echoed China’s standard line: both sides are not a threat to each other but an opportunity for development; both should help not undercut each other and intensify cooperation instead of harbouring suspicion. Wang is insisting: “Now that withdrawal in Pangong Tso is over, bilateral ties can resume.”Besides squandering its trump card on the Kailash range, India’s self-inflicted injuries are couched in denial: “Not an inch of ground has been lost” (COAS General MM Naravane and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh); and “no PLA on Indian territory” (Prime Minister Narendra Modi). The Chinese could not have hoped for a more generous adversary. Their official version of casualties at Galwan was: four Chinese martyred due to action by a foreign army (not India). The altered version was necessary to avoid generating nationalistic feelings.If India wavered over the PLA intrusions, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar steered its politico-diplomatic posture with a firm and steady hand. He has consistently called for complete disengagement from all friction points — term Restoration of Status Quo Ante (RSQA) May 5 2020, not used — and made clear that peace and tranquillity in border areas is the basis of normal relations. Jaishankar’s international reiteration on this was on May 5 at a Global Dialogue in London: “It is not realistic to have good relations in other domains when there was tension on the border. I can’t have friction, coercion, intimidation and bloodshed on the border and then say, let us have a good relationship…it is not realistic.” The soured relations were overtaken by President Xi Jinping’s first message to Modi in 14 months of providing help during the catastrophic spike in Covid-19 pandemic in India which was followed by Wang’s telephone call on April 30.One year on, the lessons from Ladakh could be termed as under:The Chinese have raised the stakes: “There has been some wavering and back-pedalling in India’s China’s policy because of which practical cooperation between the two countries has been affected”, hinting that India’s active participation in Quad would harm its coveted strategic autonomy. India has to create counter-coercion strategies on land and in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). The priority must be to build credible deterrence in the eastern Indian Ocean from the Andaman and Nicobar chain of islands to Malacca Straits against the Chinese blue water navy already active in IOR. Another area of concern is the Chinese military build-up in Tibet: a new military base opposite Bhutan; an airport at Yadong opposite Nathu La and new military facilities in Chumbi valley near Sikkim. Xi’s grand plan of 2017 of building villages in another country’s territory — these have come up wholesale in Bhutan, Arunachal Pradesh and Nepal.Amish Mulmi, in his book All Roads Lead North (2021), mentions Chinese encroachment in September 2020 in Limi valley in Humla, which was confirmed by a Nepali lawmaker but denied by the government.Last month, in a minor breakthrough, Chinese and Indian policymakers engaged in a Track-II dialogue between Ananta Aspen Centre and the Chinese Reform Forum, Beijing, at New Delhi. Any false hope of restoration of status quo ante May 5 was dispelled by the Chinese interlocutors who provided no explanation for troop mobilisation and indicated no appetite for settling the boundary question which they recommended be best left to the next generation. Some glimmer of hope and dialogue was seen from the future summits of BRICS (India takes over the chair from Moscow in February), Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the Russia-India-China conclave. India can keep China out of 5-G trials and 55 apps but de-coupling on trade $86.6 billion) is unthinkable as are replacing the existing medical supply chains. China is the only country that has been able to secure itself from the pandemic and will leave India more economic ground to catch up.The ultimate insult China inflicted on India was ignited last month on Chinese social media by the Political and Legal Affairs Committee linked with the Communist Party of China. The debate mocking India’s mishandling of the pandemic compared it with its own deft management, showing in two parallel images: a rocket launch in China and a cremation ground in India with the caption ‘China lighting a fire, India lighting a fire’.According to General Naravane, the RSQ ante May 5, 2020, will take a long, long time. Jaishankar believes it could go the Sumdorong Chu way which took 10 years and laments that the “1988 consensus has broken down”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ladakh-has-lessons-for-indias-china-policy-259590
28-05-2021||The city in which I was born 92 years ago was named Bombay. It has changed its name to Mumbai to conform to the vernacular pronunciation of the name by the common man. But it is not only the name that has changed. Many are the changes the city has seen||From Bombay to Mumbai||If I was told three or even two decades ago that a Police Commissioner of my city would be in cahoots with the state’s Home Minister to allow law-breakers to prosper and thereby spread disrespect for the law of the land, I would question my interlocutor’s sanity. But the steady deterioration in morality and values in what was once a premier service makes me shudder.I joined the IPS in 1953. I spent my first 15 working years in the districts before winding my way to the metropolis. In 1968-69, when I was placed in charge of a zone in Mumbai City that stretched from Dadar to Mulund in the eastern suburbs, the phenomenon called the Shiv Sena had begun taking root in the city. Its leader Balasaheb Thackeray had channelled the frustrations of the local Maharashtrians, mostly natives of the Konkan, and escalated political violence to a scale not witnessed in the city earlier.Till the Shiv Sena replaced the communists as the ruling Congress’s main opponents in the city, the police had to contend with morchas, rallies and other political demonstrations. The police were able to deal with such opposition fairly easily. Since maintenance of order on the streets was the paramount concern of the colonial administration, the police were geared up for such tasks.This changed when Thackeray organised the Sena’s cadres on paramilitary lines, with shakha pramukhs leading bands of lumpen elements for skirmishes with the police. In 1968, the city saw the first major conflagration with Sainiks emerging from every chawl and basti taking on the might of the state. They demanded white-collar jobs for the locals and to a noticeable extent the demand was conceded and the Sena did manage to make a dent in the political landscape. It is now a major player in Maharashtra.Rapid migration of rural have-nots into urban cities following the slow demise of the joint family system and the rising assertion of the Dalits against the oppression of the caste system in village life are other major factors that have defined the change in the complexion of policing, not only in Mumbai, but also other cities and big towns in the state. As aspirations rise, the quest for upward mobility of the marginalised and the lower middle classes often manifests itself in violence.Our judicial process system is slowly grinding to a halt. Criminal trials take ages to even start hearings. The plethora of adjournments granted at the request of lawyers leads to a stage where people encourage vigilantism and shortcuts for getting justice. There is an inherent danger in resorting to instant justice. If police officers are encouraged to investigate, prosecute, try and execute the sentence, they will turn into criminals in uniform!It is important to restore post-colonial efficiency. As a young law student, I used to watch trials in Sessions Courts. Day-to-day hearings were the norm. Trials used to finish within three days, on an average, and cases were decided within a year of the commission of the offences. The expectation of being found guilty and punished was sufficient to deter those who were inclined to err. Since that fear has been obliterated, crimes have risen.The stranglehold of elected politicians on every aspect of the judicial process system has to be loosened for the system to be put back on the rails. The appointment of top police officers, the supervision of prosecutors and the selection of judges need the attention of the thinking public. The political class should not be allowed to play ducks and drakes with appointments and transfers. They have a responsibility to the people who have elected them to high office.The recent case of Mumbai’s Commissioner of Police reacting like a sour puss to his transfer from that coveted position to a nondescript job typifies the rot that has set in the country’s police force. He accused the Home Minister of summoning subordinate officers and demanding that they collect a hundred crores a month from law-breakers and deposit the monies with him! This he disclosed after he was shifted!Stories of the minister ordering transfers for cash had been doing the rounds of police circles for some time. An earlier Home Minister of the same party, the NCP had been accused of this insidious practice a decade or more ago. I had written about him in the newspapers of the time. But this time all lines have been crossed.The Union Home Ministry resorted to a subterfuge to get the allegations investigated by one of its own agencies, the NIA. But since the cause was a good one, activists did not complain. But our enthusiasm was dampened when we realised that the NIA and its political masters are going to nail only the state’s Home Minister, the BJP’s political opponent, and not the other essential partner in crime without whose connivance the scam could not have been conceived. I am referring to the puppeteer pulling the strings that made encounter specialist Waze and other police officers of the subordinate level dance to an agreed tune. Waze was the chief’s right-hand man. He had been under suspension for nearly two decades facing a murder charge. Why was he reinstated, and by whom? Can an investigative agency worth its salt exculpate one of the two main players in a crime? In this case the entire force knows who was playing what part in the drama. If they find that one of the main culprits has got off by cozying up to one group of politicians intent on spiting the other, the politician-police-criminal nexus that is clouding the security scenario will continue to function at the cost of the safety of the common man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/from-bombay-to-mumbai-259543
