29-05-2021||---||Power tussle keeps Nepal in turmoil||Even Covid-19 has not kept Nepal’s politicians under lockdown or focused on handling the second wave of the pandemic. Instead, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli remains continuously engaged in retaining power by any means.In December 2020, President Bidya Devi Bhandari, who is from the same party as Oli, simply accepted his recommendation and dissolved the Parliament’s House of Representatives even though it had more than two years of its life and the ruling party commanded a near two-thirds majority. Oli took this step because he was outflanked within the ruling Nepal Communist Party and was unwilling to share power with other powerful leaders in his party. But the Supreme Court of Nepal, in February 2021, restored the House.However, matters were compounded when in another matter soon thereafter, the Supreme Court ruled that the merger of the erstwhile UML (Unified Marxist-Leninist Communist Party of Nepal), led by Oli, and the Maoist Centre of former PM Prachanda, that had established the Nepal Communist Party (NCP), was invalid. The UML’s own numbers in the 275 member House of Representatives were now only 121, below the half-way mark of 136. Moreover, the UML is itself split with a faction led by former PMs, Madhav Kumar Nepal and Jaganath Khanal, controlling 20-plus MPs and strongly opposed to Oli. Strange as it may appear, but this judgment helped Oli stage a split in his party as the Nepal/Khanal faction are not able to muster the required 40% in both the parliamentary party and the central committee of the political party, something that was possible in the unified NCP with the inclusion of the Maoists.The main opposition in the House of Representatives is the Nepali Congress with 63 MPs followed by the Maoist Centre with 49 MPs, which has withdrawn support from PM Oli. The other group of around 32 MPs is the Janata Samajbadi Party, essentially a party of MPs from the Madhesh. They are also divided with one faction, led by Mahant Thakur and Rajendra Mahato, which is said to be “friends of India”, supporting Oli while the other led by Upendra Yadav being in the opposition. For many, the situation appears to be a case of the Rest versus Oli, backed by friends of India.Pursuant to the resurrection of the House, Oli sought a vote of confidence on May 10 but lost securing only 93 votes out of the 232 cast. As per Nepal’s Constitution, had May 10 been on a vote of no-confidence moved by the opposition with the name of an alternate leader, the reappointment of Oli as PM would not have been possible. But this not being the case and no one else laying claim, he was put back in the saddle as the leader of the largest political party. However, he expressed his inability to prove majority and the President’s office put out a notice around 7 pm on May 20, asking any MP capable of obtaining majority to make his/her claim by 5 pm on May 21.Thereafter, drama followed as Oli now claimed the support of 153 MPs based on a self-declaration as leader of the full strength of his party, UML, and that of Mahant Thakur, the Chair of the Janata Samajbadi Party. At the same time, the leader of the Nepali Congress, former PM Sher Bahadur Deuba, also laid claim after cobbling together a coalition including the Maoists, the Upendra Yadav-led faction of the Janata Samajbadi Party and around 20 MPs from the UML producing, as per reports, signatures of 149 MPs.In most parliamentary democracies, either floor tests would follow or at least some attempts to verify the loyalties of the MPs, but once again setting aside good constitutional practises, the President, at 2 am on May 22, dissolved the House of Representatives for the second time in six months. And Oli remains the PM till the General Elections, announced for mid-November 2021 but which many believe will get stretched to next year under the pretext of Covid-19. Obviously, party politics had trumped everything else. Ironically, staying interim PM, without parliamentary accountability, is what Oli had sought in December 2020.The dissolution has been challenged in the Supreme Court of Nepal with several petitions by legal luminaries, but also one signed by 146 MPs (3 less than the 149 that supported Deuba — likely to have been lured away). Even though in February 2021, the court had not allowed dissolution, there may be some ambiguities on what constitutes support in the House — of political parties or individual MPs and on applicability of party whips. Incidentally, as a political compromise, a sitting Chief Justice has once become an interim PM in Nepal to ensure a level playing field and fair elections!There is obvious interest in knowing whether the developments in Nepal would turn out to be favourable for India with pointers of Oli’s dependence on an India-friendly grouping of MPs and his amending, through an ordinance, the citizenship law to benefit children born to Indian mothers, a long-standing demand in the Terai. On the other hand, the Nepali Congress has traditional ties with India. How things turn out, only time will tell, including the outcome in the Supreme Court, but Chinese activism in Nepali politics, which had become quite visible through 2020, would have to reboot. Of course, this should not be taken to mean that the influence and ability to get things done by Nepal’s northern neighbour will not continue.For too long having been the target of finger-pointing in Nepal, India’s Foreign Ministry has viewed the happenings “as internal matters of Nepal to be dealt by them under their own domestic framework and democratic processes”. This is diplomatically correct, but India’s engagement with Nepal needs to be strengthened, given the security interests, trade links, civilisational and people ties, and in today’s time, the need for strong collaboration on Covid-19, apart from climate change, especially in the Himalayan region, and on water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/power-tussle-keeps-nepal-in-turmoil-260011
29-05-2021||---||When the Navy rose to the cyclonic challenge||The dance of death unleashed by cyclone Tauktae had hardly begun to sink in when cyclone Yaas crashed into our east coast. As we braced for the fury of Yaas, of great inspiration was the incredible rescue the Indian Navy had pulled off from the very heart of Tauktae off Mumbai. The weather and sea conditions that prevailed would make the hardiest seafarer disbelieve even a fraction of the final success achieved. Despite my 35 years in the Navy, with time on board ships, Sea King helicopters, command and control centres and various headquarters, I too find the success stupendous.For the record, the Navy rode right into the raging cyclone, rescued 188 people, retrieved 70 bodies, gave logistic support to stricken craft and provided professional advice. By sheer chance, I had a ringside view of Tauktae from a 10th-floor flat near Land’s End, Colaba, Mumbai. With howling wind and blinding rain all around, I watched big naval ships and Sea King helicopters with awe, as TV showed glimpses of their deployment. As the winds subsided and the last of our ships got back to harbour, there were accounts from the warriors of the sea in person. Warriors who had risked their lives, warriors who had led their flock literally into a storm.As Tauktae had swept up the west coast, steadily gathering strength, Indian Navy helicopters had already rescued people off Mangalore and Goa. Prudently, the Western Naval Command prepared for what was to come. They absorbed the copious information that flowed from Naval Headquarters, New Delhi, through the Navy’s Information Management and Analysis Centre (IMAC) at Gurugram. They ensured that ships, aircraft, personnel, equipment and special stores were ready and took care to see that their assets on land and in harbour remained safe.The formidable Western Fleet, the strongest force any Two Star Admiral has in this world, was to be at the core of the oncoming effort. In support were the venerable Sea King helicopters with a glorious past in amazing rescues and the powerful P8I aircraft for prolonged surveillance of large sea areas. It was providence that this strong force was available, for no one else in India could have faced what was coming. Hundreds of people working offshore were about to face mortal danger very soon.The first responder was the 8,000-tonne destroyer, INS Kochi, which sailed out of Mumbai harbour around 11.30 am on May 17. Safely getting out of the harbour itself was a near impossibility. As she let go her ropes that kept her safely tied to the jetty, four strong naval tugs struggled to handle the heavy ship in the 80 to 100 kmph winds that randomly kept changing directions. Her Captain had to choose a burst of high engine power, normally used in open waters, to break out of the confines of the naval dockyard. In the blinding rain that reduced the visibility to night-like conditions, the Captain probably would have laid faith in fervent prayer too. The long channel leading out to sea was littered with civil craft dragging their anchors and getting in the way. INS Kochi weaved through this chaos. An iconic photograph of INS Kolkata, setting out from Mumbai harbour about two hours after Kochi, captures the conditions for posterity. Little would these ships have known that this was probably the easiest thing they and those that followed them were to endure in the next 72 hours.While the exact events of the following days in the entire area must be chronicled, analysed and investigated, I must pay tribute to the sheer human spirit and some robust systems that held out in the face of extreme adversity.There was great competence of the ships. INS Kochi, which reached a sinking accommodation barge P305 in the afternoon, had to pick up hundreds of survivors from the churning waters a few hours later. This was in night-like conditions from blinding rain. Real night too closed in soon. INS Kolkata, which too reached the area, chipped in. It was madness. The ships had to work their propellers with utmost care in a sea littered with desperate humans. They would spot a group of survivors, manoeuvre their ship windward of them, and slowly drift in their direction. Getting people on board wasn’t easy. Everything was tried. Experienced marine commandos, professional divers and even non-divers jumped into the mad sea. Nets were used to virtually fish people out of the sea. Through an unreal night in which floating survivors and ships rose and fell many tens of feet and strong wind played with fates, more than a hundred came on board by morning.The first Sea King helicopter, a multirole 42B, took off from INS Shikra early morning on May 18 in dangerous operating conditions which lay beyond what the manufacturer advices. The Sea King picked up three survivors from near INS Kolkata, supplied the ships with body bags and returned to Mumbai. Two Sea Kings will ultimately go on to save 39 people.There were also other relief activities going on elsewhere. All this was managed by the 4,000-tonne Indian Navy ships — Talwar, Betwa and Teg — and Beas.Captains of ships struggle for words to express the enormity of the fortitude they saw around them. Hygienist sailors packed decomposing bodies! Medical officers and staff diligently recorded cues that could help identify bodies later, engineers and their crew who remained below decks in murderous conditions to keep the machinery going, seamen risked their life, chefs cooked in hellish conditions, quartermasters who steered the ships delicately among floating humans, and sailors and officers of every hue, who made the Navy proud with their courage and selflessness. Similarly, it was the collective effort of hundreds of professionals on ground that enabled every Sea King to take to the sky. Senior Operational Staff Officers who lived next to their office phones for four days and senior leadership who gave the most important gift to those on the field, autonomy borne of trust, completed the matrix.Everything couldn’t have been perfect. While the Navy will assiduously find lessons for future use, the country must plug the holes that exposed hundreds to unnecessary danger. Even with all that, no one can be sure of a disaster-free future. But what we can be sure of is a strong Navy that will deliver, under any circumstance, like nobody else can. Well done, Shano Varuna!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-the-navy-rose-to-the-cyclonic-challenge-260012
29-05-2021||---||Time for maximum welfare||If there is one thing that is to be learnt from the Covid crisis it is that the neoliberal idea of minimum government is a failure. The foundational principle that defines the self-image of modern societies is that they seek to maximise the welfare of their citizens. Even nations that are avowedly in favour of free-market systems support it because they say the market is the best allocator of available resources. In other words, the stated objective of all nations is to ensure that their people live in ‘achhe din’.Modi came to power by aligning himself with neo-liberal principles. If his slogan of ‘minimum government’ came tied to ‘maximum governance’ what the second part entailed was never made explicit. Over the seven years that Modi has been in power, it has become clear that he believes in private entrepreneurship over the public sector. Much of the Modi government’s policies have been aimed at privatising all sectors of the economy, providing stimuli through the financial system and monetary benefits, instead of direct government spending.The experience of Covid shows that this policy orientation needs a complete overhaul. The private sector is driven by only one motive, maximising profits and accumulating capital. And as we have seen over the past one year, corporate profits can increase even when the rest of the economy is contracting. While Indians were losing jobs or taking pay-cuts, small businesses were shutting down, India Inc was registering record profits. You cannot have a better example of market forces not working for the common good.The same is true for the health sector. Privatisation of health has not only resulted in inequalities in access to health but also caused misallocation of resources. More has been spent on air-conditioning and beautifying hospital rooms than on ensuring that there is enough oxygen supply. It is easier to get a McDonald’s burger at the food court in a big private hospital, than emergency life-saving drugs. Private health is oriented towards procedures and ailments that make more money than simple treatments that save more lives.As the private sector has grown, the government sector has withdrawn. Instead of spending on building better health facilities for the poor and incentivising doctors and health workers to work in small towns and villages, the government has chosen to spend on medical insurance. The underlying assumption is that private health will take care of the poor as long as a collective insurance system pays for it. These are neoliberal pipe dreams that haven’t worked in any country, leave alone a developing economy like ours.Independent India set up a planning commission to decide how scarce resources can be deployed to achieve maximum welfare in the short term and development over the long term. The institution became more or less defunct by the early 2000s, and the Modi government removed all pretence by changing its name. Yet, that is precisely what we require now – central planning using the latest data collection and analysis techniques. Given the spread of cellphones and Aadhaar, it is extremely easy to collect data from all parts of India and analyse it using both human and artificial intelligence.The Centre has to spend at least an additional 10 per cent of the GDP. Estimates made by the NIPFP in 2013 suggest that even if all of this is spent on subsidies, salaries and pensions, it will still boost India’s national income by almost that much. If the additional spending is split between capital and revenue expenditure, GDP will go up by 17 percent. This is absolutely essential to ensure India’s economy goes back to its pre-Covid trajectory as soon as possible.The planners need to quickly identify different categories of beneficiaries and what kind of support they need. CMIE’s latest unemployment figures for rural India suggests that the situation in May is even worse than what it was during the strict lockdown last year. The poor in our villages will need work under MGNREGA-type schemes along with access to free rations. This will ensure that they don’t have to spend their entire money on food and have some left over to buy things like cooking oil, soaps, batteries and other necessities.The urban middle class, which is in a very bad shape, needs to be supported through vouchers that can be used in any shop to buy goods. This will ensure that the money being spent by the government goes into consumption instead of being saved. This also has to be accompanied with a degree of price control on all essentials and items of daily consumption. Otherwise corporates will simply raise prices to match the higher demand unleashed through government spending. Corporate profits can be fixed for one year at a specified multiple of the repo-rate. Since government spending is derisking their investments, there is no reason for them to expect supernormal profits.Small businesses, hawkers, small retailers, need interest-free loans so that they can finance their working capital cycle. Some will require loan-waivers to ensure that they remain viable. The government has to rework the GST system, or even suspend it for a couple of years, to help revive the unorganised sector that employs an overwhelming majority of workers.All this has to be done using a real-time feedback and tracking system. It requires central planning, monitoring and allocation, but local execution. The planners and executives at the top need to constantly tap into local feedback to tailor custom-made solutions for each district, block, qasba or village. If Google and Facebook can send us tailor-made advertisements, then it is clear that new data technologies and AI can target welfare to individual household clusters.The Modi government has to work in partnership with state governments to not only track, treat and vaccinate but also it has to follow the same principles for organising a quick economic recovery. The time to do this was yesterday, but even today is not too late.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-for-maximum-welfare-260013
