30-05-2021||Two recent events have not received the attention they warrant. Both are linked. They concern issues integral to our democracy. One is the need to eradicate corruption||Why ‘sting’ operations, though controversial, are crucial||First, corruption. On May 17, four senior leaders of West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress, including two ministers, were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation. They had been caught in a 2014 ‘sting’ operation — which was only publicly revealed in 2016, prior to the Assembly poll — ‘accepting large amounts of cash to facilitate a fictitious project’. Eleven other politicians were also entrapped in the same fashion, including some who belonged to the Bharatiya Janata Party. Prominent among them was Suvendu Adhikari, who switched from the TMC to the BJP in the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls, and who also defeated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the just-concluded election.Why did it take five years for the ‘caged-parrot’ CBI (a description given by the Supreme Court) to move against the politicians, and more importantly, why have only those from the TMC been singled out and none from the BJP? The conduct of the West Bengal Governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, also needs to be questioned, and if necessary, condemned. His sanction is required before such arrests can be made. The alacrity with which he gave his sanction for the arrest of the TMC members in question, within days of the election results, contrasts tellingly with his inaction against the allegedly culpable BJP members. Governors are meant to be impartial. This one, clearly, is not.The ‘sting’ operation was conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel. The investigating authorities must have carefully studied the secret filming and taping that Samuel presented to them, and satisfied themselves before taking action. His name should ring a bell. He was one of the two men (the other was Aniruddha Bahal) behind the most famous Indian ‘sting’ operation of all — the Tehelka (meaning ‘commotion’) expose of the Ministry of Defence in 2001. Nicknamed ‘Operation West End’, painstaking research went into it, with the ‘sting’ operators knowing exactly whom to target, and how. One of them was the president of the BJP, the late Bangaru Laxman, who was secretly filmed shovelling wads of cash into his drawer, for his assistance in the purchase of non-existent defence equipment. Others included senior officials and even Generals. The Defence Minister, George Fernandes, had to resign, and the Vajpayee government tethered on the brink of collapse. Another casualty was Jaya Jaitley, a close companion of Fernandes. She tried desperately to erode the credibility of the incriminating evidence, claiming that the tapes were ‘doctored’. But she failed. Last year, she was found guilty and sentenced to jail.Meanwhile, the hugely embarrassed BJP government went after Tehelka with a vindictive vengeance. Income tax raids were followed by endless harassment. But this was not what eventually brought Tehelka down. That happened when Tarun Tejpal, its founder and editor, was accused of sexual assault by a junior colleague during a literary festival held in Goa, and helmed by Tehelka. By then, from being primarily a digital portal, Tehelka had become a successful news magazine, exposing corruption and malgovernance.‘Sting’ operations are admittedly controversial. Needless to say, governments hate them. Even the public is divided. In the Tehelka case, some of those who were targeted also asked for women to be provided, which was done. Many thought that this was ethically wrong of the journalists. However, all said and done, ‘stings’ are integral to the exposure of corruption and of malfeasance. They deserve the support of all those who want a cleaner public life. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has asked the public to secretly record demands for bribes, on their cell phones. Many newspapers carry photos of civic inefficiency taken by readers. Remedial measures are usually taken straightaway.Perhaps the most famous ‘sting’ was on best-selling author Jeffrey Archer. With a senior position in the British Conservative Party, he was a favourite to succeed Margaret Thatcher as Prime Minister. One fateful night, a Pakistan-origin doctor, Aziz Kurtha, recognised Archer as he was going to meet a prostitute. Kurtha tipped off a popular tabloid, which used the prostitute to do a ‘sting’ on Archer. When the news of Archer frequenting the prostitute made headlines, he sued the tabloid for libel, realising his political career was on the line. He got a friend to lie that he (Archer) was elsewhere when he was supposed to have met the prostitute. Archer won his case against the tabloid, and was awarded one million pounds in damages. His political career was back on track. Then later, when the same friend who had lied was dying, he had pangs of conscience. He admitted he had lied. The case was reopened and Archer was sentenced to four years in jail for perjury, his political career, though not his success as a novelist, in utter ruins. Further investigations by the British Press revealed that Archer had all along been a consummate liar and was also involved in financial irregularities. And to think, had it not been for the ‘sting’ on him, he could have been British Prime Minister.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-sting-operations-though-controversial-are-crucial-260553
30-05-2021||The Line of Control is intricately fenced with various day and night surveillance devices and sensors installed to keep a check on militants crossing over from Pakistan. Prior to 2004||Operation Birsa Munda & raw courage||On the night of September 25-26, 2001, an ambush party of 8 Bihar, comprising a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) and seven other ranks, spotted a group of 15 armed militants. The dilemma in the mind of the JCO was whether to open fire or ask for additional assistance. In case of the former, the chances were that the ambush party could get outnumbered and in the latter, they could lose the group into the thick jungles from where it would have been very difficult to reestablish contact.Not bothering about the numbers and personal safety, the JCO opened fire and so did the rest of the ambush party, and in the ensuing firefight brought down three militants and injured the guide. The rest of the militants scattered in small groups.Fortunately, we had a battalion in one of the bases which had concentrated to de-induct after completion of tenure. The troops were moved to cordon off the area and prevent escape of the infiltrators.As day broke, 8 Bihar organised three parties under an officer each from three directions to locate and eliminate the militants. One such party was led by the young Lieutenant Alexander (Alex), who had recently come back from leave after getting married. This party came under fire from a rocky outcrop atop a hill. The lead scout was injured and the militants would not permit any movement forward for extricating him. A rocket launcher was called for and a few rounds of that silenced the militants enough to extricate him. However, intermittent firing continued.I was monitoring the action on the battalion radio net and heard Alex getting all exited and informing his Commanding Officer that he would “soon sort out these…” I didn’t want this young blood to take any rash action so I got onto the air and told him to take it easy as we had the whole day available, and additional troops were being sent to tackle this group. Alex responded with “Wilco Sir”, and was not heard thereafter.I thought he had taken my advice seriously, but after an hour or so, he came on the air to announce, “Sir, I have eliminated all three of them.”Apparently, this youngster was so charged up seeing one of his men getting injured that he, along with his buddy, decided to go around the hillock from a difficult approach to get behind the militants. He crawled up to them, lobbed a grenade and the two charged at the militants and shot them. When adrenaline is flowing, one forgets one’s safety, one’s near and dear ones, that you have recently got married and there is a young bride waiting for your return home while she prays for your safety.This operation carried on till late in the evening, as the other two parties of the battalion made good progress, resulting in the elimination of 12 militants. The three who had managed to escape were eliminated by another battalion the next day. The injured guide, however, managed to escape.The operation was named after Birsa Munda, a folk hero and a tribal freedom fighter hailing from the Munda tribe. Just 25 when he died in 1900, he is known to have mobilised the tribal community against the British in the Bihar and Jharkhand belt. This is the area from where the troops of this valiant battalion come from.The operation brought out the raw courage of the men led by fearless young officers who showed their true grit, josh and paltan spirit. They, like Alex, are the backbone of the Army, leading operations under such difficult conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/operation-birsa-munda-raw-courage-260547
30-05-2021||I can clearly remember where I was on May 27||Nehru, our leader, and remembering Chani||In the decades that followed, Nehru’s memory began to fade but after his daughter Indira Gandhi became the Prime Minister, many felt as if a part of him still looked after this country. How wrong that hope was and how quickly the fair name that was the very heartbeat of India was besmirched by the dynasts that followed. Today, Nehru has become everyone’s favourite whipping boy: he was declared guilty of gifting away a chunk of India to Jinnah on the persuasion of the Mountbattens. He was responsible for the ruinous socialist policies that prevented free markets and individual enterprise to flourish. He was a Left-leaning Fabian whose political ideology was unfair to Hindus and so on. He was a trusting fool who was cheated by China’s Panchsheel talk and died a defeated man.The list of crimes he is said to have committed is long and now parroted by every two-bit political commentator. The ‘chalu’ slogan of a Congress-mukt Bharat is shorthand for a country that needs to be purged of the pluralist, welfare state that Nehru dreamt of. Yet, how can we forget that whatever survives of the tatters of that legacy is what still keeps us Indian in the true sense. He was the one who made the world sit up and take notice of a country that was struggling to come out of the coils of a long colonial rule. Those who never saw that India and those who have been brainwashed into accepting uncritically that he is responsible for all our current problems need to be reminded that all that is still worthwhile in this country is his lasting legacy.Remembering ChaniToday, I wish to remember a special friend: one who was so much a part of our family that it still hasn’t really sunk in that that joyous, generous and dependable man is gone forever. Gurcharan Singh Chani first became known to us in 1976 through his subversive street plays. In those days, full of the terror of the Emergency and censorship, he would hold these brilliant performances in locations that were under the police radar. Some of us began to follow his work and the thrill of defying the state’s repressive laws became a game that we participated in whole-heartedly. ‘Dafa 144’, ‘Bulldoze Notice’ were the two that I remember most clearly. His actors were young college students or little-known theatre artistes who went on to become known for their work later. Chani lived then in a barsati and soon became a regular presence in our lives: his love of garam phulkas smeared with ghee and his appreciation of the food in our home won him our utter love. From our Raju in the kitchen to my mum-in-law who loved him like a son, to our boys whose favourite uncle he became, Chani warmed himself into our lives and stayed there until we lost him recently to Covid.We have lost so many friends of late that each new death brings numbed disbelief, but Chani’s going has been a body blow. I keep remembering the Chandigarh of the 1970s, when it was just a raw collection of buildings and spaces. It was people like Chani and Nek Chand who brought the whiff of freshness and daring into its cultural ecosphere to make Chandigarh a throbbing, vital city. In those days, the danger of it surrendering to a ‘Woman and Home’ kind of suburbia was real. It was left to people like Champa Mangat Rai, Navjiwan Khosla, Guddo and Naveen Thakur and the nascent Panjab University that had poets like Kumar Vikal and Surjit Pattar to add their contribution to the modernising of the city. The Department of Theatre, with the redoubtable Balwant Gargi, became a site of some memorable performances and recitals. Its amphitheatre (then a new space) had magic for us that is difficult to convey in words. We were all in our twenties and full of idealism and hope. I wonder if that fervour still exists or whether Chandigarh is just a bureaucratic city that has shiny malls and restaurants like any other newbie Indian city. Do people still go to the Indian Coffee House for endless cups of coffee and dosa? Or have they taken to gymming instead?That world died a while ago and now as we lose all those friends who made Chandigarh Chandi-ghar for us are leaving too. Farewell Chani, our dearest friend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/nehru-our-leader-and-remembering-chani-260537
30-05-2021||Our country for the past decade has been caught up in politics of hate and divisiveness||The divided union of India||What better place to start than UP to study the politics at play today. It is at the heart of divisive politics and the state which had given solid majorities in the Assembly and Parliament. Yogi as the leader represents the very epitome of this polity. He is an iron-fisted man with his own vision of India who firmly believes that his word is the last word on any subject under the sun and in the furtherance of his project, he is ably assisted by his ‘yuva vahini’ and other similar organisations. The first important experiment was the anti-beef programme which targeted Muslims suspected of killing cows or carrying cows for slaughter, or transporting beef, or storing beef in their homes. Vigilante groups of political storm-troopers who had been recruited, trained and indoctrinated earlier checked vehicles on roads, stopped those with beef and dealt summary “justice”. Even in the face of proper papers, they were not spared. Their belongings were looted and they were lynched in many cases. Reporting to the police only resulted in cases against the complainants. A shroud of fear descended upon the land and travelling at night became hazardous, even for non-Muslims. A plan long in the making had started bearing fruition.The next items on the agenda were the formation of “anti-Romeo” squads and “love jihad”. The state discovered a great conspiracy hatched by the Muslim youth to entice young Hindu girls in order to forcibly convert and then marry them. Again, the squads were out to teach a lesson to these “criminals”. As this was a “serious matter”, the state stepped in to enact a law to make such acts a crime and stringent punishments were proposed. The popularity of this law soon became visible when states like MP and Gujarat also followed suit, with more waiting to do so. Again, fear engulfed the youth and they went running to the courts for help.The ruling establishment, which had come to power by propagating divisive politics, continued with this agenda and had little else to offer its electorate in terms of administration, development and fulfilling the basic needs of education, health and security, which happen to be the fundamental duties of the state. A few days ago, I was watching NDTV News 24x7 where a discussion was taking place on the Indian response to the pandemic in general and the reliability of the data being provided by the state and the Central agencies. For a change, the panel consisted of three brilliant professors — Dr Vincent Raj Kumar from Mayo Clinic, Rochester; Dr Menon from Ashoka University and one more whose name I forget. On being pointedly asked regarding the veracity of the data, Dr Vincent answered that the actual figures of the infected and dead were at least double the numbers given and went on to say that some put these at five times higher. He was fully supported by Dr Menon and in a more muted manner by the third panellist (this data has been further supplemented by articles appearing in the western media). This set the tone for the rest of the discussion, which focused on the shortage of vaccines, oxygen, etc. The fact that came out was that the entire health system was in a shambles in the face of the onslaught.The UP CM’s response to the pandemic was typical of the Indian government’s response at large i.e. a general denial of the severity of the pandemic in UP. The administration even went to the extent of threatening people with registration of cases against anyone who was seen to be maligning the image of the government. However, the numbers began to swell and the health system came under pressure — the response was to fudge the figures. However, the gap between reality and lies was too much and whatever chance of acceptance it had was blown away by the discovery of hundreds of bloated bodies in the Ganga flowing through Bihar and UP. Then hundreds of more bodies buried on the banks of the Ganga were found violated by wild animals. In all the religious practices in India, one common thread is that the dead should be sent off on their final journey with as much dignity as one’s resources permit. The deafening silence of the leadership even after the discovery of the bodies and their subsequent abuse speaks volumes.NDTV also showed some village dispensaries in the vicinity of Delhi — no doctors, no staff, no equipment, but these were being used as storage for cow dung cakes, dry fodder, etc. The camera moved from village to village but the visuals were the same. If this is the story in the vicinity of Delhi, what must it be like in the rural interior belts. For a moment, the thought came to me that maybe these dispensaries were real and the cow dung and the fodder were raw material for producing new miracle cures (a la baba Ramdev).Let us now revert to areas of major worldwide concern. Foreign organisations like the ones in America are reporting that India is falling fast in its ranking of freedom to practice religion, freedom of the press and democratic values. The Centre’s answer to this is that these agencies are biased against India and its rapid economic and military rise (I suppose they have an answer to how Bangladesh is now ranked higher on most economic parameters as well). Our country for the past decade has been caught up in politics of hate and divisiveness, which is gradually sucking the life blood out of it. Borders, both physical and virtual, have come up within the nation-state where none existed — Singhu, Tikri, ruling party states versus Opposition-ruled states. It’s a growing list of categories where the underlying theme is one of mistrust and hate. The ruling setup seeks to enforce its will on the entire dominion with an agenda whose misplaced values and ethos of a fundamental theocracy find no traction in the vast majority of this country. India is a union of states, a union whose foundation is ‘unity in diversity’. We are a federal structure, the very division of states on the basis of language was an attempt to keep this diversity secure and alive. Any imposition of a uniform way of life kills the very soul of this nation. Elections, the bedrock of our democracy, are being contested like street battles with muscle, money and foul language, with the ruling party at the Centre leading the charge by deploying its vast resources.These leaders advocating divisive politics have made us look more like the theocratic state in our neighbourhood and with whom we have fought multiple wars. A state which for the most part has been bankrupt and stricken with internal wars and unrest. A pariah state which we have long looked down upon but which for some reason our leaders seek to emulate now. Are we now going to be governed by a non-scientific approach led by myths and superstition? Our success so far has been the sound foundations laid in the plethora of scientific institutions, both educational and research, by our founding fathers — the IITs, IIMs, AIIMS, PGIs, the multiple universities both at the state and national level. The centres of research were not created overnight but by a continuous effort at nation-building, a nation which in these institutions saw the ‘temples of modern India’, a nation which sought its rightful place at the high table of democracy.The deeper question is, where will this path lead us as we enter a period of internal conflict? India has always been weakened when divided and as Abraham Lincoln said, “A house divided against itself cannot stand.” Today, we are in a deep territorial conflict with China and Pakistan, even Nepal which for the longest time has been our ally is raising disputes. China surrounds us both on land and on our coastline with ports in Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Iran. Afghanistan moves again towards Taliban rule (do remember Kandahar and Kargil the last time round the Taliban were in power. Current media reports are indicating that the Afghan army is surrendering in large numbers to the Taliban). Iran, with whom we had historic links, is estranged and so are Sri Lanka and Myanmar. The die is cast and the pieces move — will India dig deep and find the strength to fight this battle both internal and external? I, for one, believe in the resilience of the common man; he will stand up as we are witnessing in the march of rural India where rural folk have joined hands together in the peaceful farmers’ protest against the farm laws. In the words of Iqbal, ‘Kuch baat hai ki hasti mit-ti nahin hamari, sadiyon raha hai dushman daur-e-zaman hamara// Saare’.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-divided-union-of-india-260531
