31-05-2021||---||No room for absurdity||Baba Ramdev’s controversial diatribe against the allopathic doctors was simply wrong. It was also completely unnecessary, especially in these Covid times, when they continue to, with great commitment and courage, serve the people. They have been in the forefront of the effort to contain the pandemic. In this process hundreds have lost their lives. PM Modi has, on numerous occasions, recognised their enormous contribution. He has fittingly expressed the nation’s gratitude to the medical community which overwhelmingly consists of allopathic doctors and paramedical staff.A most distressing part of the current controversy is the possibility of misperceptions being generated by the 25 questions posed by Ramdev to allopathic doctors regarding the efficacy of their medical systems. There is merit in the traditional schools of medicine to promote health, but it is an undeniable fact that contemporary global health systems are based on the allopathic school of medicine. It is this system which has helped to control ancient scourges and for raising standards of health worldwide and the longevity of human populations. This does not mean that it is perfect or that it has been able to find answers to all issues of health. Indeed, there are gaps in medical knowledge in many areas, but modern doctors are the first to admit this fact. The Covid pandemic is a case in point. It is caused by a new virus and allopathic medical science is continuing to work on preventives and therapeutics. Some headway has been made in the area of preventives through the development of vaccines relatively swiftly using emergency protocols. These are yielding good results. These should not be decried to sow doubts about the vaccines in people’s minds.Modern Indian doctors have a well-earned worldwide reputation. That has led to Indian hospitals attracting thousands of patients from the subcontinent and beyond for treatment. Nothing should be done to shake the confidence of these patients, for that will make a dent in India’s soft power. There is no contradiction in this aspect of India’s soft power and that which derives from yoga. The UN General Assembly recognised in its Resolution 69/131, which designated June 21 as the International Day of Yoga, that ‘yoga provides a holistic approach to health and well-being’.Thus, ancient systems of health and modern medicine have to complement each other and not be antagonistic. Modern medicine proceeds on the basis of scientific enquiry and a rigorous examination of evidence on the basis of verifiable methods. The same principles guide all the physical and even social sciences. Naturally, as the evidence changes so do conclusions. That is how the development of knowledge occurs. This does not mean that human beings always act on the basis of proven knowledge; human nature is full of contradictions. However, progressive leaders always seek to take their people on the path of science and reason and attempt to establish institutions to help in the evolution of scientific thought. They want reason and logic rooted in science to act as guides to society. They want their people to look forward even while taking pride in their ancient accomplishments.It was India’s good fortune to have such a leader in Nehru, whose 57th death anniversary was marked on May 27. India is passing through a time when Nehru and his legacy are being almost continuously attacked. His domestic and foreign policies are not only being criticised, but also being derided. There is no doubt that Nehru erred in many specific policy areas and, in hindsight, it would have been preferable if he had made other choices, despite the constraints of the immense problems that the country faced in the first decade of Independence. Certainly, in the foreign policy area his approach to Pakistan and China should have been different at various stages of his prime ministership. Also, in the sphere of security policies Nehru should not have neglected the modernisation and expansion of the defence forces, even if that had meant devoting more scarce resources for this purpose. In the midst of these evaluations what cannot be denied is this: he was determined to make Indian society more progressive and egalitarian through the pursuit of modern science and technology and a more equitable distribution of wealth and income.One of the causes of India falling in the grip of Western colonialism was the advances made in Europe in science and technology resulting in the first Industrial Revolution. This augmented European power at a time when Indian science was stagnating. The inevitable lesson that Nehru and other progressive leaders of the freedom movement drew was the need to get India into the forefront in the areas of science in technology as part of the process of social and economic modernisation.Nehru was guided by this thought all through his political career and sought to implement it during his 17 years as PM. Unlike most de-colonised countries, India established scientific and technological institutions in some cases with foreign assistance. Some of these institutions gained international acceptance for excellence and their alumni gained international recognition. These included doctors trained in Indian medical colleges. While setting up the institutional structure for science and technology Nehru also urged Indian society to foster a scientific temperament which would enable it to advance in the modern era.It is vital today, as the digital revolution is transforming the world in hitherto unimaginable ways, to advance Nehru’s vision by making India an authentic centre for scientific and technological research. That will require singular focus, will and the commitment of far greater resources by both the government and the private sector. That also means that national energy cannot be spent on debates of the kind generated by Ramdev.One last point: Nehru was a votary of yoga and practised it for a major part of his life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/no-room-for-absurdity-260827
31-05-2021||---||Time to prioritise health on a war footing||Experts at the top, including the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Prime Minister, agree that a third wave of Covid-19 is inevitable in India, with uncertainty only on whether it will hit in three or more months. This wave could be bigger, given that the base infection rate is so high, with again, the general agreement that the present estimates are far lower than the grim reality.Now consider another certainty. Later this year, India will face its annual ABC issue. That’s the highly toxic Asian Brown Cloud, which can poison your lungs and reduce their efficiency. Amid Covid, the ABC would be downright dangerous. Forget oxygen in cylinders. You’ll be lucky if you get it in the air. This year, the government has to be forced to take action to stop this, using all methods and tools in its hands. It is that simple. The ABC simply cannot be allowed to happen. If it does, specific officials have to be held accountable.The ABC was initially noticed in 1999, leading to scientific studies and monitoring stations being set up in Nepal. In other words, governments have known about it for a long time. No surprises there.Second, understand that the ABC is not just about pollution. It has a severe impact on the melting of glaciers, a drop in sunlight penetration, a weakened monsoon, and poor agricultural yields due to all of these.Third, the ABC is almost entirely consisting of man-made sulphate aerosols (produced by burning fossil fuels), nitrate aerosols (from vehicular emissions), and black carbon (from the incomplete combustion of diesel fuel, burning biomass, and cooking with solid fuels). In simple terms, you did it.But the good news is that a man-made disaster can be alleviated somewhat by man himself. There’s proof that it can be done. Scientific studies show that the lockdown last year for just 53 days caused a decline of pollution in the Indo-Gangetic plains to the extent that they were the lowest in over two decades.Now, the measures to take.Firstly, the obvious one is that of stubble burning. It is ironical, indeed, that the first thing that the agitating farmers on the Delhi border managed to make the government promise was the removal of fines on stubble burning. This is the most immediate cause of pollution across Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi, and as research shows, contributes to lowering crop yields and further reducing water availability — already at the lowest point in the history of Punjab. There is nothing to indicate, therefore, that the farmers will stop stubble burning on their own.State governments are offering alternatives, but these will never be as cheap as the cost of a couple of matches. The government has to, therefore, get ready to use either commercial crop-spraying aircraft or the Air Force to douse fires as soon as they appear. Play those first ones on television. The rest will fall in line. No one wants a wet field that they can’t possibly cut any time in months. Will it cause a further agitation? It might. But the farmers’ agitation is already old news and public sympathy will wane further within a Covid-hit population. Make sure the message is loud and clear, and it could be a vote-winner in the 56-inch chest category.Secondly, set aside the high-end talk that one hears at climate change conventions. The most common pollutant for us is surface dust. It’s everywhere, and since governments like spending money, many bought expensive road-cleaning machines. The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, for instance, bought six of these at Rs one crore each, and rented some at about Rs 30 lakh a month. That’s heaping insult to injury. Apart from tons of construction waste distributed all over Gurugram, dust rises from acres of government land, bare as a bone, where even the mud has been dug out for use elsewhere.The simple solution is grass. Once the monsoons come, stubborn grass will begin to grow where the top soil is not entirely eroded. If not, it can be planted in an operation that will cost a tiny fraction of those road cleaners. Meanwhile, municipal corporations that pride themselves on sending out teams to cut jungli areas have to stop. Grass not just keeps down dust, it also cools the atmosphere. Big builders have to be directed to not devastate hedges and trees that they do every year in the name of ‘pruning’. Next year, someone has to get around to teaching them what pruning really means. But, for now — not a leaf to be cut, razed or chopped. District collectors need to pass that down to resident welfare organisations and local governments.A largely ignored and entirely unregulated area is the recycling and waste collection agencies which are essentially a mafia-run operation with Chinese investors involved. The government needs to bring them under it purview as a recognised sector with stringent guidelines. In the immediate term, large companies need to stop their so-called 'recycling' until an audit is done by environmentalists.Even worse is the indiscriminate construction by fly-by-night builders which has led to choking dust across cities and villages. It’s not just the building process. It's the construction waste that is dumped in green areas, in residential areas, and almost anywhere. Each of these fly-by-night firms need to pay a cess to clean up. The urban development authorities, including the departments of town and country planning that have freed up construction or more floors and increased floor-to-area ratios for dubious reasons, are at the bottom of how the best colonies have turned into chawls. Accountability means cleaning up every single bit of waste on a war footing.In the winter, there should also be no getting away from a complete lockdown on construction, with, however, cash transfer evidence to employees.In the final analysis, who will bell these various cats? It should be a group of relevant departments coordinated by the National Security Council Secretariat. Health has become a top security issue, and the sooner you realise that, the better it is for everybody. Especially, the reigning political party. Clean up your act. And then start looking at the basics again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-to-prioritise-health-on-a-war-footing-260841
31-05-2021||---||The conundrum of continuity and change||The current debate on the most significant urban renewal project of our nation since Independence — the redevelopment of the Central Vista — has, unfortunately, drifted away from substantive issues to the more emotive aspect of the process. Everyone is aghast at the visuals of a sea of dug-up earth of the once beautiful manicured lawns of the Rajpath, bordered by quaint saffron-coloured Badarpur sand, now barricaded with ‘no photography’ and other such prohibitive signage.The foremost democratic public space of national eminence — sacred to its collective memory — is now suddenly ‘out of bounds’ for the citizens of the Republic, in whose name the annual Republic Day parade is held.And that too at a time when the pandemic is raging like an inferno, engulfing lives. The inevitable question asked would be: Should the government be saving lives or building new edifices to valorise its political glory?But if once a project to spruce up a historic landscape project has commenced, it must be completed before the rains come or else the dug-up earth and trenches for services etc will get filled up with water, damaging the services laid there. If the ongoing work is merely a temporary disruption with an urgency to finish the whole operation before January 26 2022, then the commotion can be toned down.If the attempt here is to provide minor facilities, public convenience and street furniture to the huge throng of people who come there for picnics, airing and other recreational facilities, should they not have proper drinking water, toilets, benches and other minor comforts? Provided the design details are sensitive and in consonance with the heritage idiom pervading there.With time, all buildings and cities pulsating with human life need constant renewals. That the work of a modern nation, even in the 21st century, should continue from the dimly lit corridors of power of the Edwin Landseer Lutyens and Herbert Baker’s colonial edifices, is too vacuous an argument.With India’s Independence and the Partition, Punjab was truncated and lost its beloved capital city of Lahore. Temporarily, the east Punjab government on the Indian side moved to Simla, operating from large colonial buildings vacated by the British. When the Punjab Government began making plans for a new capital city, political bickering and pressures began to mount for picking up an existing old city like Ambala, Jullundur or Kapurthala as the capital, instead of spending huge money on building a new one at Chandigarh.Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, India’s then Health Minister, argued that the British had endowed India with beautiful hill resorts with majestic buildings and it was bounden upon the country to look after them. In an impassioned letter to Jawaharlal Nehru to continue Simla as the permanent new capital of the Punjab, she wrote, “What is needed are a couple of mountain road engineers, who if we hadn’t any experts here ... could be got here for a year or two from Switzerland or Italy to widen all the roads and make them wide enough for motor traffic....a railway already exists.”However, Nehru overruled all such clamour and invited the world’s foremost modernist architect, Le Corbusier, to plan Chandigarh. And, the rest is history.Regarding the Central Vista project, no one is advocating en masse destruction of architectural heritage — even if it’s colonial. It’s universally agreed that the Central Vista ensemble comprising the three-km avenue of tree-lined, green expanse with water canals is a national landscape and public space of eminence. And the entire composition of the axis between India Gate and Raisina Hill, topped by North and South blocks, and reaching the architectural crescendo with the dome of the Rashtrapati Bhavan is an immaculate magnificent conception. And no one is touching the edifices and the landscape they extend into.But should the thought of putting the edifices to a more compatible contemporary adaptive reuse like museums etc instead of housing bureaucracy and power centres, as at present, be not considered? In fact, it would send the right signals to the world as to who sits on top of the Raisina Hill symbolism — the state or culture? Extending the idea, why should the Rashtrapati Bhavan, too, be not used for some other more critical function, than merely the residence for the President?World over, even in foremost heritage structures — whether the Greek Parthenon, Louvre Museum or Parisor Le Corbusier’s Villa Savoye in France — interventions for visitor facilities are made without infringing on the core monuments in whose great shadow they exist.In the Central Vista project, the real worry is that the new Parliament building is placed too close to the existing historic edifice, which would be very challenging even for the best talents of the world to do justice to. The proposed design of a chamfered triangular form appears to be rather a tentative hybrid, a concoction of modernity laced with Lutyens and Baker’s colonial idiom along with interiors of slick, commercial 21st century amenities. In the limited details available, one can even spot a spire on top of one of the numerous blocks inside. A finial at the top of a spire emerging from a truncated triangular form is not an organic detail but an artificial ornamentation.The new Central Secretariat will be in the form of 10 uniform cuboid blocks, with courtyards flanking the Central Vista Avenue both on the north and south sides, behind the tree line. It has been assured by the developers that no new building will ‘puncture the existing skyline and won’t go beyond eight floors or be higher than India Gate’. Their architectural expression will be in continuity with Lutyens’ sandstone facades to be similarly clad in Agra and Dholpur stone — though, inside, the use of steel and glass will be fully exploited.While there is no argument against providing closely knit state-of-the-art Secretariat buildings, one can see an overzealous emphasis to create a rigid symmetry of ‘hollow cuboid’ buildings lined up in rows on both sides of the avenue. The obsession with maintaining bilateral symmetry of Renaissance times, that needs to gobble up even historic buildings like the Annexe of the National Archives and the post-Independence constructed Vigyan Bhavan with its hallmark ‘chaitya arch’, is unfathomable. The whole point about modernism is that it is resilient enough to incorporate diverse elements with more flexible interpretations — what Le Corbusier famously called striking an ‘occult balance’.A sustained focus and debate on the larger issues of rewriting our national architectural history is most critical. Let it not be lost in din of rhetoric and emotive dramatisation of ground realities and processes. History is neither made nor unmade by noise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-conundrum-of-continuity-and-change-260858
