13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. rolls out Rs. 1.19 lakh crore stimulus||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a fresh set of relief and stimulus measures for the economy worth Rs. 1.19 lakh crore, including a scheme to boost re-employment chances of formal sector employees who lost their jobs amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The measures, announced a day after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said the country had entered into a technical recession in the first half of 2020-21, include a Rs. 65,000-crore additional outlay for providing fertilizer subsidies to farmers. Ms. Sitharaman said the economy’s rebound as per recent indicators was not just driven by pent-up demand but reflected strong economic growth. “The RBI’s latest monthly report predicts a strong return to proper growth for the economy, and there could be strong growth in the third quarter itself that could bring us to positive terrain. The expectation earlier was that growth would be seen in fourth quarter, but the RBI feels it could happen as early as Q3,” the Minister said, adding that even ratings agency Moody’s Investor Service had revised its GDP projections for India upwards. “Even these assessments by agencies indicate that a correction is happening in the positive direction,” she said, before unveiling 12 measures that she said may be referred to as Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan 3.0. The measures included the production-linked incentive scheme for 10 sectors with a proposed expenditure of Rs. 1.46 lakh crore over five years, announced on Wednesday. The other measures add up to a proposed outgo of Rs. 1,19,100 crore. Experts pegged the fiscal cost of Thursday’s announcement at about 1.2% of the GDP, if the PLI scheme was included. However, the Minister said, “If you take all the packages announced so far, and the RBI measures announced so far, a total of Rs. 29,87,641 crore has been given so far as stimulus. A total of 15% of GDP. Just the Central government on its own has provided 9% of GDP as stimulus.” Ms. Sitharaman allocated Rs. 900 crore for research and development towards the COVID-19 vaccine, and said the government was ready to provide for the actual cost of the vaccine and the logistics for its distribution. “Whatever is required for that (the vaccine cost and distribution logistics), as and when it is required, will be provided.” MGNREGA boost To spur rural employment, an additional Rs. 10,000 crore has been provided for spending through the MGNREGS and PM’s rural roads scheme. Effectively, this takes the total allocations for MGNREGA in the year close to Rs. 1.1 lakh crore, with Ms. Sitharaman stating that Rs. 73,504 crore had already been spent to generate 251 crore person days of employment. To boost formal sector employment, a new Atmanirbhar Rozgar Yojana has been launched, under which the government will bear the entire Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contributions for two years of all new employees hired between October 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021, in firms with fewer than 1,000 employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-rolls-out-rs-119-lakh-crore-stimulus/article33088805.ece
13 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||State government urged to take action against sugar factories that have not announced Centre’s Fair Remunerative Price||Criticising those sugar factories in the State that have not declared Fair Remunerative Price (FRP) fixed by the Union government for the knowledge of sugarcane growers, the former Aland MLA B.R. Patil has urged the State government to book cases against such non-compliant factories. “The harvest of sugarcane has already begun and the produce is being accepted by factories. The Union government has, on October 13, 2020 fixed different ex-gate FRP for all the 62 sugar mills in the State. It is the responsibility of each one of the factories to notify farmers concerned. However, many factories have not informed farmers at what rate they would pay for the produce. The factories are already accepting the produce keeping farmers in the dark by not declaring the price,” Mr. Patil said. He was addressing a media conference in Kalaburagi on Thursday. Citing the instance of a sugar mill run by NSL Sugars Ltd. in Aland, Mr. Patil said that the Union government had fixed a Fair Remunerative Price of Rs. 2,756 a tonne and the factory authorities have not announced the price but have begun procuring sugarcane. Mr. Patil also took serious exception to what he called irrational harvest and transportation costs being charged from farmers and demanded that the Deputy Commissioner convene a meeting to fix rational and scientific fees. “NSL Sugar Factory in Aland is charging Rs. 850 for harvesting and transporting each tonne of sugarcane from farmers field to the factory. It is irrational as the fees are the same for those fields close to the factory and those far away. The factory is also harvesting and transporting crops from fields in Telangana that are as far away as 250 km away. The higher transportation costs incurred in such cases are recovered from local farmers. It is unacceptable,” Mr. Patil said. State Advisory Price Expressing dissatisfaction over the Union government’s FRP, Mr. Patil criticised the State government for not constituting a committee for fixing State Advisory Price (SAP) higher than FRP. “If the FRP fixed by the Union government is not satisfactory, the State government has the authority to fix SAP and ask the sugar mills to comply with it. The situation is so pathetic that the SAP committee, which is presided over by the Sugar Minister, has not been constituted in the last three years. I urge Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to constitute the committee at the earliest and fix SAP as FRP is not satisfactory,” he said. Court order Pointing to the non-compliance in the payment of FRP by sugar factories last year and the subsequent interim order by the High Court of Karnataka for immediate relief payment of Rs. 100 for each tonne of sugarcane procured from farmers, Mr. Patil said that even the High Court order has not been followed. “NSL Sugar Factory in Aland and another factory in Yadgir have not paid farmers as per FRP last year. When farmers moved the High Court, the latter passed an interim order asking the factories to pay farmers Rs. 100 a tonne of sugarcane procured as immediate relief. Even that order has not been complied with. We will wait for another 15 days and, if the payment is not made, then, we will file a contempt petition,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-government-urged-to-take-action-against-sugar-factories-that-have-not-announced-centres-fair-remunerative-price/article33088932.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Classes for final year degree students to resume in Udupi on November 17||Classes for final year degree students will resume in Udupi district on November 17 by following the guidelines issued by the government in view of COVID-19, according to Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha. Speaking at a meeting to discuss re-opening of colleges in Udupi on Thursday, he said that students who want to attend physical classes will have to produce a signed consent letter in the prescribed format from their parents. Online classes will continue for such students who are not able to attend physical classes. The Deputy Commissioner said that students, staff and teachers who will attend colleges will have to compulsorily obtain COVID-19 negative report by getting a sample test done three days in advance. Teachers will have to wear masks and face shields while they are in colleges. All classrooms will have to be sanitised. No cultural, NCC and NSS activities should be organised. Colleges should make arrangements for thermal scanning and provide sanitisers at entry and exit points. If required, colleges should make arrangements for additional classrooms for teaching. It is to maintain social distancing. Cleanliness in wash rooms should be maintained, he said. Mr. Jagadeesha said that each college should set up a task force to control the spread of COVID-19. The task force should create awareness among students on the precautions to be taken to control the spread of COVID-19. Banners and posters to create awareness should be displayed. A district level task force of the district administration will visit each college and inspect whether the college has taken enough precautionary measures. If there are lapses, action will be taken against the concerned. The Deputy Commissioner said that if there are not enough buses for students to attend classes, the district administration will make arrangements to introduce buses on such routes. Colleges should inform about the need for buses by citing routes. He directed the District Health and Family Welfare Officer to supply first aid kits to the colleges. The Deputy Commissioner asked students not to share their material with others in colleges. Students should bring food and drinking water from home. If any student is found having COVID-19 symptoms, such student should visit the nearest health centre of the government for a health check. The colleges should make arrangements for this purpose, he said. Chief Executive Officer of the Udupi Zilla Panchayat Y. Naveen Bhat and District Health Officer Sudhirchandra Sooda were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/classes-for-final-year-degree-students-to-resume-in-udupi-on-november-17/article33089494.ece
13 November 2020||Kolkata,||New genus of tree frog discovered, found in Andamans, Northeast India||Scientists and researchers from the University of Delhi and the Zoological Survey of India have discovered a genus of tree frog found in the Andaman islands and the northeast. Named after Sri Lankan taxonomist Rohan Pethiyagoda, the frogs of the new genus Rohanixalus are characterised by a rather small and slender body (size about 2 to 3 cm long), a pair of contrastingly coloured lateral lines on either side of the body, minute brown speckles scattered throughout the upper body surfaces, and light green coloured eggs laid in arboreal bubble-nests. Based on DNA studies, the new genus is also revealed to be a distinct evolutionary lineage from all previously known tree frog genera. “The scientists studied multiple aspects, such as the external morphology of adults and tadpoles, phylogeny, calls and breeding biology of several tree frog species widely distributed across South, Southeast and East Asia and confirmed that they represent a new genus,” said S.D. Biju of the University of Delhi, who led the study. Prof. Biju is India’s leading amphibian taxonomist and has discovered several species, genera and families of amphibians. Published details The details of the discovery were published in paper titled ‘New insights on the systematics and reproductive behaviour in tree frogs of the genus Feihyla, with description of a new related genus from Asia [Anura, Rhacophoridae]’ in the current issue of Zootaxa , a scientific peer reviewed journal for animal taxonomists. Scientists from Indonesia, Thailand and China have also contributed to the study. Prof. Biju said the Rohanixalus is the 20th recognised genus of the family Rhacophoridae that comprises 422 known Old World tree frog species found in Asia and Africa. He said there are eight frog species in this genus Rohanixalus, which are known to inhabit forested as well as human-dominated landscapes right from the northeast, the Andaman islands, Myanmar, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia, up to southern China. Interesting aspect Another interesting aspect is that the first member of the tree frog family, Rohanixalus vittatus (Striped Bubble-nest frog), is reported from the Andaman islands. Researchers said though the amphibian fauna of the Andamans has been frequently surveyed in the recent years, this family was so far not reported, despite being commonly found in wayside areas of north and middle Andaman Islands. “Our discovery of a treefrog member from Andaman Islands is unexpected and again highlights the importance of dedicated faunal surveys and explorations for proper documentation of biodiversity in a mega diverse country like India. This finding also uncovers an interesting new distribution pattern of tree frogs that provides evidence for faunal exchange between Andamans and the Indo-Burma region,” Prof. Biju said. Maternal parental care The genus has several unique behavioural traits including maternal egg attendance where the female (mother) attends the egg clutches until hatching and assists in release of the tadpoles into the water. During the first three days after egg laying, the female sits over the eggs and produces a gelatinous secretion with which she glazes the egg mass through clock-wise movement of her legs. This behaviour provides necessary moisture to the eggs laid on exposed leaf surfaces and protects them from insect predation. Researchers during the field studies found a large number of egg clutches (over 50) of different developmental stages on a single leaf or plant. Multiple females usually attend such clutches in a behaviour termed as ‘community’ egg attendance. Frogs of the new genus along with the unique nesting behaviour also reported to display territorial behaviour and frequent male-male combats involving pushing, kicking and dislodging to successfully mate with a female.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-genus-of-tree-frog-discovered-found-in-andamans-northeast-india/article33088974.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||Council polls: MVA faces its first real test||Biennial elections to three graduates’ and two teachers’ constituency of Maharashtra Council on December 1 will be the first real electoral test of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government against the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Election Commission had announced the polls to the five Council seats, which became vacant on July 19, in the first week of November. The last date for filing of nominations was November 12, while the last date of withdrawal of applications is November 17. Of the five, two MLCs from the teachers’ constituencies were Independents — Shrikant Deshpande (Amaravati), and Dattratray Sawant (Pune). Of the three MLCs from graduates’ constituencies, two were from BJP — Chandrakant Patil (Pune) and Anil Sole (Nagpur) — while Satish Chavan (Aurangabad) was from the NCP. Elections could not be held earlier due to the lockdown in place following outbreak of COVID-19. The BJP has named candidates for four seats. It has fielded Shirish Boralkar, Sangram Deshmukh and Sandip Joshi on the Aurangabad, Pune and Nagpur graduates’ constituencies, and Nitin Dhande from Amaravati teachers’ constituency. The MVA has named Abhijit Wanjari of Congress from Nagpur graduates’ seat and Jayant Asgaonkar, also of Congress, from Pune teachers’ constituency. Satish Chavan and Arun Lad, of NCP have been fielded from Aurangabad and Pune graduates’ constituencies respectively. The MVA has extended support to Shrikant Deshpande from Amaravti teachers’ constituency. “We are going to win this election. I am sure that MVA will come out stronger,” said NCP State president Jayant Patil.  The government has submitted a list of 12 names to be approved by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for appointment to the Council. The names, recommended by the Cabinet, were forwarded last week and Mr. Koshyari is yet to clear them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/council-polls-mva-faces-its-first-real-test/article33089511.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to borrow Rs. 7,438 crore for Bengaluru suburban railway project||The State Cabinet on Thursday gave administrative approval to borrow Rs. 7,438 crore for the Bengaluru suburban railway project, which is being implemented jointly by the Centre and the State. The funds will be borrowed by a special purpose vehicle — Rail Infrastructure Development Company (Karnataka) Limited (K–RIDE) — that has been constituted to implement the project, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told presspersons after the meeting. The State and the Centre will contribute Rs. 2,479 crore each, while Rs. 7,438 crore will be borrowed. The suburban project will connect four corridors – Bengaluru to Devanahalli (41.4 km and 15 stations), Baiyappanahalli to Chikkabanavara (25.01 km and 14 stations), Kengeri to Whitefield (35.52 km and 14 stations), and Heelalige to Rajanakunte (46.24 km and 19 stations) — with a total length of 148.17 kms. The estimated cost of the project by the time of the completion would be Rs. 18,621 crore. In the October, the Union Cabinet gave approval for the project. The Cabinet also approved the execution of the women’s safety system in buses under the Nirbhaya funds, which will include a bus-surveillance system, the Minister said. The Union Ministry of Women and Child Development had approved an action plan of Rs. 56.07 crore to implement nine projects under the Nirbhaya scheme for installing CCTV cameras on 5,000 BMTC buses, a mobile application to approve functionalities on women safety, among other projects. It approved the development of Church Street under the TenderSure project at a cost of Rs. 18.72 crore. The Cabinet also decided to hand over the management of 12 high-traffic density corridors in Bengaluru from Karnataka Road Development Corporation Limited to the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-to-borrow-rs-7438-crore-for-bengaluru-suburban-railway-project/article33089060.ece
13 November 2020||Hassan,||Man who made a fortune by conning people arrested||The Chikkamagaluru police have arrested a resident of Bengaluru who allegedly earned crores of rupees by cheating unemployed youths across the State.  Fake letters P. Prabhakar, 34, of Nagarabavi in Bengaluru, identified himself as “chief personal secretary” at the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB). He allegedly gave fake appointment letters to many people in the name of ISRO, postal department, CESC, VTU, and other government agencies, for money. Akshay M. Hakay, Superintendent of Police, in a press conference in Chikkamagaluru on Thursday, said that Prabhakar was arrested recently during the investigation into a case filed by one Umesh C., a resident of Chikkamagaluru. The complainant had alleged that Prabhakar had taken Rs. 7 lakh from him after assuring him a post of computer operator in KSEEB. The accused had sent him an appointment letter as well. Umesh realised that he had been cheated when he visited the board with the appointment letter on October 22. The police took Prabhakar into custody while he was returning to Bengaluru after a visit to Chikkamagaluru recently. During interrogation, the police said that he admitted to have cheated many people across the State. He also possessed a fake identity card showing him as a KSEEB employee.  Gaining confidence The accused used to promise jobs and take advance money from gullible youths. After a few days, he would send them fake appointment letters and take the remaining amount from them. The police said he would tell the youths that they would get duty joining letters later and till then they would get stipend. In order to make them believe him, he would send Rs. 15,000 or Rs. 20,000, depending on the job, for a couple of months. The accused allegedly cheated 48 youths in Chamarajanagar, Kollegal, Mysuru, Mandya, Bengaluru, and other places. He earned crores of rupees through such deals, the police said. Recently, he entered into agreement to purchase a house worth Rs. 2.43 crore and paid Rs. 15.25 lakh as advance. He possessed a car worth Rs. 15 lakh and gold jewellery worth Rs. 40 lakh. Interestingly, he would visit temples across the country regularly and spend a part of his earnings on pilgrimage. He would also visit Tirupati once a week and offer money to the hundi generously. The police also recovered Rs. 15.25 lakh that he had paid as advance for purchasing the house, gold jewellery worth Rs. 35 lakh, a four-wheeler, documents of about 48 candidates, and letterheads of various organisations, the Superintendent of Police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-who-made-a-fortune-by-conning-people-arrested/article33089061.ece
13 November 2020||KADAPA,||Every drop counts for parched Kadapa||Even as Rayalaseema has been facing perennial drought situation, Kadapa district, at the heartland of the parched region, has shown the way to recharge the depleting groundwater and conserve the scarce resource. The efforts put by the administration in this direction has not only yielded good results but also has made the district bag the first rank in the south zone in the second ‘National Water Awards’ announced by the Union Jal Shakti Ministry’s Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation for 2019. A citation presented by Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat mentioned the commendable efforts in the area of water conservation and management. District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran received the citation on behalf of the district administration. State Rural Development Commissioner Girija Shankar and Union Jal Shakti Abhiyan’s nodal officer Suresh Kumar appreciated Mr. Hari Kiran for the accomplishment. The Collector attributed the success to the District Water Management Agency and Ground Water Department. The district recorded deficit rainfall in the last seven years, which had a cascading effect on the crop acreage in the coming kharif season. In a bid to protect their standing crops, farmers had to sink more borewells. Notwithstanding the mushrooming of some 5,000 to 8,000 new borewells per annum, around 25% of the existing ones turn dry. Statistics suggest that the groundwater level had dipped from 9.15 metre to 19.33 metre between October 2001 and November 2019. Similarly, the water table had witnessed a steady decline in the seven of the last eleven years between 2009-10 and 2019-20. To tide over the situation, the district administration roped in geologists and water conservation experts to build water storage structures and got tank beds desilted. The district ensured recharge of 3.57 tmcft of water this year. Around 31,994 acres was brought under cultivation as 12,797 borewells were recharged. Apart from this, 45.961 tmcft of water has been stored in major projects such as Telugu Ganga, Galeru Nagari and KC Canal, which helped recharge 65,888 borewells, benefiting crops in 1.64 lakh acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/every-drop-counts-for-parched-kadapa/article33088798.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. gets leeway on ICU beds for COVID patients||The Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed the city government to reserve 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals in view of the situation in the Capital where “cases are spiralling daily”. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad vacated a single judge’s interim order staying the AAP government decision. The High Court took note of the submission made by Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain that the data collated by the Delhi government show that the occupancy strength of even 20% ICU beds segregated for non-COVID-19 patients is only to the extent of 75%. ‘Misplaced anxiety’ Mr. Jain argued that the anxiety of the Association of Healthcare Providers (AHP), which had first approached the High Court against the reservation order, was “completely misplaced”. He stated that the COVID-19 situation in Delhi has became critical in recent days though it may not have been as bad when the single-judge Bench passed stay the order in September. He reminded the court about fresh infections touching a daily high in Delhi of 8,573 on Wednesday. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the AHP, submitted that out of 1,742 ICU beds actually available, the 33 private hospitals have on their own dedicated 1,238 ICU beds for COVID-19 patients. The High Court, however, said that the situation in Delhi is “fairly dynamic as regards spread of COVID-19 infection and hospitalisation of patients critically suffering from COVID-19 infection”.   It justified vacating the single-judge Bench order on account of the fact that “there has been a sea change in the ground reality” as when the earlier order was issued, the number of daily COVID-19 cases in Delhi was hovering around the 3,000-4,000 mark. “The said figure has more than doubled as on date and it was expected of Delhi government to have kept abreast of the situation and monitor the same closely,” the court said. The High Court also said that the 33 nodal officers, appointed by the Delhi government to co-ordinate with each of the 33 hospitals, ought to have been empowered to relax the norm of 80% blocking of ICU beds in the case of each hospital so as to deal with any situation pertaining to a non-COVID patient needing an ICU bed. “There should have been some play in the joints left to the discretion of the hospitals in consultation with the Nodal Officers... We have expressed this view in the light of the fact that at the end of the day, no person suffering from a health emergency should be made to run from pillar to post if there is an ICU bed available in a particular hospital,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-gets-hc-leeway-on-icu-beds/article33089114.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Artists told to vacate govt. houses by Dec. 31||Eminent artists who were allotted government accommodation in Delhi over the past four decades have been asked to vacate the houses by December 31, but the “damage charges” that they had racked up for overstaying have been waived by the Cabinet Committee on Accommodation, according to officials. A total of 27 artists, including painter Jatin Das, Kathak dancer Pandit Birju Maharaj and Santoor player Pt. Bhajan Sopori, had accumulated Rs. 32.09 crore in damage charges from 2014, when their allotment period had ended, till September 30 this year, according to government sources. Out of those, six artists or their family members after their death have vacated the houses since then, with the latest being Kuchipudi dancer Raja Reddy, who vacated his Kaka Nagar residence in August this year.  Licence fee charged At a meeting on November 8, the CCA decided to regularise the allotments that had ceased to have its approval in 2014, government officials said. With that decision, the damage charges that had accumulated would no longer be charged. However, the licence fee that would amount to around Rs. 2 crore would still be collected. Speaking about the decision taken on the Culture Ministry’s proposal, Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said the artists would be asked to vacate by December 31 or pay market rent. The licence fee charged by the Directorate of Estates is far lower than the market rate. Mr. Patel said the criteria for selection would be revisited once the houses are vacated. Under the artists’ quota for the General Pool Residential Accommodation, houses are allotted on the recommendation of the Union Culture Ministry to a maximum of 40 artists. According to the guidelines, artists must be between 40 and 60 years of age and earn up to Rs. 20,000 a month. Among those allotted houses are Mr. Das, who has been staying at the Asian Games Village residence allotted to him since 1988, and Pt. Birju Maharaj, who was allotted a house on Shahjahan Road in 1978.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/damages-waived-artists-told-to-vacate-govt-houses-by-dec-31/article33089115.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Private medical, dental college fees hiked||At a time when people are reeling under the economic impact of the pandemic, the State government on Thursday decided to increase the fees in private medical and dental colleges for the 2020-21 academic year. While the fees in government quota seats in private colleges has been raised by 15%, those for institutional quota seats has been increased by 25% compared to the previous year. There has, however, been no change in the fees in government medical and dental colleges. With this, the fees in private medical colleges this academic year is Rs. 1,28,746 and Rs. 9,81,956 for government quota and institutional quota seats respectively. Meanwhile, the fee in private dental colleges stands at Rs. 83,356 and Rs. 6,66,023 in government quota and institutional quota seats respectively. The hike comes at a time when many have lost their jobs or taken pay cuts because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Colleges and schools had been told not to increase the fees due the financial hardship that a large section of people are facing this year. Sources in the medical education department said private college managements had demanded a hike of 30% and 40% in government and institutional quota seats respectively, but the government had not agreed to such a steep increase. “Our fee structure is much lower compared to colleges in neighbouring States. We had to agree for the hike as the faculty of these colleges have to be paid salaries on a par with the 7th Pay Commission,” a source said. Many student organisations have opposed the move and have urged the government to roll back the increase, failing which they would go on a State-wide agitation. Amaresh Kadagada, State President, Students Federation of India, said the government’s decision was unacceptable. “People are not able to pay school fees for their children. By increasing fees, the government is denying students from lower income groups and middle class families access to medical and dental education,,” he said adding that the dreams of many students will be shattered with this decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-medical-dental-college-fees-hiked/article33089351.ece
13 November 2020||Pune,||7,809 more recoveries, 4,496 new cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported 7,809 recoveries on Thursday against a surge of 4,496 new COVID-19 cases. The recoveries have risen to 16,05,064, with the State’s recovery rate rising to 92.44%. The total case tally now stands at 17,36,329. The number of active cases has now come down to 84,627. With 122 deaths, the total death toll has climbed to 45,682. “Of a total of 96,64,275 laboratory samples tested thus far, 17,36,329 (case positivity rate of 17.97%) have returned positive, with nearly 64,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stood at 2.63%. Pune district reported 584 cases to take its total case tally to 3,40,607, while 15 deaths saw its total death toll climb to 7,117. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s active cases have come down to 9,643, while its recovery rate stands at 94.64%. 858 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city reported 858 cases to take its total case tally to 2,67,606, of which 15,117 are active. Nineteen fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,525. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 254 cases as its total case tally crossed the 83,000 mark. With five more deaths, the total death toll now stands at 2,055. The Vasai-Virar civic body registered a sharp fatality spike of 21 deaths as its total death toll surged to 616. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 279 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,07,955, of which just 2,985 are currently active. With 17 deaths, the total toll has risen to 2,866. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported seven deaths, taking its cumulative death toll to 1,529. As many as 178 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 49,850, of which 3,912 are active. Neighbouring Sangli, however, reported 62 cases and three deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 47,737, of which 1,313 are active. Its death toll has risen to 1,693. Kolhapur, too, recorded a mere 32 cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 47,734. Its active case tally has now dipped below 250 cases. The total death toll has remained constant at 1,660. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 289 cases as its total case tally reached 99,368, of which only 2,011 are active. With three more deaths, the district’s total death toll has now reached 1,627. Neighbouring Jalgaon continued to report low case surges, recording just 42 new cases and not a single death as its total case tally reached 54,100, of which 919 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,367.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7809-more-recoveries-4496-new-cases-in-maharashtra/article33089513.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR discusses GHMC polls with TRS leaders||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday held a six-hour long meeting with general secretaries of TRS and Ministers from city which was also attended by Majlis-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi to discuss the upcoming GHMC polls. Mr. Rao has convened a Cabinet meeting on Friday, apparently again to discuss GHMC elections and the possibility of announcing bonus to fine variety of paddy which the farmers cultivated in a big way in the kharif. Thursday’s meeting assumed significance in the background of the State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi’s consultations with representatives of political parties on GHMC elections. Sources said Mr. Rao advised the TRS leaders and Ministers not to worry about the verdict of by-election to Dubbak Assembly election which went BJP way as its candidate enjoyed sympathy having lost in the past. There was no need for panic over BJP factor because the government enjoyed public support. The Cabinet meeting is likely to discuss bonus for fine variety of paddy and crop loss on account of rains. A decision on High Court’s directive asking government not to accept fresh applications for regularisation of land transactions made on plain paper will be also taken up at the meeting, they added. It was said the GHMC polls were likely in the first week of December following issue of notification immediately after Deepavali. The TRS was also keen on elections in the first week of December to avoid sinking of defeat at Dubbak deep in the public . Sources also said Mr. Rao asked the leaders to work hard in GHMC polls. The party will entrust responsibility to leaders division-wise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-discusses-ghmc-polls-with-trs-leaders/article33089442.ece
13 November 2020||Patna,||The mandate is in our favour, says Tejashwi||After being elected leader of Bihar’s Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance), Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav asked the Election Commission on Thursday to release videos and other documentary evidence on counting of postal ballots in 20 seats where the alliance candidates lost by a wafer-thin margin. Eleven seats were decided by a margin of fewer than 1,000 votes — five won by the NDA, four by the Grand Alliance and one each by an Independent and the Lok Janshakti Party. In three seats, the margin was fewer than 200 — Barbigha where the Congress lost by 113 votes to the JD(U), Hilsa where the RJD lost by 12 votes to the JD(U) and Ramgarh where the RJD defeated the BSP by 189 votes. Postal ballot “We lost nearly 20 seats where there were irregularities in counting postal ballots and our candidates’ queries were not heard by the Election Commission… that way, we have won 130 seats and the mandate was in our favour. But the results were declared in favour of the NDA,” Mr. Yadav told presspersons in Patna. “In 2015 too, the mandate was in favour of the Grand Alliance, but the BJP grabbed power through the back door,” he said.  Mr. Yadav, waving a copy of the EC guidelines, asked why postal ballots were not counted in the beginning as the guidelines said. “In many seats, postal ballots were invalidated... I demand that the ballots declared invalid be produced,” he said. “We are once again sending our demand to the EC today.” “The NDA achieved victory through dhan, bal aur chhal [money, muscle power and deceit],” Mr. Yadav alleged. “It got only 12,270 votes more than what the Grand Alliance did and that turned into 15 seats for the NDA?” The RJD leader took a jibe at the JD(U) winning only 43 seats. “Nitish Kumar’s party has been relegated to the third position... if he has any conscience left, he must give up the CM’s chair.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-mandate-is-in-our-favour-says-tejashwi/article33088790.ece
13 November 2020||TIRUPATI,||‘Will repeat Dubbak success in Tirupati bypoll’||The BJP, which is upbeat following its election victories in Bihar and in the by-election to the Dubbaka Assembly seat in Telangana, hopes to continue its winning streak in the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha seat, the by-election to which is round the corner. Beginning with the temple city, the BJP leadership is optimistic of making inroads into Andhra Pradesh by riding high on the “Modi wave” and propagating the schemes sanctioned to the State by the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. ‘Litmus test’ BJP co-in-charge of Andhra Pradesh Sunil Deodhar has already termed the ensuing election as a litmus test for the party’s expansion in the State. Addressing the constituency-level meeting here on Thursday, Mr. Deodhar appealed to the ‘karyakartas’ (workers) to “reach out not only to every household but also to every voter’s heart.” Lauding BJP Telangana president Bandi Sanjay for steering the party to victory in the Dubbaka election, he expressed the hope that his A.P. counterpart Somu Veerraju would replicate the same in Tirupati LS. Mr. Deodhar said the BJP and its alliance partner the Jana Sena Part would contest the election. Stressing on the need to maintain a safe distance from the ruling YSRCP and the Opposition TDP, Mr. Deodhar minced no words while calling both the parties as “casteist and corrupt, apart from promoting hereditary politics.” “It is now the turn of Andhra Pradesh, where we have family enterprises such as the TDP and the YSRCP. Any party that perpetuates family rule will not have people’s welfare in mind,” he observed. Mr. Veerraju, senior leaders Vishnuvardhan Reddy, B. Chandra Reddy, and spokespersons G. Bhanuprakash Reddy and Samanchi Srinivas, OBC Morcha leader J. Madhusudhan , and Dalit Morcha leader S. Muni Subramanyam took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-hopes-to-repeat-dubbaka-success-in-tirupati-by-election/article33088796.ece
13 November 2020||Kolkata,||Anti-electrocution cells to prevent elephant deaths||The West Bengal Forest department has decided to set up anti-electrocution cells that will identify sagging high-tension electrical lines and monitor illegal electric fences to prevent deaths of elephants in the north districts. The development comes after the Calcutta High Court took suo motu cognizance of increasing unnatural deaths of wildlife particularly elephants and passed certain directions. According to the figures available in the past five years, 25 elephants died due to electrocution with nine being recorded in this year alone. In a meeting earlier this month attended by both the Forest and the Power departments, several other decisions like identification of corridors used by elephants and rewards for individuals for reporting sagged lines were taken. “Tea garden managements may not be encouraging the illegal electric fences but the labour colony has individual electric connections and they are setting them up to prevent ingress of elephants into their colony leading to accidents,” a note from the minutes of the meeting of the two departments read. North Bengal is home to nearly 490 elephants but the forests are lined with three gardens with human habitation and are fragmented. Most of the incidents of electrocution have been reported in Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts. According to the data tabled in Parliament earlier this year, West Bengal, Odisha and Assam account for half of both human and elephant deaths in the overall human-elephant conflicts. Among the reasons for the unnatural deaths of elephants, electrocution is at the top of the list accounting for almost 67% deaths in the country. Assam accounted for 66 electrocution deaths, followed by Odisha (57) and Bengal (39).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anti-electrocution-cells-to-prevent-elephant-deaths/article33088971.ece
13 November 2020||FARIDABAD,||Judge orders day-to-day hearing in Nikita case||Faridabad Sessions Judge Deepak Gupta has directed for day-to-day hearing by the special court for heinous crime against women in the Nikita Tomar murder case. The area magistrate has also been ordered to complete the commitment proceedings in the case at the earliest. In reply to a letter from the Faridabad police seeking hearing of the case in a fast-track court, the Sessions Judge said an exclusive court to fast-track cases of heinous crime against women was already set up in the district in 2013 in view of the instructions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The court is presided over by Additional District and Sessions Judge Sartaj Baswana. Mr. Gupta, in the letter to Police Commissioner O.P. Singh, said the proceedings of the Nikita murder case would be conducted by the exclusive fast-track court on day-to-day basis as mandated under Section 309 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and as per the instructions of the High Court. “The Illaqua Magistrate is also being asked to complete the commitment proceedings as early as possible,” said Mr. Gupta, in the missive that reached the Police Commissioner’s office on Thursday. Nikita, 20, was shot point-blank allegedly by her former schoolmate Tausif outside Aggarwal college on October 26. She died during treatment. The case is registered under Section 302, 34, 364, 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25, 54 and 59 under the Arms Act at City Ballabgarh police station. Three persons have been arrested in the case so far. 700-page chargesheet The Faridabad police had filed a 700-page chargesheet in the case in the local court on November 6. The report was prepared and submitted in a record time of 11 days and has listed 60 witnesses. The chargesheet has been prepared by police officers based on the digital, forensic and material evidence. The report was scrutinised by the Police Commissioner and the legal aspects were looked into and discussed with experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/judge-orders-day-to-day-hearing-by-special-court-in-nikita-case/article33089112.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||A-G clears contempt action against Kunal Kamra||Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal on Thursday gave his consent to initiate criminal contempt action in the Supreme Court against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra for a series of tweets which “clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of court”. “I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. But under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt... I believe it is time people understand that attacking the Supreme Court unjustifiedly and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Court Act,” Mr. Venugopal observed in his consent letter. A resident of Aurangabad, Shrirang Katneshwarkar, had sought Mr. Venugopal’s permission under the Contempt of Court Act to initiate contempt proceedings against Mr. Kamra. The A-G has issued identical consent letters to other separate requestsfor contempt action against Mr. Kamra. ‘Gross insinuation’ The tweets were based on the Supreme Court order granting interim bail to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Wednesday. One of the tweets shows a picture of the court building swathed in saffron colour with the BJP flag flying atop it instead of the Tricolour. The A-G said this tweet was a “gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India”. It insinuated that “the Supreme Court is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, the BJP, existing for the BJP’s benefit”. He said the other tweets were also “highly objectionable” and left it to the Supreme Court to decide whether these would also constitute contempt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/comedian-kunal-kamra-to-face-contempt-case/article33088832.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||At 104, Capital reports highest COVID deaths||The Capital on Thursday reported 7,053 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 4,67,028, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 104 more deaths were reported — the highest in months in Delhi — pushing the toll to 7,332. Of the total cases, 4,16,580 people have recovered and there are 43,116 active cases. Over 51% of the 16,511 hospital beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city are occupied, according to government data. Also, 86.4% of Intensive Care Unit beds with ventilators and 82.2% of beds without ventilators are occupied. The current positivity rate is 11.7% and the overall positivity rate is 8.7%. The number of containment zones in the Capital increased to 4,141 on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-104-capital-reports-highest-covid-deaths/article33089407.ece
13 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||200 stray pigs shifted from Kalaburagi||In its continued drive against stray pig menace in the city, Kalaburagi City Municipal Corporation shifted over 200 pigs on Thursday. Teams of experts summoned from different places caught pigs from Ganesh Nagar, Swastik Nagar, Okali Camp, GDA Layout, Veerendra Patil Extension and other places and released them in different places outside the city. Corporation Commissioner Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande asserted that the drive against stray pigs would continue in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/200-stray-pigs-shifted-from-kalaburagi/article33088929.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Revenue Inspector arrested on graft charge||The Anti Corruption Bureau in Udupi on Thursday arrested Revenue Inspector Bharath Shetty on the charge of accepting Rs. 5,000 as bribe for taking action on an application related to land conversion. According to ACB, complainant Raghavendra Swamy’s application for conversion of a piece of land in Kandavara village of Kundapur was pending in the office of Bharath Shetty since September 2019. Bharath Shetty has been working as Revenue Inspector of the area for the last two years. Following a demand for bribe, Raghavendra Swami filed a complaint with the ACB. The ACB caught Bharath Shetty while he was accepting the bribe in his office. He was booked under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, the ACB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revenue-inspector-arrested-on-graft-charge/article33089495.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,015 COVID-positive in TS||The State on recorded as many as 1,015 COVID– 19 positive cases on Wednesday, bringing the cumulative to over 2.54 lakh. According to a media bulletin, the number of cases dropped from 1,196 as reported on November 10. The number of tests too dropped from 44,635 on the same day, to 40,603 a day later. As many as 17,865 primary contacts and 4,872 secondary contacts of COVID patients were tested, pushing the number of cumulative tests till date to over 47.70 lakh. Results of 377 samples are awaited. The State saw fewer fatalities with as many as three deaths being reported on November 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1015-covid-positive-in-ts/article33089588.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kunal Kamra to face contempt case||Attorney-General of India K.K. Venugopal gave his consent to initiate criminal contempt action against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra for a series of tweets which “clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of court”. “I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. But under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt... I believe it is time people understand that attacking the Supreme Court unjustifiedly will attract punishment,” Mr. Venugopal observed. A resident of Aurangabad, Shrirang Katneshwarkar, had requested Mr. Venugopal’s permission to initiate contempt proceedings against Mr. Kamra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kunal-kamra-to-face-contempt-case/article33088803.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Bypolls a vote of confidence in BJP: Scindia||The people of Madhya Pradesh have reposed their faith in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in the bypolls to 28 Assembly constituencies in the State, BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya M. Scindia said. The BJP won 19 seats. “27 of the 28 seats that went to polls were held by the Congress… It is a thumping vote of confidence for the BJP government,” Mr. Scindia told The Hindu in an interview. Mr. Scindia had left the Congress for the BJP in March, along with 22 MLAs, resulting in a change of government in the State. Three more MLAs followed suit later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bypolls-a-vote-of-confidence-in-bjp-scindia/article33088792.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Light fest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/light-fest/article33088794.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Reopening of schools and colleges put off||The Tamil Nadu government announced on Thursday that colleges and schools for Classes 9-12 would not reopen on November 16. The government said that after analysing the feedback from parents, it decided to withdraw the announcement to reopen schools and hostels for Classes 9-12 and announce a fresh date after assessing the COVID-19 situation. On November 9, all schools were asked to hold consultations with parents and parent-teacher associations on the reopening of schools. At some schools, parents were of the opinion that the schools should be reopened while at some others, the parents asked that schools not reopen at the moment, citing safety reasons, the government said in a press release. Similarly, the feedback was asked from college and university representatives. Taking into consideration the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission, colleges and universities will reopen for Ph.D. students and final-year students of postgraduate science and technical courses on December 2. For these students, hostels will be opened on campus and guidelines for colleges and hostels will be issued separately. For other students, the reopening date will be announced later, and the online classes are expected to continue. Advisory issued As people throng shops and bus stands, the government has advised them to follow distancing norms and wear masks at all times. A fresh wave of novel coronavirus infections has swept through some countries, it has pointed out, stressing the need to follow all preventive measures. Keeping this in mind, the permission granted for community, political, entertainment and cultural programmes and celebrations as well as religious congregations with more than 100 members has been revoked, the government has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reopening-of-schools-and-colleges-put-off/article33088840.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality of Delhi improves slightly||The air quality of Delhi and Noida improved slightly but remained in the “very poor” category on Thursday, while Gurugram remained in the “poor” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. The air quality of the Capital is expected to deteriorate to the higher end of “very poor” by Saturday, predicted System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/air-quality-of-delhi-improves-slightly/article33089118.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Order silent on what ‘green crackers’ are: HC||Observing that an order of sale of only “green crackers” is prima facie “ineffective” as the government has not specified what are “green crackers”, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the government to clarify on it by Friday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-silent-on-what-green-crackers-are-hc/article33089348.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Policeman suspended for helping accused||A head constable attached to Sadashivanagar was suspended on Thursday for allegedly helping the accused involved in an international drug racket. Another officer in the South Division of the Bengaluru police, who is yet to be named, is facing an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/policeman-suspended-for-helping-accused/article33089349.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vivekananda’s statue unveiled on JNU campus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday unveiled a life-size statue of Swami Vivekananda on JNU campus through videoconferencing. Addressing the students, he said it was of utmost importance that individual ideologies are aligned with national interests and that giving priority to one’s ideology over the nation’s interests is harmful to the democratic system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vivekanandas-statue-unveiled-on-jnu-campus/article33089408.ece
13 November 2020||Jaipur,||Gujjar protesters vacate rail tracks in Rajasthan||Gujjar protesters demanding reservation in jobs and education vacated the railway tracks at Peelupura in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district on Thursday after having occupied them for 11 days. The agitation was called off late on Wednesday night following an agreement signed with the State government in Jaipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujjar-protesters-vacate-rail-tracks-in-rajasthan/article33089117.ece
13 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||Register for selling paddy, farmers told||The Ballari district administration has appealed to farmers to enrol between November 30 and December 30 for selling their paddy crop under the price support scheme. Presiding over a meeting in Ballari , Additional Deputy Commissioner P.S. Manjunath said that a maximum of 40 quintals per acre would be purchased from farmers at Minimum Support Price for 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/register-for-selling-paddy-farmers-told/article33088933.ece
13 November 2020||BELAGAVI,||‘Track doubling is in public interest’||Senior Railway officers asserted in Hubballi on Wednesday that the doubling of the Castle Rock and Vasco-da-gama railway track between Karnataka and Goa was in public interest. Additional General Manager of South Western Railway P K. Mishra, Chief Project Manager of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited P.K. Kshatriya, Additional Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division S.K. Jha and Deputy General Manager E. Vijaya held an online press conference and gave details of the project. They said that it will help improve connectivity and also benefit Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/track-doubling-is-in-public-interest/article33088935.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Congress activists join protest near Udupi||Congress activists joined local residents to protest against the delay in completing the road widening work of the National Highway stretch between Parkala and Manipal, near Udupi, on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-activists-join-protest-near-udupi/article33089498.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Krunal Pandya stopped at Mumbai airport||Krunal Pandya, a member of the Mumbai Indians IPL team, was stopped by Customs officials at the Mumbai international airport on Thursday on suspicion of not disclosing some expensive articles he had purportedly brought from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). According to a source, Krunal was on his way back from the IPL event held in the UAE when he was stopped. He was allegedly carrying four expensive watches. "If Customs duty has not been paid, in cases where the value of undisclosed articles bought overseas is below Rs. 1 crore, the passenger is usually given bail on the spot," said a Customs official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/krunal-pandya-stopped-at-mumbai-airport/article33089515.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||NCB summons Arjun Rampal in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has summoned Bollywood actor Arjun Rampal for questioning on Friday. His partner Gabriella Demetriades appeared before the NCB for the second day on Thursday. The NCB, which is probing alleged drug use in Bollywood, had questioned Ms. Demetriades for almost six hours on Wednesday. She was again questioned at the NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncb-summons-arjun-rampal-in-drugs-case/article33089516.ece
13 November 2020||Mysuru,||Concor’s ICD project near Mysuru gains traction||The proposed greenfield Inland Container Depot (ICD) at Kadakola is finally set to materialise with the approval for land transfer to the Container Corporation of India (Concor) which is implementing the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/concors-icd-project-near-mysuru-gains-traction/article33089063.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||NCB unearths another inter-State drug racket||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) announced that it has unearthed yet another inter-State drug racket and arrested three people for allegedly smuggling hashish oil into Bengaluru from Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncb-unearths-another-inter-state-drug-racket/article33089064.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||ED attaches properties of former bank manager||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 1.3 crore belonging to former senior manager of Vijaya Bank, B.Y. Srinivas, in connection with a case involving funds being siphoned off from the Karnataka State Handicraft Development Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-attaches-properties-of-former-bank-manager/article33089065.ece
13 November 2020||SIVAGANGA,||Winged visitors preferred to crackers||Almost close to four decades, people of at Kollukudipatti on Madurai-Tirupattur highway have not burst crackers since they do not want to disturb migratorybirds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/winged-visitors-preferred-to-crackers/article33089625.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,||33 districts report under 100 fresh cases||For the third consecutive day, 33 of the 37 districts reported less than 100 fresh COVID-19 cases each, as 2,112 more persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. With 565 fresh cases, Chennai’s overall case tally stood at 2,07,173.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/33-districts-report-under-100-fresh-cases/article33088835.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,||‘34,427 applications received for MBBS seats’||With 34,427 applications received for 4,061 MBBS seats, counselling will be conducted in a vast area such as the Nehru Indoor Stadium in compliance with the COVID-19 safety norms, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/34427-applications-received-for-mbbs-seats/article33088836.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Union Ministers will take part in ‘Vetrivel Yatra’: BJP||Tthe State unit of the BJP on Thursday said Union Minister Sadananda Gowda and Minister of State V. Muralee- dharan will participate in the Vetrivel Yatra on November 22 and 23 respectively. The MP and BJP youth wing president Tejasvi Surya will take part in the rally in Kanniyakumari on December 2. State BJP president L. Murugan said party national general secretary Purandeswari would also participate in one of the rallies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/union-ministers-will-take-part-in-vetrivel-yatra-bjp/article33088837.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Ban sale, use of firecrackers, HC tells Telangana||Festivals may be important and may serve social purpose, nonetheless, people’s lives are most important. Making this observation after hearing a PIL petition, the Telangana High Court on Thursday instructed the government to immediately ban sale and use of fireworks in the State. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the government to appeal to people through print and electronic media not to burst firecrackers to check further deterioration of air quality. The bench directed the government to inform it by November 19 about the steps taken to enforce the HC direction. A lawyer P. Indra Prakash from Kukatpally of Hyderabad filed the PIL seeking an order to ban sale and use of firecrackers in the backdrop of COVID pandemic. He contended that coronavirus affects lungs of a person and damages other organs of the body. With infected lungs, patients find it difficult to breathe. The petitioner-in-person argued that fireworks pollute the air. As winter has set in, the pollution particles emanating from bursting firecrackers tend to hang in the air. This affects health of people and turns out to be dangerous for COVID-19 patients, Mr. Prakash said. Advocate General B. Siva Prasad, replying to queries raised by the bench, said the government had not taken any policy decision on use of firecrackers during Deepavali festival. It hoped that people would observe safety precautions . The bench noted that the entire country including the State was struggling to control the pandemic while many believe the second wave of the pandemic has commenced. Already, Rajasthan government and other High Courts banned use of firecrackers, the bench said. Observing that uncontrolled and untrammelled use of fireworks jeopardise people’s lives, the HC instructed the government to immediately clampdown and close all shops selling fireworks throughout the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-sale-use-of-firecrackers-hc-tells-telangana/article33088720.ece
13 November 2020||Srinagar,||J&K may see triangular fight in DDC election||Jammu and Kashmir is all set to see a triangular contest between the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the J&K Apni Party (JKAP) and the BJP in the coming maiden eight-phase District Development Council (DDC) polls, also the first elections since the removal of the special status last year. The Gupkar alliance — an amalgam of seven political parties including the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Peoples Conference, the Congress and the CPI(M) — on Thursday announced a first joint list of candidates for the first phase, starting from November 28. The list was approved by PAGD chief Farooq Abdullah after days of haggling over seat sharing between the alliance partners. “The approved PAGD candidates have filed their papers,” PAGD spokesman and PC chief Sajad Lone said. The alliance has fielded 27 candidates, including 21 from the NC, four from the PDP and two from the PC for the first phase. The BJP has also announced a list of 89 candidates, including 24 women, and fielded them in constituencies spread in all 20 districts of the Union Territory. “People of Kashmir have understood the situation. They can’t be fooled. If our party wins the polls, J&K will see development,” BJP State general secretary Ashok Koul said. The JKAP, a party that was floated post August 5 last year and managed to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is also contesting from most of the constituencies. “We welcome the decision taken by the Gupkar alliance regarding the polls. It took [the NC founder] the late Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah 22 years to realise the right track, while the alliance chose the right path in less than a month. It was good to see leaders associated with the PAGD shunning the emotional slogans,” JKAP president Altaf Bukhari said. The DDC polls are considered crucial for all the parties to strengthen and retain traditional base at the grassroots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-may-see-triangular-fight-in-ddc-election/article33088742.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||More to join Covishield trial||The Serum Institute of India (SII) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday announced the completion of enrolment for Phase-3 clinical trials of Covishield in India. “The ICMR and the SII have further collaborated for clinical development of Covovax (Novavax) developed by Novavax, the U.S., and upscaled by the SII,” said an ICMR release. The ICMR had funded the clinical trial site fees, while the SII funded other expenses of Covishield. At present, the SII and the ICMR are conducting Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of Covishield at 15 different centres across the country. The enrolment of all 1,600 participants had been completed on October 31, 2020. Covishield has been developed at the SII Pune laboratory with a master seed from Oxford University/Astra Zeneca. The vaccine made in the U.K. is currently being tested in large efficacy trials in the U.K., Brazil, South Africa and the U.S. Promising results: ICMR “The promising results of the trials so far give confidence that Covishield could be a realistic solution to the deadly pandemic. Covishield is by far the most advanced vaccine in human testing in India. Based on the Phase 2/3 trial results, the SII, with the help of the ICMR, will pursue the early availability of this product for India. The SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine, under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling licence from the DCGI,” said the release. Novavax had initiated its late phase trials in South Africa and the U.K. and would soon commence the same in the U.S. “The SII has received the bulk vaccine and Matrix-M adjuvant from Novavax and will soon fill and finish them in vials. This vaccine formulated at SII (Covovax) will be tested in a Phase-3 trial in India and an application for the same to regulatory authorities will be made soon by the ICMR and the SII,” the release stated. Commenting on the association, Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India, said: “The ICMR has played a huge role in coming forward and strengthening India’s fight against COVID-19. The collaboration will further aid us in putting India at the forefront of developing an immunogenic and efficacious vaccine.” ICMR Director-General Dr. Balram Bhargava said, “At present, India plays a prominent role in vaccine development and manufacturing globally.” The partnership would see scientists of both entities facilitating the advancement of regulatory approvals for Covishield and Covovax while ensuring strict adherence to all the requisite scientific, ethical and regulatory standards, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-to-join-covishield-trial/article33088757.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I feel completely at home in the BJP... I am an ordinary worker’||BJP leader Jyotiraditya M. Scindia , whose switch from the Congress led to a change of government in Madhya Pradesh in March, credits the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government’s development-oriented plank for the recent byelection victories in the State.  Are you happy about the Madhya Pradesh byelection results or you had hoped it to be better than this? People have spoken very clearly. People have reposed their resounding faith in the BJP government led by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. I had said way before the election that there is a lot of diatribe and a lot of low-level language being used by the Congress, and that the people would respond. And people have spoken now. It is a resounding verdict. Twenty-seven of the 28 seats that went to the polls were held by the Congress. The BJP has won 19 out of the 28. We lost one or two by a very small margin. It is a thumping vote of confidence for the BJP government. What makes the BJP so successful? Critics say it is the money, religious politics, misuse of State machinery… Very clearly, this a verdict in favour of the BJP government. In the past six months, Shivraj Singh ji and I, and the whole team, have worked very hard to look at the blueprints for the State’s development. Whether it is for the farmers, or students, or women ... across the board. We have developed constituency-level blueprints. Our plank is a development-oriented one, as opposed to the Kamal Nath-Digvijaya Singh duo’s legacy of a corruption-ridden, 15-month government, which had completely abdicated its responsibility to the people. You seem happy to have left the Congress? I left the Congress because of the very anti-people policies of the government in M.P. I am part of the BJP as an ordinary worker under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. J.P. Nadda and Mr. Amit Shah and Shivraj Singh ji in the State. We have a proactive, positive attitude towards uplifting the conditions of M.P. and providing a plank for development and progress. What do you want to, or hope to, do next? My calling in life always has been one of a public servant, not a politician. I think that is pretty apparent in my two decades of public life. For me, it is always about finding a place in people’s hearts by working for them selflessly. Will you be focusing on M.P. or looking at playing a role at the Centre? I am a public servant. My role is that and my goal is that. Whatever responsibility is entrusted with me, whatever route is ordained for me, I will try and fulfil that role. Do you feel at home in the BJP? Oh, completely! It is a party that is cadre-driven, meritocracy driven, it is a party that is committed to development and progress for the country as a whole. It is a party that is not alien to me — don’t forget that it is a three-generation-old relationship from my grandfather to my father to me. Are you in touch with your former friends in the Congress — are they still your friends? What do you tell them? I don’t think politics should blur relationships. I have seen politics from the early 1980s when I was a child. It was a completely different environment. When I was in the Congress, I had a good relationship with a lot of those in the BJP. I don’t think party lines should make or break relationships. Your former party is struggling and appears to be in a free fall. Why do you think it is so? I don’t want to be a commenting on, or be prescriptive about, a party of which I am not a member any longer. The fact that they lost the confidence of the people of India — it is their problem. I am going to focus on my political party, which is the BJP and work day and night for the party.  The BJP is a cadre-driven, meritocracy-driven party, committed to development||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-feel-completely-at-home-in-the-bjp-i-am-an-ordinary-worker/article33088748.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘26/11 masterminds not in Pak. list’||India on Thursday hit out at Pakistan for omitting the names of the “masterminds” of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks from a consolidated list of “most wanted/ high-profile terrorists”, and asked Islamabad to “show sincerity” in delivering justice to the families of 166 victims of the attacks 12 years ago. “While the [Federal Investigation Agency’s] list includes a select few members of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, a United Nations-designated terror entity based in Pakistan, including the crew members of the boats used to execute the 26/11 attacks, it glaringly omits the mastermind and key conspirators of the heinous terror attacks,” said Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The list made it clear that Pakistan had all the evidence it needed to prosecute those who planned the Mumbai attacks, he stated. “The Government of India has repeatedly called on the Government of Pakistan to give up its obfuscation and dilatory tactics in discharging its international obligations in the Mumbai terror attacks trial,” he added. The report, compiled by the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), mentions 19 Pakistanis in its “most wanted” list of terrorists who were involved in planning and providing financial help in the Mumbai attacks. It was released on Wednesday. The dossier says that all the wanted men are part of “defunct” Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a Pakistan-based terror outfit. Trial yet to be concluded Based on the evidence provided by India and amid international pressure, the FIA registered a case on February 12, 2009, under various sections to probe the attacks. It has so far chargesheeted 27 accused and 20 were declared proclaimed offenders. The trial is yet to be concluded. The 19 include Amjad Khan. The FIA dossier describes him as a “crew member of ex Lashkar-e-Taiba (boat Al-Hussaini and boat Al-Fauz), who also purchased boat Al Fauz, which was used during Mumbai terror attacks.” It says, “He also purchased Yamaha Motor boat engine, life jackets, inflatable boats etc. from ARZ water sport Karachi, these things were used in Mumbai attacks and recovered by Indian authorities. Place of Birth Multan, CNIC No. 36302-0426632-3”. As reported by The Hindu (Nov. 24, 2018), the U.S.’s Federal Bureau of Investigation sent one of its agents to the Yamaha Motor’s headquarters in Japan to seek help in tracing the person who bought the engine. The FBI found that the shop owner in Karachi sold eight such engines to Amjad Khan, a LeT financier. Ten LeT terrorists from Pakistan had set off on one of the boats to carry out the attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2611-masterminds-not-in-pak-list/article33088754.ece
13 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||4 Iranians held in Kerala||The police on Thursday arrested four Iranians for duping a shop owner at Varanad, near Cherthala, and escaping with Rs. 34,000 earlier this week. The arrested have been identified as Majid Sahebiaziz, 32; Einollah Sharafi, 30; Davoud Absalan, 23; and Mohsen Setareh, 35. They were taken into custody from a hotel in Thiruvananthapuram by a team led by Cherthala sub-inspector Laisad Muhammed with the help of the Thiruvananthapuram City police. The accused were later brought to Cherthala. The crime According to P. Sreekumar, circle inspector, Cherthala, the Iranian nationals had reached Delhi from Tehran separately before the COVID-19-induced lockdown. They got together three months ago and bought a car for travelling to various places in the country. They reached Cherthala on November 10 and robbed Cherupushpam Metal Agencies, Varanad, of 17 currency notes of Rs. 2,000 denomination. The accused showed some foreign currency notes and sought to exchange it for the Indian currency. The trader showed a bundle of Rs. 2,000 notes. The accused tricked the trader and took 17 notes of Rs. 2,000 denomination from the bundle and left the place without exchanging the money. The trader came to know about the lost cash later and informed the police. The police shared the CCTV visuals of the foreign nationals and the vehicle used by them to other police stations in the State, which led to their arrest. The officers said that a detailed probe had been launched to check whether the accused were involved in illegal activities in other parts of the country. “Before coming to Kerala, they had travelled to Delhi, Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Assam, Goa, Orissa, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. They also visited Kozhikode, Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. We have alerted the Central Intelligence agencies about the arrest,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-iranians-held-in-kerala/article33089009.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||‘India makes progress in vaccination coverage’||India has made significant progress in its vaccination coverage to prevent child pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths, according to the latest annual Pneumonia and Diarrhoea Progress Report released by the International Vaccine Access Centre (IVAC) on Wednesday. This year’s report card finds that although overall the world’s health systems are falling short of ensuring that children have access to prevention and treatment services, India has achieved the global target of 90% coverage for three of the five vaccines whose coverage is monitored in the report. These vaccines are Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus (DPT) vaccine, Measles-containing-vaccine first dose, Haemophilus influenzae type B, pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), and rotavirus vaccine. While India’s coverage of rotavirus vaccine increased by 18 percentage points (35% rotavirus coverage in 2018 expanded to 53% in 2019), coverage against pneumococcal pneumonia increased by 9 percentage points (6% PCV coverage in 2018 expanded to 15% in 2019). 100-day agenda In 2019, India completed the “100-day agenda” — an unprecedented national scale-up of rotavirus vaccine. This landmark vaccine expansion will help protect 26 million children born each year against life-threatening cases of rotavirus diarrhoea, stated the report. The report tracked progress by analysing 10 indicators from the latest available data on how countries are delivering key interventions — including breastfeeding, immunisation, care-seeking and antibiotics, oral rehydration solution (ORS), and zinc supplementation — shown to prevent pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths. Of the 15 focus countries included in the report, India is one of just four countries that exceeded targets for exclusive breastfeeding. However, nearly every country included in the report lagged in access to treatments against pneumonia and diarrhoea. India failed to reach all four targets for treatment, the report stated, adding that the treatment for diarrhoea had the lowest coverage, with only 51% of children receiving ORS and 20% getting zinc. “Although there was progress in India in 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic threatens the hard-won gains because of disruptions caused in routine health services like immunisation and access to medical oxygen, the report stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-makes-progress-in-vaccination-coverage/article33088725.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China had candid discussions, says MEA||India and China held frank discussions and exchanged views on disengagement at all friction points in the Western Sector of India-China border areas during the November 6 senior military commanders talks, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs. Addressing the weekly interaction with the media on Thursday, official spokesperson of the Ministry, Anurag Srivastava, said both sides pushed for “settlement” of “outstanding issues.” “The talks were candid, in-depth and constructive and both sides exchanged views on disengagement at all friction points along the Line of Actual Control in the western sector of India-China border areas,” said Mr. Srivastava elaborating on the talks held between senior commanders to resolve the months-long tension. Mr. Srivastava said, “India and China have agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and, taking forward the discussions at this meeting of the senior commanders, push for the settlement of other outstanding issues.”  The Hindu reported on Thursday that both sides were working out modalities to finalise a plan for phased disengagement and de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, beginning with the North Bank of Pangong Tso. Multiple sources had confirmed that the proposal from the Chinese side put forward during the talks on November 6 includes pulling back their troops and equipment from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North Bank. Chinese official media, however, denied on Thursday that such a “disengagement plan” is being discussed. Global Times termed the reports “inaccurate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-had-candid-discussions-says-mea/article33088761.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Stamp duty cut on land for industries||In yet another move for the benefit of industrialists, the Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday decided to reduce stamp duty registration charge for land acquired for setting up industries from 5% to 2%. The decision is aimed at attracting investments under the new industrial policy of 2020-25, which envisages concessional registration charges for industrial lands, said Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy. The government has already reduced stamp duty from 5% to 2% for apartments costing less than Rs. 20 lakh in August last. The Cabinet gave administrative approval for Rs. 130 crore for rejuvenation of areas falling under the Harangi reservoir. A sum of Rs. 35 crore was approved for construction of a check dam in Kokarne gram panchayat limits of Brahmavar taluk in Udupi district under the Paschima Vahini project. It approved release of Rs. 35 crore for construction of a check dam at Heruru village in Brahmavar taluk under the Paschima Vahini programme. The Cabinet also gave administrative approval to borrow Rs. 7,438 crore for the Bengaluru suburban railway project, which is being implemented jointly by the Centre and the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stamp-duty-cut-on-land-for-industries/article33088723.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala watches cautiously as fresh cases register a decline||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph appeared to show signs of a dip, as new cases reported on Thursday dropped to 5,537 from the testing of 57,202 samples. The test positivity rate dipped to 9.68%. Public health experts, however, cautioned that it would take several peaks and troughs before the curve truly went down, and the virus would remain until a significant proportion of the population was infected or a vaccine helped achieve herd immunity. The case dip could be misread and lead to lax safety precautions. The State added 25 more deaths, taking the COVID toll till date to 1,796. Andhra Pradesh added 1,728 cases on Thursday. For the first time in four months, less than 10 deaths were reported, as nine fatalities were recorded. The number of samples tested moved closer to 90 lakh, as 77,148 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 2.24%. The overall test positivity rate was 9.51%. Chittoor reported three new deaths while Krishna reported two new deaths. Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur and West Godavari reported one fresh death each and the remaining seven districts reported no new deaths. Telangana recorded 1,015 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The number of cases dropped from 1,196 on November 10. However, the number of tests too dropped from 44,635 on that day, to 40,603 the next day. The State saw fewer fatalities with three deaths reported on November 11. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area reported 172 cases, Rangareddy district 98 cases, Medchal Malkajgiri district 97, and Bhadradri Kothgudem 80. Karnataka on Thursday reported 2,116 fresh cases and 21 deaths. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.83%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.99%. Bengaluru Urban district reported 1,069 cases, taking its tally to 3,54,215. With eight deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll there rose to 3,985. As many as 1,15,386 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 88,100 RT-PCR tests. For the third consecutive day, 33 of the 37 districts reported less than 100 new COVID-19 cases each as another 2,112 persons tested positive for the infection in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. Four districts, including Chennai, accounted for nearly half of the fresh coronavirus infections. With 565 new cases, Chennai’s overall case tally stood at 2,07,173. Coimbatore continued to report less than 200 cases. As many as 190 persons tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 45,875. Chengalpattu reported 148 cases, while Tiruvallur had 120 cases. As many as 2,347 persons were discharged after treatment and 25 persons died. So far, a total of 7,22,686 persons were discharged and 11,440 persons have died in the State. The State’s tally stood at 7,52,521. A total of 18,395 persons were presently under treatment.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-watches-cautiously-as-fresh-cases-register-a-decline/article33088737.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, ASEAN to expand trade despite RCEP walkout||India and ASEAN countries said they would explore ways to increase trade between them despite India’s exit from the 15-nation Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) agreement. The RCEP free trade agreement, which India walked out from a year ago, is expected to be signed on November 15, between China, Australia, South Korea, Japan, and 10 Association of South East Asian (ASEAN) nations. However, they are expected to leave in a clause allowing India to rejoin at a later date. “As far as India is concerned, we did not join RCEP as it does not address the outstanding issues and concerns of India. However, we remain committed to deepening our trade relations with ASEAN,” said MEA secretary (East) Riva Ganguly Das, briefing journalists about the 17th ASEAN-India virtual summit that Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed on Thursday. MEA officials declined to comment on whether the subject of RCEP was discussed during Thursday’s summit.  However, they said Mr. Modi had called for an “early review” of the ASEAN-India Trade in Goods Agreement (AITGA), and “underlined the importance of diversification and resilience of supply chains for post-COVID economic recovery.” Mr. Modi also announced $1 million contribution to the ASEAN COVID-19 recovery fund. In his address at the summit, Mr. Modi also highlighted India’s “Indo-Pacific policy” as an area of convergence for ASEAN and India. According to Ms. Das, all countries stressed the importance of “a rules-based order in the region including through upholding adherence to international law, especially the UNCLOS. The leaders affirmed the importance of maintaining and promoting peace, stability, safety and security in the South China Sea, in particular freedom of navigation and overflight,” she said, in reference to China’s naval aggression in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-asean-to-expand-trade-despite-rcep-walkout/article33088763.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Head constable suspended for helping drug case accused||A head constable attached to Sadashivanagar was suspended on Thursday for allegedly helping the accused involved in an international drug racket. Another officer in the South Division of the Bengaluru police, who is yet to be named, is facing an inquiry. “The accused head constable Prabhakar will be taken into custody and will be questioned on the details of the role he played abetting the accused drug peddlers,” said a senior police officer. Prabhakar is the third police policeman to be suspended this year for abetting those accused in drug cases currently being investigated by the Central Crime Branch. His role was exposed after CCB officials questioned three men they had arrested in Goa on November 9. One of the accused is Darshan Lamani, former Minister Rudrappa Lamani’s son. He allegedly sheltered his associates Hemanth and Suneesh who were evading the police after being accused of procuring drugs via the darknet and selling it. The police, during the course of investigation found that the constable, Prabhakar, was in constant touch with the accused, sharing crucial information on the ongoing investigation. CCB officials reported the matter to the Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, who in turn suspended him for dereliction of duty. “Call record details and other information gathered revealed that Prabhakar was also providing them with locations of the police team tracking the accused when they were absconding. This helped the trio monitor the CCB team and shift locations accordingly to evade arrest. Prabhakar was in turn getting paid a huge sum to betray the police,” said a senior official. The CCB have identified another police personnel from the South Division who was allegedly in touch with the accused. “Further investigations are on to ascertain his role and action will be taken based on the report submitted,” a senior police officer said. Mr. Pant warned that nobody would be spared. Strict action will be taken against those involved with antisocial elements, he said.  Prabhakar is the third police policeman to be suspended this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/head-constable-suspended-for-helping-drug-case-accused/article33089353.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Karnataka silent on what green crackers are’||Observing that the Karnataka government’s order of allowing sale and bursting of only “green crackers” is prima facie “ineffective” as the government has not specified what are “green crackers”, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the government to clarify on it by Friday morning. The court said the petitioner, who has sought a ban on firecrackers in Karnataka, should have approached the court earlier as it is too late to issue directions similar to the ones issued by the HC of Calcutta, which had banned sale and use of firecrackers in WB during this festival season. It would be difficult to issue any drastic order at this stage as many people would have already purchased firecrackers and arrangements would have been already made for sale, said a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by 68-year-old A.S. Vishnu Bharath, a resident of Jayanagar. Meanwhile, the Bench observed that the government must have taken stringent steps as air pollution may lead to spread of COVID.Earlier, the government informed the guidelines on sale and use of crackers in view of COVID while clarifying that ban on crackers in Karnataka was not warranted as the NGT has banned it only in cities where the air quality index has been classified as “poor” or below and none of the cities in the State fall in such air pollution categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/order-silent-on-what-green-crackers-are-hc/article33088721.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,||Church row: Kerala govt. files affidavit in HC||The State government on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court that the heads of the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Church had promised at the three meetings convened by the Chief Minister that they would not further precipitate the issue and would not insist on implementing the High Court order in the Kothamangalam Marthoman church case. In an affidavit filed before the High Court, T.K. Jose, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, said the minutes of the meetings on September 21, October 5, and November 4 were self-explanatory. “There is a clear understanding that until a final decision is taken at the proposed further meetings, both parties will not precipitate any further issues and will not insist on the implementation of the order by taking over the church from one faction by use of force or with the assistance of the court order or voluntarily and the present situation will continue until further meetings are held and amicable resolution for the dispute is reached.”  Centre’s opinion The affidavit was filed in the wake of the criticism of the State government by the court for not implementing its directive. The court had sought the opinion of the Centre in deploying Central forces to implement the directive and observed that it would pass an appropriate order. Pleading for adjourning the proceedings in the contempt of court case by three months, the Additional Chief Secretary added that it was expected that there would be a peaceful and amicable solution to the disputes in three months. The disputes had affected even family relations among the Malankara Church factions as there were marriages between members of the two factions. Meanwhile, Ernakulam Collector S. Suhas, in his affidavit, said the non-implementation of the High Court directive to take over the church was due to the prohibitory order issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the area where the church was located. Besides, the convention hall attached to the church was continuing as a first-line treatment centre. In fact, a forceful implementation of the directive would affect the peace and tranquillity of the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/church-row-kerala-govt-files-affidavit-in-hc/article33088728.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Comedian Kunal Kamra to face contempt case||“I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. But under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt... I believe it is time people understand that attacking the Supreme Court unjustifiedly and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Court Act,” Mr. Venugopal said in his consent letter. The A-G has issued identical consent letters to other requests for contempt action against Mr. Kamra. Mr. Kamra’s tweets were based on the Supreme Court order granting interim bail to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. One tweet shows a picture of the Supreme Court swathed in saffron colour with the BJP flag flying atop it. Mr. Venugopal said this tweet was a “gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/comedian-kunal-kamra-to-face-contempt-case/article33088718.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Notification issued for Kerala local bodies polls||Nomination papers for contesting the local body elections in December began to be accepted from Thursday with the State Election Commission (SEC) issuing the election notification. As many as 72 nominations were filed in various parts of the State. Nomination papers for contesting the elections can be filed till November 19. The scrutiny of papers will be held on November 20. November 23 is the last date for withdrawal of the nominations. As announced by the commission earlier, the elections will be held in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki districts on December 8; in Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad on December 10; and Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts on December 14. As many as 21,865 wards in 1,199 local bodies will go to the polls in December. Votes will be counted on December 16 and the election process will be completed by December 23. Earlier, the commission had decided to issue postal ballots to enable COVID-19 patients and persons in quarantine to cast their votes. Meanwhile, local bodies scheduled for the elections have come under administrative committees from Thursday with the term of the elected councils ending on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/notification-issued-for-kerala-local-bodies-polls/article33088732.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The mandate is in our favour, says Tejashwi||The RJD leader said he would be embarking on a “thanksgiving” journey soon. Earlier, victorious Mahagathbandhan candidates and leaders of alliance parties met at RJD leader Rabri Devi’s 10 Circular Road residence, where they elected Mr. Yadav leader of the alliance. Meanwhile, Mr. Kumar visited the JD(U) headquarters in Patna on Thursday evening to meet leaders and mull over the future strategy. Decision on Nov. 13 Addressing mediapersons, he said the decision on the formation of the next government would be taken possibly on November 13, when all four NDA partners would meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-mandate-is-in-our-favour-says-tejashwi/article33089341.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Tiger could be from Maharashtra: officials||A male tiger crossing over from the forest regions of neighbouring Maharashtra is suspected to have killed tribal youth Sidam Vignesh from Digada village of Dahegam mandal in Kumrambheem Asifabad district on Wednesday. A team from the Telangana State forest department which inspected the site deep inside the forest where the body was spotted, found pug marks of a male tiger. The trails were found along the banks of a water body to which the feline had frequented, hardly 20 to 30 metres away from the spot, officials informed. The tribal youth was killed on Wednesday when he went fishing in a forest pond along with friends. Post-mortem report late in night has confirmed his death due to wild animal attack. Pug marks from around the spot have been collected and are being sent to the DFO of Chandrapur, Field Director of Tadoba Tiger Reserve, and the Forest officials of Kanhergaon area in Maharashtra for comparison with their resident tigers, and verification if any of them is missing from there, officials said. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Forces R.Sobha has categorically denied the reports that it was the doing of a resident tiger K8 in Kagaznagar forest division. K8 is a female, moving in Penchikalpet area as per the camera trap images, while the pug marks were of a male tiger. “The tigers staying in Adilabad and Asifabad forests are of very calm nature. They only kill herbivore wild animals and cattle. They are not under any stress,” she said. While Maharashtra has several tigers which have repeatedly attacked and killed human beings, officials are yet to confirm the feline as one among them. A tiger can be declared man-eater only after repeated kills, they say. In the present case, it is not confirmed if the animal was stalking its victim before charging. “It could have been accidental too. The man was collecting leaves and seeing him in bent position, the tiger might have mistaken him to be another animal,” says an official under the condition of anonymity. In any case, as the animal had consumed part of the body before being disturbed, efforts are on full swing to monitor its movements, and capture it. Two trap cages with baits have been placed at the areas it is frequenting, along with 23 camera traps. Snapshot of the purported tiger, taken on a mobile phone, is doing rounds in the surrounding villages, but forest officials have refused to confirm it as the same animal. Caution has been sounded in the surrounding villages about movement of the tiger, and instructions have been issued about how to avoid confrontation with the animal. Forest staff and animal trackers have been placed round the clock in villages such as Kamargoan, Digada, Rampur, Shankarapur, Loha and Motlaguda, officials informed. The family of the victim will be handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh compensation on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tiger-could-be-from-maharashtra-officials/article33088726.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Fulfil basic rights of Kerala scribe held in U.P.’||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) has approached the Supreme Court seeking the fulfilment of the basic rights, like legal help and access to family, of its incarcerated secretary Siddhique Kappan. Mr. Kappan was allegedly taken into custody while on his way to Hathras district in Uttar Pradesh on October 5. The KUWJ had earlier approached the Supreme Court on a habeas corpus plea to know the whereabouts of the journalist. But the court had refused to intervene while advising the union to move the Allahabad High Court instead. Shortly thereafter, the Uttar Pradesh police registered an FIR against Mr. Kappan for spreading communal hatred and offences under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and Information Technology Act. The KUWJ said the FIR relates to speech on certain websites. But it said the URL and the names of the alleged offending websites are not specified. The KUWJ application said the source of the information as to these websites is stated to be ‘news published in some media reports in different mediums”. It said the “FIR is completely frivolous and does not disclose the commission of any offence”. It asked the apex court to allow Mr. Kappan to meet his lawyers and family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fulfil-basic-rights-of-kerala-scribe-held-in-up/article33089343.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Government rolls out Rs. 1.19 lakh crore stimulus||The definition of ‘new employee’ has been kept flexible to include anyone who was part of the EPF net earlier, but had lost their job between March 1 and September 30, 2020. This may help improve such workers’ re-employment prospects. As per the Finance Ministry, this benefit will apply to all such ‘new employees’ earning monthly wages less than Rs. 15,000. EPF contributions For firms with more than 1,000 employees, the Centre will bear half of the EPF contributions (24% of wages), while for smaller firms, it will bear the entire EPF contribution. To be eligible for the scheme, firms registered with EPFO having more than 50 employees must hire at least five new workers, while those with less than 50 employees must hire a minimum of two workers. “This benefit will get credited upfront in Aadhaar-seeded EPF accounts of eligible new employees. This will cover nearly 99.1% of all establishments and an estimated 65% of all those employed under the formal sector will be covered by this benefit,” the Minister said. To boost urban housing and create jobs, an additional allocation of Rs. 18,000 crore has been made for the PM Awas Yojana over and above the Rs. 8,000 crore allotted in the Budget. Ms. Sitharaman said as many as 78 lakh additional jobs are expected to be generated from this, apart from boosting steel and cement demand significantly. Sops for home buyers “We are providing income tax relief for developers and home buyers as there is quite a lot of inventory in the real estate sector. At the moment, on the differential between the circle rate and the agreement value — you get 10% relief. We have decided to increase the differential from 10% to 20% till June 30, 2021 for only primary sales of residential units of value up to Rs. 2 crore,” the Minister said. “We expect a lot of clearance of inventory and people will be able to pay less as the differential gap will be reduced. This will help the middle class which wants to buy when the housing sector is sitting on inventories,” she said, adding that amendments will be made to Section 43 CA of the Income Tax Act. Stressed sectors While extending a Rs. 3 lakh-crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme announced earlier for micro, small and medium enterprises till March 31, 2021, the Finance Minister also announced a credit guarantee plan for stressed sectors as well as healthcare. “Entities in 26 stressed sectors identified by the K.V. Kamath Committee, plus healthcare sector with credit outstanding of above Rs. 50 crore and up to Rs. 500 crore as on February 29, 2020, would now be able to avail 20% additional credit for a period of five years, with a moratorium of one year on principal repayment,” Ms. Sitharaman said. As per the Kamath committee, the stressed sectors include auto components, construction, gems and jewellery, hotel and restaurants, iron and steel, real estate and textiles. To help 40,000 firms Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India, said the scheme could help as many as 40,000 firms but if the overall amount under the scheme stays at Rs. 3 lakh crore, that could be a constraining factor. So far, Rs. 2.05 lakh crore of liquidity has already been sanctioned under the scheme. Separately, to free up working capital for contractors bidding for public projects, the Centre has decided to reduce the performance security payable on individual contracts to 3% from the prevailing 5% to 10% of project value. The earnest money deposit requirement to bid for tenders is also being replaced by a bid security declaration for a period of one year, with the Minister expressing hope this will give them more room to bid for building infrastructure projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/government-rolls-out-rs-119-lakh-crore-stimulus/article33088738.ece
13 November 2020||Patna,||Only BJP can look into role of LJP, says Nitish||Janata Dal(U) president and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said “only the BJP can look into” the role the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) played in the Assembly election. During the election campaign, LJP chief Chirag Paswan had repeatedly said that he had put up candidates against JD(U) nominees to “dethrone” Mr. Kumar as Chief Minister. “This time, some people created confusion successfully,” Mr. Kumar said without mentioning Mr. Paswan. “The media, the National Democratic Alliance and our party men have been watching this. The media has been writing on this. My party will also see how our votes were divided and what went wrong where. They [the LJP] did damage to BJP candidates also but more to the JD(U). Only the BJP can look into this. We are allies and work together,” Mr. Kumar told presspersons at the party headquarters. He was responding to a question on the LJP damaging the prospects of JD(U) candidates in many seats. Asked if he had staked claim for the post of Chief Minister, Mr. Kumar said, “I don’t have any claim to make. I will follow the NDA decision. I have no problem in running the government.” Asked when the government will be formed, he said, “The date has not been fixed yet but tomorrow [Friday] there will possibly be a meeting of all four alliance partners of NDA in which a decision may be taken.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-bjp-can-look-into-role-of-ljp-says-nitish/article33088740.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||CWC will review the reasons for poor show in polls: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leaders P. Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh said on Thursday that the party was disappointed with its performance in the Bihar polls and the Congress Working Committee would soon undertake a review. In a series of tweets, Congress general secretary Tariq Anwar too admitted that the party’s performance prevented the grand alliance from forming the government in the State and asserted that the growth of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) was a not a good sign. At a press conference, Mr. Chidambaram said, “We accept the verdict. We are disappointed with our performance in Bihar. The Congress Working MCommittee (CWC) will review it in due course and come up with an official statement of our position.” He said the people of Bihar came “pretty close” to changing the government and the difference in popular vote was just 0.3%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cwc-will-review-the-reasons-for-poor-show-in-polls-chidambaram/article33088745.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘An attempt to suppress RBI’s gloomy forecast’||The Congress on Thursday claimed that the measures under the Atmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 package, announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, was an attempt to “suppress” the analysis by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) that the country’s economy was entering into recession mode. While former Congress president Rahul Gandhi blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s policies for the country experiencing a recession for the first time in its history, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram accused the government of “managing the headlines and deflecting the attention from economy”. “India has entered into recession for the first time in history. Mr. Modi’s actions have turned India’s strength into its weakness,” Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter. ‘Negative growth’ “I am afraid the remaining quarters of 2020-21 will also record negative growth rates,” Mr. Chidambaram said at a virtual press conference along with his party colleague Jairam Ramesh. “It is therefore surprising that the Finance Minister should quote the RBI as predicting the economy will register a positive growth rate in the third quarter.” Mr. Ramesh said the government’s latest announcement was not likely to help the economy in the current financial year. In a Facebook post, CPI MP Binoy Viswam said the Centre’s package was a hoax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/an-attempt-to-suppress-rbis-gloomy-forecast/article33088746.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||Doctors told to examine Varavara Rao on video||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday ordered that a video examination of poet Varavara Rao (81), lodged at Taloja Central Jail, be conducted by a team of doctors of Nanavati Hospital. A Division Bench of justices A.K. Menon and S.P. Tavade said if the doctors felt that video examination was not possible then they should visit Taloja Jail to ascertain his condition and submit the report on or before November 16. The Bench also said the team of doctors must be the same that has seen Mr. Rao before. The hearing was adjourned till November 17. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Rao’s wife P. Hemlata detailing his ill health through senior advocate Indira Jaisingh. As an urgent interim relief she sought that a medical examination be conducted to recommend the line of treatment and also urged that Mr. Rao be shifted from Taloja jail to Nanavati Hospital. Ms. Jaisingh said that on Tuesday, Father Stan Swamy, co-accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case who is also lodged at the prison hospital at Taloja Central jail, informed senior advocate Mihir Desai that Mr. Rao’s health was “fast deteriorating.” Ms. Jaisingh said Mr. Rao has dementia, is bedridden and kept in diapers due to incontinence. His catheters are not changed because of which he has developed urinary tract infection, Ms. Jaisingh said, adding that conditions of his detention are “cruel, inhuman and degrading.” The petition argued that there is a legitimate concern that the Telugu poet may lose his life and it will be a custodial death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctors-told-to-examine-varavara-rao-on-video/article33088752.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A-G clears contempt action against Kunal Kamra||“I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. But under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt... I believe it is time people understand that attacking the Supreme Court unjustifiedly and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Court Act,” Mr. Venugopal observed in his consent letter. A resident of Aurangabad, Shrirang Katneshwarkar, had sought Mr. Venugopal’s permission to initiate contempt proceedings against Mr. Kamra. The A-G has issued identical consent letters to other separate requests. ‘Gross insinuation’ The tweets were based on the Supreme Court order granting interim bail to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. One of the tweets shows a picture of the court building swathed in saffron colour with the BJP flag flying atop it. The A-G said this tweet was a “gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India”. It insinuated that “the Supreme Court is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, the BJP, existing for the BJP’s benefit”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-g-clears-contempt-action-against-kunal-kamra/article33089354.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A-G clears contempt action against Kunal Kamra||The tweets were based on the Supreme Court order granting interim bail to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. One of the tweets shows a picture of the court building swathed in saffron colour with the BJP flag flying atop it. The A-G said that this tweet was a “gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India”. It insinuated that “the Supreme Court is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, the BJP, existing for the BJP’s benefit”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-g-clears-contempt-action-against-kunal-kamra/article33089385.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Extend time for objections: TPCC panel||The Election Coordination Committee of the Telangana Congress has urged State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi to extend the date for receiving objections to the publishing of polling station so that they can be discussed in the all-party meeting planned by the SEC on November 16. The last date for objections is Nov. 17 and how can parties discuss the issues to be raised that come after the meeting, TPCC leaders Marri Shashidhar Reddy and G. Niranjan asked in a statement here and demanded the same be extended by two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extend-time-for-objections-tpcc-panel/article33089423.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Dentist dies of cardiac issue||Behjath Hussain, a dentist, who had been kidnapped for ransom by his relatives and rescued by Cyberabad police two weeks ago, died of massive heart stroke on Wednesday. Rajendra Nagar Assistant Commissioner of Police K Ashok Chakravarthy said that for the past one week the dentist had not been keeping well and two days ago he was admitted in a private hospital. "On Wednesday morning, he suffered massive heart and died while he was being taken to a hospital," he said. His funeral was performed by the family members at a graveyard in Hussaini Alam area in the old city. On October 27, the dentist, who was also a realtor, was kidnapped for a ransom of Rs. 10 crore in bitcoins. When rescued, Hussain’s nails were cut and injuries were found on his face and head. Over 12 teams consisting of over 100 police personnel were pressed into action to trace and rescue Dr. Hussain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dentist-dies-of-cardiac-issue/article33089461.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,||Money in locker was for Sivasankar: ED||The bail application of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act was posted for orders on November 17 by a trial court here on Thursday. The accused was remanded in Enforcement Directorate custody (ED) till then. Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, key accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, are the other accused in the case. As the case came up for hearing, S.V. Raju, Additional Solicitor General of India, submitted that the money found in the bank lockers of Swapna Suresh was the kickback meant for Sivasankar. Representing the ED, Mr. Raju said the agency initially thought that the money was proceeds of the crime of gold smuggling through the UAE diplomatic channel. The agency said it arrived at such a conclusion after being misled by the accused. However, investigations revealed that the money was part of the commission for the LIFE Mission housing project meant for Sivasankar. The agency submitted evidences in a sealed cover to the court. The agency requested the court not to record the contents of the materials submitted in the sealed cover in its order. However, the court could use the materials to appreciate them and satisfy its conscience, the Additional Solicitor General argued. Defence argument Appearing for the accused, senior lawyer B. Raman Pillai and S. Rajeev argued that there was nothing on record to prove the allegations against Sivasankar. There were only vague and imaginary allegations against him and the investigation agency was moving ahead with some intentions to target someone in the case. The defence lawyers said Sivasankar had no connections with the implementation of the KFON and Smart City projects, which were executed independently. They also questioned the arguments of the agency that the official had called a Customs official for the release of a diplomatic baggage at the request of Swapna. If the allegations were true, the ED would have identified the official, collected the statements and verified the call data records, which were never done, they submitted. Kauser Edappagath, Principal District and Sessions Judge considering the case, also directed that Sivasankar be given Ayurvedic treatment for his backache.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/money-in-locker-was-for-sivasankar-ed/article33088731.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Chirag to go on yatra to thank voters||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan will take out a ‘Dhanyavad Yatra’ in the last week of November to thank voters for supporting his ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ campaign. The party made the announcement on Thursday, two days after the Bihar Assembly election results were declared. The party won the Matihani seat by a margin of 333 votes, while it was on second position in nine others. “This was the first time our party decided to go solo in the elections. And we got love and support of 25 lakh Bihari voters for our agenda of ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’. I will be visiting each district of the State, to thank the people,” Mr. Paswan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chirag-to-go-on-yatra-to-thank-voters/article33088743.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Postmen to help with life certificates||The Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions on Thursday introduced a chargeable doorstep service for submission of Digital Life Certificate (DLC) through postmen, bringing relief to lakhs of Central government pensioners. The India Post Payments Bank of the Department of Posts and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) have launched the initiative of the Department of Pension & Pensioners’ Welfare (DoPPW). The facility to submit life certificate online via Jeevan Pramaan Portal was launched in November 2014. “In order to make this facility available across the country, DoPPW roped in the India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) and utilised its huge network of postmen and gramin dak sevaks in providing doorstep facility to pensioners,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/postmen-to-help-with-life-certificates/article33088744.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||Kochhar’s bail plea rejected||The special PMLA court on Thursday rejected the bail petition filed by businessman Deepak Kochhar, husband of former MD and CEO of ICICI Bank Chanda Kochhar. Special judge P.R. Rajvaidya, who rejected the application for bail, however adjourned for prosecution to reply to the plea on merits on November 23. Mr. Kochhar was arrested by ED on September 7 on charges of money laundering. The case pertains to the deals between Videocon Group and the Bank. The ED has relied upon an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation in 2019. Advocate Vijay Agarwal, appearing for Mr. Kochhar, had argued that the chargesheet filed in the case was submitted in the registry and not filed in court. Therefore the court had not taken cognisance of the same, which made Mr. Kochhar’s remand “illegal.” The CBI FIR had charged Mr. Kochhar with cheating and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kochhars-plea-rejected/article33088751.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Tiger could be from Maharashtra’||Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Forces R.Sobha has categorically denied the reports that it was the doing of a resident tiger K8 in Kagaznagar forest division. K8 is a female, moving in Penchikalpet area as per the camera trap images, while the pug marks were of a male tiger. “The tigers staying in Adilabad and Asifabad forests are of very calm nature. They only kill herbivore wild animals and cattle. They are not under any stress,” she said. While Maharashtra has several tigers which have repeatedly attacked and killed human beings, officials are yet to confirm the feline as one among them. A tiger can be declared man-eater only after repeated kills, they say. In the present case, it is not confirmed if the animal was stalking its victim before charging. “It could have been accidental too. The man was collecting leaves and seeing him in bent position, the tiger might have mistaken him to be another animal,” says an official under the condition of anonymity. In any case, as the animal had consumed part of the body before being disturbed, efforts are on full swing to monitor its movements, and capture it. Two trap cages with baits have been placed at the areas it is frequenting, along with 23 camera traps. Snapshot of the purported tiger, taken on a mobile phone, is doing rounds in the surrounding villages, but forest officials have refused to confirm it as the same animal. The family of the victim will be handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh compensation on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tiger-could-be-from-maharashtra/article33089425.ece
13 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Journalist assaulted by pradhan’s family in U.P.||A local journalist in Lalitpur was allegedly assaulted by the family of a village pradhan after he raised questions about the illegal use of machines for MNREGA work instead of employing labourers. Vinay Tiwari, who runs news portal Bundelkhand Times TV, had his hand and leg fractured in the assault and was left with bruises all over his body. Police said they have booked the local gram pradhan, her husband and three sons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/journalist-assaulted-by-pradhans-family-in-up/article33089119.ece
13 November 2020||FARIDABAD,||Nikita murder case to be heard on daily basis||The Faridabad Sessions Judge has directed hearing on a day-to-day basis by the Special Court for Heinous Crimes Against Women in the Nikita murder case. The area magistrate has also been directed to complete the commitment proceedings in the case at the earliest possible date. Nikita, 20, was shot point-blank allegedly by her former schoolmate Tausif outside a college on October 26. She died during treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nikita-murder-case-to-be-heard-on-daily-basis/article33088759.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fifth Scorpene, Vagir, launched into water||The fifth Scorpene conventional submarine, Vagir, being built by the Mazagon Docks Ltd. with technology transfer from France was launched into water on Thursday. Work would now commence on Vagir for setting various equipment. After harbour acceptance trials and sea-acceptance trials, it will be delivered to the Navy,” a Navy statement said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fifth-scorpene-vagir-launched-into-water/article33088750.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Twitter seeks time till Nov. end to resolve Leh issue||In the wake of a notice by the Government of India for showing Leh as part of Jammu and Kashmir instead of the Union Territory of Ladakh, Twitter has sought time till November end to resolve the issue,    The Hindu has learnt. On November 9, the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) sent a notice to Twitter’s global vice-president on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitter-seeks-time-till-nov-end-to-resolve-leh-issue/article33088755.ece
13 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Top ULFA (I) leader surrenders in Meghalaya||The most wanted leader of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent or ULFA (I) after its fugitive chief Paresh Baruah has surrendered. Drishti Rajkhowa alias Manoj Rabha, the deputy commander-in-chief of ULFA (I) approached the Army at Dilsengre village in Meghalaya’s South Garo Hills district on Wednesday.  In a statement, Baruah said his deputy “was allowed to surrender because his wife was suffering from cancer and needs his company”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-ulfa-i-leader-surrenders-in-meghalaya/article33088758.ece
13 November 2020||Jaipur,||Gujjar protesters in Rajasthan vacate railway tracks||Gujjar protesters demanding reservation in jobs and education vacated the railway tracks at Peelupura in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district on Thursday after having occupied them for 11 days. The stir was called off on Wednesday night after an agreement was signed with the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujjar-protesters-in-rajasthan-vacate-railway-tracks/article33089345.ece
13 November 2020||Kolkata,||Stones hurled at Bengal BJP president’s convoy||The convoy of West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and other leaders was attacked in north Bengal’s Alipurduar district as protesters pelted stones at the vehicles the leaders were travelling in triggering protests in Kolkata and other districts. Along with Mr. Ghosh’s vehicle, the vehicle in which Kalchini MLA Wilson Champamari was travelling also was damaged. Protesters waved black flags as the convoy passed by in Jaigaon area of the district. While it is not clear who was behind the attack, the BJP leadership blamed the Trinamool Congress for it. “Desperate TMC and their desperate goons’ violent attacks on me won’t be able to stop the BJP wave in Paschim Banga. No #PoliticalTerrorism can stop the people’s wave in 2021,” Mr. Ghosh said on social media, sharing a video of the incident. In the video, police and security personnel can be seen lined up on the roads as people waved black flags. Mr. Ghosh also said attacks on him are nothing new and such incidents show that Bengal’s ruling party is fast losing support. Sourav Chakraborty, TMC leader from north Bengal and president of Alipurduar district unit, said Mr. Ghosh was trying to foment trouble in north Bengal and none of his party activists was involved in the incident. Another party leader and Bengal Minister Firhad Hakim said TMC does not believe in politics of violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stones-hurled-at-bengal-bjp-presidents-convoy/article33088975.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy work to be outsourced in more areas||Greater Chennai Corporation is set to hand over conservancy operations in north Chennai to Ramky Enviro Engineers, a private entity, next week. The private entity will start work in Tiruvottiyur, Manali and Madhavaram in January, said officials. Private conservancy work had gained momentum with the launch of operations by another private operator, Urbaser, in the Teynampet zone, this week. Work in Kodambakkam zone will begin on November 30. Work in the Adyar zone was started a month ago. The major changes in the new system of conservancy operations include battery-operated vehicles, closure of transfer stations and door-to-door collection. Private conservancy operations will be done by at least 125 compactors, to collect garbage from bins placed along various streets. As many as 10,704 bins will be placed along the 17,149 streets for garbage clearance. “We will clean 1,076 km of roads using mechanical sweepers. At least 3,673 sweepers will clean 2,752 km of streets,” said a Corporation official. Residents of the Teynampet zone said they had been asked to stop dumping waste in bins. “The workers will collect waste from each house,” said a resident. S. Mangala Raj, former councillor, said waste had started accumulating along the roads, owing to inadequate coordination between new workers and officials. Many autorickshaw drivers who lost their source of income have joined the private conservancy operator, driving batter-operated vehicles. Conservancy workers, however, said that many drivers of compactors had been asked to work for over 10 hours because of the new system of transporting garbage directly to the Perungudi dumpyard. But senior civic officials said the civic body would continue transporting garbage directly to the dumpyard. Private conservancy operations in Alandur, Perungudi, Sholinganallur and Valasaravakkam will start on December 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-work-to-be-outsourced-in-more-areas/article33089381.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||33 districts report under 100 fresh cases||For the third consecutive day, 33 of the 37 districts reported less than 100 fresh COVID-19 cases each as 2,112 more persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. Four districts, including Chennai, accounted for nearly half of the fresh infections. With 565 fresh cases, Chennai’s overall case tally stood at 2,07,173. Coimbatore continued to report less than 200 cases. As many as 190 persons tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 45,875. Chengalpattu reported 148 cases, while Tiruvallur had 120 cases. Among the 33 districts, Kancheepuram recorded 97 cases, while there were 81 cases in Tiruppur. Salem and Erode had 66 and 65 cases respectively. Ten districts, including Tenkasi and Theni, had less than 20 cases each. As many as 2,347 persons were discharged after treatment and 25 persons died (12 at private hospitals and 13 at government hospitals). So far, a total of 7,22,686 persons have been discharged and 11,440 persons have died in the State. The State’s case tally stood at 7,52,521. A total of 18,395 persons were under treatment. Of the fatalities, six persons died in Chennai, five in Kancheepuram and two in Madurai. Among them was a 38-year-old woman from Kancheepuram who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on November 8. She had no co-morbidities. She died on November 10 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Two persons in their 40s who did not have co-morbidities also died. A 45-year-old man died at the Tiruvannamalai Medical College Hospital on November 10 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, lower lobe consolidation and respiratory failure. A 48-year-old woman from Chengalpattu died at a private hospital in Chennai owing to COVID-19 pneumonia on November 12. As many as 77,356 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Till date, 1,08,63,921 samples were tested in the State. Another private laboratory — Molecular Biology Lab, Sri Venkateswara Hospitals, Tiruchi — was approved for testing. With this, there are 142 testing facilities in the private sector and 66 in the government sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-districts-report-under-100-fresh-cases/article33088876.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two Union Ministers to join ‘Vetrivel Yatra’, says State BJP||Ramping up pressure on the Tamil Nadu government, the State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday said Union Minister Sadananda Gowda and Minister of State V. Muraleedharan will participate in the Vetrivel Yatra on November 22 and 23 respectively. The MP and BJP youth wing president Tejasvi Surya will take part in the rally in Kanniyakumari on December 2. State BJP president L. Murugan said party national general secretary Purandeswari would also participate in one of the rallies. An invitation had been sent to BJP national president J.P. Nadda for the yatra’s culmination at Tiruchendur on December 6, he added. The State government has not given permission for the yatra citing COVID-19 as the reason but Minister  Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan asked who would be held responsible if some terrorists attacked the yatra. “The BJP has fought against Emergency. We have won against ruling parties in many States. The Vetrivel Yatra will continue whatever be the obstacles,” Mr. Murugan said. Mr. Murugan questioned why COVID-19 was cited as a reason for denying permission for the yatra while only cases had been filed against the DMK for holding rallies, and the Congress was also allowed to hold rallies. “They are not being arrested. In fact, in meetings the CM participates, thousands are going. Why is only the BJP being stopped?” he asked. When asked why the AIADMK, its alliance partner, was not giving permission for the BJP, Mr. Murugan said it was the Tamil Nadu government which had not given permission. When the contradiction was pointed out, he said the government comprised various officials.  ‘We will face it’ The BJP Mahila Morcha national president, Vanathi Srinivasan, said in Coimbatore on Thursday that the yatra will continue despite many of its leadersbeing detained by the policefor violating orders. “We shall continue to do our duty. If the government files a case, we will face it,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-ministers-will-participate-in-vetrivel-yatra-says-bjp/article33088895.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD embarks on new mission to streamline city’s water supply||With its avowed mission of making Chennai a water-resilient city, the Water Resources Department proposes to augment water supply by conserving nearly 7.26 tmc ft of water and prevent flooding of several areas. It has submitted a detailed project report seeking World Bank funding under the Chennai City Partnership Programme. The 17 projects chalked out by the department are set to address the twin issues of droughts and floods experienced by the city. The projects, with a combined outlay of Rs. 464 crore, will cover the Adyar, Cooum and Kosasthalaiyar river basins. One of the key projects is to build a barrage across the Adyar near Thiruneermalai and provide headwork to pump water and transfer it to Chembarambakkam treatment plant, the reservoir or to the Sikkarayapuram abandoned quarries where water is stored for city supply. Moreover, flood water from southern tributaries of the Adyar stored in Orathur reservoir and check dams across the river in Varadarajapuram and Somangalam would be linked to Chembarambakkam through this infrastructure. “We will be able to augment city water supply by up to 2 tmc ft through this project alone. The water pumped would be sent to Chembarambakkam or Sikkarayapuram through a 6.5-km-long pipeline,” said an official. Based on the model study, the department planned to boost water supply and mitigate floods through various strategies such as intra-basin transfer, construction of barrages or riverine reservoirs, improving storage capacity of tanks and conservation of flood water in rivers. For instance, construction of barrage across the Palar near Padalam-Udayambakkam and Chengalpattu would help conserve one tmcft of flood water and divert it for Chennai’s water needs. Some of the dilapidated check dams in the Kosasthalaiyar and Cooum rivers, including in Velliyur and Sorancheri respectively, would be reconstructed for groundwater recharge. “We will be able to enhance groundwater potential and tap 180 million litres a day through well fields in the region near Kosasthalaiyar through the proposed projects,” another official said. Moreover, restoring storage capacity of a cascade group of tanks, including Tiruninravur, Thandurai and Sekkadu, would help surplus water reach the water body in Retteri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wrd-embarks-on-new-mission-to-streamline-citys-water-supply/article33089372.ece
13 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Woman inspector shares shooting prize with senior||Lakshmi, Inspector of Police, and A. Amalraj, Additional Commissioner of Police, Headquarters, bagged the first prize in a shooting competition held here on Wednesday. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal came second. The Tamil Nadu Police Operations unit conducted the shooting competition for officers up to the rank inspector of police, at Marutham Campus, Raja Annamalaipuram.  Three categories The competition had three categories: 10 feet, 15 feet and 20 feet. As many as 536 officers from different units such as law and order, crime, traffic, armed reserve, intelligence section, CCB, SCP and modern control room participated. Amalraj, Additional Commissioner of Police, Headquarters and Lakshmi, Inspector of Police, W-21 Guindy All Women Police, won the first prize, Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Commissioner of Police, won the second prize and R. Sudhakar, Joint Commissioner of Police (East Zone), won the third prize. The competition was conducted in the presence of A.K. Viswanathan, Additional Director General of Police (Operations), Jeyachandran, Superintendent of Police (Operations) and other officers. Mr. Aggarwal gave away the prizes to winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-inspector-shares-shooting-prize-with-senior/article33089567.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK, CPI(M) slam varsity decision to withdraw Arundhati Roy’s book||The DMK and the CPI (M) on Thursday condemned the decision of the Manonmaniam Sundaranar Universityto remove writer Arundhati Roy’s bookfrom the syllabus prescribed for M.A. English literature students following objections from the Akhil Bharthiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and others. “It is an attempt to saffronise education and a mindset against alternative views,” DMK deputy general secretary and former Minister A. Raja said. The university, on Wednesday, removed the book, ‘Walking with the Comrades’, in the wake of objections raised by the ABVP. The book was based on Ms. Roy’s visit to Maoist hideouts and camps in forest areas. “Is Mr. Pitchumani, the Vice-Chancellor, following in the footsteps of Anna University Vice-Chancellor Surappa, who imposed the Bhagavad Gita in place of Tirukkural in the syllabus,” Mr. Raja asked in a statement. He also wondered how Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would justify the decision of succumbing to pressure from “the student wing of the BJP”, since the Higher Education Department was in the hands of the State government. Mr .Raja said though it was left to the Vice-Chancellor and educationists to decide the curriculum, it should be noted that the book was part of the syllabus since 2017 and was only withdrawn following pressure from the ABVP. “The ABVP that forced Delhi University to withdraw A.K. Ramanujan’s book on Ramayana has extended its tentacles till Tirunelveli. By removing the book, the postgraduate students have been denied the opportunity to learn literature and history from different backgrounds,” he charged. He said it was an extension of the communal forces’ design to brand their rivals as urban naxals and anti-Indians. “Actually, the communal forces are against the pluralistic nature of the country. Students have to learn and unlearn about Hitler and Idi Ameen, and such efforts would improve their intelligence,” he said. DMK women’s wing leader and MP Kanimozhi said, “If politics is going to decide what is art, literature, culture and curriculum, it is very dangerous for the pluralistic society.” CPI (M) MP Su. Venkatesan demanded the withdrawal of the decision to remove the book, saying a curriculum should be decided only by the syllabus committee, standing committee and the senate of the university.  If politics is going to decide what is art, literature, culture and curriculum, it is very dangerous for the pluralistic society Kanimozhi,Member of Parliament||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-cpim-slam-varsity-decision-to-withdraw-arundhati-roys-book/article33088889.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘34,427 applications received for 4,061 MBBS seats’||With 34,427 applications received for 4,061 MBBS seats, counselling will be conducted in a vast area like Nehru Indoor Stadium in compliance with the COVID-19 precautionary norms of masking and maintaining physical distance, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Thursday. “November 12 was the last date for submission of applications for admission to MBBS. As many as 34,427 students have applied for 4,061 seats. As per the plan, we will release the merit list on November 16 and counselling will begin on November 18 or 19. It will start with the special counselling, followed by 7.5% quota for NEET-qualified government school students,” he told reporters. Should any correction of small errors be required in the uploaded applications, the candidates could send a mail to the selection committee, he said. Applications would not be rejected because of small errors. Why offline When asked why the counselling was being held offline instead of online in view of the pandemic, he said, “Every year, the counselling is held offline. We install LED screens. Students attend it in person along with a parent. Guidance on selection of college is provided. In-person counselling will be apt for medical admission but we will ensure that all appropriate norms are followed during the pandemic. We will have it in a big place like Nehru Indoor Stadium with masking and physical distancing. This is not going to be an unplanned crowd. We will have 500 persons attending the session according to a schedule for a day,” he said. Stalin’s demand Mr. Vijayabaskar said Leader of the Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin demanded that the counselling be held online. “But last time, he had said there were issues with nativity certificates and chances of impersonation,” he said. To prevent such incidents, special teams were set up for verification of certificates. “They will check the nativity certificate, the community certificate, and the other certificates in the case of government school students. We will conduct the counselling in a transparent way,” he said. Around 395 students of government schools would gain admission to MBBS and BDS — 304 to MBBS and 91 to BDS, he said. There were chances of new seats being added. The Minister said that the Chief Minister had sanctioned Rs. 103 crore to strengthen the 108 ambulance network with 500 new vehicles. The second batch of new ambulances — numbering 108 — was flagged off on Thursday. “The number of ambulances has increased from 958 to 1,300 in the State. A total of 2,92,723 COVID-19 patients were shifted to hospitals in the ambulances. During the pandemic, the ambulance services continued uninterrupted and admitted 7,96,984 persons, including pregnant women and persons injured in accidents, to hospitals,” he said. Response time The aim was to reduce the response time to less than 10 minutes in Chennai. “As per the international standards, the response time is eight minutes. Now the 108 ambulance network’s response time in metros like Chennai is 8.03 minutes. We will be adding 200 ambulances and will reach the international standard in two months,” he said. Mr. Vijayabaskar added that a software was being readied to enable people to track the arrival of ambulances. “This will be like the GPS system in the ride-hailing services in which people can track the vehicles on their Android mobile phones. We will bring the software to use soon, and through this, people can track the ambulances through a mobile application and need not make multiple calls in case of an accident,” he said.  Should any correction of small errors be required in the uploaded applications, the candidates could send a mail to the selection committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34427-applications-received-for-4061-mbbs-seats/article33088878.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK creates three more district units||The AIADMK on Thursday announced the re-organisation of three more district units. In Tiruppur, where the party till now had two districts units, one more had been formed. Tiruppur (rural) had been divided into two – west and east. Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman, who was the secretary for the undivided Tiruppur (rural) unit, had been shifted to Tiruppur (urban) while Animal Husbandry Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan and former MP. C. Mahendran would be in charge of Tiruppur (rural–west) and Tiruppur (rural–east) respectively. Former Minister M.S.M. Anandan, who was the secretary for Tiruppur (urban) until now, had been made an organisation secretary of the party. Other districts that had been bifurcated were Pudukottai (north & south) and Virudhunagar (west and east). P.K. Vairamuthu, the secretary of the undivided Pudukottai district unit, would now look after Pudukottai (south) and Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Pudukottai (north). Dairy Development Minister,K. T. Rajenthira Bhalaji, who was in charge of the Virudhunagar district since July, had been made secretary of the Virdhunagar (west) unit while E. Ravichandran, secretary of the Narikudi (east) panchayat union, would look after Virudhunagar (east). Till March this year, the Dairy Development Minister was the secretary of the undivided district unit. With this, the number of district units in the AIADMK have gone up to 73. Following the death of Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu who was secretary of the Thanjavur (north) unit, R. Vaithilingam, deputy coordinator and secretary of Thanjavur (south), had been given the additional charge of the other unit. The party also named office-bearers for the party’s labour wing, non-formal drivers’ wing, women’s wing and advocates’ wing. Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar, who was the secretary of Anna Thozhirsanga Peravai (ATP), had been relieved of the post, which would be handled by R. Kamalakannan, till now secretary of the non-formal drivers’ wing. Poll panel The party also announced the formation of committees for election manifesto, poll campaign, interaction with the media, preparation of responses to charges of the Opposition and the media coordinators. Also, it divided the State into 29 zones and appointed point persons for each. Sixteen Ministers, including K.A. Sengottaiyan, K. Pandiarajan, D. Jayakumar and C.Ve. Shanmugam, were among the 29 point persons. For Puducherry, Mettur legislator S. Semmalai and Industries Minister M. C. Sampath had been made point persons. Meanwhile, the Puducherry unit too had been divided into two – east and west. Legislator A. Anbalagan would handle the east unit and Om Sakthi Sekar, the west unit. All the announcements were made in releases issued by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami (co-coordinator) and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam (coordinator).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-creates-three-more-district-units/article33089384.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of Deepavali, hawkers look to return to Koyambedu||The Tamil Nadu Street Vending Workers’ Federation has demanded that hawkers be allowed to set shops in and around Koyambedu market from Friday ahead of Deepavali. Many members sent e-posts to the Chief Minister and the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority about their demands at Anna Road Head Post Office on Wednesday. Though trade has returned to normalcy at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex, semi-wholesalers and retailers will only be able to reopen shops only after Deepavali. The federation’s State general secretary V. Mageshvaran said about 1,000 hawkers who were dependent on the market had been without jobs for the past seven months. They looked forward to the festival sales. “The State government must allow them to work for two days from Friday either around the market or allot a separate space inside with social distancing norms. They were not given any alternate space when the market was closed,” he said. The Greater Chennai Corporation has given identity cards to nearly 24,000 street vendors. The federation also demanded Deepavali compensation of Rs. 5,000 . There are over 6 lakh hawkers across the State. Open on Friday Meanwhile, wholesalers in Koyambedu have announced that the weekly holiday has been shifted to Sunday to enable festival sales. This week, the market will function on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-deepavali-hawkers-look-to-return-to-koyambedu/article33089564.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suburban train services increased||The Southern Railway has increased the number of suburban services from 154 to 204. This comes in the wake of the Chennai division relaxing the norms for commuters in the workmen suburban specials. A senior official of the Southern Railway said since the workmen special trains were introduced for essential staff and State government employees from October 5, relaxations had been announced for accommodating more categories of commuters by adding organisations which included educational institutions, advocates, social service organisations, print and electronic media to the list of essential services. The relaxation will come into effect from Friday. New circular Now, four more types of organisations have been added to the list and therefore the number of suburban services have been increased. As per the new circular, agencies dealing with manufacturing, transportation, supply and other services, workers engaged in operation and maintenance of public amenities, companies providing ancillary and collaborative services linked to essential services and those working in establishments dealing in health and fitness services can commute by the special train services. The Southern Railway would permit passengers holding long distance journey tickets either originating or terminating in the city and passengers having air tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suburban-train-services-to-go-up-from-154-to-204/article33089378.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Musicians to pay tribute to T.N. Krishnan||Leading Carnatic and Hindustani musicians will come together from 9 p.m. on Sunday evening to pay their tributes to violin maestro T.N. Krishnan, who passed away recently. SPIC MACAY’s ‘Krishnanjali’, which will be streamed live on it’s YouTube channel, will feature performances by renowned musicians, including mridangist Umayalpuram Sivaraman, Carnatic vocalists S. Sowmya and T.M. Krishna, Bharatanatyam guru Padma Subrahmanyam, Hindustani vocalists Ajoy Chakraborty and Shruti Sadolikar, and violinist Kala Ramnath. The maestro’s children, Sriram Krishnan and Viji Krishnan, will also be paying their tributes. Renowned sarod player Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, Hindustani violinist N. Rajam, and Bharatanatyam danseuse and actor Vyjayanthimala Bali will be sharing their experiences. Apart from notable names from the music fraternity, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Edappadi K. Palaniswami; Chairman of Kasturi & Sons, the holding company of The Hindu Group, N. Ravi; Member Secretary of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts Sachchidanand Joshi; and SPIC MACAY founder Kiran Seth, will also be addressing the viewers. While his role in the development of Indian classical music is unparalleled, his involvement in SPIC MACAY has also been exemplary, said Mr. Seth, who fondly remembered T.N. Krishnan as one of the few artists who would not perform for money or fame, but for the journey within. He was associated with the movement for four decades. Through the concert, SPIC MACAY will pay homage to the beloved music legend and his priceless contribution to Indian classical music. The concert will end with a rendition of Raga Sindhu Bhairavi , performed by T.N. Krishnan in one of his chamber concerts, said a press release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/musicians-to-pay-tribute-to-tn-krishnan-this-sunday/article33089382.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Include creating awareness against substance abuse in curricula’||Prevention of substance abuse must be a part of school and college curriculum to mitigate the growing problem of addiction. Generating awareness among people and proper recreation are other important factors to prevent substance abuse, said C. Ponnaiyan, vice-chairman of the State Development Policy Council (SDPC), at a webinar organised on Wednesday. Solving the issue The webinar on ‘Preventive Health Strategies-Tackling Substance Abuse including Narcotic Drugs and Alcohol’ discussed measures to alleviate addiction-related health and social issues. Mr. Ponnaiyan noted that substance abuse is a major threat that could push families into poverty. He recommended the establishment of more de-addiction centres and the latest medication for the rehabilitation of the patients. Stakeholders’ view Representatives from various stakeholder departments and experts made presentations. Atul Anand, member secretary, SDPC, participated. The webinar covered various topics including medical treatment and counselling of the victims. Detailed recommendations would be submitted to the State government, according to the press release.  Substance abuse is a major threat that can push families into poverty C. Ponnaiyan Vice-chairman, SDPC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-awareness-of-substance-abuse-in-school-college-curriculum/article33088858.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Will automobile sector regain its mojo this festive season?||The Hindu Group will organise a webinar on the topic ‘Will the automobile sector regain its mojo this festive season?’, as part of its ongoing campaign, on Friday at 11 a.m. The webinar is a part of Conversations, a series being organised as part of The Hindu Group’s ‘Tamil Nadu Smiling’ campaign. It aims to bring together various stakeholders, including traders, retail organisations and government authorities, to find ways to emerge from the impact of the pandemic. The third webinar will focus on the significance of the automotive sector to boost the Indian economy. The sector accounts for 7% of the country’s GDP and it started to slow down before the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic accelerated the downfall. After the lockdown was lifted, automotive sales began to revive, especially in the rural areas. Experts from the automobile industry will discuss whether the sector has regained its form and address questions such as “Is it the harbinger to India’s return to a faster economic growth?” at the webinar. Santosh Iyer, vice president, sales and marketing, Mercedes-Benz India; Narayan Sundararaman, head of marketing, Bajaj Auto Limited; and D. Arulselvan, executive vice president and chief financial officer at Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company Limited, will discuss the topic, along with G. Balachandar, senior assistant editor, The Hindu BusinessLine .  To register for free, scan the QR code or WhatsApp ‘Conversations’ to 8939 283 283.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-automobile-sector-regain-its-mojo-this-festive-season/article33088885.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM discusses Punchhi panel report with Ministers, officials||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami chaired a meeting of Ministers and senior officers in the Secretariat here on Thursday to discuss the recommendations of the Punchhi Commission on Centre-State relations. The meeting also discussed recommendations of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on the Centre-State relations. Officials said the Punchhi Commission report in multiple volumes was submitted in March 2010 and the State governments had in 2017 expressed their stand on the recommendations made in the report. “Few issues were discussed in the meeting on Thursday. It was more of an administrative exercise,” officials said. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials were present. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister flagged off 108 new ambulances from the Secretariat. Mr. Palaniswami also unveiled new buildings constructed for a school run by the Delhi Tamil Education Association in Mayur Vihar in Delhi, via video conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-discusses-punchhi-panel-report-with-ministers-officials/article33088897.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police map streets susceptible to waterlogging in north Chennai||Police personnel in Chennai are going beyond their call of duty during the northeast monsoon. In a bid to ensure hassle-free commuting for motorists and to prevent water-logging in north Chennai, the police have coordinated with different government departments and have done a geographic information system (GIS) mapping of localities where inundation is common. The north zone police have mapped more than 76 streets in the Madhavaram, Flower Bazaar and Washermenpet police zones, where waterlogging during the previous monsoon. “Every time there is a downpour, it is often the policemen on the road who try to clear the stagnant water, before the Greater Chennai Corporation staff come so that motorists do not suffer. So it is important for us to maintain a database of infrastructure and help available in the locality to solve the problem,” said a senior police officer. The police have identified 21 water-logging spots in Flower Bazaar district, 33 in Washermanpet district and 22 in Madhavaram district and have mapped them using GIS. Some locations identified in the three police districts are: Prakasam Salai, Walltax Road, NSC Bose Road, Mannady Metro, Stanley Subway, Maniappan Street, Ambedkar Nagar, Patel Nagar, T.H. Road-Periyar Nagar Junction, G.N.T. Road, Madurai Manavalan Nagar and Manali Express Road. “We have identified the number of manholes in each place, points where traffic diversions will be required, number of pumps, super suckers and fire service vehicles available to remove the water. Our personnel will coordinate with officials from GCC, Fire and Rescue Services and even private mechanics to move stranded vehicles. The map can be updated,” said V. Balakrishnan, Joint Commissioner of Police, North Zone. The mapping of police quarters and stations that face frequent water-logging has been done. “We have identified 15 of them and out of them, Sathangadu police station and Kondithope police quarters saw some water-logging during the 2015 rains,” added a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-map-streets-prone-to-waterlogging-in-city/article33089369.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers welcome government’s move; clarity sought on reduction of syllabus||With the State government announcing on Thursday that schools will not be reopened on November 16, as had been announced, teachers have sought clarity regarding the proposed syllabus reduction, as well as the rest of the academic year, for Class 12 students in particular. “While we welcome the decision, keeping in mind the health of the students, there needs to be some solution for government school students who are unable to access content or classes online. Since students of Class 12 have laptops, we appeal to the State government to provide them with data packs for the same,” said P.K. Ilamaran, president, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association. . While the State government had proposed a reduction in syllabus, there has been no further guidelines on the same. “For students upto Class 10, directions on portions that have been reduced will immensely benefit the teachers taking online classes,” said K. Vasudevan, chairman, Prince Matriculation Higher Secondary School. Teachers are concerned about students taking the Class 12 board exams in 2021. “A reduction in portions will not be feasible for them since they need to study the entire syllabus to perform well in competitive exams. We are hoping that we are allowed to hold guidance sessions, at schools, soon, at least for students of Class 12,” a teacher from Chennai said. Free coaching classes The School Education Department began free online coaching classes for students of government and aided schools earlier this week and around 14,000 students have signed up for it. “The Tamil Nadu government should appeal to the Central government and ask for clarity on competitive exams scheduled for 2021, with regard to the syllabus for them. Keeping in mind this academic year, the curriculum for competitive exams such as NEET and JEE too should be reduced,” said Patric Raymond of the Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Federation. After the government made an announcement regarding reopening schools for Classes 9 to 12, from November 16, many teachers and activists had pointed out that there could be safety concerns since this was right after Deepavali. Schools have remained shut in the State since March and for the 2020-21 academic year, private schools have been conducting classes online. The government’sKalvi TVhas been telecasting lessons too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-welcome-governments-move-clarity-sought-on-reduction-of-syllabus/article33088871.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tree plantation drive launched to honour SPB||In honour of late playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, the Exnora in partnership with S.P.B. Charitable Foundation has launched a tree plantation challenge and adoption of Konetampettai. The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, launched the Exnora SPB Tree Challenge and the adoption of the legend’s native village Konetampettai. The programme was marked by planting of saplings in Amir Mahal by the Prince of Arcot, along with Nawabzada Mohammed Asif Ali, Dewan to the Prince of Arcot, the legendary singer’s daughter Pallavi Girdhar, Chairman of Exnora A.R. Reihana, Exnora Founder M.B. Nirmal and advisor to Greater Chennai Youth Exnora, Sudhakar Raja, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tree-plantation-drive-launched-to-honour-spb/article33089373.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Law and order well maintained in city, says Commissioner||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Thursday said law and order is well maintained in the city. Talking to presspersons, Mr. Aggarwal said, “The city is very peaceful and law and order is well maintained. It will continue to be well maintained. If anyone commits any wrong, they will be handled as per the law”. Mr. Aggarwal inaugurated the modern LED signal near CMBT in Koyambedu. He said the modern LED signal was introduced near Gandhi Square on Kamarajar Salai on a pilot basis a couple of months ago. Following good response from the public, another signal has been established in Koyambedu for the free flow of traffic. He also said the State government has been operating special buses to clear the Deepavali rush from CMBT and four temporary bus stands in the city. On Thursday alone, over 1.5 lakh passengers utilised the services, he said. Mr. Aggarwal said over 3,000 traffic police personnel and those from the Armed Reserve Police have been deployed to regulate traffic in the city. Law and order police personnel have been asked to assist them, he said.  If anyone commits any wrong, they will be handled as per the law||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/law-and-order-well-maintained-in-city-says-commissioner/article33089375.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Emergency response system tested at MAPS||A site emergency exercise was held at the Madras Atomic Power Station (MAPS) near here on Wednesday as part of its emergency preparedness plan. “The objective of this exercise was to check the preparedness of the Kalpakkam DAE Centre and the plant management in meeting any remote emergency situation. However, such an occurrence was most unlikely in a nuclear power plant because of the “Defence in Depth” approach followed for the design and operation of the nuclear plant,” an official release from M. Srinivas, Station Director, MAPS, said. In view of the COVID-19 prevention measures in place, it was conducted as a command-and-control type exercise as laid down in the emergency manual of the Kalpakkam DAE Centre. “Normal activities of the site units were not disturbed during this exercise,” the release said. It involved the participation of all emergency responders at the site and was completed in two hours, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emergency-response-system-tested-at-maps/article33089568.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Material in furniture unit destroyed in fire||Fire broke out at a furniture manufacturing unit in SIPCOT, Thirumduivakkam and material worth Rs. 20 lakh were gutted. The unit is being run by Sayad Jaffer of Mogappair on the first floor of a building and around 10 people have been working here. When the workers went out for lunch on Thursday, the fire broke out on the first floor. The workers attempted to put out the fire but could not. Personnel from Fire and Rescue Services from Poonamallee and other places rushed to the spot and put out the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-sipcot-furniture-unit/article33089383.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I-T officials detect Rs. 500-cr. undisclosed income||The Income Tax (I-T) Department has detected over Rs. 500 crore in undisclosed income during searches on the premises of a Chennai-based bullion and gold jewellery dealer. According to an official statement, the Department conducted searches on 32 premises in Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchi, Madurai and Tirunelveli on November 10. However, the Department did not disclose the name of the group. According to the statement, evidence unearthed included unaccounted for stock maintained by the assessee at various places. Around 814 kg of excess stock, valued at around Rs. 400 crore, was identified and would be brought to tax. Since this was business stock, the same could not be seized as the Income-Tax Act, 1961, restrains seizure of business stock, it added. The data from the system maintained by the group showed a net income of Rs. 102 crore outside the books for the financial year 2018-19 alone. The data for the financial years 2019-20 and 2020-2021, available in the system, was being culled out using forensic tools. Similarly, the excess stock of 50 kg found on the business premises of related concerns was not seized, but identified for quantification of unaccounted income, the statement said. The group had been maintaining a custom-made package called Jpac to conceal the facts of the business, the Department alleged. The goods were transported by raising bills/invoices as rough estimations, which would be destroyed on the delivery of goods. The data so obtained would be used to unearth the unaccounted for transactions of other parties. Forensic experts, using specialised tools, were culling out more data to reach a final quantification of unaccounted for income, it added. In fact, the assessee had made a voluntary disclosure of Rs. 150 crore out of the undisclosed income detected so far. Investigation into the non-business investments of the group and use of accommodation entries to reduce profits was in progress, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-dept-detects-rs-500-cr-in-undisclosed-income/article33089374.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New Collectors for seven southern districts||In a reshuffle of IAS officers, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday appointed new Collectors for seven southern districts. S. Sameeran and V. Vishnu have been posted as Collectors for Tenkasi and Tirunelveli respectively. P. Madhusudhan Reddy has been posted as Sivaganga Collector. Dinesh Oliver Ponraj will be in charge of Ramanathapuram. Sandeep Nanduri (Thoothukudi Collector) and A.R. Gladstone Pushparaj have been posted in Tiruvannamalai and Ranipet respectively. K. Senthil Raj is Collector for Thoothukudi. While Sivaganga Collector J. Jayakanthan has been posted as Director of Fisheries, the Ramanathapuram Collector, Veera Raghava Rao, has been transferred and posted as Director of Employment and Training. G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan is the Joint Secretary in Environment and Forests Department. Tirunelveli Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has been transferred and posted as Joint Secretary in Health Department. K.S. Kandasamy (Tiruvannamalai Collector) has been posted as Special Officer, Grievance Redressal, e-governance. Jacintha Lazarus and S. Divyadharshini have been posted as Director of Rehabilitation and Welfare of Non-Resident Tamils and Joint Commissioner (Health), Greater Chennai Corporation respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-collectors-for-seven-southern-districts/article33088882.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I am more happy than sad, says Arundhati Roy||Reacting to the withdrawal of her book Walking with the Comrades by Manonmaniam Sundaranar University following objections from the ABVP, writer Arundhati Roy on Thursday said she was more happy than sad about it because she had no idea that her work was part the curriculum, in the first place. “I am glad that it was taught for several years. I am not in the least bit shocked or surprised that it has been removed from the syllabus now. It was my duty as a writer to write it. It is not my duty to fight for its place in a university curriculum. That is for others to do or not do,” she said.  ‘Widely read’ She said that either way the book had been widely read, and “as we know bans and purges” do not prevent writers from being read. “This narrow, shallow, insecure attitude towards literature, displayed by our current regime, is not just detrimental to its critics. It is detrimental to millions of its own supporters,” she said. Ms. Roy said it would limit and stunt our collective intellectual capacity as a society and a countrystriving for a place of respect and dignity in the world.  It is not my duty to fight for its place in a university curriculum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-am-more-happy-than-sad-says-arundhati-roy/article33088901.ece
13 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||PMK welcomes decision to defer reopening of schools, colleges||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss has welcomed theTamil Nadu government’s decisionto postpone the reopening of schools and colleges in the State. “As there is a possibility of an increase in COVID-19 cases during the festive season, we must be very careful. The impact of COVID-19 can be very severe. So, the decision on opening of schools and colleges in the future should only be based on the recommendations given by the medical panel,” he said in a tweet. Mr. Ramadoss also pointed out that Kerala saw a spurt in COVID-19 cases during the Onam festival, as norms were not followed. Such a situation should not be faced in Tamil Nadu during Deepavali and people should exercise utmost caution, he added. In a separate statement, PMK founder S. Ramadoss welcomed the Madras High Court direction to Anna University to take immediate steps to fill the vacancies through regular appointments. He also hailed the court for acknowledging the role played by temporary faculty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-welcomes-decision-to-defer-reopening-of-schools-colleges/article33088887.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘State should have right to fill medical seats with its students’||Activists and doctors’ associations want the State government to fight for its rights and demand that it be allowed to fill the seats in the medical colleges with students drawn from the State. A few days ago the State government issued two orders – one for admission of students into super speciality courses and another for admission to postgraduate degree programmes. The government has decided that from this year, for super speciality courses, 50% of the State quota seats would be reserved for candidates from government service. A similar procedure would be followed for postgraduate medical programmes from the next year. The State should demand the right to fill the seats with its own students as was done until five years ago, since Tamil Nadu has the highest number of medical colleges, said G.R. Ravindranath, general secretary of Doctors’ Association for Social Equality at a press meet on Thursday. Not only the government seats but all those in deemed universities should also be filled by the State government, he said. The State has 25 medical colleges and 14 self-financing colleges. The government is also preparing to launch 11 more medical colleges. No other government had taken such steps. The State should realise that by surrendering its seats healthcare of its citizens could be affected. Fewer government doctors now apply for higher education. Students from other States take up higher education and return to their parent States. Surrendering seats to other State candidates would ultimately affect the quality of medical education in the State as there would not be sufficient teachers when the new government colleges begin functioning, Dr. Ravindranath said. He wanted the State government to absorb the fee of students admitted through the 7.5% horizontal reservation to medical colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-should-have-right-to-fill-medical-seats-with-its-students/article33088902.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hunt on for murder suspects||The city police have intensified the search to nab a woman, who they say is the prime suspect in a triple murder case in Sowcarpet, and her associates. The police suspect that the offence was committed by a gang of four led by the woman, the estranged wife of one of the victims. The police suspect that long-pending marital issues was the reason for the murders. On Wednesday night, Dileep Thalil Chand, 74, who ran a finance firm, his wife Pushpa Bai, 70, and their son Shrishith, 40, natives of Rajasthan, were found dead in their house in Sowcarpet, Chennai. The investigation revealed that the suspects reportedly entered the house in PPE suits and fled in a car. Shrishith had married Jayamala, a native of Pune in Maharashtra, a few years ago, and had two children. After being estranged from her husband, Jayamala had been living with her children in Pune, with a divorce case pending at a family court in Chennai. Following frequent quarrels between the families, both sides filed police complaints against each other in Chennai and Pune. Shrishith reportedly refused to give her the alimony and the property she demanded. The police said that on Wednesday, the main suspect accompanied four of her relatives to the house of her husband and negotiated the alimony settlement with them. A heated quarrel ensued, resulting in the visitors shooting the three family members. Jayamala and her associates escaped from the spot, the police said, adding that special teams had launched a hunt to nab the four, who they suspect have fled to Pune. Additional Commissioner of Police, North, A. Arun said, “Special teams are tracing the suspects. Very soon, we will apprehend them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hunt-on-for-murder-suspects/article33088849.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Magazine told to remove still||The Madras High Court on Wednesday restrained Kumudam Publications from using a still from filmmaker Leena Manimekalai’s award-winning docudrama ‘Is it too much to ask’ for news stories published by it regarding COVID-19. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan directed the publication to remove the movie still from existing copies of posters displayed in bunk shops, tea stalls and newsstands, where its magazinesKumudamandKumudam Reporterwere being sold. A direction was also issued to remove the still from other offline and online modes. The interim orders were passed following a civil suit preferred by the filmmaker seeking damages of Rs. 5 lakh for infringement of copyright and another Rs. 5 lakh for having violated the privacy of two transgenders who acted in the docudrama. Litigant’s counsel M.V. Swaroop told the court that the docudrama portrayed the difficulties faced by theatre artistes Living Smile Vidya and Angel Glady in finding rented accommodation in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/magazine-told-to-remove-still/article33089565.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film Festival put off to Feb.||The 18th edition of the Chennai International Film Festival will be held from February 18 to 25, 2021 instead of December this year. The sections in the festival, which are supported by the government of Tamil Nadu, will include world cinema, a Tamil feature film competition, Indian panorama, retrospective and country focus. The organisers of the festival, the Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation, said further details about the festival would be announced soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-film-festival-postponed/article33089367.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Book fair||The Sahitya Akademi is holding a book fair on its office premises on Anna Salai in Teynampet between November 16 and 27. Tamil writer Prof. Rama Gurunathan will inaugurate the book exhibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sahitya-akademi-to-hold-book-fair/article33089370.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t be in a hurry to submit digital life certificate’||Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has appealed to the pensioners of the Employees’ Pension Scheme 1995 to avoid a rush for submission of digital life certificate, amid the COVID-19 pandemic. As per guidelines, Jeevan Praman Patra (life certificate) can be uploaded round the year and will be valid for one year from the date of registration. The pensioners who have been issued pension payment order (PPO) in 2020 need not upload Jeevan Praman Patra till completion of one year, a statement issued by Ritu Raj Medhi, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner-I, Chennai North and Chennai South, said. Like the previous years, bank branches can also be contacted for Jeevan Praman Patra registration and pensioners should carry with them the PPO number, Aadhaar card and Aadhaar linked mobile phone, it added. Service centres According to the statement, pensioners can also approach the nearest common service centres for submission of Jeevan Praman Patra. In addition, the Department of Posts, through India Posts Payment Bank, has launched door step services for pensioners to submit digital life certificate and pensioners can contact the nearest post office for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-be-in-a-hurry-to-submit-digital-life-certificate/article33088873.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Be cautious while bursting firecrackers’||Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) Director M.S. Jaffar Sait has appealed to the public to exercise caution while bursting firecrackers during Deepavali. “It will be appropriate for the public to celebrate the festival by maintaining adequate physical distance to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Those who celebrate the festival by bursting firecrackers should exercise caution to ensure that there is no disturbance to others and should take adequate safety measures,” Mr. Sait said. The public should avoid bursting firecrackers that would create noise or air pollution near areas where senior citizens live or those who are under quarantine. Children should burst firecrackers that create less noise, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-cautious-while-bursting-firecrackers/article33088879.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Countdown has begun for Palaniswami, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday said that the countdown has begun from the AIADMK government as the people have decided the place (exit) for Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his Cabinet colleagues in May next year. Referring to the Chief Minister’s comments on Wednesday that Mr. Stalin would be disqualified from contesting elections, he said Mr. Palaniswami had cited an election petition, which was dismissed by the Madras High Court. This showed his desperation and dejection. The High Court, had in a 549-page verdict, upheld his election from Kolathur in 2011, he said. He contended that since the Chief Minister had hinted what should be the outcome of the appeal in the case in Supreme Court, the latter’s remarks would amount to contempt of court. “Mr. Palaniswami is irritated because he knows he is losing power. He is angry with me because I am explaining to the people in the nook and corner about the corrupt practices of the AIADMK government” Mr. Stalin claimed. “His speech betrayed his wishful thinking on the outcome of the election,” the DMK leader said.  Staff Reporter adds from Salem: Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin said in Namakkal that the only target of the youth wing now was to make the party win in the 2021 Assembly elections. He was in Namakkal to attend various events on Thursday. On Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s comments that Opposition Leader M.K. Stalin would not be able to contest elections since he is facing charges in court, he said the DMK leader would face it legally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/countdown-has-begun-for-palaniswami-says-stalin/article33088898.ece
13 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen upset at delay in dole payment||With just a day to go for Deepavali, fishermen in the city are upset that they received the dole for the fishing lean period just two days before the festival. The Fisheries Department released Rs. 88.54 crore towards payment of Rs. 5,000 each to 1.77 lakh fishermen families in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. K. Bharathi, of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said that during the previous years, the Department ensured that they had at least four working days before the festival. “This year, we have just two working days, and it is pouring. Many of us were unable to withdraw the amount since banks were crowded. Considering the pandemic, the government could have released the amount at least at the beginning of the week so that the families would have time to shop. This year, the amount is more important to us since not many were able to earn,” he said. The government also released Rs. 68 crore from the fisherwomen cooperative societies to around 2.13 lakh fisherwomen who are their members. Each would get Rs. 4,500 from the amount saved by them in monthly instalments. “This is the amount we have saved. Even this was delayed. Some banks do not issue ATM cards, forcing us to wait in queues. Hopefully, at least next year, they will return our savings and pay the dole on time,” said Chandra, a fisherwoman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-upset-at-delay-in-dole-payment/article33088899.ece
13 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Panels formed to screen political advertisements||The Public (Election) Department has constituted a State-level and several district-level committees for pre-viewing, scrutinising and certifying advertisements of a political nature over television, cable networks, radio channels, websites and the social media. The committees would “function at all times and [are] not restricted only during the election period”, it sadi. “All registered political parties having their headquarters in Tamil Nadu and all organisations or group of persons or associations having their registered offices in Tamil Nadu will submit their applications for certification of any advertisements on television channels/cable networks and for pre-broadcast scrutiny on radio, including private FM channels and also in social media platforms to the above [the State-level] Committee,” stated a Government Order (GO) issued by Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo.  Social media The Joint Chief Electoral Officer in the Public (Election) Department would head the five-member State-level panel. A social media expert would also be part of the panel. “All registered political parties having their headquarters in Tamil Nadu shall submit their applications for certification of any advertisement on TV/cable networks/social media and on the radio not later than three days prior to the date of commencement of the broadcast...” it said. The constitution of the State-level and district-level panels is in line with a judgment of the Supreme Court in 2004 and communication from the Election Commission of India in this regard. Read the detailed G.O. here: bit.ly/pdgo574||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panels-formed-to-screen-political-advertisements/article33088893.ece
13 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||District’s positivity rate falls below 5 per cent||The positivity rate of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district fell below the 5 % mark, a target the Chief Minister instructed the district to achieve, according to the Health Department. G. Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, Coimbatore district, told The Hindu that the positivity rate of COVID-19 stood at 4.7 % as on Thursday. The district had a death rate of 1.26 % on Thursday. The Chief Minister had instructed to bring the death rate below 1 %. Dr. Kumar said the district was having a recovery rate of 97% on Thursday and it had been witnessing a steady decline in the number of patients under care at hospitals and COVID Care Centres (CCC). “The number of asymptomatic patients at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex stood at 196 on Thursday. The CCC on the Karunya campus had 30 patients. The numbers of patients under care at hospitals are also decreasing,” he said. The official said there was no increase in the daily case load in the days ahead of Deepavali as feared. “We can assume that the spread of the pandemic has come under control if the declining trend continues for another 10 to 14 days after Deepavali. Wearing of mask and maintaining physical distancing are very crucial in the coming days of the festival season,” added Dr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/districts-positivity-rate-falls-below-5-per-cent/article33089397.ece
13 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No increase in special buses for Deepavali||With a day to go for Deepavali, Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has not increased the number of special buses due to reduction in number of passengers amid the COVID-19 pandemic. An official from TNSTC Coimbatore Division said only 436 special buses were being operated from four districts for Deepavali from Thursday. This comprised 186 buses from Coimbatore district, 50 from the Nilgiris district, 110 from Erode district and 90 buses from Tiruppur district. These special buses would be operated to destinations including Madurai, Tiruchi, Salem, Erode and Palani. TNSTC Coimbatore Division had set up a temporary bus terminus at Codissia Trade Fair Complex on Avinashi Road from where 200 buses would be operated to Salem and Tiruchi from Thursday to Saturday, he said. However, more buses could be operated if the demand increased, the official said. As part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures, the passengers would be allowed only if they wore mask inside the buses and the occupancy would be limited to 60% to ensure personal distancing norms, the TNSTC official said. An official from State Express Transport Corporation said that around 20 buses would be operated to Chennai from the SETC Bus Terminus in Gandhipuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-increase-in-special-buses-for-deepavali/article33089395.ece
13 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Second phase of RTE admission concludes||The second phase of admissions for seats reserved under the Right to Education (RTE) Act concluded in Coimbatore district with 37 private schools organising lottery admissions for the academic year 2020-21 on Thursday. Officials from the Department of School Education said 713 applications were received online for the second phase of admissions, in which 3,435 seats remained vacant in the matriculation and nursery and primary schools of the district. The 37 schools organised lottery admissions as they received more number of eligible applications than the allocated 25% of the RTE Act quota seats, while 248 schools received applications within the allocated seats, the officials said. According to Section 12 (1) (c) of the RTE Act, private schools must allocate “...to the extent of at least twenty five percent of the strength of that class, children belonging to the weaker section and disadvantaged group in the neighbourhood and provide free and compulsory elementary education till its completion.” These schools must be located within one km of the student’s residence, according to the officials. Online applications were received from August 27 to September 25 for the first phase of admissions and from October 12 to November 7 for the second phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-phase-of-rte-admission-concludes/article33089386.ece
13 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Photography contest||AJK College of Arts and Science announced a photography contest in which participants were required to “capture the beauty of culture and heritage” of the festival season using their mobile phones, a release said. The submissions must be sent to photography@ajkcas.com by 11 a.m. on November 14. For details, visitwww.ajkcas.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photography-contest/article33089403.ece
13 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted money seized||Officials with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized unaccounted money to the tune of Rs. 1.53 lakh in a raid conducted at the office of the Deputy Director and Joint Director of Industrial Safety and Health here on Thursday. A release issued by the DVAC said the raid was conducted along with officials from the District Inspection Cell. DVAC registered a case against two officials and a broker. The release said such surprise checks were conducted at 14 offices of Industrial Safety and Health and other government offices in Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Erode, Thoothukudi, Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Dharmapuri, Salem, Vellore, Tiruchi, Karur and Virudhunagar districts. Unaccounted money to the tune of Rs. 16.08 lakh was seized from the offices in five districts, said the release. It was also found that government servants in these offices obtained gift boxes of sweets and firecrackers in violation of various rules and regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-money-seized/article33089389.ece
13 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||The AWPS, Coimbatore east, arrested a 36-year-old man from Theni district on Wednesday for allegedly threatening a minor girl of releasing her morphed photos in social media. The police said S. Ranjith, a native of Bodinayakanur in Theni district, had been staying at Viswasapuram near Saravanampatty and working in a private company. He befriended the 17-year-old girl from Thoppampatti through Instagram. “He hid the fact that he was married. The girl’s parents advised him to stay away from her, after which he threatened her,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article33089392.ece
13 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Fire and Rescue Services issues safety instructions for public||The Fire and Rescue Services Department has issued instructions to the public to celebrate Deepavali in a safe manner. The 12 fire stations in Coimbatore district conducted awareness activities. District Fire Officer R. Jegadheesh said the activities would continue till Friday and the instructions were about safe storage and bursting of firecrackers to avoid fire accidents. Mr. Jegadheesh said the department issued no objection certificate to 479 persons who applied for temporary licence to operate firecracker shops. For emergency response, people can contact Fire and Rescue Services control room at 101, Government ambulance service at 108 and fire stations: Coimbatore south (0422-2300101), Pollachi (04259-223333), Coimbatore north (0422-2450101), Valparai (04253-222444), Peelamedu (0422-2595101), Mettupalayam (04254-222299), Ganapathy (0422-2511001), Annur (04254-264101), Sulur (0422-2689101), Thondamuthur (0422-2617101), Kinathukkadavu (04259-226101) and Periyanaickenpalayam (04259-2695101).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-and-rescue-services-issues-safety-instructions-for-public/article33089399.ece
13 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Teenager held for sexual assault||The All Women Police Station, Coimbatore east, arrested a teenager from Thoothukudi on charges of sexually assaulting and impregnating a minor girl. The police said an 18-year-old boy from Srivaikuntam in Thoothukudi district, who had come to Podanur for work in a sweet manufacturing unit, was arrested based on a complaint by the parents of a class X student. According to the police, the accused befriended the girl from the locality during the lockdown period. He allegedly visited the girl at her house and sexually assaulted her. After seeing physical changes in the girl, the parents took her to a hospital and found that she was six months pregnant. The girl told them that the boy had sexually assaulted her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-held-for-sexual-assault/article33089400.ece
13 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Saris distributed to temples||Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani distributed saris for deities of temples with low earnings in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and the Nilgiris districts on Thursday. A total of 84,780 cotton saris received by Masaniamman Temple in Anamalai were distributed to the small temples which conduct ‘oru kaala puja’ (rituals held only once a day) in these four districts, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saris-distributed-to-temples/article33089402.ece
13 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for bid to rape elderly woman||The Coimbatore rural police arrested a 20-year-old youth on charges of attempting to rape a 90-year-old woman at her house near Pollachi late on Tuesday. The police said A. Mydeen, a resident of a village near Pollachi, had been doing daily wage works. He trespassed into the house of the woman under the influence of alcohol around 11 p.m. on Tuesday and attempted to assault her sexually. When she shouted for help, he ran away as the woman’s son came. Mydeen was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-bid-to-rape-elderly-woman/article33089388.ece
13 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Musical tribute||Society for Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Amongst Youth (SPICMACAY) will organise a virtual musical tribute on November 15 to violinist T.N. Krishnan who died recently. Titled ‘Krishnanjali’, the event will feature artistes including Amjad Ali Khan, T.M. Krishna and Umayalpuram Sivaraman. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and N. Ravi, Publisher, The Hindu , will also pay tribute to the violinist, a release says. The event will be streamed at 9 p.m. on Sunday athttps://youtube.com/spicmacayofficial/live.   ‘Snow Fantasy’, an artificial ice park in Brookefields mall, will be re-opened on November 13. The park was closed due to the lockdown and the management would enforce precautionary measures to ensure the safety of visitors, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/musical-tribute/article33089401.ece
13 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Narrow stretch on Chennimalai Road in Erode causes congestion||With the narrow stretch of the Chennimalai Road, near TNSTC office, causing frequent traffic congestion, road users wanted the road to be widened after which they wanted medians to be installed. Industries, TNSTC office and bus depots, government offices, educational institutions, and hospitals were present on the road that leads to Vellode and Chennimalai. With frequent accidents taking place on the road, the Highways Department placed median in the stretch from SIDCO to the newly-constructed railway overbridge near the bus depot. Since the road was not widened, the stretch witnesses frequent traffic congestion throughout the day and also during night hours. Frequent movement of trucks and buses to and from the depots is causing congestion as even a two-wheeler cannot overtake those vehicles. Hence, other vehicles have to follow the buses until it enters the depot, said V. Moorthy of Kasipalayam. He said that placing medians without widening the road is a major reason for congestion in the stretch. On Wednesday, members of Erode South District BJP submitted a petition to the Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai saying that medians cause traffic congestion on the stretch. They said that during night hours, buses were checked and allowed into the depot, which causes delays resulting in piling up of vehicles on both sides. They said that buses line-up on the narrow road affecting the movement of other vehicles. “Traffic congestion is common on the stretch during night hours”, they said and wanted the road to be widened after which medians should be placed. “Until then, medians should be removed”, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narrow-stretch-on-chennimalai-road-in-erode-causes-congestion/article33088917.ece
13 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Inter-State bus service resumes after 7 months||After seven months, inter-State bus service between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka resumed with buses operated from Sathyamangalam to Mysuru through Pulinjur check-post on Thursday. Due to COVID-19, bus service between the two States was stopped from March 20 affecting the movement of workers in the hilly areas. Though vehicles were allowed later, bus service continued to remain suspended. The State government had on Wednesday permitted operation of buses from November 11 to 16 for Deepavali. On Thursday, three Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses and two private buses were operated from Sathyamangalam to Mysuru, while buses were operated from Mysuru to Sathyamangalam also. Commuters were asked to wear masks and board the buses. Likewise, bus service resumed between Talavadi and Chamrajanagar. TNSTC officials said that based on the response, a decision on operating more buses will be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inter-state-bus-service-resumes-after-7-months/article33088915.ece
13 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized during DVAC raid at office||Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided the office of the Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories, and found unaccounted money here on Thursday evening. The office, along with the Inspector of Factories Circle I and II, Assistant Inspector of Factories I and II is functioning at a private rented building on Kanthappa Street on S.K.C. Road. Officials had received complaints that money is demanded from industries for issuing licences and also for Deepavali. A DVAC team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Dhivya, Inspector Rekha and others raided the office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized-during-dvac-raid-at-office/article33088910.ece
13 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Poultry farmers demand hike in rearing charges||Urging the private companies to hike rearing charges of chicks from the present Rs. 4 per kg to Rs. 15 per kg, poultry farmers began indefinite strike in the district from Wednesday. A meeting was held at Gobichettipalayam in which members of Broiler Poultry Rearing Farmers Association participated. Members said that there are 25,000 centres across the State and private companies supply chicks to the centres that are reared for 40 days and returned to the companies. Feed and medicines are provided by the companies and the farm owner is paid Rs. 4-a-kg for rearing the chicks. Members said that there are about two lakh workers in these centres across the State and 15,000 tonnes of chicken are reared everyday that are sent to Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Workers were paid Rs. 150-a-day seven years ago which increased to Rs. 500 now. “The companies agreed to pay only Rs. 5 per kg against our demand of Rs. 12 per kg which is insufficient,” they said and added that until their demands are met, the protest will continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poultry-farmers-demand-hike-in-rearing-charges/article33088914.ece
13 November 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Froth in Kelavarapalli Dam waters worries farmers, residents||The waters of Kelavarapalli Dam has turned foamy caused by the effluent discharge into the South Pennar river or the Thenpennai river feeding the reservoir here in Hosur. The frothing waters of the reservoir have caused concern among the residents and the farmers, even as this is not the first time the dam waters has seen such toxicity in its waters. Frothing water bodies with dancing foamy surface filled with toxic waste had become a common sight in Bengaluru, where water bodies were being discharged with industrial effluents. Varthur lake and Bellandur lake are one such examples of water bodies sullied by foamy, frothy water surface. Kelavarapalli Dam, fed by the trans boundary South Pennar river originating in Karnataka, too has joined the ranks of the water bodies that are seeing visible degradation in the quality of its waters. Kelavarapalli Dam waters witnessed such levels of pollution in 2017, when the dam waters was filled with foamy waters frothing on the surface and the edges. According to local sources, water sample was taken up for testing at that time. Now, similar frothing has been witnessed in the dam this past week. The dam water is a significant source of irrigation as the water released from the canals cater to a cultivable area. The Hindu was unable to reach the district pollution control board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/froth-in-kelavarapalli-dam-waters-worries-farmers-residents/article33088920.ece
13 November 2020||L. SrikrishnaSIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Winged visitors preferred to crackers in this village||For a unique reason, Collector J. Jayakanthan honoured a group of villagers, especially youngsters, at Kollukudipatti on the Madurai-Tirupattur highway on Thursday. Almost close to four decades, the villagers have not burst crackers since they do not want to disturb the birds which arrive at the Vettangudi bird sanctuary during this time every year. Spread over an area measuring about 17 hectares, Vettangudi bird sanctuary plays host to 217 species of birds which arrive in thousands and roost here for a couple of months. Elders in the village say they had stopped bursting crackers since 1972. “Not only during Deepavali but even for weddings or funerals we do not burst crackers. In the initial days, the youths felt they would miss out on the joy, but on realising that the noise would chase away the birds, they also refrained from bursting crackers,” one of them recalled. Girl wins prize To encourage the youngsters, the Department of Forests conducted a State-level drawing competition on the theme of protecting the environment. This time, Satya Priya, a girl from Keezha Seevalpatti, bagged the third prize, District Forest Officer Rameswaran said. Birds from France, Malaysia, Japan, Korea, the Philippines, Norway and Australia flock here during this time of the year as the weather is pleasant and conducive for breeding. With the villagers maintaining the calm, the birds stay for a longer duration. Thanking the villagers, Mr. Jayakanthan gave them sweets and wished that the message of conservation reached far and wide from Vettangudi bird sanctuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/winged-visitors-preferred-to-crackers-in-this-village/article33088847.ece
13 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC deprecates practice of filing appeals belatedly||Deprecating the practice of filing appeals belatedly, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed that it had become a habit on the part of the officials and this led to loss to the government exchequer. In order to bring a discipline, the court said, imposing costs on such officials was necessary. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that sometimes even contempt petitions were filed and orders passed on writ petitions would not have been brought to the notice of the authorities. The staff who were negligent in bringing the orders to the notice of the authorities should be dealt with accordingly. Then only discipline could be inculcated in the minds of the staff. Otherwise, the courts would be flooded with ‘n’ number of condone delay petitions and contempt petitions, the judges said. Getting an order copy from court was an old practice and the orders were being uploaded on the official website of the court now. The higher officials could very well check on the website whether any orders had been passed against them, so that they could act accordingly, the court said. The court was hearing a civil miscellaneous petition preferred by Education Department authorities to condone the delay of 1,069 days in filing the appeal against the order passed by a single judge of the court in a case pertaining to surplus teachers. The court imposed a cost of Rs. 25,000 and directed the State to pay the sum to Aishwaryam Trust here, a health care centre for the elders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-deprecates-practice-of-filing-appeals-belatedly/article33089488.ece
13 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers protest gas pipeline laying work near Karungalakudi||Farmers of Cumbur near Karungalakudi in the district on Thursday chased away contractors who came for digging trenches to lay underground pipeline for Indian Oil Corporation. The farmers claimed that the men who came with an earthmover started to dug out farmlands with fully-grown paddy crop. “They claimed that they have got permission from the farmers to lay the second pipeline along the farmlands where another pipeline had already been laid years back,” said Chinnathambi, a farmer. However, a member of the trench-digging team, Saravanan, said that the IOCL was only trying to dig a trench on the land it had already acquired in the past. The existing pipeline was used for transporting diesel. ‘Without consent’ Another farmer, A. Kumar (30), said that after issuing notice 20 days back, the team came to cut the trench without the farmers’ consent. The IOCL had already promised to pay compensation for the crop that would be damaged for laying the new pipeline. “In the past, our elders did not know the threat about the underground pipeline. But, we are now aware of it as gas line could be a threat for generations to come,” Mr. Kumar claimed. He claimed that the Cumbur panchayat had passed resolutions several times in the last two years denying permission for laying gas pipeline through their village.  Panchayat chief denies However, the panchayat president, Kathiresan, denied knowledge about any such resolution. The farmers claimed that they were seeing the paddy crop at flowering stage on the rain-fed fields after several years. “How can they bury the standing crop just days before harvesting?,” Mr. Kumar asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-protest-gas-pipeline-laying-work-in-madurai/article33088854.ece
13 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||After 8 years, Madurai transwoman gets a share of mother’s property||After a struggle of nearly eight years, G. Oorvasi, a transwoman from Usilampatti in Madurai district, will finally get a share of her mother’s property. Ms. Oorvasi, 35, who has completed a training programme in organic farming, intends to cultivate the 1.5 acres of land that she will soon be inheriting. Recently, the Usilampatti Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) K.V. Rajkumar called for an inquiry into the issue. He invoked Section 3(G) of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, which says that a transgender person cannot be discriminated with regard to the right to reside, purchase, rent or otherwise occupy any property. A trans rights activist, Ms. Oorvasi lost her mother at a young age and was sent out of her home by her father and brother. She was also denied a share of her mother’s property. After leaving her home when she was a teenager, she engaged herself in various projects. She said she had approached various authorities with regard to the property and though there were several rounds of talks with her family members, there was no breakthrough. Tired of the stalemate, she approached Gopi Shankar, the Southern Region Representative of the National Council for Transgender Persons (NCTP). Mr. Shankar said Ms. Oorvasi had approached the NCTP for a grievance redressal during the first week of September. Her complaint was forwarded to the Madurai District Collector, who in turn directed the RDO to look into the issue. During the inquiry, it was ascertained that she was entitled to her share of the property. “Once I get the land I will cultivate it and put to practise the organic farming methods that I have learnt,” Ms. Oorvasi said. She said not many transwomen were aware of their rights and she hoped that her case would be an eye-opener.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-8-years-madurai-transwoman-gets-a-share-of-mothers-property/article33088881.ece
13 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Additional coaches in special trains for festival season||Southern Railway is attaching addition sleeper coaches from Thursday (November 12) to the following trains to facilitate accommodation for waitlisted passengers during festival season: Train No. 06181 Chennai Egmore– Sengottai Twi-weekly special train is attached with four sleeper class coaches. Train No. 06063 Chennai Egmore– Nagercoil Bi-weekly special train has six additional coaches, according to a statement. The trains attached with one additional coach are: Train No. 06723 Chennai Egmore– Kollam special train; Train No. 02633/02634 Chennai Egmore– Kanniyakumari– Chennai Egmore special trains; Train No. 02693/02694 Chennai Egmore– Tuticorin– Chennai Egmore special trains; Train No. 02631 Chennai Egmore– Tirunelveli special train; Train No. 02661 Chennai Egmore– Sengottai special train; and Train No. 06866 Thanjavur– Chennai Egmore special train. Chair car Train No. 02605 Chennai Egmore– Karaikudi special train has one additional second class sitting chair car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-coaches-in-special-trains/article33088852.ece
13 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC told to probe free patta issue||After it was brought to the court’s knowledge that a government school teacher and his family members had managed to get five free land pattas, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took a serious view of the issue and observed that what had been done by the family was nothing but looting of public property, which was meant for the benefit of the poor. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that this showed that many employed people were greedy and this was the reason for the increase in the number of corruption cases. This kind of case should be dealt with firmly, the judges said and directed the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption to conduct a probe into the matter and submit a report on November 30. Taking into account the fact that the members of the family were well-educated, the court said that it might have to consider issuing a direction to the government to confiscate those properties which were obtained in violation of the government schemes. A stern action was necessary to prevent such attempts, the court said. The court was hearing the petition filed by G. Raja from Kalayarkoil in Sivaganga district, who had sought a direction to forbear the authorities concerned from evicting him from the property. During the course of the hearing, he sought to withdraw the petition. However, taking into account the serious nature of the case, the court refused his request. During the course of the hearing, the State government informed the court that Raja, a government school teacher, and his son R. Mutharasan, a government doctor, were both suspended from service. The Tahsildar who granted the free pattas was also suspended, the State submitted before the court. The case was adjourned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-told-to-probe-free-patta-issue/article33088890.ece
13 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man from Assam robbed in Madurai||Two persons were robbed of their valuables by unidentified persons in separate incidents, under Madurai Rural police limits. In the first incident, D. Bibulkish (26) of Assam, sustained bleeding stab injuries on his hand when a gang attacked him with a knife and robbed him of two mobile phones at SIDCO Industrial Estate in Kappalur around 8 p.m. on Tuesday. The police said the victim, along with his friends, Babu Jharge (46), manager of a steel supplier at the industrial estate, and two others, was walking on the road. Suddenly, three youth assaulted them. One of them attacked Bibulkish with a knife. They snatched two mobile phones from him and fled the scene. The victim has been admitted to Tirumangalam Government Hospital. Tirumangalam Town police are investigating. In another robbery reported under Vadipatti police station limits late on Wednesday evening, S. Ravichandran (47) of Nilakottai taluk was robbed of a gold ring and Rs. 2,500. The police said the victim was working as a tailor in a garment export company in Vadipatti. When he was going on his motorbike near Semminipatti bridge, he was intercepted by two bike-borne persons and robbed of the valuables. Vadipatti police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-robbed-in-rural-areas-of-madurai/article33089485.ece
13 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Keep diabetes under control during pandemic times’||“Keeping diabetes mellitus under control is the best healthcare strategy for diabetics during COVID-19 pandemic, as over 70% of those who died of the infection in India either had diabetes or diabetes and hypertension,” said C.R. Mahesh Babu, consultant, Department of Diabetology, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, here on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters ahead of World Diabetes Day (November 14), he said it was estimated that about 50% of the diabetic patients, who lost their lives to COVID-19, had poorly managed diabetes. COVID-19 was found to have the potential to induce diabetes in healthy people. Hence, it was important for the healthy individuals to strictly follow personal hygiene, physical distancing and other guidelines to protect them from the infection and from becoming vulnerable to diabetes. The event also marked the launch of Diabetic Home Care package of the hospital, which offers consultations and services of diabetologists, physicians, specialists, physiotherapists, dieticians and paramedical staff at the residences of patients. The package also includes routine investigations. Dr. Mahesh Babu said a little over 80% of COVID-19 deaths in the country were linked to comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and obesity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keep-diabetes-under-control-during-pandemic-times/article33089484.ece
13 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Clubs’ gesture||Seven Rotary Clubs in the city jointly donated nine bio-toilets and 3,000 N 75 face masks for use by employees of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC). The clubs signed a Memorandum of Understanding with TNSTC officials at a function held at transport corporation office, in which Managing Director M.A. Murugesan and Rotarians participated. In view of COVID-19 pandemic, the Rotary Clubs proposed to support the initiatives of the TNSTC in maintaining safety. The bio-toilets would be installed at TNSTC depots in the city. “We are prepared to give more bio-toilets to the corporation,” club members said. For the bus crew, face masks would be highly useful, they added. Rotary Clubs of Madurai, Madurai North, Madurai Heritage, Madurai South, Madurai East, Madurai West and Madurai Elite contributed to the project, said R. Subramani, district secretary (special projects), who was the chief guest. In his felicitation address, senior Rotarian Raja Govindasamy said the objective of the initiative was to create awareness of the need to follow COVID-19 safety guidelines and the TNSTC was the best platform as it transported a large number of people. Mr. Murugesan said they would soon identify spots to install the bio-toilets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-clubs-gesture/article33088905.ece
13 November 2020||MADURAI/KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Spike in number of daily cases in Kanniyakumari||Kanniyakumari, with 39 fresh COVID-19 cases recorded on Thursday, has marked an infection tally of 15,347, with 252 active cases. A total of 33 persons were discharged from hospitals in the district. Madurai reported 31 new cases to have a total case count of 19,202. There were 31 discharges from hospitals in the district. Tirunelveli’s infection tally moved up to 14,530 with the addition of 26 cases. With 17 people having been discharged, 269 others are undergoing treatment. In Thoothukudi, 326 people are undergoing treatment after 26 new cases were admitted to hospitals and 33 people were discharged. The district’s infection tally rose to 15,415. Sivaganga, which had the lowest case tally among the 10 southern districts, has now registered an overall case tally of 6,113, including 20 fresh cases. There were 13 discharges from hospitals. Virudhunagar too recorded 20 new cases, which took the district’s total case count up to 15,635. After 16 patients were discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases in the district stands at 98. One more COVID-19-related death, which raised the death toll to 224. The daily case count in Dindigul was 14, with which the district’s overall tally reached 10,001. Hospitals recorded the discharge of 21 people. Theni accounted for 11 new cases, which pushed its case count up to 16,410. There were 10 discharges from hospitals. Tenkasi reported eight fresh cases, which took the district’s infection tally up to 7,922. After the discharge of five people, the district has 81 active cases. Ramanathapuram, which was in the ninth position in south Tamil Nadu in the list of COVID-19 cases, moved to the 10th place with a tally of 6,100, including six fresh cases. Hspitals discharged 13 people after their complete recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spike-in-number-of-daily-cases-in-kanniyakumari/article33088904.ece
13 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 66 new infections, two more fatalities||Puducherry added 66 new COVID-19 cases to its tally on Thursday, even as two more fatalities pushed its toll to 607. While a 58-year-old woman died in Jipmer, an 82-year-old woman succumbed to the infection at the GH in Karaikal. The toll in the capital stood at 498, followed by Karaikal (58), Yanam (44) and Mahe (seven). A total of 3,545 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Puducherry accounted for 50 of the new cases, Karaikal six, Yanam one and Mahe nine. In all, 69 persons were discharged after treatment from various facilities. Identifying hotspots Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said the COVID-19 war room that is tracking the course of the pandemic had identified Rainbow Nagar as an emerging hotspot, in addition to previously flagged areas like Reddiarpalayam and Villianur. As many as 18 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the thickly populated residential neighbourhood. District Collector T. Arun said a mobile joint enforcement team would be deployed in the area on Friday to carry out intensive testing, awareness and enforcement activities. An online information management system that was developed in consultation with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will be finalised by next Thursday, A. Anbarasu, Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner, said at a review meeting convened by the Lt. Governor. The data management system will be replicated for use in managing other communicable diseases like dengue. As of Thursday, the Union Territory had 1,071 active cases, after one case was transferred to Tamil Nadu. A total of 345 patients are in hospitals and 726 under home isolation. The test positivity rate in the U.T. stood at 1.86%, case fatality rate at 1.68% and its recovery rate at 95.36%. The Union Territory’s COVID-19 case tally touched 36,179 and 34,501 patients have recovered so far. Of a total of 3.51 lakh samples tested so far in the U.T., 3.09 lakh have returned negative. Cuddalore’s count Cuddalore district reported 43 fresh infections on Thursday, taking its case tally to 23,710. A total of 53 persons were discharged after treatment from various facilities, and the district now has a totoal of 182 active cases. There were no deaths due to COVID-19 in the district on Thursday. As many as 42 persons tested positive in Villupuram district, taking its case count to 14,229. Kallakurichi district recorded 14 new COVID-19 cases, which took its tally to 10,474.  A mobile joint enforcement team        will be deployed in Rainbow Nagar to carry out intensive testing and awareness activities T. Arun District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-66-new-infections-two-more-fatalities/article33089580.ece
13 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Traffic restrictions put in place in view of Deepavali||The traffic police have restricted the entry of heavy vehicles on Anna Salai, Kamaraj Salai and Bussy Street from 4 p.m till November 14, in order to avoid inconvenience to Deepavali shoppers. All vehicles from Marimalai Adigal Salai will have to enter Bussy Street. They then have to take right to Chinna Subbaraya Pillai Salai (adjacent road to Kamban Kalai Arangam) - Subbaiya Salai – Sonampalayam Junction-H.M Casim Salai-SVP Salai- Ajantha Junction and take right via-Muthialpet. Except two wheelers, no other vehicles will be allowed to enter Nehru Street, the traffic police have informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-restrictions-put-in-place-in-view-of-deepavali/article33089583.ece
13 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre’s plan to control States and U.T.s will not work’||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Thursday said the Constitution would not give room for the Centre to usurp the powers of States and Union Territories using Governors and Lt. Governors. Participating in the inauguration of the Kalaignar Karunanidhi Breakfast Scheme, at Jeevandam Government Higher Secondary School in Karamanikuppam, the Chief Minister said former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had forewarned about a threat to federalism (from the Centre). Karunanidhi had even questioned the necessity of having gubernatorial posts, Mr. Narayanasamy said. “We are now seeing everywhere in the country the use of Governors and Lt. Governors by the Centre to control States and Union Territories. But the Constitution will not allow the Centre to do so,” he said. On the breakfast scheme, Mr. Narayanasamy said the initiative of the government would be of immense help to students from socially and economically deprived sections. The scheme will be implemented at all government and government-aided schools. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, for now, breakfast will be given only to high school students attending classes to clear doubts. Around 10,000 students visit their schools to interact with teachers, he said, adding that when academic activity resumes completely, around 80,000 students would benefit. Inaugurating the scheme, DMK leader and Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) R.S. Bharathi complimented the Congress government for initiating several programmes in the name of Mr. Karunanidhi. “DMK is one party which will always be grateful, but at the same time will not hesitate to raise its voice for protecting the rights of the party,” he said. Speaking on the occasion, Minister for School Education R. Kamalakannan said the government planned the breakfast scheme based on feedback from teachers. “During our visits to schools, we heard about students fainting during class hours as they attend school after skipping their breakfast,” the Minister said. Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam, Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy, Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam and other legislators attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-plan-to-control-states-and-uts-will-not-work/article33089574.ece
13 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G grants Rs. 663 lakh to SC/ST beneficiaries||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has approved the distribution of Rs. 663 lakh, through the DBT mode, to SC/ST beneficiaries, as festival allowance in lieu of Deepavali. Every beneficiary will get Rs. 500. A release from Raj Nivas said a proposal seeking expenditure sanction in this regard had been submitted by the Adi-Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department. The benefit will be credited into the accounts of an estimated 1,32,688 beneficiaries. The Lt. Governor has also sanctioned grant-in-aid, to the tune of Rs. 397 lakh, to the Puducherry Road Transport Corporation for the payment of salaries to employees. Ms. Bedi has instructed the PRTC Board of Directors to implement the short-term and long-term measures, recommended in 2018 by the Vijayan Committee, to revamp the functioning of the State-run enterprise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-grants-rs-663-lakh-to-scst-beneficiaries/article33089577.ece
13 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pollution board sets decibel limit for crackers||The Puducherry Pollution Control Committee (PPCC), under the Department of Science, Technology and Environment, has set the upper decibel (dB) limit for firecrackers during Deepavali. In a press note, the PPCC Member Secretary said following directions from the Supreme Court, firecrackers with sound levels not exceeding 125 dB (AI-weighted impulse sound pressure level in decibels), at a four metre distance from the point of bursting, is prohibited. The use of joined firecrackers (series crackers or laris ) is banned. The PPCC also informed that the bursting of firecrackers will be permitted for a two-hour duration — from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. and from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Firecrackers should not be burst in silence zones — areas located within 100 metres of hospitals, nursing homes, primary and district healthcare centres, educational institutions, courts, religious places or other areas that may be declared a silence zone by the concerned authorities. PPCC called for strict compliance with the stipulations.  The use of joined firecrackers (series crackers or laris ) is banned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollution-board-sets-decibel-limit-for-crackers/article33089578.ece
13 November 2020||S. SundarSivakasi,TAMIL NADU||No room for social distancing in government college||The teaching faculty members of Government Arts and Science College in Sivakasi have heaved a sigh of relief after the State government on Thursday postponed its decision to reopen college for all undergraduate and post-graduate classes on November 16. “It is next to impossible to accommodate all 1,800 students in the inadequate number of classrooms in our college,” said a senior teaching faculty. The college has 12 UG courses and five PG courses in Arts and Science streams. While the college required 46 classrooms, it has only 17 classrooms and hence it was functioning in two shifts to accommodate all the students While arts stream functions in the morning shift, the science stream works in the evening shift. “As we are already facing shortage of classrooms, how can we provide ample space in the classrooms for the students to maintain minimum physical distancing norms,” he wondered. Even if the new building under construction with nine classrooms is completed, the shortage of classrooms for all the 17 courses will still continue. “This is the case with many Government Arts and Science Colleges in the State,” he said. The college with more than 60% of girls has very limited number of toilets. “With only two temporary sanitary workers in the college, frequent washing of toilets through the day is also not possible,” he said. A good number of students commute to the college by bus from nearby places such as Watrap and Srivilliputtur and many of them travel for more than 20 km. “The buses are so packed to the full in the morning that physical distancing is just impossible. Thereby students living nearby who come by bicycles will also face the threat of getting infected,” he said. Pandemic is a new experience. “We ourselves do not know how to handle the situation,” he added. New college  Given the infrastructure handicap, it is only better that the regular classroom activity is introduced in phases so that the precautionary measures issued by the Health Department could be implemented in letter and spirit. In case of the newly-announced Government Arts and Science College in Srivilliputtur, it is worse as the officials have proposed to run it in a portion of a school till the building is constructed.  The state of affairs  The college offers 12 UG courses and five PG courses in Arts and Science streams  More than 60% of students are girls, but there are limited number of toilets  College buses are packed to the full that physical distancing is just impossible||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/there-is-no-room-for-social-distancing-in-government-college/article33088855.ece
13 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC rolls out 200 special buses from Salem to clear Deepavali rush||In order to clear the extra rush during the Deepavali season, about 200 special buses are being operated by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC). According to TNSTC officials, the buses would be operated to Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruppur, Bengaluru and Hosur. The officials said that exemption has been given at the moment on requirement of e-pass for passengers travelling here from Bengaluru. They said that an open ground adjacent to the New bus stand has been earmarked for parking of buses and to prevent congestion inside the bus stand. According to city police officials, 11 watch towers have been erected across the city including major points like Bazaar area, Four Roads to Five Roads stretch, First and Second Agraharam and other important places to manage the crowd. Close to 1,000 police personnel from Law and Order, Armed Reserve, Home Guards and Tamil Nadu Special Police have been deployed to manage traffic and to prevent untoward incidents during the festive season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-rolls-out-200-special-buses-from-salem-to-clear-deepavali-rush/article33088923.ece
13 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Special teams formed to check poaching||The district forest department has formed special teams in its ranges to prevent poaching during the Deepavali celebrations. The forest department has been maintaining vigil in its limits here to prevent poaching and fire incidents during the Deepavali season. District Forest Officer R. Murugan said, special monitoring teams have been formed to prevent poaching as there is a general tendency for hunting during the festive season. Two special teams in each range would visit hunting-prone areas in their beats to prevent poaching.” He said that offenders would be booked under Wildlife Protection Act. Mr .Murugan said that considering active movement of tourists on Yercaud ghat road, they are taking measures to create awareness among the public by placing boards on Ghat Road with the support of Salem Nature Society, an environment organisation here. “Awareness boards are being placed at the moment and public are advised to not to feed animals on Ghat Road. We are also considering issuing pamphlets to the public listing out do’s and don’ts”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-formed-to-check-poaching/article33088926.ece
13 November 2020||salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Mettur surplus scheme works likely to be over by January next year’||District Collector S.A. Raman on Wednesday inspected the ongoing works of Mettur surplus scheme. Mr .Raman said in a release that the works are being carried out on a war footing. He said that details regarding land acquisition for the project has been published in the gazette and advertised in dailies. The Collector said that negotiations are being held with farmers whose land would be acquired and appropriate compensation would be given. He said that pipe laying works are being carried after farmers provided full consent for the project. Mr. Raman said that they are targeting to complete works by January next year and works to renovate and strengthen the bunds of 100 lakes that would benefit under the scheme would be started soon.  Negotiations are being held with farmers whose lands will be acquired for the project  S.A. Raman District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-surplus-scheme-works-likely-to-be-over-by-january-next-year/article33088927.ece
13 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||New Corporation Commissioner for Salem||N. Ravichandran assumed charge as Commissioner of Salem Corporation here on Thursday. Mr. Ravichandran was earlier Avadi Corporation Commissioner. He succeeds R. Sadheesh, who was transferred recently as District Revenue Officer, Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-corporation-commissioner-for-salem/article33088924.ece
13 November 2020||Special CorrespondentCHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Moderate rainfall likely for two days||Moderate rainfall will continue over many places in coastal districts and a few places in interior districts for two days because of the prevailing weather system over the Bay of Bengal. The meteorological department has forecast fairly widespread rainfall to continue over the State and Puducherry till November 16. Rains continued well into Thursday in Chennai and weather stations in Ennore (5.3 cm), Nungambakkam (3 cm) and Meenambakkam (2.4 cm) recorded intermittent rainfall till 5.30 p.m.  Cyclonic circulation A cyclonic circulation lies over Sri Lanka and neighbourhood and Wednesday’s trough now runs from this cyclonic circulation to southwest Bay of Bengal off north Tamil Nadu coast. The weather systems have revived northeast monsoon over the region. Officials of the Meteorological department said one or two places in the districts, including Chennai and its neighbouring districts, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai districts may experience heavy rains on Friday. Isolated heavy rains with thunderstorms may continue in coastal areas during the weekend. The city may receive intermittent rains that may be heavy at times in some areas till Saturday. The day temperature will be around 28 degree Celsius. As on Thursday, Chennai has received 78 cm of rainfall against its yearly share of 140 cm. Similarly, Meenambakkam has so far recorded 97 cm of rainfall against its annual normal rainfall of 138 cm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moderate-rainfall-likely-for-two-days-says-met-dept/article33088839.ece
13 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Twin brothers drown in pond in Thoothukudi village||Twin brothers drowned in a pond near Mela Arasaradi near here on Wednesday evening. Police said 12-year-old twins Arun Suresh and Arun Venkatesh were living with their widowed mother S. Pooranam, 37, at Mela Arasaradi under Puthiyamputhoor police station limits. Their father Selvaraj died a couple of years ago. As Pooranam’s mother is running a small shop at nearby toll plaza on the Madurai highway, the twins used to take lunch for their grandmother every day on their bicycle. After Suresh and Venkatesh took lunch for the old woman on Wednesday, they did not return home even after dusk. As search for the boys did not yield any result, Ms. Pooranam filed a complaint with the Puthiyamputhoor police. Even as the police continued their search for the boys on Thursday also, their bodies were found floating in the pond near Mela Arasaradi. It is learnt that Suresh and Venkatesh, after giving lunch to their grandmother, took bath in the pond. As they accidentally moved to the deeper parts, they had drowned. The bodies were retrieved and sent to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. Puthiyampuththoor police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twin-brothers-drown-in-pond/article33088856.ece
13 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Cash, gifts seized from office||Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption sleuths seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 64,800 from the Office of Joint Director of Health and Industrial Safety here on Thursday. Following a tip-off that the office on Subbiah Mudaliyarpuram Fourth Street has been flooded with gifts, firecrackers and sweet boxes, a team of sleuths led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (in charge) Mcluarin Escol raided the office in the evening. During the three-hour-long search, the team found several boxes of gifts, sweets and firecrackers stacked in the office. It also seized the unaccounted money from the employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-gifts-seized-from-office/article33088848.ece
13 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Decline in COVID-19 cases brings relief to textile traders||Steady decline in COVID-19 cases has come as a big relief to textile traders in Tiruchi as they can carry out their business without any disruption from the authorities. Sale of textile and ready-made dresses thirty days prior to Deepavali accounts for nearly 25% of the total sale in a year. The Deepavali sale that starts during the puja festival picks up gradually and reaches its peak in the last week prior to the festival day. There were apprehensions among the traders on whether they would be able to achieve at least 50% of their regular business due to the impact of COVID-19. A couple of leading textile showrooms on NSB Road in the city had to be closed temporarily for a few weeks in July after some staff members tested positive for COVID-19. The strict safety measures imposed by the State government had also raised doubts on normal business during the festival season. However, according to sources in the industry, this year’s business can not be termed as bad considering the prevailing circumstances in the wake of spread of COVID-19. Most of the traders seem to be doing brisk business, although it is not similar to the volume of business done in previous years. The biggest relief to textile traders is that not many employees tested positive for the virus during the last one month. If they were tested positive, the showrooms would have been asked to shut their doors for at least a few days. Steady decline in COVID-19 cases in Tiruchi district too has reinforced the positive sentiments among traders as well as the customers. There were days when the positivity rate was hovering around 10% in the district. It has come down to just around 1%. The daily count of fresh cases, which was in three digit until a few weeks ago, hovers around 30 to 50 in the last two weeks. It has actually induced the customers to visit commercial streets for Deepavali shopping, say traders. “It is unfair to set a huge target this year as this is not a normal year. However, we have not done badly and we are content with the sales,” says Roshan, Managing Director, Sarathas, Tiruchi. Though enforcing physical distancing has been a challenge during the festival season, special teams have managed to ensure that customers wear face masks and sanitise their hands with sanitisers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decline-in-covid-19-cases-brings-relief-to-textile-traders/article33088864.ece
13 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Price of goat goes up at Manapparai shandy||With just a day left for Deepavali, the famous cattle shandy at Manapparai witnessed a brisk sale of sheep and goats on Wednesday Expecting a good business prospects, farmers from Madurai, Dindigul, Sivaganga, Theni and rural areas of Tiruchi, brought sheep and goats to the shandy, which is generally known for trading of cows and bulls. According to market sources, the arrival of goats registered a manifold increase this week. In normal weeks, the shandy used to receive about 1,000 goats. But, this week the shandy witnessed the arrival of 5,000 goats. The expectation among traders and sellers was not belied as the rate went up by at least 20% than last week. Moreover, the goat business came to end within two to four hours. The meat traders, who came to the shandy from different parts of the district, competed with each other in buying goats. N. Ponnusamy, a cattle trader, said that a goat, which was quoted for Rs. 5,000 last week, was sold for Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 6,500 due to high demand. It was a day of good fortune for goat raisers. The goat shandy at Samayapuram and Thayanur, which usually assembles on Saturday, has been convened a day in advance on Friday and it is expected that large number of traders and goat rearers would visit the shandies for trade ahead of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/price-of-goat-goes-up-at-manapparai-shandy/article33088860.ece
13 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Parental supervision must when children burst crackers: doctors||Doctors in the city caution residents, especially children against injuries ahead of Deepavali festival. Injuries, especially in the eye are common during this season. According to experts, children under 15 years of age account for 39% of injuries. Absence of parental supervision and failure to maintain a safe distance from firecrackers are a major contributing factor. While remaining cautious about COVID-19, one must remember that sanitisers are inflammable, warned Vidhun Raj Bharat, Plastic Surgeon, Apollo Hospital, Tiruchi. “Since it has become a practice to rub our hands with it, parents must ensure that they do not use it near a fire or while lighting crackers,” he said. Dr. Bharat has already treated two to three burn cases on children. “Since parents are also multitasking, they are not able to keep tabs on their children. Burns from hot oil used to make sweets and snacks, milk and even hot water cases are being reported,” he said. Eye hospitals see a significant rise in patients, especially children. “Most injuries are preventable if children are not left on their own”, said Tanuja Britto, Deputy Director, Joseph Eye Hospital. “Parents must accompany their kids at all times. They must be watchful of their every move and must never let the children light something on their own,” she said. Placing firecrackers on the ground and bending over it to light it is also not advised, she said. A bucket of water and a designated corner must be identified to dispose all waste. Since crackers are made of chemicals, there can be adverse reactions too. “Crackers which are meant for children might explode sometimes and in many cases, bystanders are the ones injured”, said Dr. Britto. While it is expected that the number of people bursting crackers will be less due to COVID-19 scare, prevention is better than cure, doctors say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parental-supervision-must-when-children-burst-crackers-doctors/article33088866.ece
13 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Butterfly conservatory in Srirangam reopens||Having remained shut for visitors for over seven months owing to the lockdown clamped in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Srirangam - a major tourist attraction - reopened for public viewing on Thursday. The Forest Department has strictly adhered to the Standard Operating Procedures as spelt out by the State government following the reopening of the sprawling conservatory sandwiched between the Cauvery river and the Coleroon river on a reserve forest land. Markings were made at the entrance of the conservatory ahead of its reopening to ensure that personal distancing was maintained by the visitors while awaiting their turn to buy tickets to gain entry inside. On the first day of its reopening, the footfalls were relatively less when compared to the pre-COVID period, said a Forest Department official. All visitors were subjected to thermal scanning before being allowed to buy entry tickets. It was also ensured that all visitors wore masks and they were given sanitisers to clean their hands. Visitors who did not have masks were asked to buy the same at the entrance by paying a nominal amount. “The entry tickets were issued only after the visitors were subjected to thermal scanning and after ensuring that they wore masks. The visitors were asked to stamp on a medicated foot mat kept at the entrance prior to being allowed inside”, the official further said. The department has formed a team comprising a Forester and Forest Guards to ensure that personal distancing was being maintained by visitors inside the 27-acre conservatory. The Forest Department staff serving at the conservatory have been provided with masks and gloves as a safety measure. A chain of 16 surveillance cameras have been installed to watch the movements of the visitors. One of the monitors had been kept at the entrance, while another one was placed at the eco shop. Though the conservatory was shut for visitors, regular maintenance works was carried out inside for over seven months including watering of plants and restocking of nectar plants, said the official adding that over 115 butterfly species had been recorded inside. On an average, the conservatory which has an indoor conservatory, amphitheatre, boating facility, eco shop, information centre, children's park and ‘Nakshatra Vanam’ used to attract about 500 visitors on an average daily with footfalls doubling on weekends, the official said. Ever since the conservatory was inaugurated in November 2015, the number of footfalls until the lockdown was clamped in March exceeded 11 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/butterfly-conservatory-reopens/article33088851.ece
13 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stray cattle menace continues||The menace of stray cattle wandering on city roads posing serious risks has returned, with the public raising an alarm yet again. Cattle wandering especially in the Srirangam, Gandhi Market and Woraiyur areas is a common sight. “I have had to stop my vehicle in a haste to avoid accidents. If at all I hit the cow, it will cause grave injuries to my life and to the cow’s,” said a resident in Woraiyur. M. Sekaran, Chairman, Citizens’ Forum said that the cattle hinder smooth flow of traffic on arterial roads, including Salai Road and Bharathidasan Salai Road. City police, in September came down heavily on 15 cattle owners and booked them on charges of causing obstruction to public roads and posing danger to the public. The police had found more than 30 cows wandering following which they took the initiative. “The city corporation must take charge, impound the cattle and levy a fine. Otherwise, there will be no changes,” Mr. Sekaran said. Unless a heavy fine is announced, the owners will continue to leave their cattle lose, he added. Cattle destroy the plants on centre medians and ruin the work of the civic body to beautify the city. The civic body alleged that they do not have the man power or the necessary space to construct a pound, claimed Mr. Sekaran. However, S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner, said that they had undertaken the work to enumerate the number of cattle, and cattle owners in the city. “We will organise a record of the total number of cattle, after which meetings will be organised with registered owners to understand their grievances and discuss these issues,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-cattle-menace-continues/article33089622.ece
13 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||App launched to build interaction between public and police||'Virtual Cop' - a mobile App aimed at providing a communication platform between the general public and the police department was introduced here on Tuesday. The app has initially been launched for the Tiruchi Range encompassing Tiruchi, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Karur districts. Inspector General of Police, Central Zone H.M. Jayaram inaugurated the App in the presence of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range Z. Annie Vijaya, Superintendent of Police (in-charge) Tiruchi T. Senthilkumar, Additional Superintendents of Police, Deputy Superintendents of Police and Inspectors of Tiruchi Range. The Virtual Cop app which could be downloaded from the playstore provides for two-way communication and interactions between the general public and the police department, say police sources. Public could register their complaints without having to visit a nearby police station making use of the app. The complaints could pertain to traffic violation, crimes, child abuse and women abuse for speedier action. Public could also convey information relating to any illegal activity taking place in their respective places through the app, the sources said. Public could also register the complaint along with a photo of the incident. The status of the complaint could be viewed in the app. The sources said the social media team of the police in the respective districts would forward the complaint or information to their higher ups and the jurisdictional officer of the police station concerned for quicker action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/app-launched-to-build-interaction-between-public-and-police/article33089623.ece
13 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two die in accident||Two persons on a motorcycle died after being knocked down by an unidentified vehicle on the Tiruchi - Chennai national highway at Naranamangalam in neighbouring Perambalur district on Wednesday night. Police gave the names of the deceased as Mariappan and Backiaraj. According to police sources, they were proceeding on the motorcycle when an unknown vehicle rammed them from behind and sped away. While Mariappan died on the spot, Backiaraj expired on way to the government hospital. The Padalur Police are investigating, the police sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-accident/article33088868.ece
13 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 94.25 on Thursday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 5,831 and the discharge 12,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33088862.ece
13 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Shoppers give the go-by to COVID-19 norms||Belying assumptions that COVID-19 would badly impact Deepavali business this year due to the fear of contracting the viral infection and the recession-like situation, all the streets in Tirunelveli are filled with hundreds of people doing last minute shopping. As the COVID-19-induced prolonged lockdown from March last had a telling impact on all sections of the society, especially on the working class, it was expected that it would dent the buying capacity of the consumers. Moreover, people would not come out in large numbers for shopping, fearing the viral infection, it was thought. However, dashing all these assumptions, all the streets are overflowing with shoppers, causing serious traffic snarls in the evening every day. Though COVID-19 is still a major threat during this festival season and the shoppers are being urged repeatedly through public address system to take safety precautions by wearing mask and using hand sanitiser, people are least bothered and go on with their shopping. There is no sign of physical distancing at all the shops ahead of the celebration on Saturday. Sudden rain Barring a brief break after a sudden downpour dampened the shoppers’ spirit for a while in the afternoon, they were back on the streets once the rain stopped. The unexpected rains badly hit the eleventh hour firecrackers sale in the twin towns of Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai on Thursday afternoon. While the shops functioning from permanent structures were not affected badly, those functioning under makeshift structures suffered much. In order to check movement of criminals, particularly pocket pickers mingling with the crowd, police have installed 34 surveillance cameras on all four Car Streets in Tirunelveli Town, especially on North Car Street, a major shopping region. The police monitor the visuals they get from the surveillance cameras from the control room near Swami Nellaiyappar Temple. A watch tower has also been erected on North Car Street to watch the crowd. As a good number of textile and jewellery showrooms have sprung up in Vannarpet in Palayamkottai over the past few years, the police have installed surveillance cameras in this area also. The police caught two youth red-handed when they tried to steal something from a car parked beneath the flyover after breaking the windowpanes a couple of days ago. After this incident, police personnel in plainclothes have been positioned in this area. In Thoothukudi, the police have installed surveillance cameras on Great Cotton Road and Victoria Extension Road to monitor the crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shoppers-give-the-go-by-to-covid-19-norms/article33089628.ece
13 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Speed trial conducted||Speed trial was conducted on Kadambur-Gangaikondan section on Thursday noon as track doubling work in this section, which forms part of Madurai – Kanniyakumari doubling project, has been completed. Track inspection on trolley was conducted on this stretch in March. Subsequently, permission was granted to operate trains at 60 km speed. Since the speed of the trains to be operated on this track is to be increased to 100 km, Railway Principal Safety Commissioner for Southern Region Abhai Kumar Rai conducted the speed trial. Accompanied by Railway Divisional Manager V.R. Lenin and Project Manager of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited Kamalakar Reddy, he also inspected the Gangaikondan railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speed-trial-conducted/article33089630.ece
13 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||SIMMA thanks Chief Minister||The South India Match Manufacturers’ Association has thanked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for the State Government’s decision to establish welfare board for the benefit of match and fireworks industry workers. In a statement, SIMMA secretary Devadoss said the Chief Minister’s announcement on setting up the welfare board would immensely benefit the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/simma-thanks-chief-minister/article33089634.ece
13 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Elderly woman found murdered in Kangeyam||An elderly woman was found murdered in her residence in Kangeyam here on Wednesday. According to the police, Valliammal (80) was living alone in her house located in the middle of 12 acre owned by her. The land was leased to Subramani, who was carrying out farming works for the past two years. He left on Tuesday evening and returned to work on Wednesday at around 3 p.m., when he found Valliammal dead with injuries on the head. Mr. Subramani claimed that jewellery weighing around 10.5 sovereigns and Rs. 10,000 in cash were missing from the residence, the police said. Kangeyam Deputy Superintendent of Police R. Dhanarasu conducted inquiries on Wednesday. The deceased was attacked with the wooden handle of a hoe ( manvetti in Tamil), according to preliminary investigations. Special teams were formed to nab the accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-woman-found-murdered-in-kangeyam/article33089393.ece
13 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Chit fund owner arrested||Officers from the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Tiruppur City Police on Thursday arrested a chit fund owner on charges of cheating investors of over Rs. 84 lakh. The CCB said in a release that S. Rajkumar (40), who was running ‘SSM Chit Funds’ allegedly without permission, cheated four investors of Rs. 84.33 lakh and had absconded. A special team arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chit-fund-owner-arrested/article33089387.ece
13 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Security stepped up in the Nilgiris||Security is being stepped up across the Nilgiris in preparation for Deepavali, and the expected surge in the number of tourists to the district over the coming days. Police officials said more than 500 personnel would be deployed across the district during the Deepavali weekend for crowd control and to prevent crimes. “For this reason, a watch tower fitted with CCTV cameras has been erected along Commercial Road in Udhagamandalam, which will be manned by police personnel,” a police official said. The Deepavali weekend was expected to bring an increased number of tourists to the district and hence adequate police presence would be ensured to prevent crimes from taking place, the official said. Police in plainclothes would also be deployed around areas with high footfall in Coonoor, Kotagiri, Udhagamandalam and Gudalur, including major commercial areas and bus stands. To ensure that tourists entering or exiting the district adhered to traffic rules, the major highways in the district would be monitored and traffic rules would be strictly enforced. Highway patrol police and traffic police would also work together in ensuring that people did not drive while in an inebriated condition, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-stepped-up-in-the-nilgiris/article33089391.ece
13 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rare sighting of Lesser Cuckoo in the Nilgiris||The rare sighting of a Lesser Cuckoo ( Cuculus poliocephalus ), seen in the Nilgiris after 37 years, has marked the influx of winter avian visitors to the district. The bird, which was last recorded in the Nilgiris in 1983, has since been recorded nine times across Tamil Nadu during its migratory passage each winter to Sri Lanka and to eastern Africa, said Samson Arockianathan, research biologist from the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). “The lesser cuckoo has breeding populations in parts of North and North-Eastern India, including Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Assam,” he said. The bird’s annual winter migration route takes them across Southern India, mostly across coastal regions of Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, he said. More observations are required to better understand the migration patterns of this species. “Getting this rare record of the bird in the Nilgiris further adds to our understanding,” Mr. Arockianathan said. The lesser cuckoo flew into the home of Mr. Subramani, a resident of Colony Mattam in Ketti, who gave the bird water and allowed it to rest inside his home before it found the strength to continue its journey. Over the last few weeks, winter migrants to the Nilgiris have been spotted across the district, including the Kashmir flycatcher in Kotagiri. “Each year, wildlife enthusiasts prepare to record bird species that visit the district during winter,” said Titus John, an amateur photographer from Coonoor, who has been photographing winter migrants in Coonoor, Kotagiri and Kodanad over the last few weeks. Winter migrants have also been spotted in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve over the last couple of weeks. M.Murali, a wildlife photographer from the Nilgiris, who has in the past recorded the bar-headed goose in the upper Nilgiris, said that painted storks, woolly-necked storks, brown-shouldered kites as well as ospreys have been sighted in the Sigur plateau. “The coming weeks will be of special interest to bird watchers in the district, as the number of winter migrants will steadily increase,” said Mr. Murali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-sighting-of-lesser-cuckoo-in-the-nilgiris/article33088892.ece
13 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Amirthi zoo reopens to good response||After a gap of seven months, the Amirthi Small Zoo in Vellore was thrown open to the public on Thursday. Though COVID-19 safety precautions were in place, visitors were happy to walk in. “Vellore has very few places to visit with family, and the zoo is one such place. Since it was closed for a long time, we were disappointed. My children were happy to see the animals again,” said S. Kumaresan, a visitor. Established in 1967, the zoo is spread across 25 hectares of land. There are 190 animals, birds and snakes, as well as crocodiles, tortoises and star tortoises. “Visitors have to wash their legs in potassium permanganate solution before entering the zoo. A temperature check is done, and those without masks are not allowed. Physical distancing is enforced at the zoo and our staff are on the rounds to detect any violation,” said S. Dhandapani, Forest Range Officer. The meat and vegetables given to animals are washed properly and all the enclosures sanitised. On average, around 400 people visit the zoo on weekdays and 1,000 on weekends. During the festival season, the number shoots up to 25,000. The monthly revenue is around Rs. 1 lakh. “People from Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupathur come to this zoo,” he added. Over 100 people visited the zoo on Thursday. “In the coming days, the number will increase. The canteen will be opened in a few days,” added Mr. Dhandapani.  A temperature check is done, and those without masks are not allowed. Physical distancing is enforced at the zoo and our staff are on the rounds to detect any violation S. Dhandapani Forest Range Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amirthi-zoo-in-vellore-too-opens/article33088845.ece
13 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||56 fresh cases in Vellore||The number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 18,607 with 56 new cases reported on Thursday. While 17,985 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 302. The district’s death toll is 320. In Ranipet district, 26 new cases were taking the total to 15,221. In Tirupathur district, the number of positive cases stands at 6,962 with 30 new cases on Thursday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 64 new cases were reported taking the total to 18,170. So far, 17,498 people have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 403.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/56-fresh-cases-in-vellore/article33089640.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 190 new cases||Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 190 new cases of COVID-19, taking the district’s tally so far to 45,875. The media bulletin issued by the Health Department said 192 persons were discharged on Thursday and 1,035 patients were under institutional care. The district’s toll increased to 583 with the death of an 83-year-old patient. With the death of a 55-year-old man in Tiruppur district, the toll touched 200 on Thursday. The district reported 81 cases, taking the tally to 14,065. As many as 12,903 persons recovered and 962 were active cases. A total of 101 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 23 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 7,036, with 243 persons undergoing treatment. The district reported 40 deaths so far. Salem district saw 66 cases, the lowest in recent times. Fifty-four cases were indigenous and 12 patients returned Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Erode and Coimbatore. In Namakkal, 48 persons tested positive of whom 10 returned from Salem, Chennai, Krishnagiri, Kerala and Karnataka. Erode district reported 65 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,428. While 83 persons were discharged, 763 persons continue to be under treatment. In Krishnagiri, 42 persons tested positive and 41 persons were discharged on Thursday. The number of active cases stood at 338 and the total number of infections 6,993. Dharmapuri reported 18 positive cases, and 16 recoveries. The number of active cases is 201 and the total number of infections 5,827.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-sees-lowest-number-of-cases-in-recent-times/article33088922.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||172 persons test positive in Central region||The central districts on Thursday recorded a further drop in COVID-19 cases with 172 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Meanwhile, two deaths, one each from Nagapattinam and Thanjavur were reported. A 66-year-old man from Thanjavur with a history of coronary artery disease and diabetes and a 70-year-old man from Nagapattinam suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome died of COVID-19. Meanwhile, Thanjavur continued to record the highest number of cases in the central region despite reporting a sharp drop in reported cases. Among the 38 patients who tested positive were primary contacts of those who tested positive and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI). In Tiruchi, 37 fresh cases were reported, many of who hailed from existing containment zones, some frontline workers and primary contacts. A total of 18 patients were discharged from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Nagapattinam reported 25 new cases while Tiruvarur reported 21. Meanwhile, Pudukottai and Karur districts too, reported within the same range with 20 and 17 patients respectively. Patients in the districts were local contacts with no contact or travel history, patients detected through fever camps and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Karur, the 20 patients were residents from Gandhigramam, Pasupathipalayam, Kadavur among other localities. In Ariyalur, nine patients tested positive while in Perambalur, five new cases were reported. Of the five in Perambalur, two each hailed from Veppanthattai and Alathur blocks while one hailed from Perambalur block. Meanwhile, a total of 475 fresh throat swabs were lifted and sent to the testing facility in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/172-persons-test-positive-in-central-region/article33088867.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Monsoon blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monsoon-blues/article33089632.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Caring for canines||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caring-for-canines/article33089572.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reopening of schools and colleges put off||For other students, the reopening date will be announced later, and online classes are expected to continue. As people throng shops and bus stands, the government has advised them to follow distancing norms and wear masks. A fresh wave of infections has swept through some countries, it said, stressing the need to follow preventive measures. The permission granted for community, political, entertainment and cultural programmes and celebrations and religious congregations with over 100 members has been revoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopening-of-schools-and-colleges-put-off/article33088872.ece
13 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Track doubling between Castle Rock and Vasco-da-gama in public interest’||Senior Railway officers asserted in Hubballi on Wednesday that the doubling of the Castle Rock and Vasco-da-gama railway track between Karnataka and Goa was in public interest. Additional General Manager of South Western Railway P K. Mishra, Chief Project Manager of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited P.K. Kshatriya, Additional Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division S.K. Jha and Deputy General Manager E. Vijaya held an online press conference and gave details of the project. They said that it will help improve connectivity and also benefit Goa. Mr. Mishra clarified that no new area is being taken for laying the railway line and it would not have any additional impact on environment. Indian Institute of Science had conducted the Environment Impact Assessment Study, he added. Maximum care will be taken during the construction of line to protect the environment, just like similar infrastructure development projects are being executed all over the country, including in the ecologically sensitive North Eastern region. “Requirement of tree cutting is very less and would be reduced further. The Railways is committed to the development of Goa in an environment-friendly way,” he said. According to him, the quantum of coal being transported was continuously declining and non-conventional energy sources would be the future. Electrification will make trains carbon neutral, he said. Foot survey will be done for finalising alignment of the line. The existing single line railway track between Castle Rock to Vasco-da-gama in Goa was laid more than a century ago. The Ministry of Railways had sanctioned the project to double the track between Hosapete (Karnataka) and Vasco-da-gama (Goa) (342 km) in 2010-11 at a cost of Rs. 2,127 crore. The project has since been nearly completed in Karnataka except a 10 km stretch between Unkal and Hubballi, which is targeted for commissioning by March 2021. A seven-kilometre track between Madgoan-Majorda in Goa has also been doubled. Tender for works on the remaining stretch of about 90 km in Goa was awarded for doubling. They would be taken up after ensuring necessary clearances. Doubling of the section will be a game changer for Goa, as it will give impetus to trade and enable easier and faster passenger movement. The existing rail network is constrained due to the single-line long-ghat section severely limiting train running capacity. While average section running time in the plain section is 8 to 10 minutes, it takes 70-80 minutes to pass the critical ghat section reducing sectional capacity to 15 % of sections in plains. Moreover, the ghat section is extremely landslip-prone and being single line, the State remains frequently cut-off during the rainy season. The double line all-weather rail track was thus necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/track-doubling-between-castle-rock-and-vasco-da-gama-in-public-interest/article33088939.ece
13 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Labhu Ram recovering||Hubballi Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, who is being treated for complications arising out of a throat infection at Manipal Hospital in Bengaluru, is recovering. He was airlifted on Wednesday night, after his condition worsened. Earlier, he was admitted to the SDM Medical College in Dharwad for a surgery. That was necessitated after he complained of a throat infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labhu-ram-recovering/article33088943.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not so bright Deepavali for them||This year, Deepavali is not going to be bright for the makers and sellers of earthen lamps in Pottery Town. The pandemic, the potters in the area say, will put a dent in their profits at what is usually one of the busiest times of year. Many potters are hoping that business will pick up in the coming days. The gradual easing of lockdown allowed potters to procure raw materials and restart work. And while business has improved when compared with other festival sales this year, demand for earthen lamps had never been so low for Deepavali, according to Rajshekar G. Udayar, a fifth-generation potter. Mr. Udayar changes his items of sale for each season every year. “Largely, it’s biryani bowls and coffee or teacups, and, during Dasara and Ganesh Chaturthi, it’s Ganesha idols. For Deepavali, I sell earthen lamps,” he said. He makes a turnover Rs. 10 lakh during Deepavali — his most profitable season during the year. This year, he is doubtful of making even Rs. 1 lakh. “I usually take loans, hire about 30 people for three months prior to Deepavali owing to the bulk orders we get. But all that hasn’t happened this time.” B. Anand, 62, secretary of the potters’ association Kumbara Kara-Kushala Kaigrahika Sahakara, said, “It isn’t just about people not stepping out owing to COVID-19. We used to get bulk orders from IT companies, who give lamps to their employees. But this year, everyone’s working from home. So, those orders were cancelled too.” Vinay Prashant, co-founder of Tamaala Art Merchandise, sells handmade earthen lamps made by potters in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. He, too, has observed a drop in sales. “Sales have been low this year, but not as bad as we expected. We have been selling a lot of lamps online. Usually, we sell about 80,000 lamps; this year it will be about 50,000, which isn’t bad, considering this is a pandemic year,” he said, adding the goodwill of the public to support artisans has contributed to sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-so-bright-deepavali-for-them/article33089356.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Is govt. ready to prosecute leaders who paid fine for not wearing mask?’||Is the State government prepared to launch criminal prosecutions against political leaders who paid fines by accepting their violation of COVID-19 norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing during political rallies? The Karnataka High Court posed this question to the government while stating that many of the political leaders have paid fine for not wearing masks during rallies held as part of the campaign for the bypolls held to State Assembly in the city. “If the [political] persons concerned have paid the fine, they have admitted to their violation. Therefore, failure of the State to prosecute them will have a serious consequence...,” a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty observed. The Bench was hearing petitions filed by Letzkit Foundation, Bengaluru, and Sai Datta, a resident of the city, complaining about violations of norms by celebrities, elected representatives, political leaders and others during rallies and demonstrations. The violation of these norms, prescribed under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Regulations, 2020, is cognizable and non-bailable offence and attracts imprisonment up to three years and fine up to Rs. 2 lakh on conviction under Section 5 of the Karnataka Epidemic Disease Act, 2020, the Bench said while pointing out that this punishment is in addition to the fine to be imposed by the authorised officers. Earlier, government counsel Vikram Huilgol pointed out that the government had no intention of launching criminal prosecution against people for not wearing masks and maintaining social distance but there appears to be some incongruity in the wording in the law, which the government is now aware and is examining them. The police had booked only non-cognizable offences against actor Darshan, political leaders like former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar and several other party workers for violating norms during election campaigning, and against Lok Sabha member Tejasvi Surya for not wearing mask during a rally on September 29-30, the Bench noted. Only fine amounts were collected from them after court questioned about not imposing fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/is-govt-ready-to-prosecute-leaders-who-paid-fine-for-not-wearing-mask/article33089093.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Godown fire: Police continue to quiz owner, family||The police continued to question factory owner Sajjanraj and his family to ascertain how they were able to hoodwink authorities and store chemicals illegally in a godown in a residential area at Bapujinagar. The godown, where 1,800 barrels of chemicals used in paint thinners and santisiers, caught fire on Tuesday. Sajjanraj is the owner of Rekha Chemical Industries, and his wife Kamala Sajjanraj owns Rekha Chemicals Corporation, while their son Anil Kumar, runs the family business. They were arrested from their house at Shankarpuram on Wednesday. “We are gathering a list of firms that bought chemicals from Sajjanraj regularly. Right now, we have details of two companies, while the rest of them are retail buyers,” said a police officer. The couple has two factories in Bommasandra Industrial Area and the licence to run both, but did not have the permission to store chemicals in the godown. According to the police, Sajjanraj was also purchasing inflammable chemicals from Mumbai, Kochi, and Chennai. They included acetonitrile, toluene, acetone, methyltetrahydrofuran, isopropyl alcohol, methylene chloride, and chloroform. He would then sell them to retailers and companies in the city. “We probing whether he had permission to sell them from the godown. Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar on Thursday visited the godown. “There are allegations that sanitiser was not only stored but also illegally manufactured at the godown. I have come here to check for myself how our the Drug Control Department has functioned, whether the operation here had come to the notice of our officers, or if not, why the enforcement was lax,” the Minister said. He, however, added that while there were reports that sanitiser was stored and manufactured, the chemicals present at the godown was a solvent, some thinners used in paints, and also some alcohol-related compounds. This needs to be thoroughly probed. There are reports that a prominent corporate was buying sanitiser from here, which will also be illegal as this was an unlicensed firm. They will also be culpable,” he said. The residential area is limping back to normality as the power and water supply was restored on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/godown-fire-police-continue-to-quiz-owner-family/article33089365.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel set up to study Kasturirangan report||The State Cabinet on Thursday constituted a committee to study the Kasturirangan report and make recommendations to the Centre on its implementation. The report has proposed Western Ghats as an Ecologically Sensitive Area (ESA).  The Kasturirangan report aims to bring about 37% of the Western Ghats under ESA zones. It has recommended prohibition of development activities within 60,000 sq. km of ESA spread over Karnataka, Gujarat, Goa, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Maharashtra. The Cabinet sub-committee is headed by Minister for Ecology, Environment and Forest B.S. Anand Singh and its other members are Revenue Minister R. Ashok, Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, said Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy. A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court challenging the constitutional validity of the 2018 draft notification issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change proposing the Western Ghat as ESA.  Declaration of the Western Ghat as ESA would cause problems to thousands of villagers living in the ghat region in the State and they would be asked to shift to other places if the report was implemented, it has been argued. People in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Chikkamagaluru districts have been opposing the eviction of the families settled in the Western Ghats region. Shobha Karandlaje, BJP MP, has been opposing the implementation of the report stating that it was based on satellite imagery and not physical verification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-set-up-to-study-kasturirangan-report/article33089091.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NEET counselling registration: Students complain of glitches||Several medical and dental seat aspirants complained of slow servers and technical glitches and said that they were unable to register for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) counselling. The last date to register for the counselling for candidates, who qualified UG NEET 2020, ended on Thursday. A parent of a medical seat aspirant said several errors popped up during the registration process. In addition to this, the process for payment of fees was not smooth as well, he said. “The registration for the All-India quota seats conducted by the Directorate General of Health Services was smoother compared to the counselling for seats conducted by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA),” the parent added. However, officials of KEA, which conducts the counselling. said more than 50,000 candidates had registered for the process already. Officials also ruled out extending the last date to register as they were facing deadlines to complete the counselling process for medical and dental seat students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/neet-counselling-registration-students-complain-of-glitches/article33089103.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||25 police personnel who lost their bikes in D.J. Halli violence get new ones through CSR initiative||As many as 25 police personnel whose motorcycles were burnt by a mob at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli in August received brand new two-wheelers on Thursday after a corporate sponsor stepped in to help. Set on fire The police personnel who were part of the patrolling team had rushed to the spot from in and around the station on the night of August 10 as thousands of people gathered to protest a derogatory social media post on Islam by Naveen Kumar, the nephew of Pulakeshinagar MLA R. Akhanda Sreenivasa Murthy. They had parked their bikes near the two stations to join their colleagues to maintain law and order.The mob attacked D.J. Halli police station and set fire to vehicles outside K.G. Halli station. Around 146 vehicles were gutted, including the 25 motorcycles belonging to the patrolling police party. The Police Department could not claim the insurance owing to technical reasons. “As a result, the 25 police personnel had to make do without their bikes, which in turn affected their professional and personal lives,” said S.D. Sharanappa, Deputy Commissioner of Police (East). The matter was brought to the notice of the higher-ups and TVS Motor Company stepped in to provide new motorcycles as part of their corporate social responsibility initiative. On Thursday, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai along with senior officials, including DG&IGP Praveen Sood and Police Commissioner Kamal Pant handed over the bikes to the police personnel at a programme, under the banner, ‘We are with you’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/25-police-personnel-who-lost-their-bikes-in-dj-halli-violence-get-new-ones-through-csr-initiative/article33089360.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSHDC scam: ED attaches properties of former manager of Vijaya Bank||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 1.3 crore belonging to former senior manager of Vijaya Bank, B.Y. Srinivas, in connection with a case involving funds being siphoned off from the Karnataka State Handicraft Development Corporation (KSHDC). The seized assets include land and bank accounts in his name as well as his associates, one H.S. Nagalingaswamy, and others. Further investigation is in progress, said the ED in a press release on Thursday. The case came to light in April last year, when the general manager (administration), KDHDC, in his complaint to the police alleged that general manager (finance) G.C. Kishore Kumar had opened a fake account in a nationalised bank in the name of the managing director of KSHDC, and diverted funds to the account between December 2016 and October 2018. The ED took up the case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act against Kumar and others. Investigation under the Act revealed that Nagalingaswamy and his associates generated proceeds of crime to the extent of Rs. 16.67 crore, the ED said. The money was moved out of the bank accounts that KSHDC had with Vijay Bank to a fraudulent account at State Bank of India in the name of ‘Managing Director, KSHDCL’ using forged documents. The cheating came to light when the managing director of KSHDC received a letter from the bank seeking authorisation for the account. “The amount was further diverted into the bank accounts of certain entities viz. M/s. Fralk Infotainment, M/s. PNP Enterprises and bank account in the name of one D. Narasaiah and from where the same was withdrawn and utilised by Nagalingaswamy and associates,” said the release.  The case came to light in April 2019 when the general manager (administration) of KDHDC filed a complaint alleging that the general manager (finance) had opened a fake account in a nationalised bank in the name of the MD of KSHDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kshdc-scam-ed-attaches-properties-of-former-manager-of-vijaya-bank/article33089102.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man who stole Rs. 30 lakh arrested||The Byadarahalli police on Thursday arrested an employee of a cash management company who was on the run after stealing Rs. 30 lakh in August this year. The accused, Vinay Jogi, made off with the money while he was on duty to refill an ATM, and had been absconding since then. Rs. 25.5 lakh recovered The police, who tracked him down, have recovered Rs. 25.5 lakh from him. This includes Rs. 14.5 lakh he had given to his parents and Rs. 11 lakh, which he used to repay a bank loan. “The rest of the money he spent,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-who-stole-rs-30-lakh-arrested/article33089358.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Playgrounds identified for cracker stalls||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has identified several playgrounds where retailers can set up temporary stalls to sell “green” firecrackers. The list has been sent to the office of the Police Commissioner, said N. Manjunath Prasad, BBMP Commissioner. Seven playgrounds with provision for 68 temporary shops have been identified in the South zone and nine playgrounds with 28 shops in Yelahanka zone. Another 12 playgrounds have been identified in Mahadevapura zone, one in Bommanahalli, four in West zone, and 23 in the East zone. One playground that can accommodate 20 stalls has been identified in Dasarahalli zone. Only “green” crackers that have been certified by NEERI and CSIR may be sold, said Mr. Prasad. As per the orders issued by Chief Secretary, cases may be booked under the Disaster Management Act against anyone selling and bursting anything apart from “green” crackers. Temporary shops will be allotted on lottery by the Police Department to those who have applied for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/playgrounds-identified-for-cracker-stalls/article33089359.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. looking beyond Bengaluru for business ecosystem: Dy. CM||When “work from home” or “work from anywhere” has become the new buzzword in view of the pandemic, the government has rolled out a new initiative “Beyond Bengaluru”, focussed on building an innovation and a technology ecosystem beyond the city. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, also the Minister of Electronics, IT, BT, and S&T, inaugurated the “Beyond Bengaluru” initiative as part of “Bengaluru Tech Summit 2020” (November 19-21) on Thursday. He said this measure was aimed at enhancing the growth of IT/ITeS, BPO, Electronic System Design Manufacturing, and telecom sector industries located in Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubbali-Dharwad and Shivamogga. He also informed that the government was mulling over promoting the development of such an ecosystem in four more places in the State. At present, places outside Bengaluru contribute just 5% of the total revenue of the industry and this needs to be increased to achieve the target of the State to become a trillion-dollar digital economy by 2025. With COVID-19 as the trigger to promote the concepts of work from home or anywhere, Karnataka is looking to effectively leverage and access the talent and skill available across the State, he said. “Now is the time to go beyond Bengaluru in the backdrop of reverse migration. The government has resolved connectivity issues in tier 2 and tier 3 cities by working with telecom companies,” he added.  At present, places outside Bengaluru contribute just 5% of the total revenue of the industry and this needs to be increased to achieve the target of the State to become a trillion-dollar digital economy by 2025.C.N. Ashwath NarayanDeputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-looking-beyond-bengaluru-for-business-ecosystem-dy-cm/article33089088.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NCB unearths another inter-State drug racket||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) announced that it has unearthed yet another inter-State drug racket and arrested three people for allegedly smuggling hashish oil into Bengaluru from Andhra Pradesh. Acting on a tip-off, a team of officials intercepted a car near Devanahalli toll gate on Monday. They recovered three packets wrapped in brown cover that were taped under the driver’s seat, worth approximately Rs. 25 lakh. The accused — Ranjith R.S., Ananth P.D., and Sarang K.K. — allegedly confessed that the drugs were sourced from their contacts in Visakhapatnam. After procuring consignments of the narcotic, they would sell it through their contacts in Bengaluru and Kerala. “The accused also said they were smuggling drugs to West Asia, Maldives, and Sri Lanka,” said Amit Ghawate, zonal director, NCB. Ecstasy pills Officers with the Bengaluru City Customs Commissionerate working at the Foreign Post Office, Chamarajpet, on Wednesday recovered a parcel declared as a foot massage machine in which a consignment of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) or ecstasy tablets had been hidden. The total quantity of the pills recovered was around 2.34 kg, which sells for Rs. 1.2 crore in the international market, according to officials. Officials are tracking down the person who placed the order of the foot massage machine. In toys package In another case, Customs officials on Wednesday recovered 230 grams of hydro ganja worth Rs. 3.6 lakh that had been shipped from the U.S. to a Bengaluru address via an international courier. The drugs were concealed in a package containing toys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ncb-unearths-another-inter-state-drug-racket/article33089086.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2,116 new COVID-19 cases||The State on Thursday reported 2,116 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,55,912. With 21 deaths, the toll rose to 11,474. As many as 3,368 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,14,949. Of the remaining 29,470 active patients, 797 patients were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.83%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.99%. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,069 cases, taking its tally to 3,54,215. With eight deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,985. The active cases in Bengaluru touched 17,942. As many as 1,15,386 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 88,100 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total tests rose to 91,58,603.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2116-new-covid-19-cases/article33089362.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cheating case against techie, family||TheJnana Bharathi police have registered a cheating case against a software engineer and his family for allegedly duping hundreds of people in an investment scam. Sanjeev Patil, DCP West, said Patel Anand had floated a chit fund company, Ashiwarya Lakshmi, offering people a monthly interest for every Rs. 1 lakh they invested. Once the pandemic hit, depositors stopped getting their returns and were unable to claim the principal amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cheating-case-against-techie-family/article33089363.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC direction to State govt. on selection to Karnataka Public Service Commission||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to clarify whether search committees were constituted as per its directions for selecting persons to the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC). A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction on a PIL petition by T. Narasimhamurthy, a social activist from Bengaluru. The petitioner has sought a declaration that 11 members of the KPSC are not eligible to hold post as norms were not followed as recommended by the Hota committee. The petitioner has contended that the HC in 2016 directed the government to appoint chairperson and members to the KPSC by adhering to recommendations of the Hota Committee, which said that search committees will have to be formed. The Bench has not issued notices to the 11 members of KPSC, who have been arraigned as responders in the petition.  The petitioner sought a declaration that 11 members of the KPSC are not eligible to hold post||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-direction-to-state-govt-on-selection-to-karnataka-public-service-commission/article33089097.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC’s poser to government on withdrawing criminal cases||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the government to justify whether it has power to issue directions to the Director of Prosecution for withdrawing any criminal cases under Section 321 of the Code Criminal Procedure, 1973. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction on a PIL petition filed by an advocate. The petitioner has alleged that the governments have abused the process of law over the years in directing the Director of Prosecution to withdraw the criminal cases in a large number of cases while pointing out that over 500 such cases were ordered to be withdrawn from 2014 till May 2020. It has been contended in the petition that the government cannot issue any direction for withdrawal of criminal cases as Section 321 gives independent power to the public prosecutors and the State government cannot issue a direction. Though the petitioner has questioned more than 10 different orders passed by the government based on the decision of the State government since 2014 for withdrawal of criminal cases, the court said that it may consider a few recent orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hcs-poser-to-government-on-withdrawing-criminal-cases/article33089096.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for stealing tractors||The Kamakshipalya police have arrested a 48-year-old man who, along with his associate, “specialised” in stealing tractors. Twelve tractors valued at Rs. 55 lakh were seized from him. “The accused, Bore Gowda from Mandya, would steal tractors parked or left unattended on the outskirts of Bengaluru. He would then rent the stolen tractors out to other farmers on a monthly rental basis,” the police said. Bore Gowda was arrested when the police started investigating the theft of a tractor at Hoysalanagar. The owner said he had parked it on the roadside and returned to find it missing. “The accused has been running this operation for the past two years,” said a police officer. Efforts are on to track down his associate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-stealing-tractors/article33089069.ece
13 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Training programme||Visvesvaraya Trade Promotion Centre is organising a five-day export management training programme from November 17 on virtual platform. For details, visitwww.vtpc.karnataka.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-programme/article33089095.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Journal released||To mark its 28th Foundation Day, the Indian Institute of Plantation Management Bengaluru (IIPMB) launched the ‘International Journal of Agribusiness and Plantation Management’ (IJAPM) recently. According to an IIPMB release, the launch was initiated with a brief introduction on the scope and aim of the journal wherein it was stressed that by drawing on important research perspectives, case studies and round table discussion from contributors all over the world, IJAPM will offer a platform for addressing key issues and concerns of agribusiness and plantation management practices. IIPMB chairman S. Kishore, who is also the Additional Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, launched the journal through the virtual mode in New Delhi. Changing scenario David Bozward, Professor, Dean, Royal Agricultural University, U.K., delivered the Foundation Day special lecture. Dr. Bozward highlighted the changing scenario in the agri-food chain due to the COVID-19 pandemic and emphasised the scope of future research in changing consumer trends, entrepreneurship, plant-based foods and emerging business models.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/journal-released/article33089094.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Book exhibition||Sahitya Akademi, on the occasion of National Book Week, is organising a book exhibition from November 18 to 27 from 9.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. According to a release, 20% to 75% discount will be offered on purchase of books in Indian languages. The exhibition will be held at Sahitya Akademi sale office, third floor, LIC building, near Mantri Square mall, Malleswaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-exhibition/article33089361.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru/Mumbai,KARNATAKA||‘It feels like riding a really fast luxury sports car’||Tanay Manjrekar, a power electronics specialist with Virgin Hyperloop, earlier this week got the distinction of becoming the first Indian, as part of human trial, to ride in a hyperloop pod that is expected to revolutionise travel in the coming decade. Terming the test ride the culmination of his five years at Virgin Hyperloop, Mr. Manjrekar was hopeful of deploying the first hyperloop in India. Promoted by Richard Branson, Virgin Hyperloop is planning to have hyperloop projects in Mumbai-Pune and Bengaluru.    How was the overall experience? It has been a fantastic experience for me. It feels like the culmination of five years of hard work at Virgin Hyperloop. The ride was a reflection of the progress we made over such a short duration of time. I feel extremely proud to represent my country in this historic moment and grateful to have this opportunity. Really hopeful about the future of hyperloop as the new mode of transport across the globe. What's the feeling inside — the air availability, the vibration, noise, friction, lighting? Is it similar to that of an airplane in anyway? The journey was exhilarating to say the least. It is in fact a very smooth ride. The pod accelerates at a comfortable rate and once we reach the desired speed, the pod slows down safely. It is fairly quiet inside the pod and it feels like you are riding a really fast luxury sports car. It was a very comfortable journey and that has been the goal for us. To make it as comfortable and easy for people to use. How long was your travel time? We had a top speed of 47.96 m/s or 171.68 kph. The total run time was 15 seconds and covered a total distance of 396 metres. Were you alone and was it scary? I had my awesome co-passenger Anne. If I wasn’t convinced it was safe, do you think I would ride it?! I am very confident in our team and what we have just demonstrated about our safety processes. This was not just a test; it shows hyperloop is a real transportation mode. The first new one in over 100 years! How soon do you think it would become a commuting reality? Next step for us is certification. That would be happening at our recently revealed West Virginia facility. We intend to complete that phase by 2025 and then you should see the first commercial routes before the end of the decade. Call me biased, but I really hope we make it a reality in India and deploy the first hyperloop route in our country. Did you do a dummy trial before the actual one? This was the first human trial at DevLoop and this is my first time on the Hyperloop. We had a complete understanding of the test progression but this was the first time riding in it. Did you have any external view while being in the pod? Yes, for the XP-2 pod we had a window up front and one window next to each passenger. I enjoyed the view. On commercial routes, we are still exploring different options to understand what our passengers would feel the most comfortable with. There is a plethora of opportunities to get creative with this aspect of passenger experience. What is your involvement in the project? My role at Virgin Hyperloop as a power electronics specialist is particularly focussed on the development of the propulsion and pod dynamics systems. This included failure analysis and the implementation of redundant systems? Our goal with Pegasus was to put a person inside a pod which translates into safety measures at all levels of the systems. The implementation resulted in a robust reliable propulsion system, which can detect and protect the system and occupants in the rare case of any malfunction. Safety and methodical design practices have been our shining achievements.   This was not just a test; it shows hyperloop is a real transportation mode. The first new one in over 100 years!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-feels-like-riding-a-really-fast-luxury-sports-car/article33089099.ece
13 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cong. leaders exploiting Sigandur issue: Halappa||Sagar MLA Hartal Halappa of the BJP has alleged that Congress leaders were using the Sigandur Chowdeshwari temple issue for political reasons. At a meeting of Idiga community in Sagar on Thursday, he said the differences between S. Ramappa, trustee, and Sheshagiri Bhat, chief priest, could have been resolved. As they could not arrive at an understanding, the State government was forced to constitute a committee to monitor the affairs of the temple. ‘Temporary’ The MLA said he had opposed the Muzrai Department taking over the temple. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has also said the government will not take over the temple. A committee has been constituted temporarily to look after the affairs for three-four months.” Earlier, Mr. Halappa said, he tried repeatedly to resolve the differences between the two, but could not as Mr. Ramappa did not attend the meetings. “It seems Mr. Ramappa was misled by a few leaders of Idiga Sangha in Sagar. Now, the issue has gone beyond my control”, he said. Further, the MLA said in 2016 and 2018, the Shivamogga district administration had recommended that the government take over the temple. At present, there was no question of the Muzrai Department doing so. “It would remain with Mr. Ramappa and Mr. Sheshagiri Bhat. They have been asked to maintain records of the donations they receive and expenditure incurred.” ‘True agenda’ Commenting on leaders who announced a “Sigandur Chalo”, Mr. Halappa said some Congress leaders were making use of the issue to strengthen their political base. They would not succeed in their efforts as people would realise their true agenda, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-leaders-exploiting-sigandur-issue-halappa/article33089071.ece
13 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Complete railway overbridge work: Cong.||Congress leaders have demanded that the State government ensure the railway overbridge work on B.M.Road in Hassan was completed soon. A few members of the party under the leadership of Bagur Manje Gowda staged a protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Thursday. Later, they submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner R. Girish. Traffic on Hassan-Holenarasipur road has been diverted to allow the work. Not even 30 per cent of the work had been completed year after the work was begun, the protesters said. Assembly poll Later, speaking to journalists, Mr. Manje Gowda said he hopes to contest in the next Assembly elections on the Congress ticket from Hassan. In the 2018 election, he contested from Holenarsipur and lost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-railway-overbridge-work-cong/article33089070.ece
13 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Award-winning cyclists feted||Three employees of the Hubballi Division of South Western Railway (SWR) who have been honoured with the Ekalavya Award for their achievements in cycling were felicitated at a function here on Monday. Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division and president of the Hubballi Division Sports Association Arvind Malkhede felicitated the employees for being chosen for the award. Mr. Malkhede felicitated Adiveppa Bhati, Megha Gugad and Venkappa Kengalagutti who have been conferred with the Ekalayvya Award for the years, 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively, for their outstanding contribution to the field of cycling. Congratulating the award winners, he hoped that the award would further motivate them to practice hard and win more medals for the country in the coming years. He also commended the contribution of coaches who trained these award-winning cyclists. Mr. Malkhede also congratulated the winners of various competition held as part of the Vigilance Awareness Week. Everyone should work towards a prosperous India by being vigilant and following ethics, he said. Additional Divisional Railway Manager S.K. Jha, Senior Divisional Personnel Officer and the Secretary of Hubballi Division Sports Association Christine Borgohain and Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Syed Imtiaz Ahmed and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-winning-cyclists-feted/article33088938.ece
13 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Farmers asked to register for selling paddy under price support scheme||The Ballari district administration has appealed to farmers to enrol between November 30 and December 30 for selling their paddy crop under the price support scheme. Presiding over a Task Force meeting at the district administrative complex in Ballari on Wednesday, Additional Deputy Commissioner P.S. Manjunath said that a maximum of 40 quintals of paddy per acre would be purchased from farmers at Minimum Support Price for 2020-21. “Karnataka Food and Civil Supplies Corporation Limited, a State-owned undertaking, is designated as the nodal agency to purchase paddy from farmers under the price support scheme. We have planned to open procurement centres at Ballari, Sirguppa and Kampli and farmers can visit any of these centres and get enrolled online,” Mr. Manjunath said. As per an estimation by the officer, around 60,000 quintals of paddy is expected to be purchased in 2020-21 under the price support scheme, as compared to 47,000 quintals in the previous year. He also directed the officers concerned to make necessary preparations for procurement by getting rice mills operating in the district enrolled and collecting data about their hulling and stocking capacity. “The government has fixed Minimum Support Price of Rs. 1,868 a quintal for normal paddy and Rs. 1888 a quintal for Grade A quality paddy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-asked-to-register-for-selling-paddy-under-price-support-scheme/article33088941.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cong. joins protest against delay in road-widening project||Congress activists joined local residents to protest against the delay in completing the road widening work of the National Highway stretch between Parkala and Manipal, near Udupi, on Thursday. The protesters raised slogans against the State and the Union governments and marched from Parkala to the Gandhi Maidan where a public meeting was held. Addressing the protesters, the former Minister Pramod Madhwaraj said that there has been a delay by the State government in issuing 3A notification for acquisition of land for widening the stretch of the national highway between Malpe and Tirthahalli. Blaming Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat and the district administration for the delay, Mr. Madhwaraj said that the MLA was falsely giving COVID-19 as the reason for the delay. Vikas Hegde, former president of the Kundapur Development Authority, said that Mr. Bhat and Member of Parliament Shobha Karandlaje have failed to work for the people. The two got elected by giving false promises to the people, he said. The Bharatiya Janata Party is not ready to resolve the issue concerning the Parkala-Manipal road and wants to keep it pending, he said. Udupi District Congress president Ashok Kumar Kodavoor also spoke. Meanwhile, responding to the allegations, Mr. Bhat said in a release that it was because of the efforts of Ms. Karadlaje that Rs. 99.86 crore was sanctioned for widening the road between Kadiyali to Parkala. The work began in December 2018. Mr. Bhat said that this road passes through Parkala Market where there has been an issue of acquisition of land. During the last stage of the acquisition process, the COVID-19 situation started. This brought the process to a halt and thus, it affected the road widening work. The MLA said that he had had a meeting with National Highway Authority of India officials in Bengaluru where the officials stated that the land acquisition process will be completed by January 2021. Adequate compensation will be paid to all land losers. The road work will commence after the payment of compensation and it is likely to be completed by May 2021. Questioning the protest by Congress workers, Mr. Bhat said that the Congress declared the stretch as a national highway without looking at the feasibility of it. It was the Union government that sanctioned Rs. 99.86 crore for widening the stretch between Kadiyali to Parkala and Rs. 91 crore for widening the road between Aadi Udupi and Malpe. The Congress-controlled Udupi City Municipal Council withdrew the order of the earlier BJP-controlled council to set apart Rs. 3 crore for land acquisition and this stopped the land acquisition process, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-joins-protest-against-delay-in-road-widening-project/article33089504.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested, bid to steal cattle foiled||The Bajpe Police arrested a man and foiled an attempt by a group of five persons to steal cattle. The police said that during regular vehicle checking on Wednesday night, a red car was seen coming from Kaikamba to Addur at 11 p.m. As the police asked the car driver to stop, he stopped a few metres in front of the check-post and suddenly tried to move in the reverse direction. As the police rushed towards the car, four persons in the car identified as Mustafa, Siyab, Arfaz and Junaid managed to flee, while Tanvir (23) was arrested. The police recovered two knives, a chilli powder packet, ropes and an iron road to tie up cattle. The police said that the accused had hatched a plan to steal cattle from cowsheds. They intended to use the knives and the chilli powder if anybody tried to prevent them. A search is on for the four accused who are at large, the police said. Sand seized The Mulky Police on Thursday seized a tipper that was said to be carrying sand in an illegal manner. The tipper was seized near the Sri Mahalingeshwara Temple Junction in Kuvattaru village of Mulky. The lorry driver and the cleaner told the police that they were carrying sand from the sand yard of Roshan D’Souza to a place in Bantakal as directed by their owner Avinash. There were no documents authorising the transportation. Meanwhile, on Thursday, the police seized a lorry filled with sand that was illegally stocked on the banks of the Shambhavi in Ullepady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-bid-to-steal-cattle-foiled/article33089503.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KIOCL posts Rs. 31.32 crore profit in second quarter||KIOCL Limited, a Union government undertaking under the Ministry of Steel, posted Rs. 31.32 crore profit after tax (PAT) in the second quarter of the current financial year. It is up by 669 % when compared to the corresponding period of the last financial year. Chairman and Managing Director of the company M.V. Subba Rao said in a release here on Thursday that the board of the company approved of the second quarter and half yearly audited financial results in its virtual meeting in Bengaluru on Wednesday. The increase in profit is due to a rise in pellet prices during the second quarter. The total revenue in the second quarter went up by 26 % to Rs. 486.44 crore, he said. Mr. Rao said that the company scored well during the first half of the financial year amid COVID-19 and incessant rainfall that caused disruptions in iron ore supplies from Chhattisgarh. The company has also undertaken stringent austerity measures to improve profitability for its long-term sustenance. Half yearly results The profit after tax increased by 109 % to Rs. 43.34 crore as against Rs. 20.71 crore in the corresponding period of 2019-20. The total revenue earned stood at Rs. 947.02 crore as against Rs. 1,012.71 crore during the corresponding period of 2019-20. Mr. Rao said that the company is continuously exploring new markets for sale of pellets as well as raw material sources for cost effectiveness from both domestic and international markets. The exploration works offered by the State government and National Mineral Exploration Trust are continuing as per schedule. Exploration activities have also started in Reddipalyam, Tamil Nadu, and in Bagalkot in Karnataka for establishing limestone reserves. The Managing Director said that a solar power plant is expected to be commissioned at Chikkanayakana Halli in Tumakuru shortly. Project work for installing vertical pressure filters at the pellet plant in Mangaluru has just started.  ‘The company did well during the first half of the financial year amid COVID-19 and incessant rainfall that caused disruptions in iron ore supplies from Chhattisgarh’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kiocl-posts-rs-3132-crore-profit-in-second-quarter/article33089500.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Ward panels should ensure democracy works for all’||Director of Centre for Development and Education, Mangaluru, Rita Noronha has said that ward committees proposed to be set up in the city should have a vision for making Mangaluru a healthy and inclusive city. Participating in the fifth city politics webinar on “Decoding Ward Committees for citizens of Mangaluru” organised by Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy here on Wednesday, Ms. Noronha said that the ward committees should have concern for social justice and ensure that democracy works for all. Voices from all communities should be heard and none should be excluded for want of economic and political resources. Ajoy D’Silva from the MCC Civic WhatsApp Group said that the ward committees will have to function in the true spirit of the 74th amendment of the Constitution. They should follow up on development plans, their implementation, the quality of work delivered and funds utilised. The ward committees should be watchdogs and hold councillors accountable. Expressing her interest in becoming a ward committee member, senior advocate Asha Nayak said that accountability, transparency and management of ward committees are the key for the smooth functioning of the Mangaluru City Corporation Council. Nagarika Shakti president Narendra Kumar said that his organisation is trying to bring more people into ward committees. Citizens Voluntary Initiative for the City of Bangalore executive trustee Kathyayini Chamaraj said that ward committee members should be thorough on how things function and must be fully aware that they have the right to appeal in a High Court in case requisitions are unheard. Head, Civic Participation at Janaagraha, Srinivas Alavilli, said that the time has come for people in Mangaluru to stand up and be counted. Janaagraha is committed to supporting Mangaluru as it begins its journey in participatory local governance, he said. Activists G.K. Bhat, Gerard Towers and Padmanabha Ullal and Head (Civic Participation) of Janaagraha Sapna Karim also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ward-panels-should-ensure-democracy-works-for-all/article33089505.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man shares OTP, loses Rs. 90,600||An elderly man shared his OTP (one-time password) number with another man who called him posing as a bank official and lost Rs. 90,600 from his account here on Tuesday. In a complaint filed with the Cyber Crime Police here on Wednesday, Sheikh Sahil Sahed from Bajpe said that a man called his father from Ph: 8582915634. The man said that he was an officer of a bank and informed Sahed’s father that his ATM card will get blocked if he does not take new ATM card. Sahed’s father believed the man and shared with him the OTP number he had received. Within a few minutes, Rs. 90,600 was deducted from Sahed’s father’s account. Woman booked A man from Sharbadkatte has accused a woman of demanding money after threatening him that she would release his photos that were deemed objectionable on the social media. In a compliant to the Mangaluru East Police, the man said that he got to know of the woman through Facebook. The woman shared with him some of her photos deemed objectionable. She then asked him to share his photos. Soon after they were shared, the woman used her aides to call the man and demand money, if he did not want his images to be uploaded on the social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-shares-otp-loses-rs-90600/article33089506.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Stolen||Gold ornaments and cash were stolen from a house in Puttige village near Moodbidri on Wednesday night. The police said that Sharamma, who had left her house at noon, returned in the night to see that her house had been broken into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stolen/article33089510.ece
13 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rajdhani Special train schedule revised||Train No 02431 Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi Rajdhani Special has been permitted stoppage at Kollam, Alapuzha, Thrissur, Shoranur Junction, Kannur and Kasargod from Thursday. The schedule between Thiruvananthapuram Central and Mangalore Junction has also been revised with immediate effect. The new schedule is: Thiruvananthapuram Central (7.15 p.m.), Kollam (8.11 p.m./8.13 p.m.), Alapuzha (9.33 p.m./9.35 p.m.), Ernakulam Junction (10.30 p.m./10.35 p.m.), Thrissur (11.53 p.m./11.55 p.m.), Shoranur Junction (00.45 a.m./00.50 a.m.), Kozhikode (1.57 a.m./2 a.m.), Kannur (3.12 a.m./3.15 a.m.), Kasaragod (4.24 a.m./4.25 a.m.), Mangaluru Junction (5.15 a.m./5.25 a.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rajdhani-special-train-schedule-revised/article33089502.ece
13 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA planning to expedite layout development under 50:50 scheme||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has entered into an agreement with land owners for plot development under which the latter will receive 50 per cent of the developed plots in lieu of cash compensation. This is expected to save the land acquisition cost for MUDA while the layout developments will not be embroiled in legal quagmire over compensation issues. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajiv told mediapersons here on Thursday that the landowners willing to surrender their land for plot development will receive an advance of Rs. 10 lakh as assurance. On implementation the land owners will 50 per cent of the developed site per acre. This works out about 9 developed plots of 30’x40’ dimension and they will be at liberty to sell it to anyone at the prevailing market rate. For MUDA this will eliminate the cost of land acquisition and it will be in a position to develop new layouts at a brisk pace, said Mr. Rajiv. He said after the discussions sizeable landowners have agreed to the concept and MUDA was expecting about 700 acres of land to be earmarked for development under the 50:50 basis. The target is to create a landbank of at least 2,000 acres as there were 80,000 to 100,000 aspirants awaiting distribution of sites. Though development of new layouts was high on the agenda of MUDA, the emphasis will be on multi-storeyed group housing schemes as the city cannot afford a horizontal sprawl to continue unabated, said Mr. Rajiv. The vertical growth model is the future but there will be individuals keen to own independent plots though they may be far away from the city and the MUDA will cater to them as well. The MUDA tried to implement the 50:50 model at Balahalli where it proposed a satellite township but the farmers have put up a stiff resistance to the project on the grounds that not all were willing to quit agriculture and surrender their land. Also, the MUDA has issued a land acquisition notification which triggered unrest among the farmers that they would be forced to relinquish their land. Hence the MUDA has made it clear that the 50:50 model will be implemented only on their consent. Mr. Rajiv also announced the constitution of a task force to prevent encroachment of its properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-planning-to-expedite-layout-development-under-5050-scheme/article33089074.ece
13 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Chamarajanagar tourism video launch today||‘Cheluva Chamarajnagar’, a video produced by the district administration for promoting Chamajnagar’s tourist destinations, temples and its folk culture, will be launched in Chamarajnagar on Friday. Minister in-charge of Chamarajnagar district S. Suresh Kumar will be unveiling the video at the Deputy Commissioner’s office at 1 p.m. Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar, who is the brand ambassador for the district, will participate in the programme virtually from Bengaluru. Duration The 4-minute video captures the essence of Chamarajnagar’s tourism potential. The video done for tourism promotion contains a message from the actor. The video, which will be circulated on various platforms and social media networks after the launch, aims at developing Chamarajnagar as a tourism destination, attracting visitors to explore the tourist sites, temples and experience the rich folk heritage of the land. “The video basically introduces the people to Chamarajnagar which has many breathtaking destinations and promote them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chamarajanagar-tourism-video-launch-today/article33089082.ece
13 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Two policemen killed in accident||Two police personnel were killed when the vehicle in which they were travelling collided with a roadside tree near K.R.Nagar in the early hours of Thursday. The deceased were Assistant Sub-Inspector Murthy and Head Constable Shanthakumar who were on their night beat. Lost control The accident took place close to Siddaiahanakoppal Gate and it is suspected that the driver lost control of the vehicle resulting in the collision against the tree. The impact of the collision was such that both the personnel were killed on the spot. The bodies of the victims were shifted to K.R.Nagar hospital. Superintendent of Police C.B. Ryshyant and others visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-policemen-killed-in-accident/article33089075.ece
13 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Hold grievance meeting for persons with disability’||The Karnataka Vikalachetanara Hakkugala Okkoota, an organisation working for the welfare for persons with disability, has urged the district administration to conduct district-level grievance meeting in Yadgir to discuss the problems concerning persons with disability. Sanganagowda Dhanareddy, regional president of the okkoota, said that despite a government order to hold such grievance meetings once in three months, the district administration has not held any to find solutions to their problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hold-grievance-meeting-for-persons-with-disability/article33088942.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Four-day training in handling COVID-19 pandemic ends||Representatives from more than 25 districts successfully completed training at the Mysuru COVID-19 War Room on handling Apthamitra software and management of beds in hospitals for efficient management of the pandemic in their respective districts. The four-day training that concluded on Thursday was attended by over 85 candidates who had been sent by their respective district authorities. Ashok S.U., Nodal Officer, COVID-19 War Room, Mysuru, and Seethalakshmi, District AYUSH Officer, coordinated the training. KAS officers Durgashree and Venkatalakshmi, Manosha and other resource persons took classes for the participants as part of the training which was conducted under the guidance of Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. At a function during the conclusion of the training, Additional Deputy Commissioner B.S. Manjunathaswamy was present. For the future The districts sent their representatives to Mysuru for training in appreciation of the COVID-19 War Room management here. Although the cases are steadily dropping, the districts have continued to combat the pandemic until the vaccine was found and making preparations that are essential to keep the pandemic under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-day-training-in-handling-covid-19-pandemic-ends/article33089079.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Concor’s ICD project near Mysuru gains traction||The proposed greenfield Inland Container Depot (ICD) at Kadakola, which was in the pipeline since almost a decade, is finally set to materialise with the approval for land transfer to the Container Corporation of India (Concor) which is implementing the project. Concor signed an MoU with the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) on Thursday to transfer 55 acres of land for the development of the inland container depot at a cost of nearly Rs. 100 crore. The project is set to give a boost to local industries engaged in exports. Anup Dayanand Sadhu, Group General Manager, Concor, told The Hindu that they signed an agreement with the KIADB which has leased 55 acres of land for 99 years. “The land was already handed over to Concor to implement the work and the lease agreement was signed on Thursday’’, he said. Concor has paid Rs. 19 crore for procurement of 55 acres but the issue was beset with problems as the local farmers were insistent on jobs in lieu of surrendering their land apart from being compensated for it. The matter was finally resolved with the intervention of elected representatives and the Mysuru district administration with the farmers being promised alternative jobs elsewhere as Concor does not have openings for casual works. Mr. Sadhu said there will be a warehousing and customs clearance facility apart from truck bays. This is a multi-nodal logistic park and the first of its kind in Karnataka and is expected to commence operations within the next 10 months. The catchment hinterland for the ICD is around 200 km to 300 km and the Concor expects exporters from Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru (coffee) and industrialists in Mysuru, mainly those engaged in the manufacture of automobile components, textiles, to make use of the facilities. Direct link Also, lot of agricultural produce including gherkins that comes from Central Karnataka to Mangaluru can now drive in directly via Mysuru to Kadakola from where it will be transported to the ports by the containers. “Most of the trucks come to Hassan from Central Karnataka and North Karnataka region and instead of negotiating the hairpin bends in the ghat sections they can drive directly to Kadakola’’, Mr.Sadhu said. The gherkins exported from the Mysuru region is significant and Mr. Sadhu said that an average of 300 containers are transported to Mangaluru Port by road and this market can be captured. Besides this about 400 containers come by trucks to the inland container depot at Whitefield for onward transportation to ports on the east coast. There is a demand for similar ICDs from north Karnataka region as well including Hubballi, Jewargi etc but these are still in the preliminary stages of assessment. Welcoming the current developments stakeholders from the local industries said this was long overdue and will provide a one-stop shop for custom clearance and other formalities entailed with exports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concors-icd-project-near-mysuru-gains-traction/article33089084.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Committed to the cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committed-to-the-cause/article33089509.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||MP convenes meeting on NH project||Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh has convened a meeting in Mandya on November 17 to discuss certain issues in connection with the National Highway 10 Lane Express corridor project between Mysuru and Bengaluru that passes through Mandya district. The project work is under progress. Complaints The MP said in a note here on Thursday that the agrarian community and the business establishments of the district were having innumerable complaints of non-cooperation by the authorities concerned over the alignment of road widening and project development which has led to severe criticism. In this connection, the MP has convened the meeting to take stock of the situation for clarity on the project and resolve the issues in public interest. The MP has informed the project director, National Highway Authority of India, Project Implementation Unit, Ramanagaram, Bengaluru-Mysuru Express Corridor to communicate to the departments involved in the project development and also to attend the meeting along with the subordinate zonal officials on the scheduled date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-convenes-meeting-on-nh-project/article33089072.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A treat for Sunder||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-treat-for-sunder/article33089101.ece
13 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Green issues take a back seat in Kuttanad||No other place in the State has suffered as much as Kuttanad as a result of natural disasters, specifically floods, in recent years. While the great deluge of 2018 was the worst in a century, floods came back to haunt the region in 2019 and 2020 albeit with less vigour. After all, Kuttanad, a vast area of reclaimed land spread across the three districts of Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam, is not totally immune to floods. But what differentiates the floods in recent years from the previous ones were the frequency and the devastation it caused. However, not everyone is surprised as the place has been facing an environmental crisis of unprecedented proportions for the past several years. For them, what surprises most is that the environment and climate change remain peripheral subjects rather than being core issues for the electoral discourse in this ecologically fragile region. “In a place such as Kuttanad, environmental challenges should be in the mainstream. But unfortunately, that is not the case as environmental issues barely feature in poll campaigns. When it comes to the development of Kuttanad, environment is a total outlier. Political parties talk about floods, paddy, roads and so on but underlying problems such as ecological destruction and pollution of Vembanad Lake are totally ignored. “It is high time political parties came up with an agenda promoting the environment and sustainable development of Kuttanad, ” says K.G. Padmakumar, Director, International Research and Training Centre for Below Sea level Farming, Thottapally, and who is a also resident of Kuttanad. Kuttanad package Mr. Padmakumar says the Rs. 2,447-crore second Kuttanad package, touted as a project for eco-restoration of the Vembanad wetland ecosystem, farming, development and flood mitigation, will open doors for more constructions in a place identified as a Ramsar site and a Globally Important Agricultural Heritage System. P. V. Joseph, executive member, Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad, says the local bodies and political parties in Kuttanad are doing little to bring the environmental issues to the attention of the public. “After the 2018 floods, all grama panchayats have been directed to prepare a disaster management plan and that remains on paper. In Kuttanad, everyone sees road development as the biggest achievement. We are not against development, but in a place like Kuttanad, projects should be implemented after completing environment impact assessment and ensuring flow of water. We have urged political parties to come up with a manifesto for local body polls by including ideas for sustainable development,” Mr. Joseph says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-issues-take-a-back-seat-in-kuttanad/article33089053.ece
13 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha caseload goes up by 568||The district reported 568 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Of the new cases, 553 contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 11 people remains unknown. Three people who came from abroad and one from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded three deaths related to the infection. The 568 cases include 148 logged from Alappuzha, 47 from Ramankary, and 46 from Ezhupunna. 371 recoveries Meanwhile, 371 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 8,701.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-caseload-goes-up-by-568/article33089011.ece
13 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Youth killed in accident||A 21-year-old youth was killed after his motorcycle fell into a drainage near the district Collectorate here late on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Gokul Sajeev of Thrikkunnappuzha. His body was found by the local people around 7 a.m. on Thursday. As per the CCTV visuals collected from the accident spot by the police, the accident occurred at 10.27 p.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-killed-in-accident/article33089019.ece
13 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki collective not in the fray||The High Range Samrakshana Samiti (HRSS), an umbrella organisation of different religious groups under the Church for the protection of farmers’ interest, will not be in the electoral fray this time. The HRSS had successfully fielded candidates in association with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the last local body elections. It had nearly 70 members in various grama panchayats and in the Kattappana municipality. Unanimous decision Fr. Sebastian Kochupurakal, HRSS general convener, said it was decided not to contest the upcoming local body elections. A high-level meeting unanimously decided that it would not contest the local body elections. In 2014, the HRSS fielded Joice George as its candidate for the Lok Sabha election from Idukki and the LDF immediately supported it. Mr. George won with a good margin in this traditional United Democratic Front (UDF) seat, though he faced defeat in the last Lok Sabha election. His success prompted the HRSS to field its own candidates in the last local body elections. However, after the UDF recaptured the Lok Sabha seat, the HRSS had been keeping a low profile. The Church also took a neutral stance in the electoral process prior to the last Lok Sabha elections. In a message to the laity, the Church had said they were free to work for any political party or candidate and the Church had no role in the political leanings of the laity. The Church had no political interest and it would not directly or indirectly intervene in the electoral process, the message said. In the last Lok Sabha elections, though workers under the HRSS worked for Mr. George, it was clear that the Church did not take the initiative and the HRSS influence was used as a local arrangement. Farmers’ interest HRSS sources said it would continue as an organisation to protect the interests of farmers and the decision to refrain from the electoral fray had nothing to do with its aim. The decision to field candidates in the elections was taken in accordance with the need of the time, they said.  Church has no political interest and it will not directly or indirectly intervene in the electoral process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-collective-not-in-the-fray/article33089054.ece
13 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Collector asks parties to follow poll code||Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla has asked political parties and poll aspirants to strictly follow the model code of conduct for the upcoming polls to the civic bodies in the district. Addressing a meeting of the representatives of various political parties and officials concerned here on Thursday, Ms. Abdulla said that while organising poll propaganda, political parties should follow the green protocol as well as adhere to the COVID-19 restrictions. The district election office would initiate all measures to conduct the elections. The political parties, candidates and their supporters should ensure peaceful conduct of the election, he said. Stringent steps would be taken to prevent the practice of influencing voters, especially tribal voters, by providing money or liquor, she said. Ms. Abdulla asked the help of all parties to bring voters to the polling booths.  As many as 848 polling stations would be set up in the district for the polls, Ms. Abdulla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-asks-parties-to-follow-poll-code/article33088957.ece
13 November 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Women outnumber men on electoral roll||Women voters outnumber men in the final voters’ list for the civic body polls in Wayanad district, which was published on Thursday. The total number of voters in the district is 6,19,793. The final voters’ list shows that there are 3,03,696 men voters, 3,16,092 women and five transgender voters in the district. Among grama panchayats, Nenmeni has the highest number of voters (36,315) and Thariode has the lowest (8,495) number of voters. In the three municipalities in the district, Mananthavadi has the largest number of voters (36,064 ) and Kalpetta has the lowest (31,577). Sulthan Bathery municipality has 34,037 voters. Among block panchayats, Kalpetta has the highest number of voters (1,48,105 voters) and Sulthan Bathery has the lowest number (1,11,251 voters). Mananthavadi has 1,21,987 voters and Panamaram has 1,25,167 voters. The Wayanad district panchayat has 5,18,110 voters .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-outnumber-men-on-electoral-roll/article33088961.ece
13 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Gold investment scam surfaces||Similar to the Fashion Gold investment scam, another gold investment scam has surfaced in Payyanur with the police registering cheating cases on complaints filed by three persons against the managing director of Amaan gold jewellery shop at Perumba here. The complainants, T. Noorudhin, a resident of Trikkarippur, T.P. Ibrahim, a native of Kunhimangalam, and K. Kunhalima, a resident of Perumba, alleged that P.K. Moithu Haji, managing director of Amaan gold, cheated them after taking Rs. 38 lakh as investment with an assurance to pay them the returns from profit. Moithu Haji is a resident of Ramanthali. They claimed that Moithu Haji took Rs. 15 lakh from Mr. Noorudhin in July 2017, Rs. 3 lakh from Mr. Kunhalima in February 2016, and Rs. 20 lakh from Mr. Ibrahim in October 2016 as investment. However, he failed to keep his agreement and cheated them by not paying them the assured money or the invested amount. The police said more people were coming forward with complaints against the jewellery shop and more cases would be filed after inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-investment-scam-surfaces/article33089033.ece
13 November 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Rahul Gandhi visits K.C. Venugopal’s house||Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi visited the house of AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal at Kandathor, near Payyannur, to offer condolences over the demise of his mother K.C. Janaki Amma on Thursday. She died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-gandhi-visits-kc-venugopals-house/article33089032.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Phase-II development of Vyttila Junction doubtful in near future||Even as the Vyttila flyover is getting ready for commissioning in less than a month, doubts remain about the second phase development work at the junction, including the construction of a four-lane underpass linking SA Road and Thripunithura Road. It is uncertain whether the State government’s present financial situation will permit the execution of the second phase development of Vyttila, the biggest junction in Kerala which is used by approximately 1 lakh passenger car units. The four-lane underpass in the east-west direction might not get administrative and technical sanction owing to fund crunch. The fact that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) owns the 16-km-long Edappally-Aroor NH 47 Bypass, where the project has been proposed, may further deter allocation of funds and allied proposals that the five-member committee headed by then PWD Principal Secretary had put forward in 2019 to streamline vehicle flow at the junction, PWD sources said. The underpass had been suggested by, among others, Metroman E. Sreedharan, considering the high traffic density at the junction in the east-west direction. “Apart from fund paucity to build an underpass, there will have to be substantial land acquisition on SA Road and Thripunithura Road, to ready service roads at all the four bell mouths of the junction, for vehicles wanting to take left turn. This will further increase the project cost,” the sources added. The PWD (NH Wing) decided to fund the six-lane flyovers at Vyttila and Kundannoor as exceptional cases, for fear that the NHAI would steeply hike the already exorbitant toll rate. Apart from a four-lane underpass, the PWD was considering extending the service roads at Vyttila further northward (towards the Palarivattom side), to establish link with a two-lane underpass that could be hewed out near the railway track. This gains relevance, since the underpass beneath the Vyttila overbridge is not wide enough to accommodate vehicles in either direction. Yet another long-pending demand is that the PWD (Roads Wing) widen the two-lane stretch from Vyttila Junction to Kunnara Park, which was left out of the purview of the four-laning work when the Kochi metro viaduct was constructed up to Pettah. Both SA Road on the western side and the Kunnara Park-Pettah stretch on the eastern side have four-lane width. Apprehensions are rife that traffic snarls in the bottlenecked corridor will worsen when the flyover is commissioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phase-ii-development-of-vyttila-junction-doubtful-in-near-future/article33089475.ece
13 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Shipyard launches 5 vessels, lays keel for 2||The public sector Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) sought to put paid to the pandemic blues by launching five vessels from its building dock in Kochi on Thursday. The day also saw keel being laid for two vessels. The vessels launched are two mini general cargo ships, each with a dead weight tonnage of 8,000, for JSW Shipping and Logistics Pvt Ltd, and three Floating Border Outpost (FBOP) vessels for the Border Security Force (BSF). Meanwhile, the keel laying was carried out for two more mini general cargo ships for JSW Shipping and Logistics. The five vessels were launched by Rameetha K., Scientist ‘G’ at the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory, a Defence Research and Development Organisation lab, who is spouse of shipyard Chairman and Managing Director Madhu S. Nair. Mr. Nair and Pranab K. Jha, vice president of JSW Shipping, conducted the keel laying of the two vessels. The mini general cargo ships launched on Thursday are part of a series of four similar ships being built for the JSW group. These vessels will be used for transportation of dry bulk cargo such as coal, iron ore, dolomite, and limestone. The vessels, with a length of 122 metres and a height of 7.20 metres and speed of 10 knots, will have a compliment of 16 crew. These ships are expected to ply on the coastal route between Jaigarh Port and Dolvi Steel Plant in the river Amba near the Dharamtar port. The three FBOPs, with a length of 46 metres each, are part of a series of nine vessels being built for the Water Wing of the BSF. These vessels are designed in-house by the Cochin Shipyard and classed by the Indian Register of Shipping. Each FBOP is designed with stowage arrangements for four fast patrol boats, which can be launched and hoisted using its own davit system. The vessels will act as a floating base for the flotilla of fast patrol boats and will supply petrol, fresh water and provisions to smaller boats and are meant for deployment on India’s eastern and western borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shipyard-launches-5-vessels-lays-keel-for-2/article33089030.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||The challenges of rent-a-car business||It was nearly a month ago that Abdul Najeeb, a resident of Malappuram, took two SUVs on rent for 15 days from a city-based rent-a-cab firm. Though he extended it further over the phone, the firm was hardly suspicious, as he had been a regular client. But then, the tracking system of the firm showed the vehicles lying static in two separate locations in Tamil Nadu since earlier this month, raising the spectre of either illegal sale or pledging. And, so it turned out to be, as the client was arrested by the Kalamassery police in a case of cheating and theft involving rented vehicles on Wednesday. “The biggest problem ailing our business is how easily people, including those from the higher strata of society, take such vehicles on pledge without even verifying the documents. Last year, six of our vehicles were pledged at Pathanapuram in such a manner,” said Saju Kumar G.R., managing director of AVS Group, which now awaits the formal recovery of its two SUVs. Held with another car The accused was nabbed with a sedan belonging to another rent-a-cab firm usurped in a similar fashion. This was the latest of 16-odd such incidents faced by Kalamassery-based Tranz Cars over the years. In a graver incident, fake currencies worth Rs. 7 lakh, including then recently introduced Rs. 2,000 notes, were seized from one of its rented cabs at Thalakode check post in 2017. In the case, the firm was already on alert, as its tracking system found the sedan to be speeding. “Speeding in excess of 70 km per hour is a telltale sign that something is fishy, as genuine customers never risk that, since they will have to pay heavy compensation for any damage to vehicles,” said Bobby Varghese who runs the firm. Retrieval a task He added that there were rackets based in Madurai, Cumbam, and Theni in Tamil Nadu that dealt in such illegally obtained vehicles. Once they get hold of the vehicles, it is near impossible to get them back, said Mr. Varghese who once had to drive away to safety in his vehicle from one of those dens. Anyone can secure a cab for rent for periods ranging from days to even years against a security deposit and advance payment. Some firms adopt precautionary criteria like restricting cabs only to expatriates, corporates, or tourists in the hope of keeping unscrupulous elements at bay. But with the pandemic effectively eliminating all those categories of clients, even such firms have now been forced to entertain local clients. Licence Legally operating rent-a-car business calls for licence under the Rent A Cab Scheme, 1989, subject to approval from the State Transport Authority. “Among other things, it calls for a fleet of at least 50 cabs, five full-fledged offices not smaller than 200 sq.ft., and five years’ driving experience,” said Mr. Kumar. According to industry estimates, there are only six such active legal operators in the State with a collective fleet of around 700 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-many-challenges-of-rent-a-car-business/article33088948.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Expert panel to assess DPR for waste-to-energy plants||The Department of Local Self-Governments has constituted a six-member technical committee to evaluate detailed project reports (DPRs) for waste-to-energy (WTE) plants in the State. The committee will be responsible for evaluating the DPR submitted by the firm chosen for executing the centralised WTE plant of 300 tonnes per day capacity at Brahmapuram. The committee includes Executive Director, Suchitwa Mission; Director of Urban Affairs; Scientific Adviser to the Chief Minister; representatives of the State Pollution Control Board and Directorate of Environment, and Project Director,Waste-to-Energy Projects, Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC). The decision to constitute the committee was taken by the State Level Advisory Committee on Waste Management chaired by the Chief Secretary. Two consortiums Senior KSIDC officials said they were awaiting government nod for the committee to evaluate bids submitted by the two consortiums for the Brahmapuram project. The consortiums that submitted technical and financial bids for the Brahmapuram project are Zonta Infratech Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru; Zonta Bauer Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru; Bauer GmbH, Germany; CNIM Martin Pvt. Ltd., Chennai; and Tholani Clean Energy Pvt. Ltd., Kochi, Aban Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., Chennai; Greensol Systems Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru, and Hangzhou Boiler Group Co Ltd., China. The evaluation of bids is expected to be completed by December. The committee will check whether the consortiums meet the minimum eligibility requirements as prescribed in the request for proposal issued by the KSIDC. The plant will be set up based on Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer mode for the Ernakulam cluster of local bodies. The cluster includes the Kochi Corporation and the municipalities of Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Kalamassery, Eloor, Maradu, Aluva, Perumbavoor, Angamaly, North Paravur, Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Piravom, and Koothattukulam. The firm to be chosen for the execution of the project in 20 acres at Brahmapuram will have powers to mortgage the leasehold rights over the said area. KSIDC will sub-lease the land to the firm for 27 years, with permission to mortgage the leasehold rights for raising funds only for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-panel-to-assess-dpr-for-brahmapuram-wte-plant/article33089480.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||More cases likely against racket||The racket allegedly involved in the illegal sale of vehicles taken on rent might have cheated more people, the police suspect. The three-member gang was busted by the Kalamassery police when they were intercepted in a sedan, which they had similarly procured on rent, during a combing operation on Wednesday. The arrested are Abdul Najeeb, 46, from Malappuram and Jinu John Daniel, 36, and Sajad, 22, from Kayamkulam. “We have registered six cases for six missing vehicles they had procured and either illegally sold or pledged on fabricated registration documents. Those vehicles have been traced to various parts of Tamil Nadu. Now, we will have to procure the custody of the accused and take them to Tamil Nadu for recovering the vehicles,” said P.R. Santhosh, Station House Officer, Kalamassery. He expects more such cases against the gang from more police stations in the days to come. The police also hope to get more details about their operations during custodial interrogation. The police have registered six cases invoking IPC Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). Fake gold too Besides, four other cases have been registered for selling fake gold ornaments supplied by a Kondotty resident. The poolice are on the lookout for him. The accused adopted a modus operandi by which Abdul Najeeb used to take vehicles on rent from rent-a-cab firms and hand them over to Jinu. He then sold them on forged registration documents allegedly with the help of one Sivasankara Pillai who once usurped a vehicle belonging to the former when he used to run a rent-a-cab firm on his own. Jinu, a mechanical engineering graduate, fitted the vehicles with Global Positioning System before selling them. The third accused, Sajad, sold them in Tamil Nadu for a commission. The same vehicles were then tracked down by the accused using GPS, and Sajad stole them with the help of duplicate keys and brought them back before returning it to the firm concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-cases-likely-against-vehicle-theft-racket/article33088949.ece
13 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Non-political formations on the poll front||Twenty20 is a corporate-backed experiment that gave major political fronts a run for their money in Ernakulam’s Kizhakkambalam panchayat in previous local body elections. Taking a cue from this, several electoral formations have come up in various local bodies in the district, hoping to replicate the feat. The Kizhakkambalam model of a chain of fair price shops to make available essential commodities at affordable rates, health insurance schemes for residents, houses for the homeless, low-cost or free medical diagnosis for lower income groups and so on are on the list of priorities, a la the Twenty20 model, drawn up by the newly formed Thrikkakara Janamunnettam which intends to field candidates in all 43 divisions of the municipality. The group had also taken advice from the Twenty20 sometime ago. 30 candidates The Thrikkakara Janamunnettam has announced 30 candidates in two batches. John Joseph, chief coordinator of the group, said that the Panchayati Raj system envisaged a system of governance that was beyond “restrictive political affiliations.” “Our idea is to live up to the spirit of the system by fielding efficient individuals who would work together as a team for the welfare of the people in the local body,” he said. “Twenty20 has proved that it is possible to contest and win against formidable fronts in local body polls,” he added. The Thrikkakara Janamunnettam promises formation of a development council featuring representatives of residents’ associations and voluntary organisations in the municipality and a development master plan after a survey among the people and in consultation with experts. It also vows to eradicate mosquito menace, introduce decentralised waste management and ensure availability of potable water at all times. “We will finalise the list of candidates for all 43 divisions in two days and from Monday we will start canvassing votes by going to each division in small groups. A song created by our members will also be played at junctions to turn the people’s attention to the vexing issues facing the municipality,” Mr. Joseph said. Chellanam Twenty20 is another group that is gearing up to test electoral fortunes in the coastal panchayat of Chellanam in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/non-political-formations-on-the-poll-front/article33089050.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||LDF releases candidates’ lists for Kochi Corpn., dist. panchayat||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Thursday announced its candidates for elections to the Kochi Corporation and the Ernakulam District Panchayat. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] will field its candidates in 56 of the 74 divisions in the Kochi Corporation. The seat allocation among the alliance partners include Communist Party of India (CPI) - 8; Kerala Congress (Mani) - 3; Janata Dal (S) - 2; Nationalist Congress Party - 2; Congress (S), Indian National League, and CPI (ML) Red Flag (one each). Seven sitting councillors will try their luck again this time, while 12 former councillors of the front are in the fray. Among the prominent CPI(M) candidates, M. Anilkumar, who is a member of the party district committee, will contest from Elamakkara North. Four women will contest in seats reserved for the General Category. They include Prathibha Ansari (Edakochi South) and Poornima Narayan (Elamkulam), chairpersons of the health and education and sports standing committees respectively in the outgoing council. C.N. Mohanan, CPI(M) district secretary, said the candidates for the municipal, panchayat and block elections would be announced by the LDF committees in each region. The campaign will start on Friday, he added. The LDF had occupied the Opposition Bench after bagging 23 seats in the corporation election held in 2015. District panchayat The CPI(M) will field its candidates in 17 of the 27 seats in the Ernakulam District Panchayat. The seat-wise allocation for the alliance partners is CPI-5; Kerala Congress (M) - 2; Nationalist Congress Party - 1; Kerala Congress (B) - 1, and Congress (S) - 1. Among the LDF candidates for the district panchayat, M.B. Syamanthabhadran is a member of the CPI(M) district committee, while Sarada Mohan, Molly Varghese, and K.V. Raveendran are members of the CPI district council. LDF candidates for the Ernakulam District Panchayat include M.B. Shyni (Cherai); A.S. Anilkumar (Moothakunnam); Annie Jose (Malayattoor); K.P. Babu (Kodanad); Lalithakumari Mohan (Pulluvazhi); Rasheeda Salim (Bhootathankettu); K.K. Dani (Neriamangalam); Chinnamma Shine (Varapetti); James Manuel Kuruvithadam (Aavoli); Seena Bose (Valakom); Molly Varghese (Pampakuda); Anitha Anilkumar (Udayamperoor); P.B. Ratheesh (Mulanthuruthy); K.K Suresh Babu (Kumbalanghi); Shiji Ajayan (Puthencruz); Vijayalakshmi (Kolencherry); T.P. Abdul Azeez (Vengola); Raija Ameer (Edathala); Shereena Basheer (Keezhmadu); K.K. Nazar (Nedumbassery); K.V Raveendran (Alangad); Yesudas Parappilli (Kadungalloor); M.B. Syamanthabhadran (Kottuvalli); Shiji Shajan (Vallarpadam), and Antony Saji (Vypeen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-releases-candidates-lists-for-kochi-corpn-dist-panchayat/article33089482.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Hopping between venues is no longer a reality for stage artistes||The auditorium was empty. But walking up the stage to perform, Unni S. Nair, a mimicry artiste for the last 26 years, had butterflies in his stomach. For a while, the seasoned campaigner from Karimugal felt like a debutant up for his maiden performance, returning to stage as he was after a pandemic-induced long break of over nine months. The experience was similar, though in varying degrees, for all 10 experienced stage artistes who gathered at the Kalabhavan auditorium to shoot an hour-long online comedy content for their entertainment troupe Cochin Guinness. The programme will be aired online during the virtual alumni meet of TKM Engineering College, Kollam, to be hosted from UAE next month. Such was their loss of touch that they had to rehearse together for a few days before going for the actual shoot. “Stage artistes are in a hellhole after being left to fend for ourselves by the government. While many are turning to daily labour, the popularity among the public is denying some of us even that lifeline as they feel to give us odd jobs,” bemoaned Unni. K.S. Prasad who runs the troupe said the online route was being explored for the first time as a means of survival for desperate stage artistes to recover from the loss of three successive seasons by two back-to-back floods and now the pandemic. “COVID-19 cost us at least three overseas trips to Japan, Italy, and Saudi Arabia, not to mention countless bookings we would have received during these months,” he added. For Guinness Vinod, another artiste of 22 years’ standing, the pandemic blow was such that he is yet to find his footing having taken bank loans for a house and a new car, banking on the regular income from stage shows at home and abroad. “Life has lost its rhythm. The bank will neither give us extended moratorium nor even a personal loan citing my lack of regular income. I had to pledge my wife’s entire gold ornaments, leaving us with literally nothing valuable to even pledge,” he said. Used to a life secured by income from the stage, these artistes are now left pondering where another show will come by and how fast if not for anything else but as a break from wallowing in despair and self-pity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hopping-between-venues-is-no-longer-a-reality-for-stage-artistes/article33089472.ece
13 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CPT leases out boat jetty for tourism||The Cochin Port Trust (CPT) has handed over its tourist boat jetty to a private jewellery firm, which ventured into the tourism sector. The jetty located in front of its guest house and near the embarkation jetty used by ferries has been handed over to the firm for a rent of Rs. 1.65 lakh per month. This was aimed at better utilisation of the structure for tourist boats, including those which operate from Marine Drive, claimed official sources. The CPT had recently handed over upkeep of Priyadarshini Park near its head office to a firm. The centre of attention at the park is a boat which was used by, among others, three former Prime Minister — Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, and Rajiv Gandhi — apart from Mother Teresa, during their Kochi visit. A food kiosk has been set up within the park. The port has also tidied up the surroundings using the Centre’s cleanliness funds. It is now banking on global cruise liners to resume their ports of call, including at Kochi, so that the cruise terminal, built using Central tourism funds, can be optimally used, said M. Beena, Chairperson of CPT.  CPT recently handed over upkeep of Priyadarshini Park to another firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpt-leases-out-boat-jetty-for-tourism/article33089012.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Major drop in Deepavali fire cracker sales||Wholesale and retail fire cracker traders are staring at a huge fall in demand this Deepavali, despite value-added items being put up for sale owing to the pandemic situation and curbs on selling items causing air and sound pollution. The fall in demand has resulted in the cost of fire crackers and other items dropping by up to 40%. Still, there are a few buyers, including those from northern India, who generally purchase them in bulk, said Shihab Salim, owner of National Traders, Kaloor, one of the oldest shops in the city. “Many customers are keeping away from shops, assuming that items are not available owing to the ban in Delhi and curbs in other metros to keep pollution under check. Eighty per cent of fire crackers and allied items come from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu, while the rest come from manufacturing units in N. Paravur and Angamaly. The border standoff with China and subsequent trade curbs have affected inflow of goods from that country,” he added. The owner of Kovilvattom Road-based New Cochin Syndicate, A.A. Azad, who has been in the business for around 50 years said business had fallen by around 75%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-drop-in-deepavali-fire-cracker-sales/article33089470.ece
13 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||1,008 recover, 489 new infections||Thrikkakara recorded 38 COVID-19 cases on Thursday even as the overall figures in the district continued plummeting. Of the 489 fresh infections in Ernakulam, the source of 220 (close to 50%) remained untraced. There were 13 health workers among the infected. After Thrikkakara, Edathala recorded 19 new cases while Fort Kochi had 15 new patients. As many as 1,008 patients recovered. A total of 1,635 people were added to the list of those under observation, taking the total number to 30,019. New admissions to hospitals/first-line treatment centres stood at 121 while 115 were discharged following recovery. As on Thursday, the district had 10,009 cases. A fresh lot of 5,797 samples were sent for testing on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1008-recover-489-new-infections/article33089477.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rights should not be denied to transgenders, says HC||The Kerala High Court on Thursday observed that a person could not be denied legitimate rights merely because he or she is a transgender, particularly when such a person has assigned to himself/ herself a particular gender. Justice Devan Ramachandran made the observation while directing the NCC unit of the University College, Thiruvanthapuram, to keep vacant one seat till the next day of hearing on a petition filed by a transgender from Malappuram against the refusal by the NCC to admit her in the university college unit. The petitioner alleged that the NCC had refused admission on the ground of the petitioner being transgender. Counsel for the Centre government submitted that the petitioner could not be included in the enrolment process for the NCC unit because the petitioner was a transgender, though she assigned to herself the identity of a woman. The court, however, said that prima facie it could not acceed to the submission without further inquiry into the matters since, going by the transgender policy and applicable statutes, a person could not be denied legitimate rights merely because she /he was a transgender. The petitioner also challenged Section 6 of the National Cadet Corps Act, 1948, which allowed only men or women to enrol as cadets in the NCC. According to the petitioner, who was a student of the University College, she had undergone two sex reassignment surgeries and obtained a transgender identity card under the State government's transgender policy- 2015. The petitioner also sought a directive to the NCC unit to allow her to enrol in the cadet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-denial-of-rights-to-transgenders-hc/article33089020.ece
13 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Three more held on assault charge||The Angamaly police have arrested three more persons in a case relating to the assault of a private hospital manager at his house. The arrested were identified as Sreejith, 23, of Kuruppampady; Praveen, 20, of Rayamangalam; and Yadukrishnan, 24, of Vengola. The police had already arrested the key accused Jibu and three others, taking the total number of arrests to seven. A woman from Perumbavoor, who is also an accused in the case, is absconding. Robbed of gold chain The manager of the private hospital at Karukutty was assaulted and robbed of his gold chain by the assailants allegedly in retaliation for having scolded Jibu’s girl friend who used to work along with him in the same hospital. The accused arrested on Thursday have theft, assault, and ganja cases against them. They were nabbed at the Wayanad border while trying to sneak out to Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-held-on-assault-charge/article33089483.ece
13 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||4 candidates file papers on first day||Four candidates filed nominations on Thursday, the opening day of filing nominations for the local body polls in Ernakulam on December 10. Three candidates of Aikaranad grama panchayat and a candidate of North Paravur Municipality submitted their papers. The last date for filing nominations is November 19. Election of 2,045 people’s representatives to 111 local bodies will take place in Ernakulam. There are 1,338 wards in 82 grama panchayats in the district. As many as 692 of these wards are reserved for women, 56 of them for women from Scheduled Castes. In all, 136 wards have been reserved for people from SC and Scheduled Tribe women should contest from Pooyamkutty ward of Kuttampuzha panchayat. In the 13 municipalities, there are 421 wards, of which 215 are reserved for women. In the Kochi Corporation, 37 are for women (two for women from SC communities). In the district panchayat, with 27 divisions, 14 are for women (two for SC women).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-candidates-file-papers-on-first-day/article33089476.ece
13 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||5 arrested in Perumbavoor firing incident||The Perumbavoor police arrested five persons in connection with an incident in which a person was hacked multiple times and shot at, at Thandekkad in the early hours of Wednesday. The arrested are Nizar, 33, and his brother Safeer, 27; Nithin, 27; Althaf, 23; and Ashique, 25; all residents of Vengola. The police took the accused into custody on Wednesday along with the SUV they used to attack the victim. The victim was identified as Adhil S., 24, of Okkal, who remains in the Intensive Care Unit of a private hospital in the city where he was rushed shortly after the incident. The victim and the accused used to be friends and the former used to serve as the driver of Nizar for a while. The incident took place reportedly after a skirmish between the victim and Nizar on Tuesday night. The gang reportedly tried to knock down the victim using an SUV registered in Nizar's name. When the victim swayed out of danger, they emerged out of the vehicle and hacked him before firing at him just below his chest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5-arrested-in-perumbavoor-firing-incident/article33089481.ece
13 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Raids on spas in Kochi||The Town North police on Thursday raided two massage centres following complaints about immoral traffic centred around them. A spa near the Lissie metro station and another on Azad Road were raided around 10 a.m. Only employees were at the spa near the metro station at the time of the raid. The police said that closure notice was served on the centre since it did not have a licence and its therapists did not have any certificate proving their qualification. The spa on Azad Road was found locked. K. Laljy, Assistant Commissioner, Ernakulam, said that immoral traffic would not be allowed in the guise of massage centres and that raids would continue in the days to come. A team led by Inspector Sibi Tom, sub inspectors V.B. Anas and Sharanya, and civil police officers Libin Raj and Praveen conducted the raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raids-on-spas-in-kochi/article33088951.ece
13 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Stalemate in UDF, LDF over seat-sharing||Even as the political fronts in Kottayam have entered into the final stage of seat-sharing talks, stage has now been set for an intervention by the State leadership of the UDF in view of the brewing discontent within the coalition. Even though the Congress leadership has succeeded in sealing an understanding with its predominant partner in Central Travancore, the Kerala Congress (M) led by P.J. Joseph, the coalition is likely to lose its early advantage as the IUML has launched a revolt demanding more seats. IUML demand Apart from staking claim for Erumeli district panchayat division, the IUML has sought 10 additional wards at grama panchayat-level besides an exchange of its existing three block panchayat divisions with winnable seats. Though senior Congress leaders led by Oommen Chandy, Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, and DCC president Joshy Philip held discussions with IUML leaders on Wednesday, the issue has not yet been settled. Friendly fight To make the matters worse, the IUML is now considering a friendly fight with the UDF in five district panchayat divisions and five block panchayat divisions. Adding to the concerns, the awarding of nine district panchayat divisions to the Joseph group has drawn ire from a section of Congress workers in the district. Mani faction The situation appears no less different within the Left Democratic Front with the Mani faction reportedly demanding up to 13 district panchayat divisions. The CPI(M), at the same time, is learnt to have offered nine seats by ceding three of its seats while taking back two seats from the CPI and the lone seats in possession of the NCP and Janata Dal (S). The CPI, however, appears not keen on giving up more than one seat, impacting the seat-sharing talks. At the same time, the NDA has almost wrapped up its talks and is gearing up for campaigning. As per a preliminary understanding, the BDJS will contest from the Vaikom, Kumarakom, Kurichy and Erumeli divisions, while the BJP will field candidates from the remaining 18 divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stalemate-in-udf-ldf-over-seat-sharing/article33089023.ece
13 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||344 cases in Kottayam||As many as 344 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Thursday. According to officials, all but seven contracted the virus through local contact. With 63 cases, Kottayam municipality witnessed a rapid surge, followed by Changanassery with 31 cases. With 394 recoveries during the day, the district has 4,620 active cases at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/344-cases-in-kottayam/article33089013.ece
13 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kozhikode gears up for local body polls||The district election office has geared up for the three-tier local body polls as filing of nomination papers by candidates opened on Thursday. The last date for filing nomination papers is November 19 and for withdrawal November 23. Nominations can be filed between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on all days except holidays. Those filing nominations should be a voter in any of the wards of the local body. In addition, the proposer should be a voter in the ward. This is also applicable for reserved wards. As part of the process, the authorities conducted a “single post machine mock poll” at the specially arranged centre near the old taluk office at Puthiyara on Thursday. The process using 1,000 control ballot units comprising 2% of the machines was carried out in the presence of the representatives of the political parties. The electronic machines would be allotted on the directive of the electoral officer. Meanwhile, the district election office has published the list of voters for the polls to be held on December 14. There are 25,29,673 voters in the district, comprising 12,07,792 male, 13,21,864 female and 19 transgender voters. Kozhikode Corporation has 4,61,998 voters. Of this, 2,19,609 are male voters, 2,42,385 female and four transgenders. The total voters in Vadakara and Koyilandy municipalities are 60,602 and 57,732 respectively. Ramanattukkara municipality has the lowest number of voters (28,806) among the seven municipalities in the district. At the same time, some grama panchayats such as Nadapuram (36,025), Unnikulam (42,017), Kunnamangalam (43,016), Chathamangalam (37,011) Peruvayil (39,786), Puthuppady ( 34,605) and Kadalundi (35,081) have more voters than some municipalities. Some grama panchayats have fewer than 15,000 voters. These are Valayam, Thuravoor, Keehzhayur, Kayanna, Koorachund, and Koodaranji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-gears-up-for-local-body-polls/article33088953.ece
13 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medicos upset over posting of junior doctors for COVID duty||Postgraduate medical students at Government Medical College, Kozhikode, are peeved with the authorities over the way in which two junior resident doctors were reportedly forced to join COVID duty at the Government General Hospital here, though their course period had already ended. Functionaries of the Kerala Postgraduate Medical Association (KPGMA) claimed on Thursday that the college authorities had extended the period of service of junior residency of V. Thasreefa, MD in Anesthesiology and Fareeda Karimbanakkal, diploma in Anesthesiology. Pointing out that only the Kerala University of Health Sciences had the power to do so, they said that the subsequent order posting them for COVID duty at the General Hospital did not have details on their remuneration and period of service. “Medical college authorities cannot extend the junior residency service if the course period has ended. It is learnt that they were threatened to join duty. Also, those two were supposed to appear for their exams in December. This would affect their academic work as well,” KPGMA leaders said. Collector’s order Meanwhile, another order issued by District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao on Wednesday said that the General Hospital was converted into a dedicated COVID hospital as the present treatment centres were inadequate for meeting the increasing need. Over 150 people had been admitted there, many of whom were on intensive care unit (ICU) support. The period of service of junior residency of Dr. Thasreefa and Dr. Fareeda Karimbanakkal were extended and they were posted at the hospital in these circumstances. The Superintendent at the hospital, however, had intimated that both the doctors had not yet reported for duty. Mothers having kids aged less than a year were exempted from duty, the order said, adding that if they did not do so, they were liable to be punished under sections 51 and 56 of the Disaster Management Act and the Kerala Epidemic Ordinance 2020. Subsequently, both of them joined duty on Thursday. The students union, house surgeons’ association, the Students Federation of India and the KPGMA have formed a joint action council to drive home their complaints. As the first step, they have stopped COVID data entry activities and left WhatsApp groups where updates related to the pandemic are posted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicos-upset-over-posting-of-junior-doctors-for-covid-duty/article33088963.ece
13 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daunting task ahead for LDF||Unlike last time when it was in the opposition benches in the State Assembly, the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) appears to be in a tight spot this time to maintain its winning streak in the three-tier local body polls in Kozhikode. Five years ago, rather than focussing on local issues, Left parties highlighted some of the national issues including the cow vigilante attacks occurred in the country after the National Democratic Alliance came to power in 2014. Left youth organisations and MLAs had organised ‘beef festivals’ in the State to protest against the Central notification banning sale of cattle for slaughter in animal markets. They had also highlighted the issue of attacks on minorities. Incidentally, the LDF had continued the campaign in a similar fashion in the run-up to Assembly polls held in 2016. Gold smuggling case Now, the political atmosphere is quite different with the Left coalition in power in the State. The government is facing an unprecedented anti-incumbency, especially after the gold smuggling case and allegations on the government’s involvement in it. In 2015, the LDF had won the Kozhikode Corporation, the Kozhikode District Panchayat, six out of the seven municipalities, 10 out of the 12 block panchayats and 48 out of the 70 grama panchayats. This was almost similar to the 2005 polls when the LDF bagged 70 out of the 78 grama panchayats, Vadakara and Koyilandy municipalities, and all the 12 block panchayats as well, besides winning all 27 seats in the district panchayat. In 2010 polls, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) had captured 38 out of the 75 grama panchayats and four out of the 12 block panchayats. But the UDF was one seat short of the LDF in the district panchayat. Also, the LDF only had a slender seven-seat majority to retain the Kozhikode Corporation. BJP’s vote share Also, the situation seems to be more complicated with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) making significant progress in increasing its vote share in the Assembly as well as Lok Sabha polls. One of the factors is that the BJP has been gaining more from the drop in the vote share of the LDF than the Congress-Indian Union Muslim League combine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daunting-task-ahead-for-ldf/article33088960.ece
13 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||696 more test positive in Kozhikode district||As many as 696 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday. According to a release from the District Medical Officer, 5,665 samples were tested on the day and the test positivity rate is 12.28%. There were 653 cases of locally acquired infections and the source was unknown in 23 cases. With 786 people recovering from the infection, the total number of active cases in the district is now 8,713. As many as 5,703 people are in home isolation. Kozhikode Corporation had 274 cases of local transmission of the infection, Koduvally 55, and Kakkodi 24. Three deaths Meanwhile, a 32-year-old man from Maruthonkara in Kozhikode district died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Thursday, while a 53-year-old man from Feroke, and a 73-year-old man from Ulliyeri died on Wednesday. In Malappuram As many as 617 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Thursday. While 583 of them were infected through direct contact with infected persons, there were 27 cases without an identifiable source of origin. District officials said that 569 people recovered from the disease on Thursday. They said 52,206 infected people recovered after treatment in Malappuram since March. Officials said 6,555 infected people were currently under treatment across the district.  In Wayanad A total of 100 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday. There were also 83 recoveries. Of the new cases, 82 patients, including five health workers, were infected through local contact and 18 persons came from other States. The district has so far reported 8,396 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 7,7345 have recovered from the disease. The total number of active cases in the district is 995. As many as 10,796 persons are under observation.  (With inputs from Malappuram and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/696-more-test-positive-in-kozhikode-district/article33088954.ece
13 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Tumour weighing half a kg removed from infant’s liver||The Department of Paediatric Surgery at the Institute of Maternal and Child Health attached to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, recently claimed to have removed a huge abdominal mass from the body of a 46-day-old female baby from Kolathur in Malappuram district through a rare surgery. According to sources in the department, the issue was detected by the child’s mother and referred from a hospital in Perinthalmanna. A CT scan on her body revealed that there was a rare tumour weighing half a kg in the left lobe of the liver. Prathap Somnath, vice-principal, medical college, and head of the department of paediatric surgery, said that though the tumour was close to blood vessels, bleeding could be controlled. The tumour was cut out and the third segment of the left lobe of the liver was removed. The baby was discharged after she had a smooth post-operative recovery, Dr. Somnath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tumour-weighing-half-a-kg-removed-from-infants-liver/article33088962.ece
13 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Symbolic beginning to Kalpathy car fete today||The legendary Kalpathy chariot festival will be reduced to symbolic festivities in view of the COVID-19 situation this year. The rituals of the festival will begin on Friday. The idols of Lords Subrahmanya and Ganapathi will be taken out in a cart from the Visalakshi Sametha Viswanatha Swami temple. However, they will not be taken through the streets of Kalpathy. Organisers said that the rituals would be carried out by observing the COVID-19 protocol. There will be special pujas on the occasion. Hymn recital Religious hymns have been recited every day at the Viswanatha Swami temple, Lakshminarayana Perumal temple, Manthakkara Mahaganapathi temple, and the Prasanna Mahaganapathi temple since the flag for the chariot festival was hoisted on November 7. Organisers said that the recital would continue until the flag was lowered. The Manthakkara Mahaganapathi temple at New Kalpathy will witness the symbolic chariot movement on Saturday. Sunday will mark the third day of the festival. The festival will come to a close on Monday. Organisers said that it was the first time in their memory that the festival was reduced to a symbolic one. Thousands of people from across the State used to visit Kalpathy during the festival seeking blessings of the deities. People will not be allowed for any of the functions this year. Temple officials and the Kerala Brahmana Sabha officials will take part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/symbolic-beginning-to-kalpathy-car-fete-today/article33088950.ece
13 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar forum to continue stir||The Walayar Action Forum has decided to continue its agitation until the police officers, including Deputy Superintendent of Police M.J. Sojan, are punished for scuttling the case of two minor sisters who were found dead under mysterious circumstances. Protesters under the banner of the action forum met Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Tribes A.K. Balan at his house here on Thursday after a three-day march from Walayar.  Action sought Forum leaders said they decided to continue their agitation seeking justice for the parents of the Walayar girls after the Minister made it clear that the government would not initiate any action against Mr. Sojan and other police officers who scuttled the case by tweaking it as a suicide case. During an interaction with Mr. Balan, the victims’ mother asked him to expel Mr. Sojan from service. Apart from the girls’ parents, forum leaders Vilayodi Venugopal, V.M. Marson, and C.R. Neelakandan too met the Minister at his house. Mr. Balan’s remarks belittling the protest by the girls’ parents had provoked the action forum to stage a march to his house. Although the Minister refused to meet the forum leaders at first, he changed his stand later and met them. The police blocked the march in front of Mr. Balan’s house. Cherama Sambava Development Society State president K.K. Suresh inaugurated the valedictory meeting. Mr. Venugopal presided. Mr. Neelakandan, Saleena Prakkanam, V.C. Kabeer, K.K. Jinshu, Balamurali Mariyappan Neelippara, K. Mayandi, Praveen James, Ambalathara Vijayan, Raymon Antony, and Anita Binu spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-forum-to-continue-stir/article33089048.ece
13 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||434 cases in Palakkad||As many as 434 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Thursday. District officials said that 264 persons had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. In 155 cases, the source of infection could not be traced. There were three health workers among the newly infected persons. Twelve patients came from outside the State. Officials said that 299 persons recovered from the disease on Thursday. Official figures showed that 6,338 infected persons were currently under treatment across the district. Most of them were under observation at their respective homes. Apart from them, 185 persons from Palakkad were being treated for COVID-19 in other parts of the State. While 86 of them were in Malappuram, 38 were in Thrissur, 32 in Ernakulam, 21 in Kozhikode, five in Kannur and one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha and Wayanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/434-cases-in-palakkad/article33089558.ece
13 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Talks in final stage in Pathanamthitta||With just a week left for filing the nominations for local body elections, all three major coalitions in Pathanamthitta have inched closer to finalising their respective seat-sharing deals. Faced with the prospects of close three-way contests, the Left Democratic Front (LDF), United Democratic Front (UDF), and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) are now rushing through discussions with formal announcements expected in the next couple of days. While discussions continue at the leadership level, party workers have already swung into campaign mode at the grass-roots. According to Victor Thomas, chairman of the UDF district committee, the seat-sharing arrangement is almost final though there are certain hitches in a few seats at the district and block panchayat levels.  While the Kerala Congress(M) led by P.J. Joseph is keen on maintaining its share of 156 seats where the party contested in 2015, the Congress appears unwilling to give in considering the exit of the Jose K. Mani faction. “Differences persist in some areas but these will be sorted out in the final round of discussion on Thursday evening. Candidates will start filing nominations from November 16,” Mr. Thomas said. Of the 16 seats in the district panchayat, the Congress may contest from 14 seats while the KC(M) will get two seats. Other constituents, the IUML and the RSP, are most likely to return empty-handed. The LDF has completed seat-sharing discussions in all 53 panchayats, four municipalities, and eight block panchayats. In the district panchayat, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) will contest from ten divisions and the Communist Party of India three. The KC(M) led by Jose K. Mani is likely to be given two seats while the remaining one seat will go to the Janata Dal. “The final announcement regarding the district panchayat is expected in the next couple of days even as the LDF machinery has been activated at the grass-roots level. The lone remaining task is the identification of eligible candidates to some seats,” said K. Ananthagopan, CPI(M) State committee member. Pact sealed in NDA The Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA had sealed seat-sharing agreements at all levels and even announced majority of its candidates. The coalition had already finalised candidates in 636 of the 920 wards and 90 of the 106 block decisions. The announcement on the district panchayat, where the BJP is set to contest from 12 divisions, is expected by Friday, said Asokan Kulanada, BJP district unit president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talks-in-final-stage-in-pathanamthitta/article33089021.ece
13 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||New Metropolitan to take charge tomorrow||Suffragan Metropolitan Geevarghese Mar Theodosius will take charge as the 22nd Mar Thoma Metropolitan of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church on November 14. The installation ceremony will be conducted at a special sanctuary to be set up at the Dr. Alexander Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan Smaraka auditorium at the church headquarters in Thiruvalla. The ceremony will begin with a reception to the Mar Thoma Metropolitan designate by 7.45 a.m., followed by the holy mass led by Euyakim Mar Coorilos at 8 a.m. Joseph Mar Barnabas will deliver a discourse on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-metropolitan-to-take-charge-tomorrow/article33089034.ece
13 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||138 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 138 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. Of the new cases, 127 contracted the virus through contact. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 17 cases, followed by Erathu with 16 cases. With 94 recoveries during the day, the district has 1,923 active cases at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/138-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article33089014.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Thesis evaluation delay worries KU researchers||The evaluation of doctoral theses has come to a partial halt in the University of Kerala with many submitted by research scholars who registered after July 2016 kept on the back burner. The delay in framing guidelines to implement the University Grants Commission (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of MPhil/PhD degrees) Regulations, 2016, which governs the research works, has been cited as the reason. These researchers, many of them aged above 35 years, have sought steps to expedite the process since their career prospects hang in the balance. Long wait Those who have complete their research within three-and-a-half years of their registration say that several theses submitted since January await evaluation. With almost a year passing by, they claim that the university has failed to abide by the University Grants Commission regulations that mandate completion of evaluation within six months of thesis submission. The university generally takes one to three years to complete the evaluation, and hence the research scholars fear that they could be running out of time to secure employment. “With many of us pushing 40, it will be increasingly difficult to apply for job openings. The problem is also likely to stall the post-doctoral hopes of some,” a research scholar said. In other universities They cited the examples of Mahatma Gandhi University and the University of Calicut which have framed the guidelines and also implemented policies to check plagiarism in accordance with the University Grants Commission regulations. The scholars also flagged the absence of a full-time Director of Research who could have functioned as the nodal officer to address the problems of researchers. “Instead, we now have a professor holding the additional charge of Research Director who claims helplessness in resolving the issue,” the source said. Varsity’s version A senior university official said the revised guidelines had been drafted and awaited the final approval of the academic council scheduled to meet on November 21. He added that the university had adopted Urkund, a free software recommended by the University Grants Commission to detect plagiarism. Discussions were also on to purchase a more effective software at the earliest.  Varsity yet to frame guidelines to implement the UGC Regulations, 2016, which govern research works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thesis-evaluation-delay-worries-ku-researchers/article33089017.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||386 test positive in capital||Thiruvananthapuram reported 386 COVID-19 cases and 304 recoveries on Thursday, taking the number of active cases in the district to 7,321. As many as 4,910 tests were conducted during the past 24 hours, and the test positivity rate stood at 7.86%. The fresh cases included 374 people who acquired the infection through local transmission. The source of infection in 88 such cases was unknown. Eight health care workers and four travellers were also among those who tested positive. Three deaths Three more people succumbed to COVID-19 in the district. The deceasedwere a 68-year-old man from Athiyannoor, an 85-year-old woman from Thiruvananthapuram, and a 48-year-old woman, who hailed from Kodunganoor. The pandemic has claimed 478 lives in the district so far. In quarantine As many as 1,606 people were quarantined in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 25,521 in houses and 188 in various institutions. Sectoral magistrates initiated action against 521 people for violating COVID-19 protocol and prohibitory orders. These included 11 people who violated the protocol. Moreover, 90 people were fined by officials. In all, 26,893 people have faced action since the launch of prohibitory orders on October 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/386-test-positive-in-capital/article33089612.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s test positivity rate drops below 10%||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph which had hit a plateau after October 24 has begun to show signs of a gradual dip, as the number of new cases reported on Thursday dropped to 5,537 when 57,202 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate dipped below 10% for the first time in months on Thursday to touch 9.68%. Caution advised However, public health experts point out that it will take several peaks and troughs before the epidemic curve will truly go down and that the virus will not go away until a significant proportion of the population is infected or unless a vaccine can be administered to the population at large to achieve herd immunity. The dip in cases could lead the public to relax the safety precautions and this is likely to lead to a flare-up in transmission as much of the population is still susceptible to the virus. The State again recorded more recoveries than new cases on Thursday, with 6,119 patients leaving hospitals for home. The cumulative case burden of the State reached 5,08,256, of whom, 4,28,529 persons have recovered so far. The active case pool has been declining steadily in the State for the past three weeks and went down to 77,813 cases on Thursday. 25 deaths The State added 25 more deaths to the official COVID death list, taking the toll till date to 1,796. Unofficial charts maintained by public health experts reckon Kerala’s cumulative COVID toll to be higher by another 1,500 deaths at least. Of the new deaths reported, Kozhikode accounted for five, Palakkad, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram three each, Kollam two, while Kottayam, Malappuram and Kannur reported one death each. Critically ill At present, official estimates put the number of COVID-19 patients who are critically ill and in ICUs at 928, with 235 requiring ventilator support. Of the new cases reported on Thursday, 5,397 (97.4%) cases are locally acquired infections with 653 cases traced to no known source of infection. The number of health care workers who contracted the infection is 61. Among districts, Thrissur reported 727 cases, Kozhikode 696, Malappuram 617, Alappuzha 568, Ernakulam 489, Palakkad 434, Kollam 399, Thiruvananthapuram 386, Kannur 346, Kottayam 344, Idukki 185, Pathanamthitta 138, Kasaragod 108, and Wayanad 100 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-test-positivity-rate-drops-below-10/article33089046.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Isaac rebuts allegations against IT@School||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Thursday slammed Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala for “attempting” to tarnish the hi-tech and IT@School projects. In a Facebook post, Dr. Isaac said Mr. Chennithala had leaned on a “dubious” newspaper report to suggest without producing a shred of evidence that “gold smugglers” had, through questionable means, bagged the contract for supplying 1,10,000 laptops and 60,000 projectors for hi-tech classrooms in State-funded schools across Kerala. Dr. Isaac said the government had invited original equipment manufacturers or one of their authorised representatives to participate in the bid. Reputed firms Acer, Dell, HP, and Lenovo took part in the bidding. Mr. Chennithala had said one Varikodan Abdul Hameed, a “suspect” in the gold smuggling case, had won the bid. ‘Produce proof’ Dr. Isaac challenged Mr. Chennithala to produce proof. Dr. Isaac said Mr. Chennithala had also alleged without furnishing any evidence that K.T. Rameez, one of the main accused in the gold smuggling case, had sourced school modernisation funds to bankroll the illegal imports of gold via a diplomatic channel to Kerala from Dubai. The Leader of the Opposition had based the claim on anonymous newspaper reports. Dr. Isaac invited Mr. Chennithala to present evidence to back the claim. Dr. Isaac said the firm that won the bid would also install the equipment and execute the annual maintenance contract. Mr. Chennithala’s allegations were unfounded, and it was an insult to the student, parent, and teaching community in the State, Dr. Isaac said. Without evidence Dr. Isaac said Mr. Chennithala had without a shred of evidence claimed that the computers and projectors installed at schools were “e-waste”. The Finance Minister pointed out that a committee headed by Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) director G. Jayasankar; senior technical director of National Informatics Centre; and head of the SeMT (State e-Governance Mission Team) division of the IT Department had set the specification for the computers.  Chennithala’s charges are unfounded, and it is an insult to the student, parent, and teaching community in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-rebuts-allegations-against-itschool/article33088955.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Traffic rule enforcement turns green||Enforcement measures of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) have gone green with 45 plug-in electric vehicles joining the enforcement squads of the newly created Safe Kerala project. With another 20 electric vehicles (EVs) joining the squads within a week, all 65 squads of Safe Kerala will have plug-in electric vehicles. Gadgets installed The country’s own electric SUV, Nexon EV from Tata Motors, has been customised for enforcement activities. All gadgets for monitoring motor vehicles such as speed radars, breath analysers, and decibel meters are installed in the vehicles. The newly procured vehicles have hit the road in the districts up to Thrissur and it will be on the roads round the clock, official sources said. In addition to the driver, there will be one MVD officer during daytime and two at night in these vehicles. The MVD has emerged as a role model in ushering in green mobility. Going for EVs instead of fossil-fuelled vehicles is in tune with the government decision to all departments to hire EVs from April 1, 2020, instead of purchasing new diesel vehicles. The MVD will be able to mitigate approximately 650 tonnes of CO2 emissions and save on the costs of 2.2 lakh litres of high-speed diesel annually. As the vehicles run for 312 km in one charge, the exchequer can save considerable money as the per-km cost will be Rs. 1. The EVs are being dry-leased for the next eight years from the Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. (EESL), a Central government institution under the Ministry of Power, through the Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (Anert). An EV-charging network has also come up in the State with charging stations set up at 65 offices of the enforcement squads. The Transport Department is yet to take a call on giving access to the stations to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-rule-enforcement-turns-green/article33089038.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cracker curbs for Xmas, New Year too||Restrictions have been imposed on bursting of firecrackers in the district for Deepavali, Christmas, and New Year celebrations, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Firecrackers can be burst for only two hours on Deepavali day — between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. For Christmas and New Year, bursting of crackers has been allowed for 35 minutes at night — from 11.55 p.m. to 12.30 a.m. Only green crackers To reduce air pollution, the Collector has also directed that only green crackers can be sold in the district. NGT directive It is on the basis of a Home Department’s order allowing sale of only green crackers in the State that restrictions are being strictly implemented in the district too, Ms. Khosa said in a statement here. The Home Department order follows a directive from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and an advice of the State Pollution Control Board that the ambient air quality in the State falls in the moderate category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cracker-curbs-for-xmas-new-year-too/article33089610.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF gets into battle mode in Corporation||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) formally launched its campaign for the elections to the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation on Thursday. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan, who inaugurated a poll convention at the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district committee office here, accused the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of colluding to scuttle the development of the State and reversing the progress attained through local self-government institutions (LSGIs). Alleging that the Centre was hell-bent on curtailing the development process by unleashing its enforcement agencies, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the upcoming local body polls would reflect the State’s opposition towards such attempts. Gold smuggling He blamed the Union government and the Customs for failing to prevent rampant gold smuggling through airports. “The Customs has maintained that several previous instances of gold smuggling had taken place. However, the Centre seems to have ignored those cases, failing take action against those responsible for the lapse in surveillance. The LDF government has remained firm on its demand for a comprehensive probe into such nefarious activities,” he said. He said the government was open to any probe “provided they remained within the ambit of the law”. The ongoing investigations in the State by various agencies were aimed at weakening the federal system and encroaching upon the fundamental rights of the public. Mr. Vijayaraghavan claimed that the LSGIs in the State have prospered through the efforts made by the LDF government to foster decentralisation. The empowerment of local bodies through resource mobilisation and other assistance has been instrumental in changing the face of the State, he said. Poll committee formed The coalition constituted an election committee for the polls to the Corporation. The panel will have V.P. Unnikrishnan of the Communist Party of India (CPI) and V. Sivankutty of the CPI(M) as its president and secretary respectively. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan, and Kerala Tourism Development Corporation chairman M. Vijayakumar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-launches-campaign-in-thiruvananthapuram/article33089026.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP promises a world-class city||Thiruvananthapuram will be transformed into a world-class city if the BJP-led NDA comes to power in the city Corporation, BJP State president K. Surendran said on Thursday. Ineptitude of the fronts which had governed the civic body in the past had caused development stagnation in Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Surendran said while attending various functions here. ‘Unholy alliance’ Mr. Surendran accused the Congress and the CPI(M) of engaging in an unholy alliance to stop the BJP in Thiruvananthapuram. However, the BJP was confident that the people would back it for the development of their city, he said. The Vizhinjam international seaport and the Thiruvananthapuram international airport would serve as robust foundations for the development of Thiruvananthapuram. Hopeful The people would defeat attempts by the LDF and UDF to scuttle development activities, he said. Having won 35 seats in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation in 2015, the BJP is confident of improving its performance this time. The party has announced candidates for most of the Corporation wards over the past week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-promises-a-world-class-city/article33089613.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Anert signs pact for testing lab||The Agency for Non-conventional Energy and Rural Technology (Anert) is joining hands with the Sophisticated Test and Instrumentation Centre (STIC) for establishing a facility for carrying out quality inspections on solar equipment. Anert director Amit Meena and STIC director Jagannath Bhatt signed an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Thursday for setting up a testing laboratory at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). In the first phase, a facility for testing solar on-grid inverters will be established at a cost of Rs. 3.8 crore. Subsequently, the facility will be expanded to cover solar panels, off-grid solar inverters, and hybrid solar inverters, Anert said. At present, the State has few labs for assessing the quality of solar PV components, despite the growing popularity of solar energy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anert-signs-pact-for-establishing-testing-lab/article33088946.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online purchase: man duped of Rs. 3.22 lakh||The police have urged the public to be cautious while making online transactions for purchases. The warning was issued after a man lodged a complaint with the Thiruvananthapuram Cyber Crime police station stating that he was swindled of Rs. 3.22 lakh by a company that promised to courier him a laptop from the U.S. According to the police, he had remitted Rs. 3.22 lakh in various bank accounts WhatsApped to him by the company. He had grown suspicious and lodged the complaint when the requests for money were repeated. A subsequent investigation revealed that many Indian IT professionals, who were working from home owing to COVID-19, have been duped by such shady firms. According to the police, many persons in Thiruvananthapuram city have lost large sums in a similar manner. ‘Check credentials’ Online transactions, for making purchases, should be made after checking the credentials of the company involved, City Cyber Crime police station ACP T. Shyamlal said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-purchase-man-duped-of-rs-322-lakh/article33089605.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSTU opposes PTA meet||The Kerala School Teachers’ Union has demanded that special class PTA meetings scheduled to be organised under the umbrella of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, this month be postponed. In a statement on Thursday, the union questioned the need for conducting the meetings since the notification for local body elections had been issued. The General Education Department had not consulted teachers’ organisations in connection with the meeting. With schools still closed, there was no need for these meetings. They alleged that the meetings would be led by block resource centres’ trainers affiliated to the Left, and were just meant to implement political agenda. The union warned of non-cooperation if the PTAs were not postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-union-demand/article33089016.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online short film festival||The Jatayu Rama Cultural Centre, near here, is organising an online short film festival to honour the memories of the mythical bird, Jatayu. The festival titled SHE has women’s safety as theme. “Jatayu is a symbol of resistance to the demons who threaten the security of women,” the organisers said. Short films of 3- to 5-minute duration will be considered. A 10-member jury will select the best entries. The best three films will get cash awards of Rs. 50,000, Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 10,000 respectively. A cash award of Rs. 10,000 each will be given to best direction, content, acting, editing and cinematography. The last date to submit entries is January 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-short-film-festival/article33089603.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two held for attacking man||The Kovalam police on Thursday arrested two men accused of attacking a man from Venganoor. The arrested are Prakash, 22, and Nidhin, 20, both from Muttakkad, Venganoor, the police said. The victim was identified as Saji. The duo attacked Saji angered by a police complaint filed against them by his sister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-attacking-man/article33089604.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested||The Attingal police arrested Suresh Kumar, 46, from Chittatinkara, on charge of attacking another man with an iron pipe. The accused attacked Abhilash, 36, of Chittatinkara, when the latter attempted to dissuade him from verbally abusing his parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested/article33089606.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three candidates file nominations||Three candidates filed their nominations in the district on Thursday, the first day of filing the papers for the upcoming local body polls. All three nominations were filed in the Karimkulam panchayat. Collector’s directive District Collector Navjot Khosa, the District Election Officer, has directed departments to dispatch official vehicles required for election duty in the district by 3 p.m. on Friday. The drivers of the vehicles have to report to the Deputy Collector (Elections).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-candidates-file-nominations/article33089614.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister calls for vigil during campaigning||Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja has urged candidates contesting the local body elections, political workers, and the public to exercise extreme vigil during the campaign process, against the backdrop of COVID-19. The Minister, in a statement on Thursday, reminded them that the State’s total case burden had crossed the 5 lakh mark. Though the number of daily positive cases was dipping, there were still chances of disease spread. Closed spaces with low air circulation, crowding, and personal contact were the three main factors for the spread of COVID-19. People should not think that it was alright if one contracted the infection, for post-COVID syndrome or long COVID, could be debilitating, and was fast becoming a health problem. Physical distancing, wearing of masks, and frequent washing of hands with soap and water were very important. Some of the things to be kept in mind include making sure that house visits are made by a group of not more than five persons, including the candidate. Instead of entering homes, votes should be sought from outside, maintaining a 2-metre gap. Occupants of houses and the campaign team should wear masks properly. Sanitisers should be used frequently. Hands should not be shaken on any account. Make use of social media Notices and pamphlets distributed during door-to-door campaigning should be limited and social media used to the maximum extent possible. Close interactions with the elderly, children, pregnant women, and those on medication for serious illnesses should be avoided. Those with symptoms of fever, cough, and sore throat should not go for campaigning. Candidates should make these safety messages part of their campaign. Candidates should not be received in any programme with garlands, bouquets, or shawls. If a candidate tests positive for COVID-19 or goes into quarantine, s/he should withdraw from campaigning. After they test negative, they can go back to campaigning on the directions of the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-calls-for-vigil-during-campaigning/article33089556.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Schedule change in railway reservation||The computerised Passenger Reservation System (PRS) centres in the Thiruvananthapuram railway division will function from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. on November 14 on account of Deepavali, a railway release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/info-on-rail-reservation/article33089015.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||City boy wins laurels for singing||Thejus Sangith, a seven-year-old boy from here, has won an appreciation from the India Book of Records for singing Malayalam songs with complex lyrics. The letter of appreciation said Thejus had sung 10 songs continuously on September 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-boy-wins-laurels-for-singing/article33089616.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Interview postponed||The Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) has postponed the interview scheduled for November 13 in the capital for the post of Overseer Grade I (Electrical). The postponement is in view of the code of conduct in force for the elections to the local bodies, a release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interview-postponed/article33089617.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trans Awareness Week from today||Queerythm, a community-based organisation for the LGBTIQ community, and Amigos, a transmen collective, will observe this year’s Trans Awareness Week from November 13 to 20 online with various events. The theme for the programme is ‘Redefining masculinity.’ Talks, debates, documentary and short film presentation, discussions, quiz, essay writing, poetry and painting contest will be held during the week. For details, call 97455 45559, 80783 17883.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trans-awareness-week-from-today/article33089024.ece
13 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Bank awards for cooperative societies||Kerala Bank has instituted State awards to primary cooperative societies who excelled in rendering service during the COVID-19 pandemic. The first prize comprises Rs. 1 lakh, certificate and citation, the second-prize winner gets Rs. 50,000 and certificate and Rs. 25,000 and certificate await the society coming third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-bank-awards-for-cooperative-societies/article33089036.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exam results||The results of the Kerala State Higher Judicial Service preliminary examination 2019 have been published. The results can be viewed on www.hckrecruitment.nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exam-results/article33089041.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cooperative Week celebrations||The Cooperative Week celebrations in Kerala will begin on Saturday with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurating the event at a virtual function. Minister for Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran will preside over the event. The programmes scheduled as part of the celebrations will be held online till November 20 owing to the COVID-19 pandemic restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cooperative-week-celebrations/article33089043.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bank unions hail wage pact||The United Forum of Bank Unions has hailed the 11th Bipartite Settlement on revision of wages and improvement in service conditions of bank employees signed with the Indian Banks Association in Mumbai on Wednesday. A press note quoting the Kerala State committee of the National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE) said the negotiations for the wage pact had succeeded in achieving uniform salary for bank employees across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-unions-hail-wage-pact/article33089044.ece
13 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Logo of CHASE to be released||Women and Child Development Special Secretary Biju Prabhakar will on Friday release the logo of a promotional campaign being implemented by the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights for a child-friendly Kerala. The campaign CHASE (Child Health and Safety Empowerment through E4 – Engage, Explain, Educate, Enforce) aims at ensuring society’s participation in improvement of children’s security and health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/logo-of-chase-to-be-released/article33089025.ece
13 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur once again tops case chart in State||Thrissur once again topped the list of new COVID-19 patients in the State on Thursday. The district registered 727 patients while 1,062 people recovered from the disease on the day. There are 8,737 active cases in the district while 88 persons from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 49,307 cases have been confirmed in the district and 40,207 people recovered. According to official statistics, 706 people, including health-care workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Thursday. The patients included 47 people above the age of 60 and 97 children below the age of 10. In all 5,724 people are under home observation. As many as 6,009 samples were collected for testing on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-once-again-tops-case-chart-in-state/article33089555.ece
13 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Four candidates submit nominations in Thrissur||Four candidates submitted nomination papers for local body elections in the district on Thursday, the on which the process started. One nomination paper each was submitted in Thekkumkara, Vadanappally, Valappad and Velukkara. Nominations can be submitted till November 19. The scrutiny of papers will be held at the office of the Returning Officers on November 20. The last day for withdrawing papers is November 23. The elections to the local bodies will be held in Thrissur in the second phase on December 10. Meanwhile, the Congress released the list of candidates on Thursday. Collector takes charge The District Collector took over the administrative charge of the city Corporation on the day as the tenure of the local bodies have ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-candidates-submit-nominations-in-thrissur/article33089620.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Alien invasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alien-invasion/article33088959.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Catering to demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/catering-to-demand/article33089028.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In homage to erstwhile ruler||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-homage-to-erstwhile-ruler/article33089479.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking parity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-parity/article33089608.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wait for grub||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wait-for-grub/article33089560.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Leaving no place untouched||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leaving-no-place-untouched/article33089056.ece
13 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many Chennai pet owners abandoning their dogs in Chittoor district||The incidence of several pet dogs of various premier breeds turning into stray dogs along the Chennai national highway in Satyavedu and Nagalapuram, after they get abandoned by their owners, is on the rise in recent months. The phenomenon is attributed to the COVID-19 crisis, as several pet reportedly owners find it tough to maintain the sick, mangy and ageing canines. Several of the pet dogs found abandoned at the roadside and close to the forested villages in these two border mandals are found to be suffering from terminal illnesses, invalid and moving close to their happy hunting grounds. The sighting of the pets in the area started from April onwards, when the COVID-19 pandemic was raging in Chennai and surrounding areas in Tamil Nadu. Several pet owners reportedly neglected the health of their pets fearing exposure to COVID-19 if they visited the vet clinic. Between May and August, the virus spread was dreadful in Tamil Nadu and in Chittoor district as well. In mid-September, some residents of a forested hamlet Karani, a few km from Uttukottai (Tamil Nadu) sighted a high-end car halting by the roadside and a man emerging from it with a Labrador. In a few seconds, the car sped away towards Tamil Nadu, abandoning the pet. The ageing dog used all its strength to catch up with the vehicle, but collapsed on the road. Some villagers served it food for a couple of days, but it didn’t touch any, and finally died. The villagers said four such pets were crushed under wheels of speeding vehicles in a span of three months. Rescue Yesupadam (62), popularly known as Bhairava Swami, who runs an exclusive ashram for canines at Rajula Kandriga village of Nagalapuram mandal, had rescued half a dozen abandoned pets since the COVID-19 lockdown. His daughter Priya (30) had visited several villages along the Chennai National Highway in the two mandals to request people to inform the ashram in case they found any precariously abandoned pet. With emergence of the additional members into the canine ashram, the father-daughter duo had improved the facilities further by acquiring an additional piece of land for 60 canines. “Abandoning of pets is a painful experience. The owners resort to the extreme step as they couldn’t just bear their suffering at the last hour. Maintenance of pets has also turned a costly affair for many middle-class sections post-COVID crisis. During my four decades of stint with canines, I know that the prime reason for abandoning of pets happens when its original owner is no more, and when they come under the care of relatives or secondary caretakers,” Mr. Yesupadam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-chennai-pet-owners-abandoning-their-dogs-in-chittoor-district/article33088820.ece
13 November 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||City auto-rickshaws likely to be equipped with IoT devices||To ensure safety of passengers, the Transport Department officials are planning to install Internet of Things (IoT) devices in the auto-rickshaws in the city. The devices will also include a panic button for the passengers to press in case of emergencies, apart from having a Global Positioning System (GPS) which will be monitored and tracked by the police personnel in the control room or command control centre. This will be a pilot project in the city by the Transport Department in association with the Police Department. The Transport Department officials have received instructions from the higher-ups to make arrangements for the project, it was learnt. According to a senior official from the Transport Department, in the first phase, they are planning to install the IoT devices in 1,000 auto-rickshaws. “There could be an official announcement with more details in the next couple of weeks,” he said. It may be remembered that in 2019, the Transport Department had come up with a similar pilot project by installing ‘Abhaya’ IoT-based safety and security system in several auto-rickshaws. This is again a similar type of project. The officials have tentatively suggested a couple of names for the project which would be revealed soon. Once the panic button in the auto-rickshaws is pressed, it would alert the command control room showing an emergency alert. Since the device already consists of a GPS tracking system, the vehicle’s movement can be tracked by the control room who can alert the nearby beat police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-auto-rickshaws-likely-to-be-equipped-with-iot-devices/article33089650.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Airport duty free shop goes online||Hyderabad Duty Free (HDF), a division of GMR Hospitality and Retail Limited that manages and operates duty free shops at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), launched an online “click & collect” facility on Thursday, allowing international passengers to pre-book their choice of products online and collect it while taking the flight through the airport. The online platform is to make purchasing duty free products ‘safer’ during the COVID-19 pandemic for international flyers. Passengers wanting to avail this facility will first have to register themselves on HDF website www.hyderabaddutyfree.com. Then, they can key in their travel and passport details. After this, they can select their choice of products available on HDF website and place an order well ahead of their scheduled travel, for which they would be issued a receipt along with order details. They can collect their product from HDF store at the airport at the time of undertaking their international travel, after showing the receipt, passport and boarding pass.  Special discounts Special discounts and promotions are available on HDF website compared to conventional in-store shopping, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/airport-duty-free-shop-goes-online/article33089429.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo chimpanzee dies of heart attack||The star attraction of Nehru Zoological Park, a chimpanzee named Suzi, is no more. The female primate, which celebrated its 34th birthday with much fanfare, breathed her last due to a heart attack on Thursday. At about 8.30 a.m., the zoo keepers noticed the animal lying on the floor, and preliminary investigation revealed that she died about half an hour to an hour ago. Suzi’s birthday was celebrated by the zoo staff on July 15 this year, by decking up a cake with fruits, and arranging her enclosure with various kinds of fruits and vegetables. The chimp was gifted to the zoo by the Sahara Group in 2011, and has since been popular. Post-mortem of the chimpanzee was conducted by a team of veterinary experts from VBRI, LaCONES, and Veterinary College, a note informed. Suzi was the only chimpanzee left with the zoo after a previous one died in 2012, also due to stroke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-chimpanzee-dies-of-heart-attack/article33089437.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indian Railways’ AI and Data Analytics centre with ISB takes off||South Central Railway (SCR) General Manager Gajanan Mallya handed over the letter of acceptance to Indian School of Business (ISB) deputy dean Milind Sohani for setting up a Centre of Excellence for Artificial Intelligence and Data Analytics for the Indian Railways on Thursday. Railway Board chairman and CEO Vinod Kumar Yadav, who participated in the function virtually, said it is a very important step towards transformation of Indian Railways, which has already digitised almost all of its systems like passenger reservations, freight operations, material management, stores procurement and human resource development. “It is essential that all the data gathered is analysed for betterment of customer services and to provision of better services for both passenger and freight customers. Indian Railways is looking forward to use AI and DA in partnership with ISB for innovative solutions on this front,” he said. Mr. Mallya said that the time is right for setting up of such an advanced technology centre as new technologies have become vital tools to make the organisations more effective by optimal utilisation of its resources to meet both customer and organisational goals. “ISB would like to bring in new thoughts, business knowledge and expertise to partner with the Indian Railways in its transformation journey. The vast data generated by the railways will be used for strengthening the functioning,” said Mr. Sohani. The collaboration with ISB is for 12 months during which projects will be undertaken for improving operational efficiency. Training modules will include cloud computing, data science, big data analytics, AI using reinforced learning and various other techniques to be used for forecasting and prediction. ISB will further help in identifying the best global practices. Demand data (seasonal/local) captured in IR system can help predict future demand pattern and also help in optimal utilisation of resources and cost control by weeding out the ineffective/inefficient resources, said an official spokesperson in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railways-ai-data-analytics-centre-with-isb-takes-off/article33089430.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||CSE emerges as top choice for engg. students||Computer Science Engineering (CSE) continues to be the top choice for engineering students this year as well, as 92.47% of seats filled after the final phase of admissions. Out of the 16,981 seats, 15,703 were filled with just 1,278 seats remaining vacant in CSE. Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) was the second most opted course with 10,298 seats taken out of the 13,657 seats followed by Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE) in which 3,738 seats were filled out of the 6,920 seats. Information Technology (IT) was another sought-after stream with 4,613 seats out of the 4,755 available. IT is generally opted by candidates who fail to get a seat in CSE course in a good college. Both CSE and IT are considered almost same in terms of curriculum and opportunities. In Civil Engineering stream, 55.75% seats were filled with 3,579 seats taken out of the 6,420 available seats. It was followed by Mechanical Engineering stream with 2,910 seats filled of the 6,135 seats on offer. New age courses such as Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning), CSE (Data Science) and CSE (Cyber Security) and CSE (Internet of Things) were some other preferred courses by students with more than 60% seats filled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cse-emerges-as-top-choice-for-engg-students/article33089548.ece
13 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nandyal suicide pact: Salam’s mother-in-law given Rs. 25 lakh||The State government would support the next of kin of Abdul Salam, the autorickshaw driver who had committed suicide along with his wife and children at Nandyal recently, in all possible ways, district Collector G. Veerapandian said on Thursday. In a selfie video purportedly shot moments before taking the extreme step, Abdul Salam had alleged police harassment in a theft case. “The government will help the next of kin in fighting the legal battle. It will also take care of their future welfare needs,” Mr. Veerapandian said after handing them over a cheque for Rs. 25 lakh to Salam’s mother-in-law. Nandyal MP P. Brahmananda Reddy and MLA Shilpa Ravichandra Kishore Reddy termed the suicide pact as unfortunate, and advised people not to resort to such acts, but reach out to “responsible people” to get their problems resolved. Consoling the family members, the district Collector asked them to be in touch with either the tahsildar or Sub-Collector Kalpana Kumari who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nandyal-suicide-pact-salams-mother-in-law-given-rs-25-lakh/article33089535.ece
13 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||450 fire services personnel to be deployed at pushkar ghats||The Andhra Pradesh Disaster Response and Fire Services Department will deploy 450 personnel and four Inflatable Rescue Boats (IRBs), six fire tenders and six mini tenders during the Tungabhadra Pushkaram, which is scheduled to be organised from November 20 to December 1. Director of Fire services Jayaram Naik and Regional Fire Officer Southern Region E. Swamy on Thursday visited the pushkar ghats at Kurnool, Mantralayam and in Kodumur constituency to check the preparedness of the infrastructure and fire-fighting arrangements. District Fire Officer Sreenivasa Reddy said that ropes, lifebuoys, life jackets, and other equipment were being kept ready in case of any emergency. ‘No holy dip’ The State government has prohibited holy dip in the river during the pushkaram, keeping the COVID-19 pandemic in view. All the protocols will be followed as per the directive of the Health Ministry. Buses would be run during that period from various parts of Kurnool and Anantapur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/450-fire-services-personnel-to-be-deployed-at-pushkar-ghats/article33089522.ece
13 November 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Avians throng Pulicat lagoon in large numbers||It was a treat for birdwatchers as a large number of birds, including migratory ones, flocked Pulicat lagoon in Nellore district thanks to favourable climatic conditions. The winged visitors arrived from far-off lands in large numbers this time. Thanks to opening of the sea-mouth on the Tamil Nadu side, the avians are able to find enough prey without any difficulty. The opening of the sea-mouth had a beneficial effect on the Pulicat ecosystem. “'Twenty-five different varieties have been spotted so far this year. Their number is likely to go up significantly during November,” said Sullurpeta Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife) D. Ravindranth Reddy. The arrival of the first Greater Flamingo was recorded on September 12 and their numbers are going up each day, he said. Other bird species that were spotted include Grey pelican, Painted stork, Grey heron, Open-billed stork, Glossy ibis, Pond heron, Large egret, Little egret, Cattle egret, Eurasian coot, Indian moor hen, Dab chick, Common kingfisher, Kingfisher, Purple swamp hen, Redwattled lapwing, Night heron, Curlew, Little Cormorant and Seagull. The number of greater flamingos arriving at the second largest brackish water ecosystem in the country after Chilika is going up year after year. It is expected to cross 70,000 mark this year. The number of Spoon Bills is also going up significantly in the last couple of years, added Forest Range Officer Venu Atmakuri. The situation is highly conducive for the winged visitors at Pulicat. The easy availability of prey had some species of birds to stay back in and around Pulicat without leaving in March/April. The 759 sq-km Pulicat supports rich flora and fauna. It is the home for 189 bird species from 52 families. Over 100 plant species from 46 families thrive in the wetland in the wake of adequate inflow in Arani, Kalangi and Swarnamukhi rivers. Dredging work will be taken upon getting the Centre’s nod based on the study conducted by Salim Ali Centre for Orinthology and Natural History (SACON), sources said. It had recommended opening of the seamouth at Rayadoruvu in Nellore district as the exchange of water between sea and lake will stabilise the salinity levels, thereby increasing the diversity and abundance of planktons and fish availability in the lake. This in turn can help in sustaining larger wetland bird population in Pulicat Bird Sanctuary, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/avians-throng-pulicat-lagoon-in-large-numbers/article33088807.ece
13 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain pounds Prakasam and Nellore districts||Heavy rain lashed the south coastal districts in the State as the north-east monsoon turned vigorous on Thursday. People living in the low-lying areas in Nellore and Ongole had a harrowing time as heavy showers left many roads under a sheet of water. Nellore and Prakasam districts received scattered to widespread rainfall under the influence of two easterly waves in the last 24 hours. Weathermen said the heavy rain might continue for the next 48 hours. The wet spell ahead of Deepavali dampened the festive spirit as the traders dealing with the sale of green crackers did not put up shops in the wake of rain. Porlukata which sees many cottage cracker-making units in Nellore wore a deserted look as Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu has issued a ban on the manufacturing of crackers. Nellore recorded a rainfall of 106.2 mm in the last 24 hours, while Ongole registered 27.4 mm . Farmers in the coastal mandals in Nellore district prayed for rains to abate as it submerged paddy seedlings in over 175 hectares. “If the rain continues for a few days more, farmers may have to raise fresh seedlings,” District Agriculture Joint Director Ananda Kumari said.  The department is expecting paddy acreage to go up to 2.57 lakh hectares as against the average of 1.89 lakh hectares during the rabi, she said. However, the rain has brought cheers to Prakasam farmers as they began sowing paddy, bengal gram, cotton and black gram. “The wet spell is beneficial to the winter crops,” Agriculture Joint Director P.V. Sriramamurthy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-pounds-prakasam-and-nellore-districts/article33089527.ece
13 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. registers one death, over 100 new cases||The recoveries of COVID-19 patients outnumbered the fresh admissions to the hospitals in south coastal districts of Prakasam and Nellore districts in the last 24 hours. Prakasam district recorded zero deaths during the period, while Nellore district registered one death, taking the toll to 489, a health bulletin issued by the State government said on Thursday night. The toll remained static at 575 in Prakasam district. Till date, 1,064 patients have succumbed to the coronavirus in the south coastal Andhra Pradesh. The number of patients who were recovered outnumbered the fresh admissions into hospitals by 83 in the last 24 hours. With 179 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases rose to 1,22, 042 in the region. The active cases declined to 2,254 as 262 patients recovered from the illness during the period. The recovery rate in the region improved further to 97.70% with more than 1.20 lakh patients winning the battle against the virus till date. More than double the number of patients got cured in Prakasam district. As many as 88 persons tested positive during the period, taking the cumulative confirmed cases to 60,777. Health officials heaved a sigh of relief as 193 patients were discharged from hospitals on recovery. So far, 59,390 patients have been cured of the disease in the district. The total number of positive cases increased to 62,265 as 91 persons tested positive in Nellore district in the last 24 hours. The active cases remained at a manageable 1,442 as 69 patients recovered during the period. Pvt. hospitals warned Meanwhile, the district administration warned the private hospitals of punitive action if they collected more than the fees prescribed for COVID-19 testing. They have been told to display the fees for various lab tests on their premises without fail. Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu urged people to celebrate Deepavali adhering to the COVID-19 norms. During a meeting with the principals of educational institutions, Prakasam Collector Pola Bhaskar asked them to follow the SOPs issued by the Higher Education Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-registers-one-death-over-100-new-cases/article33089525.ece
13 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan has fulfilled a majority of poll promises: Dharmana||Former Revenue Minister and Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao has said the TDP will not come to power in future as people from all sections are happy with the performance of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Prasada Rao, who along with his son Dharmana Rammanohar Naidu, participated in ‘padayatra’ from Killipalem to Kallapalli village of Srikakulam rural mandal on Thursday to commemorate the ‘praja sankalpa yatra’ undertaken by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy three years ago, he said the Chief Minister was able to fulfil a majority of the promises made during his yatra. The ‘padayatra’ evoked good response with the participation of locals and activists of the party. Interacting with the people, Mr. Prasada Rao said the government schemes ensured timely help for the poor people who were badly affected by the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19. Mr. Rammohanar Naidu said the youth were happy with the continuous job recruitment drive and economic activity in the State. YSR Congress Party leader Mandavilli Ravi said the ‘padayatra’ would continue on Friday in Srikurmam and other villages of Gara mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-has-fulfilled-a-majority-of-poll-promises-dharmana/article33088814.ece
13 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader seeks OBC status for Kalinga Vysyas||TDP State secretary Boina Govindarajulu on Thursday demanded that the Union and State governments took initiative for inclusion of Kalinga Vysya community in the Central OBC list. “Many youngsters belonging to the community are unable to get reservation in education and jobs at the all India level. The State government can write a letter to the Centre in this direction and ensure justice to the community,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-seeks-obc-status-for-kalinga-vysyas/article33089528.ece
13 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taxpayers’ Association decries proposal for hike||Srikakulam Taxpayers’ Association convener M. Adinarayana Murthy and co-convener Tammana Bhaskar on Thursday strongly opposed the State government’s proposal to enhance property taxes significantly in Srikakulam town and other places. Addressing a press meet here, Mr. Murthy said that the government’s idea to fix taxes based on the market values of property was highly unwarannted. Mr.Bhaskar said that business establishments were already in deep financial crisis due to scant business activity under the impact of COVID-19, and any move to hike taxes would come as an added jolt. He said that a roundtable conference would be organised soon since the government’s decision would also take away the powers of elected bodies of Srikakulam Municipal Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taxpayers-association-decries-proposal-for-hike/article33088815.ece
13 November 2020||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Voters fed up with regional parties: BJP||The BJP on Friday said that it is set to play a pivotal role in A.P. Politics, claiming that people were fed up with both regional parties. Party senior leader and Etcherla in-charge Nadukuditi Eswara Rao said that the recent elections in Bihar and by-elections across the country have shown that only the BJP can ensure a ‘clean administration’ in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/voters-fed-up-with-regional-parties-bjp/article33088812.ece
13 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to release online ticket quota today||The online quota of arjitha seva tickets for the period between November 22 to 30 will be released at 11 a.m. on Friday. Devotees can take part in the virtual Dolotsavam, arjitha Brahmotsavam and Sahasra Deepalankara by availing the tickets on the TTDs website tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in.The TTD has made about 3,500 tickets available on its online virtual platform which includes 2,000 tickets of Kalyanotsavam and 500 tickets each for the rest two sevas. While the couples taking part in Kalyanotsavam will be entitled for free of cost darshan at Tirumala temple under varying time slots on day-to-day basis depending on the availability, those taking part in other sevas will be allowed for darshan on purchase of Rs. 300 special entry tickets within 90 days of booking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-release-online-ticket-quota-today/article33089551.ece
13 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Endowments Department has become redundant: Somu||The BJP has taken exception to the manner in which the Endowments Department is “hampering the interests” of the Hindu temples by toeing the line of the successive governments. “The BJP, on coming to power, will consider doing away with the department,” party State president Somu Veerraju said while addressing the media here on Thursday after attending a constituency-level review meeting with the party workers. Temple lands He blamed the TDP regime for trying to alienate the Simhachalam temple lands to its sympathisers. In the same vein, Mr. Veerraju accused the ruling YSRCP of contemplating to use the said land for developing the new capital in Visakhapatnam. “We will not allow misuse of temple lands for purposes other than mandated. The Endowments Department has become so redundant that the BJP, on coming to power, will consider doing away with it,” he said. Mr. Veerraju also flayed the TTD for converting its trust board and administrative units into “rehabilitation centres for ruling party leaders.” ‘Outrageous incident’ Terming as “outrageous” the incident in which an employee of the SVBC sent the link of a pornographic website to a devotee, he regretted that the rot had set in at all levels. On the alleged move by the TTD to withdraw the defamation case against former chief priest A.V. Ramana Deekshitulu and Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, the BJP State chief demanded that the TDP and the YSRCP should jointly pay back Rs. 2 crore incurred to the Lord’s exchequer by way of court fee. He saw the need for complete overhaul of the religious institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/endowments-department-has-become-redundant-somu/article33089537.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government ‘agrees’ to meet most of the demands of power employees||While the employees of power utilities continued to agitate against the government’s alleged negligence in resolving certain critical issues faced by them and the sector as a whole, Energy Secretary N. Srikant has stated that the government agreed to meet seven out of 10 of their demands. He told The Hindu on Thursday that steps were taken to resolve the remaining three. As far as the payment of DA was concerned, he said that the employees were requested to understand the financial situation as it involved about Rs. 500 crore. There was a freeze on payment of DA and the same was the situation in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and a couple of other States, he added. On the issue of regularisation of staff, Mr. Srikant said he was looking for a solution, and on the issue of pension, which involved around Rs. 16,000 crore, the government was yet to take a policy decision. “Mobilising such huge sums means taxing the people. The government will address the employees’ concerns at the earliest,” he asserted. ‘No sincerity’ Meanwhile, a large number of employees staged a protest at Vidyut Soudha in Vijayawada under the aegis of the AP State Power Employees’ JAC alleging that the government was not dealing with them in a fair manner and it did not appear to be sincere about fulfilling the assurances Energy Minister Balineni Srinivas Reddy gave them during the recent discussions. Protesters held The police took some of the agitators into custody as they squatted at the entrance of the head offices of AP-Genco and AP-Transco pressing for early settlement of the operational and financial issues raised by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-agrees-to-meet-most-of-the-demands-of-power-employees/article33088734.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll falls below 10 for first time in four months||The State’s COVID tally inched close to the 8.5-lakh mark with 1,728 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours ending Thursday morning. For the first time in the past four months, less than 10 deaths were reported. With nine new deaths, the toll increased to  6,837 and the death rate slightly came down to 0.80%. The tally stands at 8,49,705 with a recovery rate of 96.74% and total recoveries as 8,22,011. In the past day, 1,777 patients have recovered leaving 20,857 cases active. The number of samples tested also inched close to 90 lakh, as 77,148 samples were tested in the past day with a positivity rate of 2.24%, which is also one of the lowest daily positivity rates. The overall positivity rate stands at 9.51%. Chittoor reported three new deaths while Krishna reported two new deaths. Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur and West Godavari reported one new death each and remaining seven districts reported no new deaths. Less than 300 cases Also, for the first time, no district reported more than 300 new infections and only four districts reported more than 200 cases. The district-wise new cases are as follows: East Godavari (290), West Godavari (239), Krishna (223), Chittoor (206), Anantapur (99), Nellore (91), Prakasam (88), Kadapa (85), Visakhpatnam (74), Srikakulam (43), Vizianagaram (42) and Kurnool (36). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,19,791), West Godavari (89,667), Chittoor (81,566), Guntur (70,394), Anantapur (65,918), Prakasam (60,777), Nellore (60,699), Kurnool (59,851), Visakhapatnam (57,063), Kadapa (53,454), Srikakulam (44,863), Krishna (42,617) and Vizianagaram (40,150).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-falls-below-10-for-first-time-in-four-months/article33089533.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan seeks comprehensive report on CPS||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to prepare a comprehensive report on the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), including the details of 52,000 APSRTC employees on the list of the CPS. At a review meeting on Thursday, the officials told the Chief Minister that they had examined the reports of the Cabinet Sub-Committee, the Working Committee headed by the Chief Secretary, and the Thakkar Committee on the CPS. Employee categories The State government has 1,98,221 employees under the CPS, of whom 1,78,705 are direct, government employees and 3,295 are working under grant-in-aid, and the remaining 16,221 are working in universities and educational institutions. The Chief Minister said the previous government had released many GOs but none fructified whereas the YSRCP dispensation implemented them in addition to the Minimum Time Scale (MTS) for contract employees. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Special Chief Secretary (finance) S.S. Rawat, Principal Secretary (transport) M.T. Krishna Babu, Secretary (GAD) Sasi Bhushan Kumar and Commissioners M. Girija Sankar (Panchayat Raj) and G.S.R.K.R. Vijay Kumar (municipal administration) were among those present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-seeks-comprehensive-report-on-cps/article33089542.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training centre for Secretariat staff in every parliamentary constituency||Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Botcha Satyanarayana said that the Village, Ward Secretariat Department will set up a training centre in every parliamentary constituency to improvise skills of the Secretariat staff and ensure quality services. In a review meeting held at Tadepalli on Thursday, the Ministers concerned reviewed the performance of the Secretariats and their staff members. It was decided in the meeting that training centres should be established. Further, it was also decided that no transfers and deputations would be allowed for Secretariat staff on probation. Principal Secretary (Village, Ward Secretariat Department) Ajay Jain and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-centre-for-secretariat-staff-in-every-parliamentary-constituency/article33088808.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu for CBI probe into suicide case||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has demanded a CBI investigation into the Nandyal family suicide case. “Action should be taken against the policemen accused of abetting Abdul Salam and his family to commit suicide. The Circle Inspector and the head constable should be dismissed, and the DSP should be suspended,” Mr. Naidu said while addressing the media on Thursday. Holding the government solely responsible for the incident, Mr. Naidu alleged that the government and the police tried to brush away the case as just a suicide. The incident would not have come to light had Salam’s mother-in-law did not release the selfie video purportedly taken by the family before committing suicide, Mr. Naidu said. “The government has initiated action against the accused only after the TDP’s tweet,” he claimed. Describing the family’s suicide as “highly disturbing,” Mr. Naidu said it was reflective of the “inefficient and insensitive rule of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.” “Harassment in the form of false cases and oral threats drove the family to the extreme step,” he alleged. “The family’s suicide is nothing but government murder,” he added. If the DGP failed to act, it would further erode the trust in the system, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-for-cbi-probe-into-suicide-case/article33088733.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Subba Reddy should quit as TTD Chairman: Varla Ramaiah||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) politburo member Varla Ramaiah on Thursday expressed concern that the spiritual pre-eminence of the Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanams (TTD) came under serious threat because of the ‘unholy practices’ of the State government. Mr. Ramaiah demanded immediate resignation of TTD Chairman S.V. Subba Reddy considering the series of controversies that have eroded the divineness of the Seven Hills in the past 17 months. The recent incident with regard to Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel was yet another unholy incident which left devotees in a state of shock, he added. In a statement, the TDP leader said that too much political interference was taking place in the TTD affairs ever since the YSRCP came to power. The SVBC already suffered a severe setback following the glaring error made by its former chairman. Even before it faded in the minds of people another indecent incident defamed the channel and the TTD as a whole, he said. Mr. Ramaiah asked the TTD Chairman to take moral responsibility for the ongoing untoward incidents and put in his resignation papers. Mr. Subba Reddy has also failed to curb the rising political interference in the day-to-day affairs of the TTD administration, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subba-reddy-should-quit-as-ttd-chairman-varla-ramaiah/article33088816.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. move to promote skill development||Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) MD and CEO A. Srikanth signed MoUs virtually for partnerships with IBM India, Singapore Polytechnic International (SPI), India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) and L.V. Prasad Film & TV Academy (LVPA) on Thursday. Special Chief Secretary (skill development and training) G. Anantha Ramu and APSSDC chairman Challa Madhusudhan Reddy were among those present. The MoU with IBM India is for the establishment of a Centre of Excellence (CoE) in the IT sector. The global computing major will help the APSSDC in offering high-end training in Artificial Intelligence, coding, cloud computing, Internet of Things (IoT), block chain, data science and analytics, cybersecurity and big data and full stack. Industry-led courses SPI’s partnership is for enabling international-level industry-led courses in advanced manufacturing, food innovation and food processing and entrepreneurship to be offered in skill colleges proposed to be set up by the government. SPI will provide technical assistance for the establishment of industry-specific labs, develop courses and curriculum and evolve a quality assurance framework for standardisation of teaching and learning modules. LVPA will set up and operate a CoE in media and entertainment sector in Visakhapatnam district. It will offer courses in 2D animation, digital photography, editing, VFX and digital restoration, and also provide apprenticeship support under the National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme. The partnership with ITDC is for setting up a CoE in the hospitality sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-move-to-promote-skill-development/article33089543.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Speed up layout development works’||Vijayawada Sub-Collector H.M. Dhyanachandra has asked the officials concerned to complete layout development works pertaining to 12,020 plots allotted for beneficiaries under government schemes in 10 days. Mr. Dhayanachandra along with officials inspected the land allocated for the beneficiaries in Vijayawada Municipal Corporation limits at Sunnampadu and Munagapadu villages. The development works in 226 acres of the land were halted due to continuous rains recently. Officials were asked to complete the process in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-up-layout-development-works/article33088809.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Full potential of chilli exports yet to be tapped’||Spices Board’s chilli task-force chairman and Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao said on Thursday that a pilot project was being implemented with the World Trade Organisation’s Standards and Trade Development Facility for improving the quality of chilli, which tend to be contaminated by harmful pesticides. The project was likely to be extended to all other spice crops in India, he stated while pointing out that though the export of chilli was fetching Rs. 6,000 crore from the overseas market every year, its full potential still remained largely untapped. Addressing the farmers and stakeholders virtually, Mr. Rao said he visited the IIHR recently and obtained first-hand account of best farming practices, which the farmers should adopt if they intend to make good profits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/full-potential-of-chilli-exports-yet-to-be-tapped/article33089540.ece
13 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA objects to ‘malicious campaign’ by news channels||Taking strong objection to reports in a couple of Telugu news channels which suggested that she has links with a gambling case in her constituency, (Tadikonda-SC), MLA Vundavalli Sridevi on Thursday claimed it was a malicious campaign based on morphed video and audio tapes. She said in a press release that the channels were bent on denigrating her going by the irresponsible manner in which they played morphed tapes without verifying the authenticity of the same.  The MLA alleged that it was the anti- mindset of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his party leaders that was driving such defamatory campaigns. As regards the allegations, she said the police investigation would expose the culprits who were trying to tarnish her image.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-objects-to-malicious-campaign-by-news-channels/article33089550.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI (ML)’s show in Bihar an eye-opener for Left parties||The strong showing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist)-Liberation party in the Bihar Assembly elections, where it won 12 out of the 19 seats it contested as part of the Mahagathbandhan (MGB) alliance, has come as an eye-opener for Left parties across the country. Leaders from the Left are now hopeful that the performance of the CPI (ML) in the face of relentless propaganda by the ruling coalition in Bihar might inspire even the banned CPI (Maoist) to rethink its strategy of using violence to achieve its goals. “Fundamentally, the CPI (ML) was an underground revolutionary party founded by Charu Majumdar and Kanu Sanyal and others, who led the Naxalite movement in West Bengal and Srikakulam among other places in the country.” “But over the years, we have realised that the basic philosophy of Charu Majumdar — of creating liberated zones through armed struggle and expanding them to gain political power — may not be possible, and Vinod Mishra who took over the party after Majumdar’s death, took the party from underground activities to the political mainstream,” said P. Ajay Kumar of the CPI (ML), who unsuccessfully contested the Anakapalle Lok Sabha seat in 2019. “With the results achieved in Bihar, it has become evident that it is possible to have revolutionary ideals in a democratic framework. It is time that the CPI (Maoist) realised it,” he said. “We were offered just 19 seats in the MGB and we won 12. Were we given 50 seats as sought, we could have won more and the MGB would have ended up forming the government in Bihar,” said Mr. Ajay Kumar, quoting Dipankar Bhattacharya, the current leader of the CPI (ML). Bihar is a backward state and we traditionally have a strong cadre unlike the Congress. And we are determined to fight the BJP in all States, as the right-wing party has paralysed all democratic institutions, Mr. Ajay Kumar said. A.P. in focus In 2015, the party won three seats in Balrampur, Darauli and Tarari. In 2020, they not only consolidated those three seats but also won nine others, taking the tally to 12. With a presence in 16 states, the party is now focusing on expanding its cadre base in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “In A.P., there are around nine Left parties and throughout the year, we fight together on issues by coming on to one platform. But whenever elections are in sight, the bigger Left parties have their own ideas. In most cases, they enter into a coalition with another bigger regional party to fight the elections,” said Mr. Ajay Kumar. According to him, if the Left parties come together and fight elections without siding with other regional or national parties, things would be different. “We can have our own seat-sharing model, but such things are not discussed before the elections. Now, it is time that we look into this aspect,” said Mr. Ajay Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-mls-show-in-bihar-an-eye-opener-for-left-parties/article33089658.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||More special trains to ply from November 15||Special trains will be operated between Visakhapatnam-Rayagada-Visakhapatnam, Visakhapatnam-Palasa-Visakhapatnam, Bhubaneswar-Palasa-Bhubaneswar and between Sambalpur-Rayagada-Sambalpur by East Coast Railway (ECoR) with effect from November 15. The 08508 Visakhapatnam-Rayagada Special Express train will leave Visakhapatnam daily at 4.50 p.m. and will reach Rayagada at 9 p.m. on the same day. In the return direction, the 08507 Rayagada-Visakhapatnam Special Express will leave Rayagada daily at 5.15 a.m., with effect from November 16, and arrive in Visakhapatnam at 9.25 a.m. on the same day. These special express trains will have stoppages at Simhachalam, Kottavalasa, Vizianagaram, Gajapathinagaram, Bobbili and Parvatipuram town between Visakhapatnam and Rayagada. The 08532 Visakhapatnam-Palasa Special Express will leave Visakhapatnam daily at 6.35 p.m. with effect from November 15, to reach Palasa at 11.30 p.m. the same night. In the return direction, the 08531 Palasa-Visakhapatnam Special Express will leave Palasa daily at 5.25 a.m., with effect from November 16, to arrive in Visakhapatnam at 10 a.m. on the same day. These trains will have stoppages at Simhachalam, Kottavalasa, Vizianagaram, Chipurupalli, Ponduru, Srikakulam Road, Tilaru and Naupada between Visakahapatnam and Palasa. The 08433 Bhubaneswar-Palasa Special Express will leave Bhubaneswar daily at 6.20 p.m., with effect from November 15, to reach Palasa at 10.40 p.m. the same night. In the return direction, the 08534 Palasa-Bhubaneswar Special Express will leave Palasa at 6 a.m. with effect from November 16 to reach Bhubaneswar at 10.10 a.m. on the same day. These trains will have stoppages at Sompeta, Ichhapuram, Brahmapur, Chhatrapur, Khallikote, Balugan, Kaluparaghat, Nirakarpur and Khurda Road between Palasa and Bhubaneswar. These trains will have 16 Second Class sitting coaches in their rake. The 08301 Sambalpur-Rayagada Special Express train will leave Sambalpur at 6.05 a.m. with effect from November 15 to reach Rayagada at 12.40 p.m. on the same day. In the return direction, the 08302 Rayagada-Sambalpur train will leave Rayagada at 2.05 p.m. with effect from November 15 to reach Sambalpur on the same day at 8.20 p.m. These trains will have stoppages at Hirakud, Attabira, Bargarh Road, Barpali, Loisinga, Balangir, Saintala, Badmal, Titlagarh, Kesinga, Rupra Road, Norla Road, Lanjigarh Road, Ambodala, Muniguda, Therubali and Singapur Road. These trains will have one sleeper class coach, six second class coaches and two second class-cum-luggage coaches in their rake. Passengers were urged to follow COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-special-trains-to-ply-from-november-15/article33089642.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forces push back Maoists to small pocket in AOB||Ever since the elite anti-naxal force of Andhra Pradesh, the Greyhounds, struck deep into the Maoist bastion in October 2016, the security forces on both sides of the border in Odisha and A.P. have changed their strategy to establish bases in the interior parts of AOB, to push the left wing extremists on the back foot. In the wee hours of October 24, 2016, the Greyhounds struck a Maoist camp in Ramaguda, an obscure village in the cut-off area of AOB, killing over 30 Maoists, including some top leaders in one single operation. The operation partially wiped out the MKVB (Malkangiri-Koraput-Visakhapatnam Border) committee. Buoyed by the success, the security forces of both States have stepped up the offensive by establishing Company Operation Bases (COB) and Armed Outposts (AOP), deep into the AOB region, which was once impregnable. On the A.P. side four armed outposts under the CRPF have come up at Rallagedda in Chintapalli mandal, Rudakota in Pedabayalu mandal, Thurumamidi in GK Veedhi and Nurmathi in GK Veedhi. In Odisha, about 25 COBs of the BSF and about 10 IRBN (Indian Reserve Battalion) bases have come up. Odisha has been successful in creating about six COBs in the cut-off region in places such as Badapadar, Jambai, Jantapayi, Vantalguda, Badapada and Gurasethu and one IRBN base at Jodombo. “The presence of Maoists was very strong in these areas till about a year ago. But now with BSF setting up a COB at Gurasetu in Swabhiman Anchal of Malkangiri district, the security forces have dented the reach and extent of control of the Maoists,” said a senior officer from the A.P. police, who is engaged in anti-Maoist operation in AOB. The Maoists were now caught between the AOPs in A.P. and COBs in Odisha and they were pushed back to a small area in the Gumma region in the cut-off. But they still had some cadres in Pedabayalu, GK Veedhi and G-Madugula, but those were minimal and smaller squads, he added. Game changer The inauguration of Gurupriya bridge in 2018 is actually the game changer in the region. Overnight, the cut-off area transformed into Swabhiman Anchal, and over 151 villages in nine panchayats across Odisha and A.P. that were cut-off since decades with the construction of the Balimela reservoir got connected. The bridge was proposed in 1982 and it took over 36 years to come up, as the work was hampered with the Maoists creating hurdles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forces-push-back-maoists-to-small-pocket-in-aob/article33088936.ece
13 November 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Car, bike sales zoom during festive season||Notwithstanding the pandemic situation, the festive season beginning ahead of Dasara has seen a steep rise in the sales of both two-wheelers and cars in the city. There is around 20% growth in the registration of new vehicles during the recent Dasara festival, compared to last year and dealers are optimistic that the trend will continue during the upcoming festivals such as Deepavali, in the district. The lockdown in March this year and the subsequent liquidity crunch has hit vehicle sales. Ugadi, the Telugu New Year, hardly witnessed any sales. The Union government had asked automobile manufacturers to switch over to BS VI emission norms with effect from April 1, 2020, and told them that the sale of BS IV vehicles would not be allowed after March 31, 2020. The economic crisis and the unwillingness of prospective buyers to invest on vehicles, seems to have prompted automobile manufacturers to postpone the launch of new models. The opening up of public transport and continuing pandemic threat led many buyers to go for personal vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, to minimise the risk of travelling in buses and auto-rickshawss during the last few months. The big buy happened this Dasara festival season with many people buying cars and two-wheelers. “The cars and two-wheelers registered in the district from October 17 to November 5 is around 10,000. The Dasara registrations has helped us narrow down the gap in revenue. We are optimistic that the revenue will increase during Deepavali and become positive by Sankranti,” Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam told The Hindu . “The revenue collections till October 2019 was Rs. 238 crore as against Rs. 205.8 crore till October this year. This negative growth of (-) 13% is very little compared to other districts in the State, where the decline is much higher,” he says. “The festival season had seen a surge in demand for new cars. The demand would have been much higher, if we had more stocks,” says Sunny of Jayabheri Maruti. “The total sales of cars of all brands in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam district in October are around 3,500 in October this year as against the normal sales of 2,000 a month. “If there were adequate supplies, the sales would have been of the order of 4,500 this month,” he says. Kumar Raja, GM (sales) of Mango Hyundai, attributes the supply scarcity to the pandemic situation and decline in production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/car-bike-sales-zoom-during-festive-season/article33089648.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic disrupts vaccination schedules||Even as scientists across the globe are busy trying to develop a vaccine for COVID-19, the pandemic has disrupted the immunisation schedule for regular vaccines putting children at risk of diseases like typhoid, diphtheria and measles. The emphasis was only on COVID-19 screening and treatment till June this year at all hospitals, including government hospitals. Awareness programmes on immunisation could not be held due to the pandemic situation. Vaccination services were provided only at Primary Health Centres (PHCs), district hospitals and medical colleges. The immunisation for regular vaccines had dropped significantly, putting millions of children, both in rich and poor countries, at risk of various diseases, according to the WHO and UNICEF. A situation like this has a direct impact on lowering the immunisation coverage as people in far-flung areas find it difficult to visit the health facilities. Even now with almost full immunisation services available, there is a remarkable drop in routine immunisations in both the government and the private sectors. This may significantly decrease the immunity level of the population against vaccine preventable diseases. “All the clinics at government hospitals are open for immunisation for the last three months. Some parents are, however, not bringing their children for fear that their babies would contract the COVID-19. There is no cause for such worry as all precautions are being taken at hospitals,” says P. Venugopal, Head of the Department of Paediatrics, King George Hospital (KGH). “GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana had got her baby immunised recently. While parents should ensure vaccination of their babies, they should take precautions like adequate protection of their baby, wearing masks, sanitising their hands and maintaining social distance while coming for the vaccination. There is no need to worry, if there is some delay but vaccination is a must to prevent the baby from getting diseases in future,” he says. “In order to prevent these outbreaks, the immunisation programmes should continue like before. Most hospitals have a separate OPD for any fever or COVID suspect cases and the immunisation area allows entry of only healthy babies. Parents need to be assured that risk of COVID during vaccination is negligible but missing the vaccine can raise the child’s risk of being infected with preventable diseases,” says Maruthi Prasad Upputuri, consultant paediatrician, KIMS ICON Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-disrupts-vaccination-schedules/article33089646.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC Commissioner reviews engineering works||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana called for monitoring of Nadu-Nedu works across the board — right from Superintendent Engineers to ward secretaries — instead of leaving it to the parent committee. “Quality of materials being purchased, flooring, water supply, electricity supply should be checked thoroughly,” she said. The Commissioner held a review meeting with Engineering and Ward Amenities secretaries at the VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Thursday. Speaking during the programme, Ms. Srijana asked officials to prepare and submit estimates to develop 214 water storage places which were identified in the urban limits. She said that steps will be taken to develop them after talks with Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), NGOs or through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Water connections She also asked officials to provide water tap connections as part of the AMRUT scheme to households and apartments based on the survey. She also added that the civic body should conduct awareness campaigns over health issues which will be raised with the usage of water from wells and other water bodies. Ms. Srijana also said that a number of complaints are being received over non-functioning of street lights in many areas. She said that ward secretaries should take stock of the situation in their wards every day after 7.30 p.m. and report to the Commissioner about the percentage of street lights that are functional. Appealing to ward secretaries to put in their best efforts, the civic chief said that based on the performance and other parameters, transfers or promotions will be given. Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao, Superintendent Engineers Vinay Kumar, Venugopal and Samson Raju were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-commissioner-reviews-engineering-works/article33089656.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Natural arch at Mangamaripeta cries for attention||Like many other India’s geo heritage sites, the natural arch formation at the Mangamaripeta beach, located between Visakhapatnam and Bheemunipatnam, remains an unchampioned cause. The arch that was formed as a result of thousands of years of wind and sand action along the shore today lies in a precarious state with people thronging the spot and climbing on the fragile formations. On Sunday, the once secluded beach was teeming with visitors, clicking selfies atop the natural arch and some even performing bike stunts over the geologically-sensitive spot. With no clear signage of the geological significance of the place or fencing of the fragile natural arch, visitors have been gathering up there in large numbers and the recent crowding there has raised an alarm among heritage conservationists and geologists. D. Rajasekhar Reddy, adviser to the Geo Heritage Cell of INTACH and former professor of Geology, Andhra University told The Hindu : “The natural arch is a very rare formation and needs to be protected. It must be barricaded and kept out of bounds from visitors with immediate effect so that it can be protected from collapsing.” Ice Age structure? According to him, the formation is expected to have begun after the last Ice Age around 10,000 years ago and is similar to the natural rock arch Silathoranam at Tirumala. “Barricades have been put across this place at Tirumala to prevent people from touching the structure. A similar arrangement can be made here by the tourism department and the district administration. While the place should be popularised, the natural arch should be protected from anthropogenic activities,” he added. Conservation plan INTACH Visakhapatnam Chapter will be giving a proposal to the district administration in this regard. “Although a board has been put up by the department of tourism and VMRDA at the rock arch, people have scant regard and continue to raid it without understanding its importance,” said Mayank Kumari, convener of INTACH Visakhapatnam Chapter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/natural-arch-at-mangamaripeta-cries-for-attention/article33089530.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three die in 2 accidents||A 40-year-old man died after he was reportedly run over by an APSRTC city bus near Baji Junction in Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The details of the victim are yet to be ascertained. The city bus was on its way from the city to Kothavalasa. The victim sustained severe head injuries and reportedly died on the spot. Police are yet to register a case. In another case, two persons died when a van in which they were travelling overturned at Yarada hill late on Wednesday evening.The deceased have been identified as Mohan (42) and Sekhar (46). The deceased belonged to Thatichetlapalem and Gajuwaka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-die-in-2-accidents/article33089643.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prerna Sthal dedicated to dockyard workforce||Vice-Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding in Chief, Eastern Naval Command dedicated the ‘Prerna Sthal’ to the workforce of the Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, at a ceremony attended by senior naval officers, captains of the industry, dignitaries from Visakhapatnam and the workforce of Naval Dockyard, here on Thursday. The ‘Prerna Sthal’ (Motivation Centre) has been created with in-house efforts of the Naval Dockyard and is aimed as a symbol of the pride in self-reliance and a motivator for achieving ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ in repairs and refits of ships and submarines. The Prerna Sthal comprises a 30.5 m high National Flag mast, inclusive of a 20x30 feet National Flag, unknown workers’ statues, and an arc-shaped building housing the capabilities of the yard and its development over the years. This ceremony kick-starts the Golden Jubilee Year of the Naval Dockyard which will start from March 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prerna-sthal-dedicated-to-dockyard-workforce/article33089645.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU demands release of arrested JAC leaders||CITU has demanded release of the A.P. Electrical Employees JAC leaders, who were arrested in Vijayawada for protesting power sector reforms, on Thursday. CITU City Committee president R.K.S.V. Kumar said that the JAC leaders have been organising protests demanding regularisation of the services of contract, outsourcing and piece rate workers. They were also demanding withdrawal of power sector reforms, proposed by the Centre. He said that the reforms proposed by the Centre were detrimental to the interests of employees and consumers. He alleged that the Centre was planning to take control of the power sector, which is presently under the control of the States. If the proposed reforms were implemented, there would be uniform power tariff all over the country and the States will not be able to cross-subsidise the power being supplied to marginalised sections like Dalits, tribals and farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-demands-release-of-arrested-jac-leaders/article33089653.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu trying to exploit Nandyal incident’||YSRCP Coastal Andhra Minorities wing president I.H Farooq alleged that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief N. Chandrababu Naidu was expressing fake sympathy towards minorities in the aftermath of the suicide of Abdul Salaam’s family from Nandyal in an attempt to win their support. “The YSRCP is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that the persons responsible for the deaths are brought to justice,” Mr. Farooq said. Addressing a press conference in Visakhapatnam on Thursday, Mr Farooq said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has constituted a high-level Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the case. He added that cases were also booked against police officials who were allegedly involved in the case. He said that justice will prevail after further investigation. Coming down heavily on the TDP chief, former MLA S.A Rahman said that Mr. Naidu never did anything for the Muslim community in the State and claimed that the community had suffered a lot under TDP’s rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-trying-to-exploit-nandyal-incident/article33089655.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fisherman drowns||A 55-year-old-fisherman died while five others had a narrow escape after their fishing boat capsized in the sea off Visakhapatnam coast. The deceased was identified as M. Ramana, a resident of Vasuvanipalem area in the city. According to reports, Ramana, along with five others, ventured in the sea for fishing on Wednesday. On Thursday morning, while they were returning to the coast, the boat reportedly capsized due to rough weather conditions. While all six persons managed to reach the shore, Ramana was found unconscious. He was rushed to hospital where he died while undergoing treatment. New Port police registered a case and launched an investigation. The body was shifted to King George Hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fisherman-drowns/article33089657.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM gearing up to reopen campus||GITAM Deemed to be University has prepared a comprehensive COVID-19 policy before reopening the campus to students, according to Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna. While reviewing the campus re-opening strategies on Thursday, Prof. Sivaramakrishna explained that the psychiatry and applied psychology departments would conduct group sessions for students by orienting the new campus environment particularly to assist the students learn and practise positive lifestyle approaches to manage stress and balance study requirements. He announced that the university constituted Student Health Services Committee (SHSC) and Employee Health Services Committee (EHSC) consisting of hostel coordinators/wardens, faculty members from community medicine and psychiatry, diagnostic lab coordinators and clinicians. He said the university would be establishing on-campus quarantine space for hostel students to monitor closely. He said that Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) sanctioned a BSL-2(Bio Safety Level -2) Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR) laboratory to conduct virology testing for COVID-19 cases in GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) Hospital and the facility would be extended to students and staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-gearing-up-to-reopen-campus/article33089547.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC blood donation camp||As part of Navy Week activities, a mega blood donation camp was organised at the Naval Dockyard in Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The camp was inaugurated by Surgical Rear Admiral C.S. Naidu, Command Medical Officer, Eastern Naval Command (ENC), and was conducted in collaboration with KGH Blood Bank and NTR Memorial Blood Bank, ensuring COVID precautions are followed. About 316 units were collected. Vice-Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, reviewed the conduct of the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-blood-donation-camp/article33089659.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||UBI marks foundation day||The 102nd Foundation Day of Union Bank of India was celebrated at the bank’s FGM Office at Dwarakanagar on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, FGM, Visakhapatnam Zone, B. Srinivasa Setty, said that UBI was founded on November 11, 1919. The bank’s registered office was inaugurated by none other than Mahatma Gandhi, Mr. Setty said. Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank were amalgamated with UBI with effect from April 1, 2020. The Visakhapatnam Zone comprises of six regions Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam, Bhimavaram, Kakinada, Rajamahendravaram and Eluru. A blood donation camp was conducted by M/s A.S. Raja Voluntary Blood Bank to mark the occasion. A total of 102 persons donated blood. Deputy Zonal Head, Visakhapatnam, G. Srinivas Madhu, Regional Head Ajay Kumar, DGM T. Srinivas, AGM (Operations) S. Jaya Raj and AGM B.V.S.S. Gurunadh Rao were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ubi-marks-foundation-day/article33089641.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fireworks worth Rs. 2 lakh seized||Police officials from the Special Branch along with the City Task Force (CTF) conducted raids at several grocery stores at Drivers Colony under Gajuwaka police station limits, after receiving information that fireworks were being allegedly stored and sold without any permissions, here on Thursday. The teams reportedly seized fireworks worth Rs. 2 lakh in the raids. The case was handed over to Gajuwaka police station for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fireworks-worth-rs-2-lakh-seized/article33089644.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vaccines available to prevent pneumonia’||Pneumonia, despite being a preventable and treatable disease, affects 155 million children under the age of five and kills 1.6 million each year — the leading cause of death for children in this age group. Pneumonia is caused by bacteria, viruses and fungi. The air sacs in the lungs get filled with fluid, making it difficult for the infected person to breathe. World Pneumonia day is observed every year on November 12 to raise awareness on the disease, to promote interventions to protect against, prevent, and to treat pneumonia. Pneumonia can occur due to a change in weather, environment and body temperature. Staying in the cold, eating or drinking can also cause pneumonia. Children below five years of age and adults above 60 are prone to pneumonia, said Dr. K.S. Phaneendra Kumar, consultant pulmonologist at KIMS ICON Hospital. The symptoms of this disease include sudden high fever (pain in chest), excessive sweating and urination, headache, excessive thirst, face mouth and eye redness, dry cough, difficulty lying on the back, swelling in the lungs, and weakness due to loss of appetite. There are effective vaccines against the two most common bacterial causes of deadly pneumonia, Haemophilus influenza type B and Streptococcus pneumoniae, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccines-available-to-prevent-pneumonia/article33089651.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free English speaking course||A free online 'Functional English Course' is being conducted by the Department of Youth Services, Government of A.P., for youth to improve their communication skills. The online training courses will be held from 4 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays from November 17. Those interested in participating in the 90-minute online classes will have to register by logging on toyouthservices.ap.gov.inbefore November 16. The course ID and password will be sent to candidates who register themselves. Deputy Director of Technical Education B. Sai Lakshmi will be the course coordinator. SETVIS CEO B. Srinivasa Rao called upon youth in Visakhapatnam to make use of the opportunity and register their names.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-english-speaking-course/article33089652.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||74 new COVID-19 cases in dist.||The district has reported 74 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the COVID-19 cumulative tally to 57,575. No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, a bulletin released by the district administration confirmed. The death toll stands at 490. Meanwhile, as many as 79 persons affected by COVID-19 have recovered in the same period. With the new cases and discharges, the number of active cases have declined to 1,513 while the recoveries have increased to 55,572. Among the 319 clusters in the district, six are very active, 19 are active and 294 are dormant. The district administration has denotified 627 clusters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/74-new-covid-19-cases-in-dist/article33089654.ece
13 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl ‘raped’ by married man||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man at Kumbidisingi village under G. Madugula police station limits in Visakhapatnam district. The incident allegedly occurred a few days ago but came to light on Thursday after the girl informed her parents and they approached the police. The girl is an Intermediate first year student, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-girl-raped-by-married-man/article33089424.ece
13 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make optimum utilisation of banana fibre, farmers told||Integrated Rural People Welfare Association (IRPWA) director P.K. Prakasha Rao on Thursday urged farmers to learn new techniques to get additional revenue by utilising banana fibre to optimum level. He was speaking to the members of the Gantyada Farmers Producers’ Association who visited Ravulapalem in East Godavari district to study uses and benefits of banana fibre. Banana fibre was proved to be the world’s strongest natural fibres which could be used in the making of sanitary napkins, durable papers, and marine ropes, he said. “It is also used by textile units.” The farmers visited visited Sri Saidatta Fibres and Papers Products organisation and learnt new techniques. Mr. Prakasha Rao said that Andhra Pradesh Integrated Irrigation and Agriculture Transformation Project would help the interested farmers establish small and medium industries as part of promotion of banana fibre industry. He thanked the horticulture officials for creating awareness and helping for the study tour which would benefit other villagers also with the possible activity after establishment of fibre industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-optimum-utilisation-of-banana-fibre-farmers-told/article33088811.ece
13 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness meet held||Representatives of child rights organisations have advised children to lodge complaints without any fear by dialling 100 or 1098 when they face any kind of problem or harassment. World Vision organised an awareness programme on Thursday ahead of Children's Day. AP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights member Kesali Apparao said there was hardly any awareness about their rights among the children in the rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-meet-held/article33088813.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Off to the market||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/off-to-the-market/article33088818.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-to-business/article33089553.ece
13 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Inter-State gang of burglars held||The Palvancha town police on Thursday arrested three members of an inter-State gang of burglars and recovered stolen gold and silver ornaments worth Rs. 14 lakh besides a bike from them. The arrested were identified as Cheekatla Satish, 28, Veepu Venkateshwarlu, 26, and Shaik Basha, 25, all hailing from West Godavari district of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, police said. They were apprehended by a police patrol team when they were found moving in a suspicious manner on a bike at Dammapeta centre in Palvancha on Thursday morning. During questioning, they confessed to their involvement in five property offence cases including house break-ins in Palvancha and Aswaraopeta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-state-gang-of-burglars-held/article33089602.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Insertion of Sada Bainama clause will resolve stalemate: experts||Uncertainty prevails over the manner in which the government proposes to continue regularisation of lands transacted through Sada Bainamas (land transactions on plain paper) thanks to the High Court’s decision asking the government to stop processing more than 6.74 lakh applications received after October 29. The government, according to experts in land issues, could easily resolve the stalemate by inserting clause pertaining to Sada Bainamas in the new Revenue Act which became operational from October 29. Insertion of the clause will enable the government to process the regularisation requests with retrospective effect. Towards this end, the government can convene a special session of the Legislature for amending the new Act. It could take to ordinance route if it feels that it is not an opportune time to summon the Legislature. The government has decided to accept applications for regularisation of Sada Bainama transactions “as one last opportunity” and started receiving applications accordingly. Permission was accorded to the district Collectors to receive Form-X claims up to October 31 for regularisation of the same under Rule 22 (2) of Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbook Rules, 1989 read with Section 5(A) of Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbook Act, 1971 with June 2, 2014 being the cut-off date. The process however hit a major road block as the new Revenue Act – Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passboks Act, 2020 – has become operational from October 29, replacing the existing legislations. The new Act does not have provisions like Section 5 (A) of the 1971 Act relating to regularisation of lands transacted on plain paper and no applications can be accepted after October 29, the day on which it has been operationalised. This has led to confusion and then filing of public interest litigation petitions in the court that culminated in the order restraining the government from processing the applications received after October 29. “The government should have retained some portion of the old act in the new legislation to avoid such confusion. At least a saving clause in utilising provisions of the old Act would have sufficed the purpose,” expert in land related issues and Nalsar University of Law professor M. Sunil Kumar told The Hindu . Sources said the government could go ahead with regularisation process by making amendments to the latest Act inserting a clause pertaining to Sada Bainama transactions that would enable the government to receive applications for regularisation. Amendments to the new legislation would also enable regularisation of applications with retrospective effect and thereby, the government could clear the pending applications at one go without giving scope for future requests in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/insertion-of-sada-bainama-clause-will-resolve-stalemate-experts/article33089451.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘CRACK’ING THE WHIP: Traders bemused at HC order||Stunned by the Telangana High Court’s order directing the State government to immediately ban firecrackers, retailers across the State are nonplussed over the unsold stock. “Neither can it be sold nor stored by thousands of retailers, who procured the stock worth crores, much prior to the festival,” said J. Manik Rao of Fireworks Dealers’ Association of Telangana. Though apprehensions were raised about sale of firecrackers in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic and many states have already banned it, in Telangana the pre-demand for the fireworks made the wholesale traders to order for consignments from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu and other places. “We wholesalers will have storage facilities, but what about retailers, as the bombs and flower pots have potentiality to ruin by exploding in unconventional ways like the High Court order,” Mr. Rao said. Diwali firecracker business is a seasonal one with shelf life of just a few days before the festival. It should be sold 100% drawing the inventory to zero level, the trader believes. The association estimated that both wholesalers and retailers in Telangana have incurred a loss of at least Rs. 150 crore due to sudden ban and financial implications of it on small traders is humongous. “We appeal to the State government to rescue us from this unexpected financial burden,” said Sanjay Kumar Bhope of Shanti Fireworks, Hyderabad. He said that they are confused whether to sell the firecrackers to consumers who have thronged the outlets, many accompanied by children. “With Diwali just a day away, how the government is going to implement the order is a big question now. So far, we haven’t got any instructions to stop the sale,” Mr. Bhope said. He said that the High Court’s directive will have a huge impact on the 50,000-odd families, who are directly and indirectly associated with the business. Earlier, Mr. Rao said that the State government should have taken a call on the matter like other states did, including Karnataka, so that traders had enough time to alert retailers who borrow money from private financiers at a very high interest to invest in the business. “Even as we speak, people are buying the stock from outlets. The government should have sympathy for us,” he said. Mr. Rao questioned how the government will stop people from bursting firecrackers as more than 60% of the stock is already purchased. “Will police stand on every nook and corner of the State wielding lathis to stop people from bursting crackers,” he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cracking-the-whip-traders-bemused-at-hc-order/article33089434.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Steps to ensure correct voter lists’||The State Election Commission has assured the political parties that steps will be taken to ensure that names of voters are listed in the wards where they reside. The SEC has decided to ask the election authority, GHMC commissioner and deputy municipal commissioners, to ensure that the names of voters along with their family members with voting right will be placed in the same ward. Instructions will be issued to make sure that electors residing in one ward are not made to cast their vote in another ward. State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathy has assured the political parties that their objections/suggestions will be kept in mind in the preparation of ward-wise voter lists and delimitation of wards. He was speaking with the representatives of political parties as part of preparation for the ensuing elections to the GHMC. The political parties, including the Congress, the BJP and others, requested the commission to conduct elections after preparing ward-wise voters lists in a fool-proof manner. Mr. Parthasarathy said steps were being initiated to ensure conduct of the polls in a transparent manner and the political parties and their candidates should cooperate with the commission in this regard. The meeting was convened to discuss ward-wise voter lists, polling stations, model code of conduct and election expenditure by the candidates. The term of the present GHMC would end on February 10 next year and the commission had therefore initiated steps to conduct polls to elect the new body before that. Draft electoral rolls of all the 150 wards had been published on November 7 and the final list of electors would be released on Friday after addressing the objections/clarifications received in this regard. The returning officers would release draft list of polling stations on Friday and the final list would be published on November 21 after examining the objections and suggestions.The model code of conduct would come into force from the day of notification of the election. Political parties and their candidates should observe restraint and not indulge in personal criticism of other parties’ candidates. The contesting candidates should be residents of the GHMC area and the reservations of 2016 would continue without change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steps-on-to-ensure-correct-voter-lists-state-poll-panel/article33089422.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad Zone key to PNB’s plans to grow in south||Punjab National Bank (PNB)’s newly-carved Hyderabad Zone, comprising Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, is poised to play a major role as the second largest public sector bank that looks to grow footprint with a focus on the southern and western regions of the country. Formed in the wake of United Bank of India and Oriental Bank of Commerce’s amalgamation in April with PNB, the Zone has got down to implementing a plan that involves network expansion and seeks to increase penetration in semi-urban and rural areas, as well as garnering more business in certain identified segments, including agriculture and government. Zonal Manager Ashutosh Choudhury said as part of a detailed plan or PNB 2.0, readied by the bank, some 10-15 out of the 441 branches in the Zone are likely to be rationalised or closed down, primarily because they are located in close proximity. “We will use those licences to open new facilities elsewhere in the zone,” he said in an interaction recently. Additionally, 50 new branches are likely to be set up. Besides branch rationalisation, integration of IT systems was also expected to be completed by March. The HR and business integration, following the two banks coming into PNB fold, had been completed. While undertaking branch expansion, the emphasis will be on strengthening presence in semi-urban and rural areas. “Our main presence [now] is either in metros or in urban areas. With the [new branch] licences, we will try to grow our footprint in semi urban and rural areas,” he said. PNB is also keen on on-boarding more customers on its digital banking channels. Among the 24 zones of PNB, the Hyderabad Zone is the seventh largest with a business of Rs. 78,757 crore — Deposits of Rs. 28,340 crore and Rs. 50,417 crore Advances — as on September 30. On the business front, Mr. Choudhury said building on its strong engagement with Telangana government, especially the substantial disbursements towards the State’s ambitious Kaleshwaram LIP and Mission Bhagiratha project, PNB wants to service government departments and employees’ accounts. It is working closely with AP government and keen on replicating the same in Karnataka, he said. Towards becoming a preferred bank for any agri-investment proposal in the three states, the bank is liasoning with NABARD. Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) is another focus segment for the Zone, he said, pointing out how PNB’s new verticals were helping expedite loan approvals, ensuring compliance and reducing turnaround time. On retail loans like home and vehicle loans, he said the Zone will address that too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-zone-key-to-pnbs-plans-to-grow-in-south/article33089427.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Enforcement of order lies with police||The Telangana High Court’s order imposing ban on the sale of firecrackers this Deepavali, could present the State government with an easy way out for enforcement, in view of its inability to limit the bursting of crackers to two hours for the last three successive years. With the High Court’s order, all the government has to do is to swoop down on the points of sale, which are much simpler to zero in on. Enforcement part totally lies with the police, as things stand now. The HC directive came on the heels of another order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banning sale and use of crackers altogether in cities and towns, where the average ambient air quality in November was poor or worse, and permitting only green crackers for two hours in cities and towns where it had been moderate or better. The orders were for the period between November 10 and 30. In Hyderabad and surrounding areas, the ambient air quality falls anywhere between satisfactory and moderate, officials from the TSPCB informed. They, however, informed that the restricted hours for bursting of firecrackers have existed in the State for the past three years. Since 2018, when the Supreme Court first issued orders for time restrictions, the State has started applying them here, and has been submitting the report about pre- and post- festival pollution levels, to the apex court. “There has been marked improvement in the ambient air quality around the Deepavali time over the last three years, due to the awareness campaigns we were carrying out through schools and colleges. This year, however, we could not take up any activities due to the situation precipitated by COVID-19 pandemic,” D. Prasad, senior scientist from the TSPCB informed. The Board, however, has little role in implementation of the present order, as crackers have already reached the points of sale. Control lies with Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation when it comes to production of crackers, and with the police when it comes to sale, Dr. Prasad informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/enforcement-of-order-lies-with-police/article33089435.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC presents budget estimates for Rs. 5,600 crore||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has placed the annual budget proposals for Rs. 5,600 crore for the financial year 2021-22, before the standing committee on Thursday. The budget estimate projects income through property tax at 32% or Rs. 1,850 crore of the total amount. Loan component is placed at 22% totalling to Rs. 1224.5 crore, fees and user charges at 17% of the total, at Rs. 1022.7 crore, and plan grants at 14%, or Rs. 770.5 crore. Revenues assigned to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporaton (GHMC) under other heads have been projected at 13% of the total at Rs. 652 crore, while regularisation fees are estimated to bring in close to Rs. 190 crore, among others. Storm water drains Allocation for roads and pavements constitutes the major component of projected expenditure at 28% of the total or Rs. 1582.5 crore. After establishment expenditure of 22%, operation and maintenance is projected to cost Rs. 905.3 crore. Three per cent of the funds, at Rs. 170 crore, have been allotted for construction of storm water drains. Green budget got 10% of the allocation, at Rs. 560 crore, while land improvement got eight per cent at Rs. 445 crore. Further, proposals have also been presented to revise the the budget approved for the year 2020-21 from Rs. 5380 crore to Rs. 5500 crore. The standing committee will be required to approve the budget proposals by December 10. They will be presented for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Council’s approval by December 15, where it needs to be discussed by January 10 next year, and approved by February 20. The approved budget proposals will then be presented for government’s nod by March 7. The standing committee has also approved a proposal for property acquisition, for widening of the road from the Inner Ring Road up to Saroornagar Mainroad to 30 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-presents-rs-5600-cr-draft-budget/article33089464.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Centre should probe corrupt deals of KCR govt., family’||Former MP and BJP core committee member G. Vivek Venkataswamy has urged the Central government to initiate probe into the "corrupt" deals of the KCR government and assets amassed by the family in the last six years. A defamation suit will be filed against the Chief Minister and City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar for dragging his company's name, Visakha Industries, in the cash seizure case during the Dubbak byelection campaign, he disclosed. “Mr. Rao with his Tuglaq dictatorial rule has pushed Telangana into a debt trap by inflating the project costs and increasing his own family assets in the process. I will present evidence to the Centre about the corruption and will thoroughly expose him. I am not going to succumb to any threats,” he said at a press conference on Thursday. The BJP leader, who was in the thick of action during the campaign for the byelection, said that the Centre has been apprised about corruption in the TRS government and how the Police Department is being used to hound the Opposition. “Dubbak election result is the beginning of the end of Mr. Rao regime as people are no longer willing to believe the lies and falsehoods being uttered by the father and son duo. This momentum is going to continue in the forthcoming GHMC polls too,” he said. Whether it is the Kaleshwaram project or Mission Bhagiratha, thousands of crores of public money has been spent without the concomitant benefits to people. When 2 TMC water is not being able to be tapped from the gigantic irrigation project, where was the need to enhance the lifting capacity to 3 TMC by calling for fresh tenders other than for ulterior motives, he alleged. The Centre has not taken any action so far because Telangana is a fledgling State and people expected Mr. Rao to govern them in a democratic and progressive manner. But, what we are witnessing is the most corrupt Chief Minister in action, single family rule and decisions taken in an arbitrary manner without any scientific or rational basis, charged Mr. Venkatswamy. None of those who fought for a separate Telangana are with Mr. Rao, and not a single election promise of providing two-bedroom housing, three acres of land to dalits, government jobs for the youth, doles to the unemployed, etc., have been fulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-should-probe-corrupt-deals-of-kcr-govt-family/article33089455.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||293 ginning, spinning mills will start working soon: Kishan||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said on Thursday that 293 ginning and spinning mills will start functioning across Telangana after Deepavali and directed the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) officials to take stern action against those showing any negligence in cotton procurement and involving third parties. The Minister told a press conference that the CCI is conducting awareness programmes for farmers through handouts to ensure the moisture content in the cotton brought to the market is low. "We are using Aadhaar-based cash transfers in cotton procurement and, this will be a transparent process," he said. Moisture measuring machine should be made available at every collection centre, he said and assured the farmers that the procurement will take place without any delay. Despite lower cotton yields this year, cotton will be purchased at a minimum supportive price and hence, farmers have been requested not to sell to private traders at low prices in a hurry. Mr. Kishan Reddy, who had also reviewed paddy crop procurement with officials of Food Corporation of India (FCI), recalled that a large number of farmers in Telangana had cultivated paddy variety as per the instructions of the Dtate government, therefore, the onus was on it. “The State government should take responsibility and do justice to the farmers as the Chief Minister had promised to pay bonus, and it has to be implemented,” he remarked. The FCI has no special rules for different States and there is uniformity in the process of collecting rice across the country based on quality and at a minimum support price. The Minister said the Central government has been providing funds to many schemes of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/293-ginning-spinning-mills-will-start-working-soon-kishan/article33089448.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||huge number of applications baffling||As the regularisation of sada bainama (land transactions on plain paper) transactions hit a road block, experts in land related issues are expressing surprise over the huge number of applications that are being filed. Regularisation of sada bainamas is not a new phenomenon and the process for regularisation under Rule 22 (2) of Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbook Rules, 1989 read with Section 5(A) of the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 1971 was taken up by the government in the past too. When claims through Form-X for regularisation of sada bainamas were invited in June 2016, the government received 12.64 lakh applications and more than 6 lakh applications had been regularised in the due course of time. “Huge number of applications have been processed and regularised in the recent past. But over nine lakh fresh applications have been received now. The huge number of applications in surprising,” said an expert on land issues adding this is giving rise to doubts over the misuse of the well-intentioned scheme announced by the government in the interest of poor land owners. The government should therefore take steps to complete regularisation of the pending sada bainamas in a time bound manner. These requests should be processed online all through, from submission of application to issuance of Form 13B so that there is no scope for misuse of the scheme. “Regularisation of sada bainamas is a double edged tool and the government should take adequate steps to reduce scope for irregularities,” M. Sunil Kumar of Nalsar University of Law said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huge-number-of-applications-baffling/article33089452.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bihar MIM winners meet Owaisi||The five candidates of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen who won the recent Bihar Assembly polls met party president Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday. AIMIM Bihar State president Akhtarul Iman who won the Amour seat by a margin of over 52,000 votes, and supplanted six-time Congress legislator Abdul Jalil Mastan, led the delegation of winning candidates and met Mr Owaisi at his residence in Shastripuram. Apart from Mr Iman, Muhammed Izhar Asfi, Shahnawaz Alam, Syed Ruknuddin and Azher Nayeemi, also met the Hyderabad parliamentarian. According to sources, the delegation thanked Mr Owaisi and discussed future party strategies in connection with the development of Seemanchal region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bihar-mim-winners-meet-owaisi/article33089466.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Raghunandan quash petition before CJ bench||Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the HC Registry to place BJP leader and Dubbak MLA elect M. Raghunandan Rao’s petition seeking to quash a First Information Report (FIR) report before Chief Justice bench. Mr. Rao, who got elected in Dubbak by-election, moved the HC seeking a direction to quash the FIR issued by Siddipet One Town police over alleged BJP workers snatching away money. This money, police claim, was seized from the house of Raghunandan Rao’s relative Surabhi Anjan Rao in Siddipet during election campaign. Police already arrested eight persons, including a woman, in the case of snatching away part of the money seized by police. The FIR stated that Mr. Raghunandan Rao proved the crowd that gathered at Mr. Anjan Rao’s house to take away the seized money. Mr. Raghunandan Rao’s counsel Vishnu Vardhan Reddy contended that the MLA elect was falsely implicated in the case. The lawyer argued that the mandatory procedures of sealing the seized money was not followed by the police. The alleged seizure proceedings adopted by police were vague, he said. Justice K. Lakshman, declining to hear the petition, stated that matters relating to criminal cases involving public representatives would be placed before the bench of CJ. The petitioner’s counsel argued that Mr. Rao was not elected as MLA on the day the FIR (437/2020) was issued. “He was not an MLA but a contesting candidate then,” he said. Though Mr. Rao eventually got elected following the counting of votes two days ago, he had to complete the procedural formalities like administration of oath and issuing Gazette notification to be declared MLA officially. Till this was not conducted, he would be a civilian, the lawyer said. The judge, however, said that the date of election would be the date of election of the MLA as per section 67A of the Representation of People’s Act-1951. Mr. Rao was the member of the TS Legislative Assembly and hence the matter required to be placed before the CJ bench, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/raghunandans-quash-petition-before-cj-bench/article33089446.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AIMIM ups nationwide tally with decisive win||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s (AIMIM) impressive victory in Bihar is perhaps the most significant, outside its home turf of Hyderabad. The party fielded candidates for 20 seats in the recent polls, even as Akhtarul Iman, its Bihar State president, supplanted a six-time Congress legislator in Amour, and won by a margin of over 52,000 votes over his nearest rival. The party managed to bag five seats – Amour, Kochadhaman, Jokihat, Baisi and Bahadurgunj – in the recently concluded Assembly polls. With this win, the AIMIM has become an important player in Bihar, given the current equation of 125 seats with the National Democratic Alliance and 115 with the Mahagatbandhan. It is believed that the Owaisi brothers-led party will exert more pull, despite the fact that it is still to be seen what stance it takes vis-a-vis the Rashtriya Janata Dal and its allies. The AIMIM had allied with Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and others to form the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF). Taking to Twitter on Wednesday, Mr. Owaisi lashed out at the Congress for accusing it of being a vote-splitter. With its tally in Bihar, the AIMIM across the country has two members of Parliament — one each in Hyderabad and Aurangabad — nine legislators (including two members of Legislative Council) in Telangana and two legislators (Malegaon and Dhule) in Maharashtra. It has several representatives in local bodies in Telangana State, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aimim-ups-nationwide-tally-with-decisive-win/article33089468.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rectify voter lists: BJP||TS BJP on Thursday appealed to the State Election Commission (SEC) to take all remedial steps with regard to publishing of final list of voters considering the objections raised and to take necessary disciplinary action against the officials responsible for such “irregular and faulty” draft voter list.In a communication to the SEC, party vice-presidents Ch. Ramachandra Reddy and NVSS Prabhakar said perusal of draft voter list showed that in each ward, thousands of votes were missing and this was more glaring in divisions where the party had garnered substantial number of votes in the last election. There were several “double/dummy” votes particularly in the old city and it appeared to be a deliberate effort to help the Majlis by the TRS through dubious means. “The TRS, at the behest of MIM, is trying to win the coming GHMC elections by indulging in acts of mischief, fraud and other methods,” they charged. The entire draft voter list published was full of irregularities with many house numbers in different wards not scientifically numbered, the leaders claimed and dished out the names of divisions where this was glaring like in Dr. A.S.Rao Nagar, Vanasthalipuram, R.K., Chandrayangutta, Uppuguda and so on. The party also accused field level officials of not heeding objections raised to correct the draft rolls, so the need of the hour was to appoint special officers from outside GHMC to rectify the voter list and publish the final list. Presiding officers should come from outside during the election, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rectify-voter-lists-bjp/article33089421.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||College teacher dies in road accident||An assistant professor with a private engineering college was mowed down by a State-run RTC city bus at Amberpet here on Thursday. The victim, Mohammed Farooq (34), who worked at Guru Nanak Engineering College, Ibrahimpatnam, was on his way to college on his bike when the accident took place around 8.40 a.m. “When he reached Rahatnagar kaman, an Rroad Transport Corporation bus moving in the same direction hit his bike from behind. He suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot. He was wearing a headgear,” Amberpet police said. The body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy and a case was registered against the city bus driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/college-teacher-dies-in-road-accident/article33089462.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NCBC conducts public hearing at UoH||The National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) visited the University of Hyderabad to look into complaints on issues related to OBC students and teachers. The public hearing with students, research scholars, and teaching and non-teaching staff was the first by the NCBC and it was conducted by Thalloju Achari, Member of NCBC, and Ramesh Vishwanathula, Legal Advisor, NCBC, along with University of Hyderabad Administration. Issues related to the representation of OBCs in teaching, and non-teaching including roster issues, PhD and MPhil admissions were raised. Mr. Achari informed that the Commission will take necessary steps to protect the interest of the OBCs, a statement said. The statement further added that Kiran Kumar, President of All India OBC Students Association raised issues related admissions and how gross injustice is being done to OBCs. Teaching and Non-Teaching Associations and Unions raised issues related to seniority and promotions, need for OBC grievance cell and how the administration is issuing memos to employees for raising the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ncbc-conducts-public-hearing-at-uoh/article33089591.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR gesture to NGO helping flood-hit||“What is the highest amount you received for the flood relief effort? I want to top that,” Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K. T. Rama Rao reportedly said on Thursday while on a visit to the control centre for flood-relief organised by NGOs in the city. Informed of the figure, the Minister wrote and handed over a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh on the spot. “He heard the buzz about the relief effort by us while visiting Mallepally. Then he visited us and spent nearly an hour seeing and listening to us before giving the cheque,” said Azam Khan, a coordinator of the relief effort mounted by a clutch of NGOs in the city, showing the cheque. The NGOs have been collecting and distributing relief material in the flood-affected areas in a coordinated manner from October 21 when they set up a centre in a re-purposed car showroom on Road no 12 Banjara Hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-gesture-to-ngo-helping-flood-hit/article33089463.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR launches transfer station, compactor vehicles||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao has said that a total of 90 mini garbage transfer stations are being set up across the 150 wards of the GHMC in order to improve waste collection, besides reducing the present 17 large transfer stations to 10. This is to provide better living conditions and healthy environment for the citizens, Mr.Rama Rao said, after inaugurating the collection and transfer station at Sanjeevaiah Park here on Thursday. Earlier, he flagged off a total of 55 modern and smart garbage compactor vehicles at the HMDA grounds near the Necklace Road junction. He affirmed the Telangana government’s commitment to providing better facilities through setting up advanced garbage collection, transport and treatment system. As part of the initiative, 44 lakh waste bins were distributed to residents, and 2000 Swachh autos have been introduced. The garbage collection efficiency had increased to 6,000 tonnes from 3,500 tonnes, and within a month, 2,700 new automated compact autos would replace the present Swachh autos, he said. This will reduce human interface in shifting of garbage. Basti Dawakhanas In a statement, the GHMC said Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan inaugurated Basti Dawakhanas in Marathi Basti of Jiyaguda, Saber Nagar in Asifnagar, Siddiqui Nagar in Talab Chanchalam, Kummarwadi in Shalibanda, and Sultanshahi in Moghalpura. Simultaneously, a total of 24 Basti Dawakhanas have been inaugurated in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-launches-transfer-station-compactor-vehicles/article33089593.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chief Minister in denial mode, says Shabbir Ali||Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir demanded Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to come out of denial mode if he is serious about the welfare of farmers in Telangana. Addressing a Rythu Deeksha programme at Machreddy in Kamareddy district on Thursday, he alleged that the TRS government is not even assessing the problems being faced by the farmers in the State. He said that the Chief Minister has entered into a denial mode and is not even willing to listen that lakhs of farmers are in huge stress after losing their crops due to heavy rains, floods, pests and other factors. CM faulted Citing an example, he said that when some tenant farmers in Shivnoor village of Narsingi mandal set ablaze their damaged crops, the Chief Minister ridiculed them and even claimed that they were not even farmers. Not even an official was sent to cross check whether or not the farmers were expressing genuine grievances, besides Mr. Rao did not even accept the challenge of proving him wrong. Shabbir Ali said that the Chief Minister is living in his own illusionary world and assuming that all farmers are doing fine. Contrary to the wrong beliefs and false claims Mr. Rao, he said that a majority of farmers across the State are living in misery with no help either from the BJP government at the Centre nor the State government. ‘No relief to ryots’ He said that the farmers who lost their crops after cultivating superfine variety of paddy or those who suffered damage to their crops due to heavy rains and floods got no relief from the authorities. Senior leaders including Kamareddy DCC president Kailash Srinivas Rao, Mohammed Ilyas, Edla Rajireddy, Ponnala Lakshma Reddy, Sanjeev Reddy, Baddam Indrakaran Reddy, ZPTC Mohan Reddy, Nunavat Ganesh Nayak, Brahmanandam Reddy, Shyam Sunder Reddy, Ramesh Goud and others participated in the Rythu Deeksha programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chief-minister-in-denial-mode-says-shabbir-ali/article33089453.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four TSRTC unions issue strike notice||As many as four trade unions of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation have issued a strike notice to the management to as a mark of protests against several issues, including the new labour codes and Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 2019. The SWF, TSRTC EU, TNTUC and the INTUC workers are scheduled to go on a one-day strike on November 26. According to V.S. Rao from the SWF and K Raji Reddy from the TSRTC EU, new labour codes are unfair to workers. They also said that the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 2019 has changed permits systems, especially those required for stage carriage across the country. “This is an all-India strike and is against the new labour codes, the new MV Act, which has changed permits system in India. We are also demanding that the pension for TSRTC workers be increased to a minimum of Rs. 10,000. Those who have put in 35 years of service are being given Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 pensions,” Mr Rao said. The unions have also demanded a reduction in excise duty and VAT on diesel, financial assistance from the Centre to all State road transport undertakings and an increase in fleet size across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-tsrtc-unions-issue-strike-notice/article33089460.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Non-COVID services to resume at Gandhi soon||The Director of Medical Education (DME) on Thursday issued orders to resume non-COVID services at Gandhi Hospital before November 21. The move marks the resumption of non-COVID services after a period of around eight months. The order, sent to Gandhi Hospital Superintendent Dr. Raja Rao, directed staff to bifurcate COVID and non-COVID areas in the hospital. It also directed the Superintendent to decide which staff would be posted in COVID areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/non-covid-services-to-resume-at-gandhi-soon/article33089438.ece
13 November 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||NGRI develops indigenous drone-based geophysical survey system||CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) has developed a unique drone-based geophysical survey system based on in-house design useful for mineral exploration, mapping of basement topography and also for aquifer mapping of different geological terrains. Director V.M. Tiwari said that besides the ground magnetic surveys, in recent times, heliborne or airborne magnetic surveys are frequently conducted using a magnetometer aboard or towed behind an aircraft or a helicopter. A magnetic system is required on ground to record variations. The magnetic exploration system, based on drone, the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), can provide an effective, fast and economical alternative as they are more versatile and economical compared to other aerial methods, such as manned aircraft and helicopters. Also, they can be used for remote inaccessible areas as they are small and lightweight. As a pilot project, NGRI has used a lightweight and sensitive magneto-meter towed behind an indigenously developed UAV for acquisition of high-resolution magnetic data. It was tested near Yacharam off the Hyderabad–Nagarjunasagar road, and was flown at a speed of 5 metres/sec about 35 metres above the ground. “The pilot has successfully demonstrated the capability of UAV-Magnetic survey, which is cost effective, faster and reliable,” Dr. Tiwari said.CSIR-Director General Shankar C. Mande during the recent virtual diamond jubilee celebrations of the institute, remarked that this could be the game changer to know about the ground water availability for better management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngri-develops-indigenous-drone-based-geophysical-survey-system/article33089465.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kidnapped infant rescued||A two-month-old baby girl, who was abducted in the wee hours of Thursday, was rescued within nine hours and arrested three youngsters including a teenage couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kidnapped-infant-rescued/article33089441.ece
13 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Krishnapatnam pipeline project to benefit Telangana||B. Manohar, Project Head of the Hyderabad-Krishnapatnam Pipeline project made a courtesy call on Chief Secretary, Somesh Kumar on Thursday after taking charge. He said the project will be of immense help to Telangana. The project is likely to be completed within three years with an investment of Rs. 2,000 crore in assistance with the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/krishnapatnam-pipeline-project-to-benefit-telangana/article33089444.ece
13 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Five Rythu Vedikas to be opened in Khammam||The State government’s initiative to educate farmers on sustainable farm practices through Rythu Vedikas is all set to take a concrete shape with as many as five Rythu Vedikas, billed as centres of knowledge dissemination and collective decision making, slated for inauguration in the district on November 13. In all, the Agriculture Department has drawn up a plan to open 129 Rythu Vedikas cluster-wise to cover as many as 584 gram panchayats in 21 mandals across the district soon. Minister for Agriculture S Niranjan Reddy along with Minister for Transport P Ajay Kumar will inaugurate five Rythu Vedikas at Raghunadhapalem, V V Palem, Tanikella, Mustikuntla and Allipuram in Khammam division on Friday. Work on the remaining Rythu Vedikas has almost been completed and the facilities will be thrown open soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-rythu-vedikas-to-be-opened-in-khammam/article33089601.ece
13 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Every paddy ryot will get the token’||Allaying apprehensions of farmers over procurement of paddy, District Collector Prashant J Patil on Thursday said the token system for the exercise would continue for two months. “Do not hurry, even the last farmer will get the token and all quality produce will be purchased at minimum support price,” he said. On the situation in Miryalaguda, where farmers stood in long queues for a token, he said the procurement of fine variety paddy (sanna rakalu) by rice mills would be as per schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/every-paddy-ryot-will-get-the-token/article33089589.ece
13 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||SI bags best essay prize||Sub-inspector L. Mounika, in the IT wing of Nalgonda police, bagged the first prize in the State-level essay competition organised as part of the Flag Day commemorating events. Her essay on ‘Innovations in Policing during COVID-19’ won the prize from online submissions. Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath handed over a cheque for Rs. 20, 000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/si-bags-best-essay-prize/article33089590.ece
13 November 2020||R. AvadhaniATMAKUR (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Migrant workers arrive to pluck cotton balls||S. Mallayya, in his late 50s, has arrived from a remote village in Mantralayam mandal of Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh. He is not alone and there are another 30 families that are here to pluck cotton balls. Several migrant workers have also reached here last week from Kurnool, Mahabubnagar and Nalgonda districts to work in cotton fields. Cotton was cultivated in about 4 lakh acres in Sangareddy district. Every year the farmers pay an advance to the workers to come and pluck cotton balls during the season. The advance ranges between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 50,000 per couple. They stay here for more than one month and after the plucking season is over, again migrate to Guntur district to collect chilly crop. Their huts are covered with black tarpaulin and that is their dwelling for the next one and half month or so. To attend nature’s call they go to the nearby open fields or agriculture lands. They cook food with the wood available in the neighbouring areas. They have even brought their children with them. “There is no work in our areas. We are forced to migrate for more than 400 km from our place to make an earning. We earn nothing in our area and the government is not taking care of us.” says Mallayya. There were about half a dozen children playing in the open area while the parents were busy establishing temporary shelters. “Schools have not yet opened due to the COVID pandemic and there will be no one who will take care of our children back home. Hence we have brought them here,” said Alivelu. However, the migrant workers feel that the plucking season may end early as a large extent of cotton crop was damaged due to the recent rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/migrant-workers-arrive-to-pluck-cotton-balls/article33089600.ece
13 November 2020||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||MLA elect meets cadre in jail||MLA elect M. Raghunandan Rao met party workers lodged in the district jail at Kandi and interacted with them. He assured to fight their case and do justice to them by promising that the party will be with them. Mr. Rao was declared winner in the recently held by-election for Dubbak Assembly seat for which results were declared on November 10. During the campaign, the police raided his relative’s house and seized about Rs. 18 lakh. The BJP cadre also ran away with money the police allegedly tried to place in Mr. Rao’s father-in-law’s house. In this case, the police arrested five persons, including a woman, and they were shifted to district jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mla-elect-meets-cadre-in-jail/article33089456.ece
13 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Siddipet will be made seed hub’||Zilla parishat chairperson V. Roja Sharma said efforts were being put in place to develop Siddipet into a seed hub by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao. She said the crop loss suffered by farmers due to recent rains would be brought to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao so that farmers could get compensation. Presiding over the general body meeting of the zilla parishat held here on Thursday, Ms. Roja Sharma said seed production would enhance the revenues of farmers considerably. "Regulated farming will help farmers as they can grow crops that are in demand. We have asked farmers not to grow maize but some farmers grew it and the government is purchasing it. We request farmers not to sow maize in the next Yasangi season," she said. District Collector Bharathi Hollikeri said that for the first time regulated farming was being implemented in the country in Telangana. MLCs Farooq Hussain and Raghottam Reddy, among others, participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/siddipet-will-be-made-seed-hub/article33089595.ece
13 November 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Pedda Gattu jatara pamphlet released||Suryapet legislator and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, along with Rajya Sabha member B. Lingaiah Yadav, on Thursday released a pamphlet announcing the dates of the bi-annual Pedda Gattu jatara. Popular as the second-most visited jatara, after Samakka Sarakka jatara or Medaram jathara, the festivities will start after the puja on February 14. And two weeks later, on February 28, the Yadava community elders, custodians of the Devarapette or the divine box, will carry it out of Kesaram village to the top of the hill at Durajpally. The week-long celebrations will include offering of bonam to Goddess Chowdamma, drawing of Chandrapatam, return of the divine box to Kesaram and the concluding Makara Toranam procession on March 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pedda-gattu-jatara-pamphlet-released/article33089458.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Festival glitter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/festival-glitter/article33089440.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Stuck in traffic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stuck-in-traffic/article33089597.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports highest COVID deaths in months||Delhi on Thursday witnessed 7,053 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number of cases in the city to 4,67,028, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 104 more deaths have been reported — highest in months — taking the total number of deaths to 7,332. Of the total cases, 4,16,580 people have recovered and there are 43,116 active cases here at present. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that currently the city is at a peak of the infection and cases will soon come down. “Right now, we are on a peak. It is difficult to make an exact prediction, but if you talk in terms of weeks, the average [positivity] is around 13% over the past one week and is the highest in three-four months. So definitely, in a week it should start decreasing,” Mr. Jain said. The Minister also launched the ‘Jeevan Seva'’ app to help COVID-19 patients to commute to hospitals and healthcare facilities in the city. The app will use electric vehicles as an ambulance to transfer non-critical patients to healthcare facilities within Delhi free of cost. “From health check-ups, ambulance requirements to admission in hospitals, health amenities are now just a click away. With this app, you will get access to an e-vehicle which will provide free pick-up and drop services. Each vehicle will be properly sanitised after every ride,” he said. Out of the total 16,511 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 51.7% were occupied, as per government data. Also, 86.4% of ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 82.2% of such beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate was 11.7% and the overall positivity rate till now is 8.7%. The number of containment zones in the city increased to 4,141 on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-reports-highest-covid-deaths-in-months/article33089106.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Car thief dies in judicial custody after being thrashed by people||A 24-year-old man died in judicial custody in the early hours of Thursday. He was allegedly caught stealing a car and was beaten up by the public, the police said. The police said that the deceased has been identified as Mesar alias Salman, who hailed from Badaun and was a resident of Badarpur. The police said they received a call around 3 a.m. on Wednesday and were informed that a vehicle thief has been caught in Welcome’s Kabir Nagar area. “When a police team reached the spot, complainant Hira Lal produced Mesar and said that he was caught stealing his tempo and was beaten up by the public,” the officer said. The police claimed that Mesar had sustained injuries and that he was taken to Jag Parvesh Chander Hospital and a medical examination was held. A case on charges of theft was registered. Thereafter, the police said, the man was produced before the court and was sent to judicial custody. “Mesar was later referred to Hedgewar Hospital from Mandoli jail and died there around 12 a.m. on Thursday,” the officer said. Meanwhile, Mesar’s brother Danish said, “Even if he was caught stealing, he should not have been beaten to death.” Danish said he had received a call about his brother’s arrest around 2.30 p.m. on Wednesday and had also spoken to him over the phone. “Mesar said his condition was terrible and he had been beaten up. But he did not say who had done that. He also said that he had not been provided food and water,” the brother claimed. Next, Danish reached the police station and enquired about his brother, but was officers allegedly dodged his questions. He said he was not told anything about his brother or allowed to meet him. Danish alleged that a police officer also asked him for bribe if he did not want any case was registered against his brother. “I waited till 8 p.m. at the police station and they finally told me that they had sent him to jail,” he said. Around 3 a.m. on Thursday, Danish said, he received a call from the police and was told that his brother was in Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and he should bring Mesar’s wife around 6 a.m. to the hospital. When they reached, they were informed that Mesar was dead. “If he was so badly beaten up by the public, then why was he not provided treatment? Why was he sent to jail in that condition?” Danish said as he demanded a probe into the matter. Judicial enquiry into the matter is being conducted, the police said.  If he [Mesar] was so badly beaten up by the public, then why was he not provided treatment? Danish Mesar’s brother||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/car-thief-dies-in-judicial-custody-after-being-thrashed-by-people/article33089108.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vivekananda’s statue unveiled on JNU campus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday unveiled a life-size statue of Swami Vivekananda on JNU campus through video-conferencing. Addressing the students, he said that it was of utmost importance that individual ideologies are aligned with the national interests and that giving priority to one’s ideology over the nation’s interests is harmful to the democratic system. He also cited instances from the Emergency period to state how people with opposing ideologies came together for a common cause. Referring to current reforms that are taking place, Mr. Modi said that earlier, good reforms were thought of as bad policies while now they are viewed as good policies because the government has created a “protective shield” around the poor while bringing in changes. “Earlier there was never an effort to connect the farmers and the poor to the system. But now the poor are getting the same benefits – housing, toilets, affordable internet connectivity and water facilities – just like all other citizens,” Mr. Modi said. Referring to debates and discussions that take place at the varsity’s famed Sabarmati Dhaba, Mr. Modi said that with the statue, the JNU community will now have another prominent place to carry out the same. However, he advised the youth to follow Swami Vivekananda’s path and not accept any kind of status quo without healthy debates and discussion. JNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar, speaking at the event, said, “It [the statue] is a symbol but symbols play a huge role in our societies. When we see and think of his statue, it reminds us to work for the welfare of our country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vivekanandas-statue-unveiled-on-jnu-campus/article33089110.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Reply to plea on regulation of online pathological labs: HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Delhi government to respond to a plea for initiating contempt proceedings against its top officials for alleged non-compliance of an order directing regulation of online pathological labs. The court asked the Delhi government’s counsel to take instructions and listed the case for further hearing on January 29 next year. Petitioner Rohit Jain sought contempt action against Delhi Chief Secretary, Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Directors General of Health Service and the ICMR for allegedly failing to comply with the High Court’s August 6 order. The plea stated that the government has failed to take action against illegal online health service aggregators operating in Delhi and to regulate online pathological labs. It said the online aggregators like ‘healthian’ and ‘1 mg’ are operating illegally in Delhi and playing with the lives of the common people and must be banned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/reply-to-plea-on-regulation-of-online-pathological-labs-hc/article33089104.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Assembly panel examines former Facebook employee Luckie||Continuing its previous proceedings, the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee, chaired by AAP legislator Raghav Chadha, examined former Facebook employee Mark S. Luckie here on Thursday. In a statement, the Committee said Mr. Luckie, who had actively worked with various core teams at the social media giant, made “extremely scathing revelations” on the internal functioning of Facebook. “Mr. Luckie affirmed that there has been a repeated interference by top officials of Facebook teams, including their policy heads at the instance of the political parties upon the content moderation teams that caused eventual compromise in the execution of their own community standards,” the Committee stated. “He has affirmed that Facebook has been creating policies with respect to efficient content moderation which are not consistent or even transparent and are developed in a manner that it suits Facebook and its business model rather than the persons who have been victimised by its inefficient policies,” it said. According to the Committee, Mr. Luckie sought to affirm that Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg partakes in “various liaisons with different political parties across the globe” in order to earn “special benefits or favours”. Mr. Luckie, the Committee said, spoke about the recruitment process of the top heads of the company where for an “extremely important post like that of Public Policy Head” persons with “cordial government relations” or having “special political affiliations” and those with “strong hold on lobbying within the government” were “preferred”. According to the Committee, Mr. Luckie mentioned that the intention behind recruiting those with “governmental influence” was because Facebook wants “an eventual and effectual change in existing laws and governmental policies” to accommodate the platform in a manner that it can “generate maximum business.”  He, the Committee stated, also asserted that events like the Delhi communal clashes, Myanmar genocide and Sri Lanka communal violence “could have been easily averted” had Facebook acted in a “more proactive and prompt manner”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-assembly-panel-examines-former-facebook-employee-luckie/article33089107.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Brief- TN CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E. Palanisamy on Thursday virtually inaugurated the Delhi Tamil Education Association’s (DTEA) 8th branch at east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase III from his office in Chennai. Association Secretary R. Raju thanked the CM for inaugurating the building which will cater to children from east Delhi and is a state of the art five storied structure with all modern amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/brief-tn-cm/article33089410.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||Will implement NGT order on firecrackers: MVA govt. to HC||The Maharashtra government on Thursday informed the Bombay High Court that it would implement the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order banning firecrackers in districts where the air quality index was poor or worse. A Division Bench headed by Justice A.K. Menon accepted the statement and disposed of a public interest litigation filed by a Pune resident seeking a ban on firecrackers in the State from November 10 to 20. In his petition, Aniruddha Deshpande, who runs Right to Breathe campaign, said air quality is poor in several districts, and raised concerns over the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition said air pollution caused by firecrackers directly affects the respiratory tract and highlighted that three States in the country had already issued a ban on them. Government pleader P.P. Kakade on Thursday informed the court that the State government has issued a letter to all concerned officers for implementing the NGT order “in letter and spirit”. The court accepted this statement and disposed of the petition. The NGT’s Delhi Bench on November 9 passed an order banning the firecrackers in cities and towns where the air quality index is “poor” or “worse“.  The NGT order said in places where the ambient air quality fell under the “moderate” or below category, the sale of “green” crackers would be permitted and timings for bursting crackers would be restricted to two hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-implement-ngt-order-on-firecrackers-mva-govt-to-hc/article33088993.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||Rana Kapoor’s daughter gets bail in Yes Bank case||A magistrate court on Thursday granted bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s daughter Roshni, an accused in the Yes Bank fraud case linked to Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd, after she appeared before the court in response to summons issued to her. Ms. Kapoor was summoned by the court last month in connection with the case. She is one of the eight accused named in the charge sheet filed in the case by the CBI. She was granted bail by a magistrate’s court, her lawyer Subash Jadhav said. In June, the CBI filed the charge sheet against Mr. Rana Kapoor and others under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code. However, the charges of corruption were dropped by the special CBI court as the prosecution did not obtain the sanction needed to prosecute under the Act. The case was shifted to the magistrate court for trial. The magistrate court last month had accepted the charge sheet filed by the CBI and issued summons to all the accused who are not arrested in the case, including Ms. Kapoor and four other companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rana-kapoors-daughter-gets-bail-in-yes-bank-case/article33088991.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||Governor calls for safe, pollution-free Deepavali||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday extended Deepavali greetings to people of the State and urged them to celebrate the festival in a “safe, eco-friendly and pollution-free” manner in view of the COVID- 19 pandemic. He said, “I extend my hearty greetings to all on the auspicious occasion of Diwali. May the festival of lights bring happiness, prosperity and contentment in the lives of all.” Mr. Koshyari said the challenge thrown by COVID-19 is “far from over”. “I appeal to the people to celebrate a safe, eco-friendly and pollution-free Diwali. Let us make Diwali truly inclusive by sharing our joy with at least one poor and underprivileged person,” Mr. Koshyari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/governor-calls-for-safe-pollution-free-deepavali/article33088992.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||‘State should move HC in Kamala Mills fire case’||Two days after a Mumbai court discharged two owners of Kamala Mills Compound in connection with a fire on the premises in 2017, BJP MLA Ashish Shelar on Thursday said the Maharashtra government should move the Bombay High Court against the accused. A blaze erupted at 1Above restaurant and Mojo’s Bistro pub on December 29, 2017, killing 14 people and injuring several others. The police had booked 14 persons in the case, including owners and employees of the establishments, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials and owners of the Kamala Mills compound. A sessions court on Tuesday discharged the owners of the compound Ramesh Gowani and Ravi Bhandari, but rejected the pleas of owners of the pub and restaurant, the BMC officials and other accused. Mr. Shelar in a statement said an inquiry committee admitted that there were violations related to the floor space index allotment in Kamala Mills. “How were the accused discharged when they were found guilty in inquiry?” Mr. Shelar said. The State should approach the court to give justice to the victims, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-should-move-hc-in-kamala-mills-fire-case/article33088994.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||Drugs case: Demetriades appears before NCB again||Actor Arjun Rampal’s partner, Gabriella Demetriades, appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for the second day on Thursday as part of its probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood, an official said. On Wednesday, Ms. Demetriades was questioned by NCB officials for almost six hours. She was called for another round of questioning, following which she arrived at the NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate on Thursday, the official said. The NCB had earlier summoned Mr. Rampal and Ms. Demetriades after conducting raid at the actor’s residence on Monday. The probe agency had seized electronic gadgets like laptops, mobile phones and tablets and also questioned the actor’s driver, he said. A day before the raid at Mr. Rampal’s house, the NCB had arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in Juhu. Last month, Gabriella’s brother Agisilaos Demetriades was arrested by the NCB from a resort at Lonavala in Pune district in a drugs case, the official said. The NCB launched a probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The agency had earlier arrested Rajput’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and some employees of the late actor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/drugs-case-demetriades-appears-before-ncb-again/article33088995.ece
13 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Malawi mangoes arrive in time for Deepavali||Though the mango season is yet to begin in the country, Malawi mangoes from Africa have arrived at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) market in Vashi just in time to sweeten Deepavali festivities. There is a huge demand for the mangoes as they are similar in taste to the famous Alphonso variety from Ratnagiri district. Around 1,500 boxes of Malawi mangoes landed at the APMC on Wednesday. “The mangoes are here to stay till December 10. The flights are not regular so it is difficult to estimate how often the mangoes would keep coming, but on an average, around 700 boxes would be available daily for trading,” Sanjay Pansare, a trader at the APMC fruit market, said. Around 10 years ago, a Britisher, a German and an African started Malawi Mangoes (Operations) Ltd. by taking a few grafts from Alphonso trees in Ratnagiri and planting them across an 26-acre farm in Malawi. The farm, which now spans 600 hectares, started exporting the produce to India in 2018. Though only a small quantity arrived the first year, around 80 tonnes of Malawi mangoes were exported in 2019. Mr. Pansare said, “Traders look forward to Malawi mangoes as both countries have different harvest windows. The mango season in India begins in January and continues till August. Malawi mangoes arrive in November. Hence, there is no clash between the two seasons.” This year, Malawi mangoes are costlier as flights are irregular and transporters have to pay air freight charges of $4.25 per kg, 40% import duty and loading and unloading charges. The mangoes cost Rs. 400-Rs. 500 per kg last year, but are now priced at Rs. 700-Rs. 900 per kg. Each box contains 3.5 kg of mangoes. Mr. Pansare said Malawi mangoes meet European standards as they undergo hot water treatment. “The sand and weather in Malawi is similar to that of India. That’s why they taste almost like the Alphonso. They smell similar too as the mother plant is from here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/malawi-mangoes-arrive-in-time-for-deepavali/article33088997.ece
13 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Taloja man kills himself after stabbing wife||Ganesh Durgande (31), who fled after stabbing his wife at their house in Taloja, was found dead on the tracks near Navde railway station on Thursday. At 8.30 a.m., neighbours saw Archana Durgande (27) running out of her first floor house in Neelkamal Saidutta Krupa and crying for help. Durgande then chased her and stabbed her repeatedly in the lobby. Senior police inspector Kashinath Chavan said, “Ganesh fled the scene and the neighbours admitted Archana to MGM Hospital in Kamothe. We learnt that Ganesh ran towards Navde railway station. We suspected that he would board a train and flee, but we found his body on the tracks.” Durgande worked in a warehouse in Taloja MIDC and the couple have an 18-month-old daughter. “His wife hasn’t yet regained consciousness. We haven’t been able to record her statement and find out what actually transpired between them. Their neighbours told us that the couple did not quarrel often,” Mr. Chavan said. The couple’s relatives later arrived from Raigad and took custody of the child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/taloja-man-kills-himself-after-stabbing-wife/article33088998.ece
13 November 2020||Pune,||Three-way contest for Pune graduate constituency seat||The fight for the Pune graduate constituency seat in the upcoming Maharashtra Legislative Council polls has all the makings of a classic political soap opera. While nominally a contest between the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the battle is replete with inter-and intra-party bickering and the spectre of defection. While Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) announced the nomination of sugar baron Arun Lad, the BJP named Sangram Deshmukh. Interestingly, the Sangli-based Mr. Lad, who is the president of the Kranti Co-operative Sugar Factory, was responsible for the NCP’s defeat in the last Pune graduate constituency election when he raised the banner of rebellion. Adding to the confusion is the incumbent MLC of the Pune graduate constituency seat, Dattatray Sawant. On Thursday, Mr. Sawant, who reportedly met with the NCP chief in Baramati, said he had sought Mr. Pawar’s blessings to file his nomination for the seat. Meanwhile, the BJP’s problems have been compounded after the Sadabhau Khot-led Rayat Kranti Sanghatana, a BJP ally, put forward its own candidate as the deadline for filing nominations ended on Thursday, making the fight a three-way contest. Mr. Khot, an estranged former associate of farmer leader and Swabhimani Paksha chief Raju Shetti, is now reportedly disgruntled with the BJP and has put forward his own candidate, Kolhapur-based educationist N.D. Chougule, who filed his nomination on Thursday. A couple of days earlier, friction within the tripartite MVA emerged after the Shiv Sena raised eyebrows by picking four aspirants for the seat. However, no candidate filed his nomination, letting the NCP, which considers itself the traditional contestant in this seat, to step into the poll arena. The Pune graduate constituency seat is notable for being held in the past by BJP State president Chandrakant Patil, who is currently the MLA from Kothrud in Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-way-contest-for-pune-graduate-constituency-seat/article33089000.ece
13 November 2020||Washington,||Biden speaks to Indo-Pacific leaders||Leaders of Japan, South Korea and Australia joined the list of heads of States or governments who have held congratulatory phone calls with U.S. President-elect Joe Biden, a recognition that Mr. Biden will be in the Oval Office after January 20 even as President Donald Trump has not conceded the U.S. presidential election. With Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, Mr. Biden “underscored his deep commitment” to the defense of Japan. With Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Mr. Biden outlined the partnership between the two countries since the First World War, the Biden-Harris transition team said. With both leaders, Mr. Biden discussed the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, economic recovery, protection against future global health threats, tackling climate change and strengthening democracy. Mr. Biden told Mr. Morrison that he looks forward to “maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region”. Mr. Suga and Mr. Biden discussed their “shared commitment” on a number of issues, including a commitment to “reinforce the U.S.-Japan alliance as the cornerstone of a prosperous and secure Indo-Pacific region”. The Quad grouping of countries — India, the U.S., Japan and Australia — was strengthened during the Trump administration, largely as a response to China’s growing assertiveness and adventurism in the region, including along the Line of Actual Control with India. The Biden administration’s approach towards this informal grouping, as well as with China, will be closely watched by India. Security and prosperity On a similar call with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, Mr. Biden “observed that he looks forward to working closely with President Moon on other shared challenges, from North Korea to climate change”, as per a readout of the phone call. Mr. Biden referred to the U.S.-South Korea alliance as “ the linchpin of security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region”, as per his transition team. Mr. Trump has had three face-to-face meetings with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un — an unprecedented step for an American President — in order to negotiate a peace deal but talks came to a standstill over issues around American sanctions on North Korea and the latter’s programme to develop nuclear weapons. South Korea is looking to the U.S. for assistance with ways to denuclearise the Korean Peninsula and also to resolve issues around the presence of 28,500 American troops in the country. Mr. Trump had asked South Korea to pay more towards the troops and a cost-sharing agreement that expired in 2019 has not been renewed. Chief of Staff Mr. Biden’s future administration continued to take shape in other ways too. On Wednesday, Mr. Biden announced that his former top aide Ronald Klain would be his new Chief of Staff. Mr. Klain, a Democratic operative, worked with Mr. Biden in the 1980s. He has served as Chief of Staff to two Vice Presidents — Mr. Biden himself and Al Gore. Mr. Klain led the White House’s Ebola response during the Obama administration. Mr. Biden said Mr. Klain’s “capacity to work with people all across the political spectrum is precisely” what he will need at the White House as he seeks to bring the country together again. The President-elect and team are preparing for the transition without being able to coordinate with the existing administration, which could lead to certain challenges in terms of preparedness when the new President takes office at noon on January 20. For instance, Mr. Biden has also not started receiving intelligence that is shared in the President’s Daily Brief and this could be a potential national security risk. Mr. Biden is expected to announce other Cabinet picks in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-speaks-to-indo-pacific-leaders/article33088714.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump is not conceding defeat; what’s next?||U.S. President Donald Trump has not conceded defeat to his Democratic rival Joe Biden in the November 3 presidential election. Mr. Trump has alleged voter fraud and mounted legal challenges in several swing States. And he is not alone. Most elected Republican party officials are yet to acknowledge that Mr. Biden has won the election. What is Trump’s plan? According to the results announced so far, Mr. Biden has won 279 electoral votes against Mr. Trump’s 214. A candidate needs 270 votes in the 538-vote Electoral College to win the presidency. But these are not official results. There is a lengthy electoral process before the official results will be announced on January 6. It appears that the Trump campaign’s plan is to block certification of results from key battleground States. The campaign has filed lawsuits in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Arizona, asking courts to prevent State officials from certifying the vote. These three States have 47 electoral votes among themselves, which Mr. Biden has either won or is leading, according to the media. The Electoral College is mandated to meet on the first Monday after the second Wednesday in December, which falls on December 14 this year. All election disputes in States are required to be resolved six days before the Electoral College date (the ‘safe harbour’ deadline), which is December 8. The Trump campaign has alleged fraud but has not produced any evidence, at least to the public, so far. So, many experts believe the courts are unlikely to stop States from certifying results. In that case, the Electoral College will elect Joe Biden the 46th President of the U.S. But what happens if the disputes in the three States — Pennsylvania, Michigan and Arizona — remain unresolved by December 8? In such a scenario, the State legislatures can step in. All the three States have Republican-controlled legislatures. So, if these States are stopped from certifying the results in the event of unresolved disputes, the Trump campaign would want the Republican-controlled State legislatures to send Republican electors to the Electoral College, who could vote for Mr. Trump on December 14. Even if that happens, there is a problem. Two of these three States — Pennsylvania and Michigan — have Democratic Governors and they could reject the list prepared by the legislatures and send their own. This means conflicting lists from the States would go to Congress. Conflicting lists After the 1876 presidential election, the Republican and Democratic parties disputed the results. Democrat Samuel J. Tilden got more popular votes and was on the cusp of the Electoral College victory against the Republican Rutherford Hayes. Results in three States — Florida, Louisiana and South Carolina — were disputed. As results remained unresolved, these States sent duelling lists of electors to the Electoral College, triggering a constitutional crisis. Congress appointed a Commission to resolve the disputes. Tilden finally conceded defeat after the Republicans agreed to withdraw federal troops from the South and end the post-civil war Reconstruction (the Compromise of 1877), and Hayes became the 19th President of the U.S. After the 1876 dispute, Congress passed the Electoral Count Act in 1887. The Act mandates that if conflicting lists are sent, each chamber of Congress can separately decide which list should be counted. The Republicans are now controlling the Senate and the Democrats have a majority in the House. So, it is possible that the chambers disagree on the lists. In that event, it is not clear what happens next. If Congress cannot agree on the lists of electors, the U.S. Supreme Court could be asked to step in. Or, some legal scholars say, Vice-President Mike Pence, as the President of the Senate, could take a call. In such an uncertainty, there are three possibilities: if the Democrats’ list is picked, it would lead to a Biden victory; if the Republican list is counted, Mr. Trump could retain power; if votes from the disputed States are excluded from counting, no candidate will have the majority (270 votes) to win the presidency. Contingent election If no candidate gets a majority in the Electoral College, Congress will hold a “contingent election” — the House will choose the President and the Senate the Vice-President. The U.S. had held contingent elections thrice in the past — in 1801, 1825, and 1837. In the vote for Vice-President, each Senator has a vote. In the election for President, not all Representatives could vote. Each State delegation in the House will get a single vote (District of Columbia does not have a vote) — which means the party that controls more States will have a majority. Currently, the Republicans control 26 of the 50 State delegations, while the Democrats have 22. Even if the electoral process drags on to this stage, the whole process has to be completed before January 20, the constitutionally mandated Inauguration Day for the new President. If a new President is not elected by January 20 noon, the House Speaker — Democrat Nancy Pelosi — would become the acting President.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-is-not-conceding-defeat-whats-next/article33088705.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||China begins work on rail line up to Arunachal border||China has begun work on a strategically significant railway line — its second major rail link to Tibet — that will link Sichuan province with Nyingchi, which lies near the border with India’s Arunachal Pradesh. Underlining the special importance that the Chinese government has placed on the project, President Xi Jinping on Sunday officially “gave the instruction” to being work on the project and called it “a major step in safeguarding national unity and a significant move in promoting economic and social development of the western region”. The importance of the project, Chinese experts said, is two-fold. Like the Qinghai-Tibet railway line, which in 2006 connected Lhasa to the hinterland, this will be the second such route linking the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) to the hinterland. Secondly, it will run right up to Nyingchi near the border with India, which it will link to both Lhasa and Chengdu, the provincial capital of Sichuan. The entire line will run from Chengdu to Lhasa, connecting the two capitals of TAR and Sichuan and cutting the journey from 48 hours to 13 hours. Fast track Zhu Weiqun, a senior Party official formerly in charge of Tibet policy, who earlier headed the Ethnic and Religious Affairs Committee of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, or upper house, was quoted as saying by State media that the railway will help "transport advanced equipment and technologies from the rest of China to Tibet and bring local products out”. “If a scenario of a crisis happens at the border, the railway can act as a ‘fast track’ for the delivery of strategic materials,” he said. Xiong Kunxin, an academic at the Tibet University in Lhasa, told the Global Times that the railway “is also of great significance in safeguarding national unity and consolidating border stability”. “As the railway runs near China’s southwest border areas, it will largely improve the efficiency and convenience of military personnel and material transportation and logical supplies,” he said. The first segment of the line within Sichuan province, from Chengdu to Yaan, was completed in December 2018. Work on the 1,011-km section from Yaan to Nyingchi, which was formally launched this week, will be finished in 2030. Mr. Xi said, “the difficulty involved in the construction is rarely seen elsewhere, due to the complex geological and climatic conditions and fragile ecological environment along the railway.” Under construction The 435-km section from Nyingchi-Lhasa segment has been under construction since 2015, and will be finished by the end of next year. State media reported as much as 75% of this section consists of 120 bridges and 47 tunnels, with a designated speed of 160 km/h. This includes a 525 metre-long bridge across the Yarlung Zangbo river, as the Brahmaputra is called in Tibet, which has been built at a height of 3,350 metres. The official Xinhua news agency said this makes it the world's highest concrete-filled steel tube arch railway bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-begins-work-on-rail-line-up-to-arunachal-border/article33088712.ece
13 November 2020||COLOMBO,||China chairs meet with S. Asian partners amid COVID-19||Chairing its second multilateral discussion with South Asian partners in the last four months, China on Tuesday brought together key Foreign Ministry officials from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and Pakistan in a virtual conference. According to a press release issued by the Chinese Embassy in Colombo, the initiative was aimed at discussing a collective response to the second wave of COVID-19. “The Five Parties [as the statement referred to the participant] had in-depth exchanges on cementing the political consensus on jointly fighting COVID-19, enhancing cooperation on containing the coronavirus and restoring economic development and movement of people, and achieved positive results,” the Embassy said. Second meet The virtual meet comes less than four months after China chaired a quadrilateral meet with the Foreign Ministers of Afghanistan, Nepal and Pakistan, in a bid to strengthen cooperation among the four nations in pandemic response and economic recovery. Sri Lanka’s State Minister for Regional Co-operation Tharaka Balasuriya, Bangladeshi Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen, Nepalese Foreign Secretary Bharat Raj Paudyal, Pakistani Foreign Secretary Sohail Mahmood joined the recent online discussion, chaired by Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Luo Zhaohui. “The Five Parties” agreed to advance Belt and Road cooperation to “boost post-COVID-19 economic recovery and development”, and concurred that countries linked by land ports should establish joint response mechanisms in border areas, apart from committing to greater information sharing and international cooperation, according to the press release. China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) had figured prominently in the July virtual discussion, too, when State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi proposed extending the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) to Afghanistan and moving forward on an economic corridor plan with Nepal. Growing engagement The two virtual meets appear part of China’s growing engagement in the region, in the wake of the global pandemic. Reeling under the effect of COVID-19 and its economic fallout, Sri Lanka is counting on China to cope with the economic crisis. In March, Beijing extended a $500-million loan to Colombo as “urgent financial assistance”. The Rajapaksa administration has sought a further $700-million loan from China, in addition to a nearly $1.5-billion currency swap facility. Earlier this month, the Communist Party of China and the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP, or People’s Front) came together for an ‘Advanced Seminar on Governance Experience’ in Colombo. Meanwhile, in a curious development earlier this week, the state-run Daily News on Monday reported that President Xi Jinping and President Gotabaya Rajapaksa spoke on Zoom. However, the Chinese Embassy denied the story in a tweet. When contacted, the Presidential Media Division in Colombo declined comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-chairs-meet-with-s-asian-partners-amid-covid-19/article33088717.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hong Kong’s pro-democracy lawmakers to resign en masse||The 15 remaining lawmakers in the pro-democracy bloc in Hong Kong said on Wednesday they will resign en masse after China’s central government passed a resolution this week that led to disqualification of four lawmakers. The four had urged foreign governments to sanction China and Hong Kong over Beijing’s crackdown on dissent in the territory. The Communist Party accused them of violating their oaths of office. Most of the 15 lawmakers did not attend a regular session of the legislature on Thursday, and some later handed in resignation letters at the Legislative Council’s Secretariat. Criticising the move, China’s Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office called the resignations “an open challenge” to the central government’s authority and the Basic Law, Hong Kong’s constitution. “If these lawmakers hope to use their resignation to provoke opposition and beg for foreign interference, they have miscalculated,” it said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kongs-pro-democracy-lawmakers-to-resign-en-masse/article33088706.ece
13 November 2020||London,||Vaccine ‘cavalry’ coming, but must remain cautious: Fauci||U.S. government scientist Anthony Fauci said on Thursday the COVID-19 vaccine “cavalry” is coming but urged the public not to let down its guard, and called for a stronger World Health Organization to ward off future pandemics. Dr. Fauci said that after Pfizer’s vaccine, another is “literally on the threshold of being announced”. Moderna, which is co-developing its vaccine candidate with the U.S. National Institutes of Health, says it is close to reaching a threshold in trials to apply for an emergency use authorisation from U.S. regulators. “The cavalry is coming, but don’t put your weapons down,” Dr. Fauci said by video-link to the Chatham House international affairs think-tank in London.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/vaccine-cavalry-coming-but-must-remain-cautious-fauci/article33089339.ece
13 November 2020||Riyadh,||Saudi King calls for ‘firm stance’ against Iran||Saudi Arabia’s King Salman urged world powers on Thursday to take a “firm stance” against its arch-rival Iran, as expectations mount that U.S. President-elect Joe Biden will seek to revive a 2015 nuclear deal with Tehran. The king’s remarks come a day after the UN nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), warned that Iran’s stockpile of enriched uranium has risen to more than 12 times the limit permitted under the deal since President Donald Trump withdrew from it in 2018. “The kingdom calls on the international community to take a firm stance towards the Iranian regime,” the king said in his address to the Shura Council, the top government advisory body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-king-calls-for-firm-stance-against-iran/article33088708.ece
13 November 2020||BEIRUT,||Islamic State group claims attack in Jiddah||The Islamic State group claimed responsibility on Thursday for the explosion on Wednesday at a cemetery in Saudi Arabia, saying it primarily targeted French diplomats attending the ceremony in remembrance of the end of World War I. Other Europeans and Americans were attending the ceremony at the Non-Muslims Cemetery in Jiddah city. The blast wounded three people. IS said in a posting on its news agency Aamaq that it primarily targeted the French consul attending the ceremony because of his country’s publication of caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad. The claim was also carried on one of the militant Telegram channels used by IS, which said its fighters were able to plant the explosive device at the ceremony. The militant group offered no proof.  Aamaq said other European countries were also considered targets because they are part of the international coalition fighting Islamic State militants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/islamic-state-group-claims-attack-in-jiddah/article33089340.ece
13 November 2020||United States,||North Korea hits out at UN nuclear body||North Korea accused the UN agency responsible for regulating atomic energy of being a puppet of hostile countries after a report said the nation’s nuclear weapons stockpile was breaking international law. The International Atomic Energy Agency had said on Wednesday that Pyongyang’s weapons programme was “deeply regrettable”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-hits-out-at-un-nuclear-body/article33088709.ece
13 November 2020||London,||U.K. accuses China of treaty breach||Britain accused China of breaking its international treaty obligations, after four pro-democracy lawmakers were ousted from Hong Kong’s legislature on security grounds. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said the new rules to disqualify elected assembly members was “a clear breach of the legally binding Sino-British Joint Declaration”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-accuses-china-of-treaty-breach/article33088710.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Can the right to work be made real in India?||As economies around the world struggle to recover from the double whammy of a pandemic and a lockdown, unemployment is soaring. In India, the land of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), the promise of jobs and the politics of unemployment have a long history. Can a citizen demand work as a right, and is it the state’s responsibility to provide employment? Reetika Khera and Amit Basole discuss the possible policy approaches to the right to work, in a conversation moderated by G. Sampath . Edited excerpts: What is the legal status of the right to work internationally and in India? Reetika Khera:The right to work was a big topic of discussion after World War II, and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights includes the right to work in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In India, we don’t have a constitutional right to work. But what we do have is MGNREGA. This is a step in the direction of a right to work, but it is a statutory right. Under MGNREGA, a person can hold the state accountable for not fulfilling the right by demanding an unemployment allowance. But if the law is amended or withdrawn, the right vanishes. Is the right to work relevant as a concept any more given that most countries have embraced the market economy? India has been seeing a declining jobs-to-GDP ratio, and mostly jobless growth, with labour also subject to the laws of the market. Amit Basole:It is precisely under these circumstances that this right becomes important. The term ‘right to work’ is often used in the context of unemployment or lack of availability of work. But there is also another sense of it, which is the right to earn my livelihood without any obstruction. In both these senses, what we have seen in the past few decades is that the path of development not only does not create adequate employment opportunities, it also actively dispossesses or displaces people from their means of livelihood. So, on the one hand, displacement and dispossession, and on the other, failure to create new jobs make it all the more important to imagine the right to work in a creative way and make it legally enforceable. RK:These are basic questions for policymakers that don’t get enough attention. For instance, GDP growth can come from both an increase in the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction as well as from the manufacture of medicines. Similarly, we rarely discuss per capita GDP growth; most discussion centres on overall growth even though from the vantage point of people’s welfare, the former matters more. Distribution issues are buried in subtle ways. For a labour-abundant country like India, I’m not sure how much policy sense it makes to encourage capital-intensive methods of production. It made sense in the countries in which these techniques of production evolved since they were labour-scarce. But more and more automation in a country like India is likely to lead to jobless growth. Such fundamental questions about our growth strategy need further deliberation. How exactly do we make the right to work, work? RK:One approach is Decentralised Urban Employment and Training, or DUET, which has been around for some time. The idea here, like with MGNREGA, is to create new employment opportunities so that those who are unemployed may be gainfully employed and earn a dignified living. This dignity is supposed to come from work conditions, such as being paid a fair wage and having regulated work hours, and also from the social value of the work that people do — useful things such as repairing school buildings, cleaning parks, and so on. For DUET, urban local bodies can issue job vouchers to certified public institutions such as schools and universities for pre-approved tasks. These institutions can only use the vouchers to hire labour for pre-defined tasks — e.g. painting school buildings, repairing broken furniture, and so on. A whole range of skills can be accommodated. So this is a workable agenda, but to make it workable, we need not only political will, but also fiscal resources. AB:The right to work is not only about lack of adequate work but also the profound lack of public goods and assets, in urban India generally. It is the state’s responsibility to provide these public goods, and this imperative can be combined with an employment creation programme just like MGNREGA does in rural areas. In MGNREGA too, the asset creation part is often under-emphasised, and it would be good to bring both these things together through an urban employment guarantee. Interestingly, three States — Odisha, Jharkhand and Himachal Pradesh — have launched something along these lines in the wake of COVID-19. There are bits of these policies that could be used if we wanted to try it out on a national scale. Together with MGNREGA, an Urban Employment Guarantee can be a very important piece of the puzzle, on the way to ensuring the right to work. So, is the right to work the same as an employment guarantee? AB:No, I won’t reduce it to an employment guarantee. With the idea of right to work, the question is: what is the responsibility of the state in a capitalist economy where welfare and employment are not a guaranteed by-product of private economic activity? So, if private economic activity cannot generate an adequate number of decent livelihoods, or if it displaces livelihoods, then what is incumbent on the state to do? That is the question. I view this as a holistic thing. So we’re talking not only about the state generating its own work — for public goods, education, healthcare, administration, etc. To be sure, for all these things which the state is supposed to do, it should generate its own employment. But at the same time, it’s also supposed to safeguard people’s employment. That includes everything, from ensuring that street vendors have vending zones, and fish workers are protected, to ensuring that farmers have viable incomes — all of this comes broadly under the right to livelihood or right to work. One small part of this can be an employment guarantee, but by no means is it the only thing. Speaking of the state’s responsibilities, the Rashtriya Janata Dal in its Bihar poll manifesto promised 10 lakh government jobs. As a measure towards the right to work, how feasible is this approach where the state is the major employer? RK:The RJD manifesto, so far as jobs are concerned, has appealing elements. It picks up on the issue of vacant posts in government jobs. These are posts that are sanctioned but not yet filled. Many of these are essential services — teachers, nurses, ASHA workers, anganwadi workers, doctors, etc. So, not only will it create employment, it will also hopefully fill the void in essential public services. In this context, people often cite the example of Thailand, which has a universal basic healthcare system that is labour-intensive. It solves two problems at the same time: it builds social infrastructure, and creates jobs. Is this something India can adopt? AB:Absolutely. It is incumbent on the state to provide basic services such as health, education and housing, and in providing them, employment is generated. There may be some disagreement on whether it is the state itself that should provide, or if there should be room for private provisioning. But I don’t think people disagree that we need to expand spending on these things. We are nowhere near countries that are comparable in GDP per capita, such as Vietnam, and countries that spend much more on public goods as a percentage of their GDP. We should do that. That will create jobs. The government has whittled down 44 labour laws into four labour codes that labour organisations have criticised as a dilution of workers’ rights. Where there is a dilution of rights ‘in work’, as it were, how does it matter whether or not there is a right ‘to work’? AB:You are right to ask if it is at all worth raising the right to work question when very fundamental rights ‘in work’ are being violated, and violated not only for lack of legislation, but also because of labour legislation being diluted. In terms of the labour code changes, one thing to remember is that India is a labour surplus economy. In the capital-labour bargaining process, labour is structurally weak in India, which means it is incumbent on the state to provide that support to labour. But the state has been doing the opposite; it has abdicated a fundamental responsibility in that sense. RK:Over the decades, there has been a dilution of worker rights in India. A key point that is often lost in public debate is that, to the extent that protective labour laws exist/existed in India, they apply to a minuscule sliver of the labour force, say, people in permanent government jobs. For the rest, there is very little legal protection, very poor awareness of the protections that exist, and weak implementation. Yet, the mainstream narrative is that all labour in India is pampered. The labour codes that have just come into being are likely to further this process of weakening the position of labour in the Indian market. AB:Just to connect this to what we were saying about employment guarantee earlier, an effective employment guarantee programme can be an excellent solution to the structural weakness of labour. So, given the constraints in state capacity when it comes to enforcing labour laws, tightening the labour market is a great way to ensure that workers are treated well. That is how a good employment guarantee programme would function as far as the rights ‘in work’ are concerned. If the state steps in and significantly reduces the surplus labour, particularly in the casual market, it automatically creates the conditions for better treatment of workers. From a philosophical perspective, as human beings, isn’t a demand for the right to work setting the bar too low? We were speaking of dignity earlier — shouldn’t the demand really be for right to leisure rather than right to work? RK:A poster from the World War II period says ‘eight hours of work, eight hours of leisure, and eight hours of rest’. That was the original demand. Perhaps the correct way to view this is that if you guarantee a good eight hours of work, then automatically you are guaranteed that the rest is for you to enjoy your life, or the fruits of your labour. AB:There is this 19th century book by Paul Lafargue called The Right to be Lazy , which was a response to the right to work campaign going on at that time, and his point was, why are we asking for the right to work, we should be asking for the right to be lazy! This is a live debate in Marxian political economy. The right to work essentially plays into capitalism and the work ethic — the right to work is the right to be exploited by capital. And that is a perfectly fair point of view. If you are really looking at the future of humanity, then one cannot take a narrow perspective. Work should be fulfilling, work should be creative, and work has to be put in its place, which is hopefully a very small place.  This is not only about lack of adequate work but also the profound lack of public goods and assets, in urban India generally. It is the state’s responsibility to provide these public goods. Amit Basole||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/can-the-right-to-work-be-made-real-in-india/article33088702.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Like long COVID, there is long Trump||The COVID-19 pandemic has had the paradoxical effects of reinforcing U.S. President Donald Trump’s politics on the one hand and contributing to his electoral defeat on the other. Mr. Trump had everything going for him until the novel coronavirus arrived. It disrupted his campaign for a second term, but ironically, reinforced a wide spectrum of his politics — travel restrictions, national manufacturing, economic nationalism, and, most significantly, belligerence towards China. The winning campaign of the President-elect, Joe Biden, put Mr. Trump on the mat for his COVID-19 response, but it also appropriated his ‘America First’ agenda in manufacturing and anti-China rhetoric. The universal liberal euphoria over Mr. Trump’s electoral defeat is based on flawed reasoning as was the desolation over his victory in 2016. Ahead of the 2016 presidential election, there were two types of challenges to the neoliberal political and economic order. Bernie Sanders, a self-declared democratic socialist, offered a more structured critique of the American neoliberal order than Mr. Trump’s scattergun approach. Mr. Trump’s cocktail of cultural and economic nationalism inebriated the nation but it turned victorious also because the establishment would rather deal with it than the Sanders model. Mr. Trump convinced the poor that they had shared interests with America’s wealthiest and their enemies were other poor people of different colour or religion. Mr. Trump’s savage cultural politics, ego and bluster became the focus of the opposition to him and the underlying reasons of his appeal were overlooked by design or debility. Trumpian cultural politics was countered with liberal cultural politics — of sexual, ethnic and religious minorities, of gender rights, topped up with environmentalism. Cultural vs. economic worries Studies and surveys claimed to have empirically established that cultural anxieties, not economic dispossession, were the driver of Mr. Trump’s politics. One such ‘study’ found 68% of white working-class voters apparently believed the “American way of life needs to be protected from foreign influence”. Who in the world would say ‘no’ if such a question is framed! And, this in a country that is upfront about the exceptionalism of their way of life! Such dubious ‘evidence’ of cultural anxieties ranking above economic issues became the basis of liberals dismissing the political responses of the ‘non college-educated whites’ as little more than racism. Cultural anxieties are real for sure, but they work in conjunction with other factors. Surveys this year too asked respondents to assign an order of priority to a bunch of issues — say COVID-19, immigration, economy, race relations — on the baseless assumption that these are isolated factors. Someone can be opposed to migration and be hostile to other communities because the economy is battered due to COVID-19 or they were infected. It bears repeating that material conditions and situations shape political behaviour. Those who consider the human body as an inviolable space now support a mask mandate; those who are generally supportive of free movement of people across borders, now want laws that force people to lock up in their homes. To tell the working class that they must lose their jobs today to avoid an environmental apocalypse 50 years later is bad enough; to assume that those who are incapable of caring about the environment are actually agitated over their grandchildren living in a more diverse country is logical fallacy. Trump’s electoral legitimacy Another mainstream response to Mr. Trump’s victory was to question the legitimacy of his election itself by linking it to Russian influence operation and calling into question the utility of the Electoral College mechanism itself. A key purpose of inserting intermediaries between the voters and the chief executive in a representative democracy is to stall mobocracy and make the process more thoughtful. This creates anomalies, such as Mr. Trump winning the presidency without winning the popular vote, and the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi winning 55% Lok Sabha seats with 37% popular votes concentrated in a limited area. In India, if a party can win 272 Lok Sabha seats each with a margin of one vote, it can rule the whole country regardless of what happened in the other 271 seats. But dismantling of the intermediaries in a representative democracy is a dream, not of the pluralist, but of the demagogue. Representations are anyway also linked to the size of the population — the distribution of the EC votes shifts according to the changes in population distribution It is ironic that those who stand for pluralism base their argument on popular vote — which is actually a call for demagogy. The ability of the uneducated to choose for themselves has been questioned ever since democracy debates began, but it is paradoxical when it comes from a position that speaks for pluralism. Echoing in the liberal derision of the white working class, paradoxically again, is the European coloniser view of the earlier inhabitants of the continent as soulless, primitive creatures whose opinion mattered little. A moral superiority is assigned to the high-skilled, technologically advanced, resourceful immigrants recruited from around the world, and constantly arriving on the coasts, over the wretched and the wrecked in the hinterlands. To inoculate from Trump politics, a different strain of the same affliction is being used. It is now Mr. Trump’s turn to return the favour, which he generously will, by questioning the legitimacy of Mr. Biden’s election. Neither party trusts the election system unless it wins. Media’s troubling response The American media’s response to the rise of Mr. Trump has been equally troubling. While one segment became his unabashed promoters, the self-styled mainstream media, with isolated exceptions, took it upon itself to bring him down. The American media’s unquestioning deference to the country’s security establishment is historical, but under the Trump presidency, that became even more intense. It is good that the President gets questioned, but it is certainly not good that his opponent does not get questioned. Long-held principles of journalism were thrown out of the window. In its willingness to fall for numerous unsubstantiated stories about the President and in the refusal to truthfully examine Mr. Biden’s track record, the U.S. media thought nothing mattered more than saving democracy from Mr. Trump. It is likely that the U.S. media will handle Mr. Biden with kid gloves while it continues to investigate Mr. Trump. This double standard lends credibility to the view that a cartel of vested interests controls the U.S. What Biden must address The presence of Mr. Trump in the White House should have spurred a more honest national self-reflection, but the elites who could have led this, pivoted to do the exact opposite. Once all the crises were pinned on Mr. Trump, there was no other end to pursue, other than his defeat. He became the excuse to avoid any relook of the neoliberal order. All that burden is now on Mr. Biden, who has made a good start by reaching out to the white working class during his campaigning. The liberal ecosystem of the U.S. had gone into a cytokine storm — immune overreaction that causes more harm than the affliction itself such as in COVID-19 — in response to Mr. Trump. Mr. Biden benefited from it, but now he needs to calm it. He needs to address the morbidities of America — the trust deficit in the country’s election system, the brutality of its economic order, the chaos of its cultural politics. Or else, Trump politics will linger around as a restless ghost. In defeat, the support for Mr. Trump swelled by eight million votes, compared to 2016. Like Long COVID, there is Long Trump. varghese.g@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/like-long-covid-there-is-long-trump/article33088691.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Media regulation that is quite over the top||The government’s move bringing online news and current affairs portals along with “films and audio-visual programmes made available by online content providers” under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is as brazen as it is wily. Brazen, because this is an attack on the free press, targeted at a section that has been bold and forthright in speaking truth to power. Brazen, because this comes from a party, many of whose leaders’ claim to fame is that they were in the vanguard of the JP movement and fought the attack on the press during the Emergency under Indira Gandhi. And now they themselves set out to make the media institutionally captive. Wily, because, it is clubbing the only sector of the media which has pre-censorship, namely films (through the Central Board of Film Certification), with the news media which has so far, at least officially, not been subject to pre-censorship, although media practitioners know the grave post-publication consequences of airing news or views critical or adversarial to the government of the day. Making the press unfree It neatly hijacks matters before the Supreme Court of India relating to freedom of the press and freedom of expression to arm the executive with control over the free press, thereby essentially making it unfree. The instant case is that relating to Sudarshan News, in which hate speech is being disingenuously sought to be passed off as freedom of the press. The government’s initial response was to ask the Court to look at regulating digital media rather than the mainstream TV channels. So the case itself has become tricky — if a TV channel indulging in hate speech is to be brought to book, it must be at the cost of regulating the media. And regulation — other than self-regulation — is nothing but censorship. In fact the excuse given by the government for this annexation of the digital media by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is that the self-regulation proposals given by the sector (the mandate and representativeness of the organisations in this sector which made these proposals are questionable in the first place) were not satisfactory. It, similarly, also hijacks another public interest litigation in the Supreme Court relating to content on “Over The Top” (OTT) platforms not being subject to regulation or official oversight to bring that sector too under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Court as alibi In other words, what we are seeing is these cases before the judiciary being made an excuse, and the august institution itself being made an unwitting alibi, to erode freedom of the press and freedom of expression, which are a fundamental right and a basic feature of the Constitution that no executive or legislature can tamper with or nullify. It seeks to divide and rule the press by creating an artificial distinction between the new-age digital media (the stand-alone news portals which are already struggling to stay afloat) — which is the media of the future, the media of the millennial generation — and the older print and TV news media. The explanation that the print media have the oversight of the Press Council of India and the TV media of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA), and therefore the digital media needed a regulatory framework — no less than that of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting — is both lame and laughable. Because, first of all, there is no comparison between the Press Council of India and the NBA as professional bodies on the one hand and the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on the other. We know, for instance, how independent and free news on Doordarshan and All India Radio is even under the so-called autonomous corporation, Prasar Bharati. Fate of digital media The fate of the digital media under the control of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting leaves little scope for hope, and dooms the sector for both the media practitioner and the media entrepreneur and for the startups that have been the new vibrant face of contemporary journalism. The move is tantamount to nipping in the bud a promise of combative journalism. It makes our democracy the poorer for it. This move must be seen for what it is — politically and morally decrepit — and must be legally challenged as unconstitutional and autocratic. One cannot resist wondering whether, at this rate, the government will next bring the social media under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Where does one stop stopping free speech? Sashi Kumar is Chairman, Asian College of Journalism and Asiaville Interactive digital portal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/media-regulation-that-is-quite-over-the-top/article33088693.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A deal for the post-Brexit era?||The trade agreement sealed in October between the U.K. and Japan gives the former breathing space when it exits the European Union (EU) on December 31, the day that will mark the end of the transition period. Selling point For the U.K. government, politically, the biggest selling point of the trade pact, which is modelled on the EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement, is continuity of access to Japan’s agricultural market. The largely symbolic nature of those terms have allowed Japan to proclaim to the domestic agricultural lobbies that no new quotas have been offered to the U.K.’s farm producers under the latest deal. The catch lies in the compromise wherein, the U.K. would be allowed to avail of unused tariff rate quotas on a large number of products covered in the EU-Japan trade agreement. While the availability of quotas is bound to fluctuate each year, the proposal seems more attractive in relation to exports of cheese. It provides for a progressive annual increase in quotas, potentially creating an opening for U.K. producers. On the flip side, there is provision for a corresponding decrease in duties, which would equally be an incentive for more exports from the continent. While the U.K. has not won major concessions compared to the EU on farm quotas from Japan, Tokyo has likewise not managed to secure the elimination of British tariffs on cars sooner than (in 2026) under the deal with the EU. The agreement has some flexibility on rules of origin and data sharing, besides recognition for additional number of geographical indications. But the Japanese have emphasised the considerable stakes in an EU-U.K. deal, as the country’s businesses based in the U.K. rely on European supply chains. An example The absence of preferential trading terms in agriculture is just one aspect of the difficulties in the first major post-Brexit deal that London, understandably, wants to make an example of, to strike accords with other countries. The U.K.’s international trade and Brexit departments are sparring over whether too much was conceded to Japan in relation to state aid rules on ailing companies and subsidies. If indeed any onerous terms have been agreed on with the latter, the U.K. would face pressure from the EU to extend similar conditions in a future relationship, especially as these are part of the EU-Japan accord. Britain’s Conservative government, however, has laid great emphasis on wresting control of state aid rules from Brussels, as it equates Brexit with the restoration of national sovereignty. Conversely, the EU insists on maintaining a regulatory level-playing field as a basic condition for any trade agreement in order to safeguard the integrity of its lucrative single market. It has resisted comparisons with the bloc’s agreement with Canada pertaining to state aid as inappropriate, given the geographical proximity between the EU and the U.K. unlike Canada. The opposition Labour Party has moreover pointed to an increase in the gap in projected benefits to the U.K. between the initial scoping study and the government’s impact assessment of the final deal with Japan. As per the latter, of the £15.66 billion increase in bilateral trade, 83% of the projected benefits would accrue to Japan. In any case, the overall gain from the pact is a modest 0.07% boost to the U.K.’s GDP, compared to loss of trade after leaving the EU. A new reality Britain views the trade pact with Japan as a gateway for London’s entry into the 11-member Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP-11). It reflects the government’s recognition of the new and complex reality, wherein Britain must strike out on its own as it engages with countries around the world. But London’s recent law to override crucial provisions in the 2019 EU withdrawal agreement is clearly out of step with such an endeavour. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-deal-for-the-post-brexit-era/article33088697.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Extended lease||The Indian Premier League that concluded in Dubai on Tuesday night, reiterated Mumbai Indians’ (MI) dominance over the last decade while also granting a hat-tip to the latest challenger — Delhi Capitals (DC). MI won its fifth title, a record that is well ahead of Chennai Super Kings’ share of three trophies. As finals go, the summit clash was underwhelming. Reduced to 22 for three in 3.3 overs, DC had to play catch-up all through the contest despite the rugged efforts of skipper Shreyas Iyer and Rishabh Pant, who both scored a fifty each. DC’s 156 for seven in 20 overs hardly tested the eventual champion as Rohit Sharma’s men coasted to a five-wicket victory in 18.4 overs. Rohit himself played the lead hand through a measured 68. There are whispers lingering about his strained hamstring, but it should heal by the time he reaches Australia for the Test series that commences on December 17. MI thrived on its overall supremacy: Ishan Kishan, Quinton de Kock, Suryakumar Yadav, veteran Kieron Pollard, Hardik Pandya, Jasprit Bumrah, Trent Boult, and the final’s surprise packet Jayant Yadav, all contributed to the team’s cause. Meanwhile, DC qualified for its maiden final and largely rode on Shikhar Dhawan (618 runs) and this edition’s highest wicket-taker, South African spearhead Kagiso Rabada, who dismissed 30 batsmen. Among the rest, Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) and Royal Challengers Bangalore made it to the play-offs while the bottom-half featured Kolkata Knight Riders, Kings XI Punjab, CSK and Rajasthan Royals (RR). CSK’s failure was a rare blip for a franchise that previously always made the last four. With a core group of seniors nearing the finish-line, the Chennai outfit under M.S. Dhoni has to rebuild with an infusion of youth. Hosted in West Asia while the coronavirus pandemic lurked in the background, the IPL’s 13th edition was a pure television spectacle with social-distancing norms and the bio-bubble. Hearteningly, the league continued to shine a light on unsung heroes be it SRH’s T. Natarajan or RR’s Rahul Tewatia with the former, a left-arm pacer, gaining a berth in India’s Twenty20 unit. Even regulars such as Kings XI captain K.L. Rahul, who topped the aggregate with 670 runs, relished their hits in the park after the COVID-19 lock-downs were gradually lifted. But, the desert sands weren’t entirely about the men lofting a six or castling stumps, as towards the end, the Women’s T20 Challenge was held with Trailblazers prevailing over Supernovas in a tense final. This might seem as tokenism for now but a start has been made and women’s cricket needs more of this fare as it strikes roots and slowly acquires commercial heft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/extended-lease/article33088684.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||For one and all||The Supreme Court has struck a blow for personal liberty, granting interim bail to television anchor Arnab Goswami through an order that one wished was also passed in the case of many others incarcerated without sufficient cause, and with the same priority, consideration and speed. The arrest of the garrulous supporter of the ruling party at the Centre by a regime in Maharashtra opposed to it did seem an unwanted exercise in law. The accusation that Mr. Goswami and two others abetted the suicide of an interior designer by denying him payments due to him was indeed something that could have been investigated and prosecuted, if evidence was found, without arresting them. It was always a good case for bail. However, it is not clear why the court did not allow the regular bail process to pave the way for their freedom. Mr. Goswami rushed to the Bombay High Court even before the Sessions Court could hear the matter. The High Court cannot be faulted for rejecting his bail request, as he had an effective alternative remedy in the form of a regular bail petition before the lower court. It is quite common for superior courts to ask remand petitioners to exhaust their remedy before lower courts first. Even those arrests in which political vendetta or misuse of power is quite demonstrable, the Supreme Court has granted bail only after courts below had dismissed them on merits. In Mr. Goswami’s case, the Sessions Court was due to hear his bail petition around the same time the matter was before the High Court. Therefore, it is somewhat strange that the petition was posted immediately for hearing and that interim bail, pending a reasoned judgment, should be granted on the same day. Further, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud’s observation, “If we don’t interfere in this case today, we will walk on a path of destruction,” seems out of place in a case that clearly does not relate to Mr. Goswami’s journalistic work. Surely, a scrutiny of why such consideration or sympathy has not been shown for others held mainly for their political beliefs or journalistic work is warranted. It is no idle whataboutery to point out that it was only recently that the apex court turned down a petition for bail on medical grounds for lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj to the High Court with a gratuitous observation, “You have a good case on merits. Why don’t you file a regular bail application?” One hopes the detailed judgment would shed light on the circumstances in which the Supreme Court can override regular bail hearings in lower courts; and on whether it is expected that magistrates and sessions judges should also grant same-day interim bail in appropriate cases. The Court’s recent record of evading and postponing hearing on many matters concerning fundamental rights and constitutional questions that affect the rights of large sections of society is a veritable story of judicial abdication. It is somewhat galling to note that its gladiatorial zeal for personal liberty is demonstrated in so selective a manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-one-and-all/article33088686.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The point of covering an election||While covering elections, self-doubt has been my constant companion. In Bihar, where I had gone to cover the recent Assembly polls, certain questions would haunt me every evening: Was I asking the right questions? Was I finding enough diversity in terms of caste, sex and religion to ensure that I had covered the entire spectrum of voters? And so on. Those who knew I was out in the field would text me that question that reporters are accustomed to being asked: “So, who do you think is winning?” And that would fill me with new questions and doubts: Does reporting also include predicting the winner? How can I be audacious enough to extrapolate the voices from one part of the State to the entire electorate? Would it make me a lesser reporter if I conceded that I wasn’t sure? During my interviews, I often found voters holding forth eloquently on issues like institutionalised corruption, the incremental growth of infrastructure, the shortage of teachers in schools and of medicines in hospitals. But the moment I asked them about their voting preference or posed a vague question about which way the political wind was blowing, most of them would clam up. The dominant castes, who are vocal even otherwise, would provide answers. But the most popular reply was, “ Dekhenge jo jeet raha hoga usi ko vote de denge (We will vote for the one who is winning)”. However, many others would stand silently in a corner, keenly listening to those speaking but their faces giving away nothing. In this election, it was these silent voters who made the difference. There were a few instances where such voters would walk up to me as I was leaving to whisper that they did not agree with the popular perception. But that was all. Yes, I could have used the law of averages: listen to the vocal voices and record the silences to join the dots. At several places I was asked whether I was from a ‘survey agency’. And that made me wonder: Is a reporter a mere collator of opinions, statistics and preferences? The answer to some of these questions came to me on the last day. On the way to the airport, for one last round of vox pop at Kishanganj district, I stopped at Muzzabari village. The road was essentially a dirt path. I met a 23-year-old called Rafeena Khatum who had a 20-day-old son in her arms and a three-year-old clinging on to her saree. Her eldest was playing at a neighbour’s house, she said. She and I could barely converse. She spoke Surjapuri, a Seemanchali dialect more akin to Bangla, while I spoke Hindi. The infant in her arms had small red rashes all over his body. I asked her if she had taken him to the local dispensary or ASHA centre. She said ‘no’. Her husband was a tailor who worked at a garment factory in Mumbai. He had gone back to the metropolis once the travel restrictions were lifted. All three children were born at home with only Rafeena’s sister-in-law assisting her during childbirth. There were no modern medicines, no doctor, no visits from ASHA workers. It is not as if this is unique to Bihar or rare. But it still shocked me deeply. “I didn’t have complications, so women like me don’t need to visit hospitals. And who has the money anyway?” she said. Election reportage is as much about gauging the political mood in a place as it is a rendezvous with the many different faces of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-point-of-covering-an-election/article33088696.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Bill for abolition of awards||The Lok Sabha to-day [November 12, New Delhi] took up for consideration a private Constitution Amendment Bill by Mr. J.B. Kripalani (Ind) for the abolition of the practice of conferring awards like Bharat Ratna and Padma Bhushan by the Government. Mr. Kripalani said that Article 18 of the Constitution prohibited the conferring of titles on Indian citizens by the State. Not only foreign governments but even a government of the people could use the practice to offer inducements and corrupt the people. The late Sardar Patel, speaking in support of the Article had said that the government “should have no authority to give inducements or to corrupt people in order to build up its party or to derive strength by unfair means”. By calling the present titles as “awards” the Government was trying to circumvent the article. This was a violation of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bill-for-abolition-of-awards/article33088695.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Archaeology in Madras (From an editorial)||One of the results of national awakening in India is the increasing interest among Indian research scholars to acquire thorough knowledge of ancient Indian civilisation. The attempts of the Government Archaeological Survey have resulted in considerable success; but the work done within the short period of the activities of the department is nothing when compared with what is yet to be done in future. The Superintendent of the Archaeological Survey Department, Southern Circle, Madras, in his annual progress report for the year 1919-20 observes that there are yet a number of ancient sites in this Presidency that should be excavated by the department but the difficulty is to find time for this kind of work as it means going into camp and remaining in one place for two or three months at a time with the result that the conservation and inspection work suffers in consequence. The demand is therefore made by the Superintendent for an assistant or even a “competent clerk of works” and it should be favourably considered as he himself is of opinion that much more might then be done in the direction of excavation than is possible at present. The work of conservation appears to have been attended to. The allotment for the year was Rs. 33,000 and the total sum spent was Rs. 37,819-9-10. Rs. 4819-9-10 was thus spent in excess of the budget allotment, it is said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/archaeology-in-madras-from-an-editorial/article33088694.ece
13 November 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Tax measures to help developers clear unsold housing inventory’||The exemption announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman under Section-43CA of I-T Act, increasing the differential between circle rates and the agreement value of a residential property of up to Rs. 2 crore from 10% to 20%, would benefit developers and home-buyers alike, analysts said. The exemption will help developers honour existing offers and discounts to exhaust unsold inventory without paying penalty. Earlier, they were not able to sell below the set limit due to fear of bearing an additional burden. The consequential relief up to 20% to buyers of these units under Section 56(2)(x) of the I-T Act for the period up to June 2021 will ‘definitely’ boost demand, especially in affordable and mid segments, analysts said. “As per Anarock Research, there are approximately 5.45 lakh unsold units across the top 7 cities priced up to Rs. 1.5 crore while another 49,290 units priced between Rs. 1.5 crore and Rs. 2.5 crore,” said Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock Property Consultants. “This [the tax liability] had been a major stumbling block for price rationalisation,” Niranjan Hiranandani, president (National) NAREDCO and Assocham said. However, he said that the cap of Rs. 2 crore will not benefit most projects in the metro cities. “This comes as a significant benefit for both buyers and sellers as it will reduce and rationalise tax outgo to a great extent,” Ramesh Nair, CEO and country head, JLL India, said. “The move to hike the differential to 20% will help developers to offload inventory and homebuyers to proactively buy properties without any tax liability,” Kamal Khetan, CMD, Sunteck Realty Ltd., said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tax-measures-to-help-developers-clear-unsold-housing-inventory/article33088683.ece
13 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Wipro rejigs structure, to seek growth outside U.S.||Wipro on Thursday announced significant changes in its operating model, organisation structure and market focus. In a note to employees, CEO Thierry Delaporte said for long the company had been largely dependent on the U.S. market. Going forward, it would have a broad-based approach and the new operating model would drive growth from non-U.S. markets. The U.S currently accounts for 58% of Wipro’s revenues, and Europe 25%. The company’s current delivery structure with multiple units will be replaced by a delivery model with an eye on economies of scale. “Effective January 1, 2021, we will replace the current structure of seven strategic business units, service lines and nine geographies with four strategic market units (SMUs) and two global business lines (GBLs),” he said. The four SMUs would comprise Americas 1, Americas 2, Europe and Asia Pacific Middle East Africa (APMEA). While Americas 1 and Americas 2 are organised by sectors, Europe and APMEA are structured by geography, Wipro said. Mr. Delaporte said Srini Pallia will lead Americas 1, Angan Guha Americas 2, N. Bala will oversee APMEA while the leader for Europe will be named in the coming weeks. “They will be supported by a Chief Growth Officer,” he added. While one GBL covers engineering and application services, the other includes Cloud and digital operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-rejigs-structure-to-seek-growth-outside-us/article33088667.ece
13 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Grasim to sell fertilizer arm for Rs. 2,649 crore||The board of Grasim Industries Ltd. has approved the divestment of the company’s fertiliser business, Indo Gulf Fertilisers by way of a slump sale to Indorama India Pvt. Ltd., a subsidiary of Indorama Corporation Pte. Ltd., Singapore for a lump sum cash consideration of Rs. 2,649 crore. “This consideration is commensurate [with] the strength and future potential of the business,” Grasim said in a statement. Indo Gulf Fertilisers is engaged in manufacturing, trading, and sale of urea and other agri inputs with a 1.2 million tonnes per annum urea manufacturing plant at Jagdishpur in Uttar Pradesh. This divestment would enable Grasim to pursue growth opportunities in its core businesses, it said. Dilip Gaur, managing director, Grasim Industries, said: “The divestment is a strategic portfolio choice and unlocks value for shareholders. It is in line with the strategic thrust of the company to focus on core businesses”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/grasim-to-sell-fertilizer-arm-for-rs-2649-crore/article33088669.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Moody’s narrows 2020 GDP contraction to 8.9%||Rating agency Moody’s Investors Service has revised upward its forecast for India’s GDP for calendar year 2020 to an 8.9% contraction from its earlier projection for a contraction of 9.6%. Similarly, India’s GDP forecast for calendar year 2021 has been revised upwards to 8.6% growth from the 8.1% projected earlier, the agency said in its latest global macro outlook report released on Thursday. “India’s economy had the biggest contraction, 24% year-over-year in the second quarter, as a result of a long and strict nationwide lockdown. Restrictions have eased only slowly and in phases, and localised restrictions in containment zones remain. As a result, the recovery has been patchy,” Moody’s noted in its report titled ‘Nascent economic rebound takes hold globally but recovery will remain fragile’. If the steady decline in new and active COVID-19 cases since September is maintained, further easing of restrictions may help, Moody’s said. “We therefore forecast a gradual improvement in economic activity over the coming quarters. However, slow credit intermediation will hamper the pace of recovery because of an already weakened financial sector,” it warned. Rate cut scope limited Moody’s vice president-senior credit officer Madhavi Bokil said that the scope for additional rate cuts was limited in most emerging market economies (including Brazil, India and Indonesia), and that she did not expect emerging market central banks to carry on with quantitative easing measures once the recovery strengthens. The agency stressed that geopolitical and trade risks would remain a key focus in the year ahead as the relationship between the U.S. and China, had deteriorated. “Moody’s does not believe that the Biden administration would differ materially with regard to these issues,” it said. “For other countries, the pandemic shock has also led to both economic and national security concerns about supply-chain vulnerabilities and economic dependencies. The emphasis of various governments on shoring up domestic productive capacities can also be viewed as an attempt to reduce their co-dependence on the global economy.” Overall, G-20 economies were expected to collectively contract 3.8% in 2020, followed by 4.9% growth in 2021 and 3.8% growth in 2022, Moody’s said, stressing that its baseline forecasts assumed that difficulty in controlling the virus would hinder the gradual process of recovery in the short term. The agency expects pandemic management to improve over time, allowing for steady normalisation of social and economic activity. Hence, the virus is expected to become a less important macroeconomic concern throughout 2021 and 2022, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/moodys-narrows-2020-gdp-contraction-to-89/article33088673.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Industrial output inched up by 0.2% in September||Industrial production remained barely changed at 0.2% growth in September, despite higher output of mining and power generation sectors, official data showed on Thursday. According to the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) data, output in the manufacturing sector registered a decline of 0.6%. The output of mining and power segments grew by 1.4% and 4.9%, respectively.  Year-earlier contraction The IIP had contracted by 4.6% in September 2019. With the gradual relaxation of restrictions to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been a relative improvement in economic activities by varying degrees as well as in data reporting, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation said in a statement. It may not be appropriate to compare the IIP in the post-pandemic months with the IIP for months preceding the COVID-19 pandemic, the ministry added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/industrial-output-inched-up-by-02-in-september/article33088676.ece
13 November 2020||Chennai,||Lactalis aims to double capex to Rs. 100 crore||French dairy firm Lactalis plans to double its investments in India to Rs. 100 crore a year from the next fiscal, said a top official. “Since 2019, we have been investing about Rs. 50 crore-Rs. 60 crore a year in enhancing the plant’s capacities and on technology. Next fiscal onwards, we will invest Rs. 100 crore-Rs. 120 crore a year,” said Rahul Kumar, CEO, Lactalis India. The funds would be used to set up a new powder plant, increase production capacity of Prabhat’s cheese plant and on the procurement side, he said. “Last year, our revenue [was] Rs. 3,500 crore and next fiscal, our aim is to touch Rs. 4,500 crore,” Mr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lactalis-aims-to-double-capex-to-rs-100-crore/article33088671.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Working on steps to control price rise: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said perishable goods were putting upward pressure on inflation and the government was working on both short and medium-term measures for controlling price rise. Ms. Sitharaman said floods in some areas had led to an uptick in prices of perishable goods, and the Centre was taking steps for their better preservation and providing weather proof storage, particularly for onion and potato.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/working-on-steps-to-control-price-rise-fm/article33088674.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||PUBG Corporation to launch new game for India mkt, commits USD 100 mn investment||PUBG is set to make a comeback in the country with PUBG Corp. on Thursday announcing it was preparing to unveil PUBG Mobile India and that it would invest $100 million in India. In September, the Centre had blocked 118 mobile apps, including PUBG, terming them prejudicial to the sovereignty of the nation. PUBG had said it would take up publishing responsibilities within India.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pubg-corporation-to-launch-new-game-for-india-mkt-commits-usd-100-mn-investment/article33088666.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||RBI to conduct simultaneous purchase, sale of govt securities next week||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said it will conduct simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities under Open Market Operations (OMO) for an aggregate amount of Rs. 10,000 crore each on November 19. The decision was taken after a review of the current liquidity and financial conditions, the Reserve Bank said in a statement. The result of the auctions will be announced on the same day.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-to-conduct-simultaneous-purchase-sale-of-govt-securities-next-week/article33088677.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Zydus Cadila completes phase 2 clinical trial in COVID-19 patients with biological therapy PegiHep||Zydus Cadila on Thursday said it has successfully completed a phase 2 clinical trial In COVID-19 patients with its biological therapy, ‘PegiHep’, and will now begin phase 3 clinical trial. The drug firm said Pegylated Interferon alpha — 2b significantly increased viral reduction and reduced the need for supplemental oxygen in moderate COVID-19 patients.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zydus-cadila-completes-phase-2-clinical-trial-in-covid-19-patients-with-biological-therapy-pegihep/article33088679.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Apurvi opts to train during Diwali||It is Dhanteras and Diwali time! The core group of Indian shooters, training at the Dr. Karni Singh Range in Tughlakabad, has dispersed for a festival break for a week. The world record holder and former World No. 1, Apurvi Chandela, however, has opted to fly to Bengaluru and train with coach Rakesh Manpat. Forced change The situation back home due to the coronavirus forced Apurvi to change her plans and utilise the time on hand. “We will have a week of quarantine on return from home. It would have been a long break. I am using new gear after streamlining my food. I am getting used to it. So, I thought it was important to continue training and stay in that mode,” said Apurvi. She had travelled in her family car for the camp in Delhi, after months of training at home in Jaipur. She was taking a flight after about nine months, to Bengaluru. With the new normal of face mask, face shield and the protective apron for air travel, it was indeed some experience for Apurvi, after she had competed in Europe in the early part of the season. “It is perhaps the worst attire for me to pose,” said Apurvi jokingly. Fruitful training It was fruitful training with shooting in the morning session, followed by fitness work outs during the camp. Apurvi also spent time reading books. After being quite active at home, being occupied with a variety of activities, Apurvi was happy to train her focus on shooting in the team atmosphere and get into her groove during the camp. Having won two World Cup gold medals last year in authoritative fashion, Apurvi was set for the challenge of the Olympics before it was postponed. Now, she is tuning herself well, keeping herself flexible to the demands of the situation and responding appropriately. So, the holidays and festive atmosphere at home can wait for Apurvi as she gets into another spell of serious training. Champions do manage their time in the best possible way.  It is perhaps the worst attire for me to pose||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/apurvi-opts-to-train-during-diwali/article33088827.ece
13 November 2020||SYDNEY,||Indian squad lands in Australia||A 25-member strong Indian squad, led by Virat Kohli, reached here on Thursday for a gruelling two-month Australia tour that starts with a 14-day quarantine-cum-training period on the outskirts of the city. The Indian contingent along with Australian stars such as David Warner, Steve Smith, and Pat Cummins arrived late in the afternoon and were whisked away to the Sydney Olympic Park. With New South Wales government allowing the Indian team to train during the two-week quarantine period, its sessions will be conducted at the Blacktown International Sports Park, which has also been turned into a bio-secure venue. Kohli, who will return home after the opening Day/Night Test in Adelaide (December 17-21) for the birth of his first child in early January, will stay in a penthouse suite where Australian rugby legend Brad Fittler normally puts up. It is understood that a limited number of families are also being allowed by the NSW state government and the players’ families will need to adhere to the quarantine protocols. The Australian stars will join their national team’s camp from November 22 and train separately. The white ball games, starting from November 27, will be played in Sydney and Canberra. The Indian team will sport a navy blue jersey with multi-coloured shoulder stripes, akin to the 1992 World Cup outfit, as new kit sponsor MPL wants to bring a retro feel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-squad-lands-in-australia/article33088778.ece
13 November 2020||Melbourne,||Pucovski gets Test call up||The prodigiously talented pair of Will Pucovski and Cameroon Green were among five uncapped players picked on Thursday in a 17-member Australian Test squad for the four-match series against India, starting on December 17. The other uncapped Test players in the Tim Paine-led side are fast bowler Sean Abbott, whose bouncer led to the accidental death of Phil Hughes in 2014, leg-spinner Mitchell Swepson and all-rounder Michael Neser. Fine performances All the players who are yet to wear the Baggy Green have been called on the back of extraordinary performances on the domestic circuit in recent times, Cricket Australia said. National selector Trevor Hohns said the Sheffield Shield performances augur well for the country’s cricketing future. “Two of those many standout players were of course Cameron Green and Will Pucovski,” Hohns said in a statement. Each of these players, though, has represented Australia in other formats. Up against a strong Indian line-up and seeking to regain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy they lost for the first time in 2018-19, the fresh faces in the Australian Test squad will join the seasoned stars who dominated their most recent Test series’ — against Pakistan and New Zealand at home. The limited-overs leg, which will comprise three ODIs and as many T20Is, will be held prior to the Test series, starting November 27. Cummins is vice-captain World No. 1 pacer Pat Cummins was named Paine’s Test team deputy. The selectors also named a 19-member Australia-A squad, which includes nine members from the Test team, for the tour matches.  Test squad:   Tim Paine (Capt.), Sean Abbott, Joe Burns, Pat Cummins, Cameron Green, Josh Hazlewood, Travis Head, Marnus Labuschagne, Nathan Lyon, Michael Neser, James Pattinson, Will Pucovski, Steve Smith, Mitchell Starc, Mitchell Swepson, Matthew Wade and David Warner.   Australia-A: Sean Abbott, Ashton Agar, Joe Burns, Jackson Bird, Alex Carey (wk), Harry Conway, Cameron Green, Marcus Harris, Travis Head, Moises Henriques, Nic Maddinson, Mitchell Marsh (subject to fitness), Michael Neser, Tim Paine, James Pattinson, Will Pucovski, Mark Steketee, Will Sutherland and Mitchell Swepson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pucovski-gets-test-call-up/article33088768.ece
13 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Woman power in INRC||K. Vasundhara of Vasundhara Diamond Roof Pvt. Ltd. (Hyderabad) will become the first woman owner of a team in the Champions Yacht Club-FMSCI Indian National Rally Championship 2020. ‘Team Vasundhara’, comprising renowned women rallyists Dr. Bani Yadav of Gurugram and Pragathi Gowda of Bengaluru, will compete in the INRC 3 classification as well as aim for glory in the overall championship in Volkswagen Polo 1.6 with MRF Tyres. “It is a huge moment for Indian motorsports as for the first time we have a woman owner promoting an all-woman team. We have always strived for more women’s participation and towards bringing in more women enthusiasts,” Vamcy Merla, promoter of INRC and director of Champions Yacht Club, said. The INRC 2020 will begin on December 15 in Arunachal Pradesh and move South with three rounds in Coimbatore, Hampi and the season-finale in Bengaluru.  “It is... the first time we have a woman owner promoting an all-woman team Vamcy Merla  Promoter of INRC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/woman-power-in-inrc/article33088829.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wrestling World Championships officially called off||Indian wrestlers have been dealt another blow in their preparations for the Tokyo Olympics with the year-end Wrestling World Championships officially called off for not meeting the minimum participation criteria. The United World Wrestling (UWW) took the decision late on Tuesday and is now planning to organise an ‘Individual World Cup’ as a substitute event. The UWW had set a benchmark requiring participation from at least eight of the top-10 nations from the 2019 edition and 70 percent of total athletes for the event to go ahead. National federations had to confirm their interest by November 5. Rising cases The rising cases of COVID-19 across Europe had earlier forced USA and Japan to withdraw participation with Cuba joining them last week, weakening the field and forcing the cancellation of the Worlds, scheduled from December 12-20 in Belgrade. While dates for the Individual World Cup are yet to be finalised, the event is unlikely to be held before next year. “We want to see our athletes compete again on the mat. It’s important to our organisation and we are committed to providing them an opportunity. There are real challenges to overcome, but we are working together to find a safe and acceptable format where our top athletes can compete in a world class event,” UWW president Nenad Lalovic said in a statement. The cancellation has left Indian wrestlers with no competitive outing since the Asian Championships in late February. Deepak Punia (86kg) and Ravi Dahiya (57kg), both qualified for Tokyo, had planned to travel for the Poland Open last week but withdrew due to health and travel restrictions. Bajrang Punia’s coach Emzarios Bentinidis had earlier indicated they might travel to USA to train after Punia’s wedding on November 25 if the Worlds were cancelled. The Wrestling Federation of India had earlier deferred selection trials and is now unsure of the national championships, scheduled from December 18-20 in Gonda, as well. “We will make the call on Nationals soon. The UWW decision came only last night so we have to now work out something for our wrestlers. However, it is likely that any competition will be held only in 2021 now. Once the dates and schedule for the Individual World Cup are decided, we will plan accordingly,” WFI secretary Vinod Tomar said.  There are real challenges to overcome, but we are working together to find a safe and acceptable format where our top athletes can compete in a world class eventNenad LalovicUWW president   The Championships were called off for not meeting the minimum participation criteria  At least eight of the top-10 nations from the 2019 edition and 70 percent of total athletes were required for the event to go ahead||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wrestling-worlds-officially-called-off/article33088830.ece
13 November 2020||Istanbul,||Champion Lewis Hamilton in pole position to land a bumper deal||Lewis Hamilton can seal a record-equalling seventh drivers’ world title, position himself to be “best of the best” and set up long-awaited negotiations for a new Mercedes contract at this weekend’s Turkish Grand Prix. The Briton needs only to prevent his Mercedes team-mate Valtteri Bottas outscoring him by eight points to retain his crown and, in the eyes of many including former Ferrari rival Felipe Massa, move on to become the most successful in F1 history. A seventh championship would draw him level with Massa’s erstwhile Ferrari team-mate Michael Schumacher for titles, but with the record for wins, poles and podiums, as well as consecutive points finishes, he will in many eyes already be the “greatest of all time”. Well deserved Brazilian Massa, who himself missed out on a title triumph when Hamilton claimed his first in Sao Paulo in 2008, has no doubt that the Englishman, whose contract expires later this year, will deserve that soubriquet and a salary to match it. “Lewis can really be the best of the best and everybody will say that for years and years, or maybe decades, or whatever,” he told the F1 Nation podcast. “So, I think he is just preparing his two or three-year contract, which I think he deserves. “What he is doing... He shows that he definitely deserves it — to be different to all of the other drivers in terms of everything and even in terms of salary.” Enigmatic suggestion Hamilton departed the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix at Imola earlier this month with an enigmatic suggestion, after his record-increasing 93rd win had secured Mercedes’ unparalleled seventh consecutive constructors’ championship, that he may not return to racing in 2021. Notions of retirement were rejected by his team chief Toto Wolff, who is also out of contract this year. Massa suggested Hamilton is set for a bumper new deal ahead of any confirmed “salary cap” in the sport. “I remember when Michael was my team-mate and he was like that,” he recalled. “Michael was completely different to everybody in terms of everything — in records, numbers and salary. “For sure, Michael helped many other drivers to increase their salary. That’s what Lewis is, in my view, trying to do. I think he is ‘doing right’ and he deserves it.” Simplest terms In the simplest terms, Hamilton will be champion again if he beats Bottas, who trails him by 85 points with four races remaining. For the Finn to keep alive his own title bid, he must out-score Hamilton by nine points or more. Given that Hamilton has beaten him at 10 of this year’s 13 races to date and has been in the points at a record 46 consecutive races, Bottas faces a daunting challenge. Even if he wins on Sunday at the Istanbul Park Circuit, returning to the calendar for the first time since 2011, Hamilton can still take the title by finishing second and clocking the fastest lap.  With the title race reduced to a duel between the two ‘silver arrows’ drivers, many other teams have turned already to plans for next season — Ferrari boss Mattia Binotto deciding to stay in Italy to concentrate on car development. Sporting director Laurent Mekies will take charge, but maintain close contact with Binotto, missing his first race since taking over last year. “He has taken an innovative approach so his voice and input will be heard loud and clear,” he said.  Lewis can really be the best of the best and everybody will say that for years and years, or maybe decades, or whatever Felipe Massa Former driver for Ferrari   The Briton needs only to prevent his Mercedes team-mate Valtteri Bottas outscoring him by eight points to retain his crown Hamilton has beaten Bottas at 10 of this year’s 13 races to date and has been in the points at a record 46 consecutive races With the title race reduced to a duel between the two ‘silver arrows’ drivers, many other teams have turned already to plans for next season||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/champion-lewis-hamilton-in-pole-position-to-land-a-bumper-deal/article33089007.ece
13 November 2020||Dubai,||BCCI determined to deliver a safe T20 WC||The BCCI is committed towards hosting a safe and healthy ICC T20 World Cup next year and “will leave no stone unturned” in its endeavour, board secretary Jay Shah said as the countdown for the much-anticipated event began on Thursday. The ICC T20 World Cup was scheduled in Australia in October-November this year but had to be postponed to 2022 owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. India, however, will be hosting the 2021 edition of the global event as per schedule in October-November. “The BCCI will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that the health and safety of everyone concerned in this showpiece event is taken care of,” Shah was quoted as saying in an ICC statement. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly said, “I have enjoyed being part of ICC events as a player and know from experience that nothing beats the buzzing atmosphere of a global cricket event with millions around the world watching every game.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-determined-to-deliver-a-safe-t20-wc/article33088780.ece
13 November 2020||Mumbai,||IPL 2020 viewership zooms north||The just-concluded 13th Indian Premier League saw a record-breaking 28 per cent increase in viewership compared to the last edition, the tournament in the UAE providing welcome relief to a world scarred by the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic and the bio-bubbles that players had to endure for weeks made organising this edition a challenging feat. IPL chairman Brijesh Patel said, “IPL has always endeavoured to provide a world-class sports event for its fans.” He thanked title sponsor Dream11, which associated itself with the hugely popular league after the BCCI parted ways with its earlier partner, VIVO. “With Dream11 coming on board as the title sponsor for IPL 2020, we are happy to see a digital sports brand like Dream11 increasing fan engagement through fantasy sport.” “It’s equally heartening to see how Dream11 has integrated its users in all Dream11 IPL match activations. “The match countdown, Dream11 Champion Fans wall and the virtual guest box have all been brought about to bring the fans to the forefront,” he added. The four large virtual fan walls included pre-recorded videos of cheerleaders on branded walls of sponsors. IPL teams like Mumbai Indians and Rajasthan Royals launched digital initiatives to connect with fans.  Vikrant Mudaliar, chief marketing officer at Dream11, said, “IPL is the biggest sports event in India that witnesses extremely high fan fervour, and we are happy to see similar engagement on Dream11.” “Fantasy sports has increasingly become integral to fan engagement with every IPL. “Sports fans are at the centre of everything we do, and we have integrated our users in all Dream11 IPL match activations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-2020-viewership-zooms-north/article33088786.ece
13 November 2020||Amsterdam,||de Beek to the rescue for the Netherlands||Donny van de Beek put his Manchester United troubles behind him to score the equaliser as the Netherlands came from a goal down to draw 1-1 with Spain in a friendly on Wednesday. Spain had taken the lead when Sergio Canales scored his first international goal. Finland spoiled Marcus Thuram’s party on Wednesday after beating France 2-0 on the day the attacker emulated his father Lilian Thuram by making his debut for Les Bleus .    Important results: Turkey 3 (Tosun 23-pen, Turuc 41, Under 58) drew with Croatia 3 (Budimir 32, Pasalic 53, Brekalo 56); Denmark 2 (Wind 61, Bah 74) bt Sweden 0; the Netherlands 1 (Van de Beek 47) drew with Spain 1 (Canales 19); Belgium 2 (Batshuayi 49, 70) bt Switzerland 1 (Mehmedi 12); Italy 4 (Grifo 14, 75-pen, Bernardeschi 27, Orsolini 86-pen) bt Estonia 0; Germany 1 (Waldschmidt 13) bt Czech Republic 0; Portugal 7 (Neto 8, Paulinho 29, 61, Sanches 56, Garcia 76-og, Ronaldo 85, Felix 88) bt Andorra 0; Poland 2 (Piatek 40, Moder 63) bt Ukraine 0; France 0 lost to Finland 2 (Forss 28, Valakari 31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-beek-to-the-rescue-for-the-netherlands/article33088788.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sonepat and Indore to hold all three table tennis Nationals||Continuing its concerted efforts to get competitions back on track, the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI), on Wednesday, rolled out a set of guidelines for players and officials for the National championships scheduled from early January. Following a virtual meeting with representatives of all affiliates, the TTFI firmed up Sonepat and Indore as venues for the National championships — cadet & sub-junior, junior & youth and senior championships. Dates to be decided The championships dates are yet to be decided. As reported earlier, there will be no team championships or doubles events. Affiliates have been given time until December 15 to complete State championships and send in names of selected players. Once the TTFI receives the names of participants, it will seek the necessary permission from the Sports Authority of India to go ahead with the Nationals. Speaking to The Hindu , TTFI secretary-general M. P. Singh revealed, “Unlike in the past, when the host association met the expenses, this time the federation will foot the bills. “These are challenging times and it is not fair to expect the hosting association to raise sponsorship funds. Therefore, the federation has come forward to bear the financial burden, including the expenses for over a thousand COVID tests.” He said TTFI was committed to ensuring safety and health of the players, officials. The cadet and sub-junior championships could be in February-March after the other two Nationals.  To help affiliated units hold the State championships, the TTFI had issued detailed guidelines and standard operating procedures, based on norms laid down by the government, he said. With a steady rise in the number of COVID cases in several parts of the country, the hosting district associations would be required to follow the latest set of guidelines from the States, if any, along with the TTFI guidelines.  These are challenging times and it is not fair to expect the hosting association to raise sponsorship funds M.P. Singh TTFI secretary-general   Affiliates have been given time until December 15 to complete State championships and send in names of selected players The cadet and sub-junior championships could be in February-March after the other two Nationals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sonepat-indore-to-hold-all-three-tt-nationals/article33088823.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Belihu, Gemecu to defend titles||Ethiopians Andamlak Belihu and Tsehay Gemecu have confirmed their participation in the 16th edition of the Airtel Delhi half marathon to defend their titles among the men and women respectively. It would not be easy, however, with 13 men in the elite field having a personal best of under one hour and seven women clocking under 67 minutes in their careers. The event, to be held on November 29, will see both runners aiming for an unprecedented third consecutive win. Adola returns The course record is held by Ethiopian Guye Adola, who clocked 59:06 in 2014 and will be back for the first time since then. His biggest challenge would be from Asian record holder Abraham Cheroben of Bahrain and compatriot and World Championships bronze medalist Amdework Walelegn. Among the women, Tsehay Gemechu would be looking to improve her personal best of 66:00 she timed last year. Her biggest challengers would be compatriots Yalemzerf Yehualaw, who was just one second slower last year to place second, and Netsanet Gudeta, the 2018 World champion. “This has been a difficult year for everyone and I have been training alone much more than I am used to. Finishing ﬁfth at the World half marathon championships in Poland last month assured me I am in good shape,” Belihu said. With a second place finish on debut in 2017, a win would make the 22-year old the most successful runner in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/belihu-gemecu-to-defend-titles/article33089005.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Fit and healthy Kapil Dev happy to be practising golf||Two weeks after undergoing an angioplasty, World Cup-winning former India captain Kapil Dev was back to playing golf, a sport he took up passionately after bidding adieu to cricket. The 61-year-old had said that he would like to get back to playing golf as soon as the doctors allowed him and, on Thursday, he was seen teeing off at the Delhi Golf Club.  “You can’t express in words what fun it is to be back on the golf course or a cricket ground. It is beautiful to be back at the golf course, having fun and playing with friends. That’s what life is all about,” Kapil posted a video message on his Twitter handle. Avid player Kapil has been an avid amateur golfer since his retirement from international cricket back in 1994 and also taken part in many events over the years. Last month, he suffered a heart attack and was rushed to a hospital where he underwent an emergency angioplasty. He was back home in a couple of days and since then has kept his fans posted and updated about his health status and also started his job as an analyst for a television channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fit-and-healthy-kapil-dev-happy-to-be-practising-golf/article33088825.ece
13 November 2020||CARY (USA),||Prajnesh progresses, Ramkumar loses||Prajnesh Gunneswaran beat Canada’s Peter Polansky 6-2, 6-2, while Ramkumar Ramanathan lost 3-6, 6-4, 6-1 to Teymuraz Gabashvili in the first round of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament here.  The results:   € 389,270 ATP, Sofia: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Jamie Murray & Neal Skupski (GBR) bt Igor Zelenay (Svk) & Divij Sharan 6-3, 3-6, [10-6].   $52,080 Challenger, Cary, USA: Singles (first round): Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Peter Polansky (Can) 6-2, 6-2; Teymuraz Gabashvili (Rus) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 3-6, 6-4, 6-1.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Hunter Reese (USA) & Sem Verbeek (Ned) bt Andre Goransson (Swe) & Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-1, 6-4.   $25,000 ITF women, Orlando, USA: Singles (first round): Catherine Harrison (US) bt Ankita Raina 6-4, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Men: Pre-quarterfinals: Petr Michnev (Cze) bt Sidharth Rawat 6-3, 6-4; Vladyslav Manafov (Ukr) bt Arjun Kadhe 2-6, 7-5, 7-6(7).   Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Orlov Vladyslav (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe bt Bogdan Bobrov (Rus) & Volodymyr Uzhylovskyi (Ukr) 6-3, 3-6, [10-4]; Alastair Gray (GBR) & Siddhant Banthia bt Remy Bertola (Sui) & Erik Crepaldi (Ita) 7-6(3), 3-6, [13-11]; Juan Bautista Otegui & Juan Pablo Paz (Arg) bt Issei Okamura (Jpn) & Sidharth Rawat 6-2, 6-4.   Women: Pre-quarterfinals: Rutuja Bhosale bt Valentina Ryser (Sui) 6-1, 7-6(5); First round: Rutuja Bhosale bt Michaela Bayerlova (Cze) 6-2, 6-4.   Laetitia Pulchartova (Cze) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-3, 6-4; Elina Avanesyan (Rus) bt Sathwika Sama 6-0, 6-1.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: Michaela Bayerlova (Cze) & Sathwika Sama bt Emma Davis (US) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-2, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-progresses-ramkumar-loses/article33088783.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Tales with a purpose||It is the belief and practice that ethical principles of life are caught rather than taught. Even children easily imbibe the values of noble character like honesty, generosity, kindness, etc and also learn to avoid negative tendencies like hypocrisy, falsehood, cruelty and so on through moral stories than by theoretical teaching or instruction. Both Valmiki and Kamban show Rama clinching the argument in favour of accepting Vibhishana by alluding to stories from the scriptures and puranas that illustrate the importance of giving shelter to those who are in need, pointed out Velukkudi Sri Krishnan in a discourse. After patiently listening to the opposing views of Sugriva and others followed by Hanuman’s practical and insightful arguments on this issue, Rama makes clear His vow to protect all those who seek His help. Rama alludes to the story of the dove that showed extraordinary hospitality to the hunter who had captured its own mate. It not only gave shelter to him but also gave up its own life by lighting fire and jumping into it to appease the hunter’s hunger. Did not Siva swallow the deadly poison churned out of the milky ocean to alleviate the risk it portended for the entire world? Rama then quotes the sagacious counsel of sage Kandu, son of the eminent sage Kanva. “One is duty bound to protect anyone who comes seeking help, especially with folded palms, the anjali mudra. Even if it is one’s enemy, if he comes for protection from his enemies, he should be protected at all costs. One should always extend help to whatever extent possible. If one has the ability to protect and yet is unwilling, he tends to lose all his merit in case the refugee dies in his presence. Failure to protect will shut out heaven and bring one infamy, disgrace and ignominy for all times.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tales-with-a-purpose/article33088764.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Richardson, Siddhant sizzle||Jack Richardson and Siddhant Sharma scored all the goals in guiding Sona Polo to a 10 goals to 8-1/2 win over Jindal Panther in a league match of the Sir Pratap Singh Cup 14-goal polo tournament at the Jaipur Polo ground. Meanwhile, in the DGST Trophy six-goal event, Cavalry Red and Army Service Corps (ASC) made the final.  The results: Sir Pratap Singh Cup (league): Sona Polo 10 (Jack Richardson 6, Siddhant Sharma 4) bt Jindal Panther 8-1/2 (Simran Shergill 6, Abhimanyu Pathak 2).   DGST Trophy (semifinals): Cavalry Red 9 (Aman Singh 5, Vishal Chauhan 4) bt Cavalry Black 3-1/2 (M.S. Chouhan 2, Arjun Patil, handicap 1/2); ASC 12 (Dhruvpal Godara 6, Salim Azmi 5, Ravinder Mang) bt RVC/Allan 3-1/2 (A.P. Singh 2, handicap 1-1/2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/richardson-siddhant-sizzle/article33089406.ece
13 November 2020||St. John’s (Antigua),||Chase named Windies Test vice-captain||All-rounder Roston Chase has been elevated to Test vice-captaincy while wicketkeeper Nicholas Pooran will continue as deputy in T20Is during the West Indies’ tour of New Zealand, starting November 27. Chase replaced opener Kraigg Brathwaite, who was Jason Holder’s deputy in the series against England in July, while the 25-year-old Pooran, first named vice-captain in 2019, retained his position. Chase, 28, has so far played 35 Tests, scoring five centuries and collecting three five-wicket hauls with his off-spin bowling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chase-named-windies-test-vice-captain/article33088769.ece
13 November 2020||London,||Nadal drawn with Thiem, Tsitsipas||Rafael Nadal was, on Thursday, drawn in the same group as defending champion Stefanos Tsitsipas and US Open winner Dominic Thiem for the ATP Finals here. The 50th anniversary of the first staging of the event has been marked with the naming of two round-robin groups, Tokyo 1970 and London 2020.   The groupings: Tokyo 1970: Novak Djokovic, Daniil Medvedev, Alexander Zverev and Diego Schwartzman.   London 2020: Rafael Nadal, Dominic Thiem, Stefanos Tsitsipas and Andrey Rublev .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-drawn-with-thiem-tsitsipas/article33089346.ece
13 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam to play in IFA Shield||Gokulam Kerala is set to return to competitive football soon. The team will play in the IFA Shield tournament in Kolkata, most likely to be held in December. It is among Asia’s oldest tournaments, with a history dating back to 1893. For decades it was among the most prestigious events in the country, but it was turned into an Under-19 affair in 2016. Plans upset The organisers had planned to make it a senior tournament again earlier this year and there were talks of conducting it in April. But the coronavirus outbreak upset the plans. Mohammedan Sporting, Indian Arrows and Peerless SC, the reigning Calcutta Football League champion, are also expected to play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-for-ifa-shield/article33089002.ece
13 November 2020||PARIS,||W Series at eight F1 races next season||The all-female W Series will be showcased at eight Formula One races next season in a push for greater diversity in motorsports, organisers said on Thursday. It has yet to be decided at which of the races the W Series will also be held. “We believe it is incredibly important to give everyone the chance to reach the highest levels of our sport,” F1 managing director of motorsport Ross Brawn said. “Their partnership with Formula 1 next season shows our determination and commitment to showcase their exciting series and the importance of building greater diversity.” British driver Jamie Chadwick won the inaugural W Series race in Hockenheim, Germany, last year. This season was cancelled because of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/w-series-at-eight-f1-races-next-season/article33089006.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Mum’s the word||With two films of hers releasing this Deepavali, Urvashi has made a steady re-entry into mainstream Tamil cinema. It is not that the 51-year-old actor has anything left to prove considering her body of work. However, being a part of Soorarai Pottru and Mookuthi Amman is reassurance for the industry’s top filmmakers that the quality performer in her is intact even as she enters the fifth decade of a long career. In both films, Urvashi plays the mother to the central character. “ Mookuthi Amman focusses almost all its runtime on this family: a mother, her three daughters and son, and her father-in-law,” says Urvashi. Playful mind Produced by Vels Film International, Mookuthi Amman marks the directorial debut of NJ Saravanan and RJ Balaji. If you are wondering what it is like working with a man who has gained the affection of cricket fans in Tamil Nadu with his interesting commentary during the recently-concluded IPL, it is as you would imagine. “Balaji is very playful. In the middle of the shoot, as I walk into the set after preparing myself to play a serious scene, he would switch to commentator mode. I have wondered ‘what sort of a director is this boy?’,” she smiles. Her transition from playing girl-next-door roles in the ‘80s to now playing “mom-next-door” roles, as she puts it, has followed an interesting trajectory. Urvashi may even be appearing in more number of mother roles than she prefers, something she indirectly hints at: “I don’t like to repeat myself. Several times, filmmakers have approached me with a reference of a role that I played in some film and they want to slot me in a similar character in their film. I don’t prefer that.” Deep dive Even so, playing a mother is no mean task since the character’s arc depends on the film’s genre: meaning, playing mother to Suriya in Soorarai Pottru is starkly different to playing one to RJ Balaji in a comedy like Mookuthi Amman . Urvashi, however, wants filmmakers to explore more angles to a female character. The change, she believes, will happen when directors think beyond superficial writing. “What importance a woman is afforded in society is what will reflect in films. Patriarchy tells women to not hold individual opinions and that her only objective is to get married, give birth, look after the husband and leave the critical thinking to male members. And so in a movie, too, we rarely explore the mom’s character traits.” The reason, she believes, that this remains the case even in 2020 in Tamil cinema is not for want of female writers. “It is just that the easiest way of doing business is to make a film about a hero,” she says, adding, “Why are most ‘family audiences’, the majority of whom are women, watching TV serials? If our directors observe the pattern, they will realise that the numbers of women coming to theatres went down because there is seldom any importance attached to a female character in most films.” Mookuthi Amman streams on Disney+ Hotsar from November 14||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mums-the-word/article33089286.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Rapping for relief||K Nigavithran was in Class XI when his teachers punished him. He was asked to leave the classroom and made an example of in front of his classmates. He never felt a sense of regret; instead, he turned this familiar high school episode into a rap song called ‘Against My School’. That day, a rapper was born. “When you listen to rap, you invariably become a writer. That is how addictive and accessible the genre is,” says Nigavithran, 25, who, like many hip hop artistes from the city, was ushered into this world via Malaysian rappers Yogi B and Dr Burn — “I chanced upon them on Facebook and used to listen to their songs on loop. We had a rap competition among our friends. They were my biggest influences.” Nigavithran has been an unofficial rapper since school, but became a name to reckon with, when his ‘Digital Moonji’, a song which was critical of the hydrocarbon extraction project in the delta districts of Tamil Nadu, gained prominence on social media. He has been putting out a range of independent Tamil songs — on critical issues and from his personal life — on his YouTube channel since 2016, thanks to D Vinoth, a sound engineer who discovered Nigavithran’s talent and motivated him to write. The idea to release a full-fledged album has always been Nigavithran’s goal.  Growing up in Chepauk’s Lock Nagar, the D Block was where he discovered friendship and love. It was also the place that awakened him to socio-political realities; 82 D Block was his address, the place that gave him an identity, “I wanted the place I grew up in, to be the face of my album,” he says, about his 82 D album, which was released recently on iTunes and other streaming platforms. He credits Rayappan Francis of Ray App Studio — which, according to him, is akin to an underground club where the city’s budding rappers got together — for letting him record for free. Politics of art The album is a mixed bag of eight songs, the work for which was completed a year-and-a-half ago. The first part is mined from Nigavithran’s boyhood; his schooldays, introduction to rap, life in Lock Nagar, the time he was offered to write for films, albeit without credits. The latter half is a sharp commentary on social issues. For instance, ‘Machi Tea Sollu’ may come across as a seemingly innocuous song on tea, but it speaks of a larger issue: the hike in milk prices. “The job of an artiste is not just to entertain. They have to be socially-aware and need to voice out for the commoner. This is my core philosophy,” he says. That makes sense if you listen to expletive-filled ‘Don’t Touch’, an expression of his anger towards the Kathua murder case of 2018. Nigavithran says he was advised to trim the explicit content, “But I wanted to retain those bits because I didn’t want to dilute the anger. In fact, a female friend of mine said I shouldn’t even use the word ‘rape’ in the song,” he says, adding that he has been actively taking part and writing songs for protests against injustice. Nigavithran no longer lives in Lock Nagar, though he has not lost touch with his friends. “I met a friend after a long time and we were discussing memories of growing up in the streets. That’s how much D block means to us.” He has shot a video for the title track ‘D Block’, which will be out on YouTube on November 24. A graphic designer, Nigavithran has not yet decided to take up rapping full-time, although he admits he spends most of his time thinking about it or writing structures, in his mind. “Unlike in Mumbai, there is very little scope for artistes who are into rap [in Chennai],” he says, “Though I have a job, it is rapping that gives me satisfaction. It’s like a balm.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rapping-for-relief/article33089319.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||My city, of yore||Did you know that nearly 250 years before Chennai became a centre for medical tourism, its hospitals — like the Government General Hospital (1664), the Eye Hospital (1819), Institute of Mental Health (1794) — pioneered medical advancements? That Bengaluru was a textile and arms manufacturing centre before it came to be known as the Garden City? That the Bezoras goats of Hyderabad’s droppings were as valuable as Golconda diamonds? Or that the spirit of Warren Hastings is rumoured to still visit Kolkata’s Writer’s Building at midnight? Such interesting tidbits of history often remain buried in academic documentation or people are often unaware of stories behind places in the city they call home. This gap is bridged by local historians, many self-taught, who host guided tours and storytelling sessions around monuments, streets and bazaars. They cull out interesting facets from books, libraries, architectural records and grandma’s stories to put together cohesive, lively histories for growing audiences seeking information on the cities they visit, as well as the ones they call home. In New Delhi, Swapna Liddle has been conducting walks in the capital for the last two decades. Armed with a PhD in History, she frequently lectures in colleges. “Heritage walks have been on in Delhi since the 1990s. Probably the earliest group to start them was the Conservation Society, a group of academics and architects. In the late 1990s, the India Habitat Centre (IHC) started including heritage walks in their programme calendar and their popularity grew. This was followed by INTACH in the mid-2000s and since then many people have started doing walks. Many of these are commercially a success too,” says Swapna who has trained many walk leaders and designed walks. According to Swapna, a lot of Delhi’s rich history is found in Persian and Urdu texts that were difficult to access due to paucity of translated material. Her research is based on primary as well as secondary sources like original documents and published books. “When people try to re-imagine the present, they often call upon ‘history’ to justify their positions. History is a potential field for contestation because in popular imagination, our perception of the past is often closely tied up with our ideas about our identity in the present,” Swapna states. Bengaluru-based filmmaker and writer Basav Biradar agrees: “Historians should come forward and interact with the general public as history is an important space to be in. It is evident that it can be used to misinform.” On his return from the US in 2010, he began to study the history of Bengaluru. In 2011, he started Historywallahs, which curates content for museums and Government organisations. In 2012, he began conducting heritage walks in Bengaluru and Mysore. As these walks became more popular, he found a growing awareness on the value of heritage. “Though the Karnataka Government is yet to come up with strong legislation on preservation of monuments, Bengaluru’s citizen engagement with heritage is high and acts as a safety net,” says Basav who has made several short documentaries on the city, the latest being on the Kolar Gold Fields. Chennai-based businessman V Sriram’s interest in history was kindled by his stint in Kolkata and New Delhi where he was educated. He returned to Chennai in 1993 and came under the influence of renowned chronicler S Muthiah. He pioneered heritage walks in Chennai; the first in 1999 had 35 participants. He had completed 80 different routes until the pandemic called a halt. Well-known monuments form 20% of the walks; the rest cover lesser-known aspects of the city. “Chennai may be a colonial town but its various temples show an enduring historical life via the Pallava, Chola and Vijayanagar rulers before the arrival of the colonials,” he says pointing to the loss of precious heritage. In 2008, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) identified 50 homes of heritage value, where historically distinguished personalities had resided. Today just 10 remain; the rest have been consumed by land developers. When speaking of facts, Sajjad Sajid believes that “there is a residual element of truth in the most improbable, impossible legends and stories.” The Hyderabad-based historian’s definition of history is not the straight and the narrow but includes oral histories, stories, legends and myths. His family’s roots in the city go back to around 600 years and his paternal family is descended from the Sufi poet Qazi Mahmud Behri. Sajjad, a civil engineer, is currently a visiting faculty at the University of Hyderabad where he teaches Islamic art and architecture of Deccan and is consultant to the Aga Khan Trust’s project of restoring the Qutub Shahi tombs. The tales that were VN Venugopal in Kochi has a scrapbook of stories on Kerala, collected over the last 35 years. A conversation with Venugopal is replete with stories of events, characters, and places often offering small details like the dress code or cars used during an event or the material procured for building a bridge. He recalls watching Sir RK Shanmukham Chetty, the Dewan of the Cochin State, plant two divi-divi saplings in 1944. One of the huge umbrella-like trees was brought down in June 2020 by the Cochin Smart City Mission Limited (CSML) to make way for drains and footpaths. In Kolkata, Anthony Khatchaturian’s popular Colonial Ghost Walk, has a macabre tinge and was inspired by the night walks in London. “I stitched together 75% history with 25% of ghost stories associated with these heritage buildings,” says Anthony, launching into the story of how the spirits of two murdered Anglo-Indian women still haunt New Market at night and why the sound of the piano is still heard at Garstin Place, or how the sounds of a carriage ring out at midnight at Writer’s Building. Originally a three-hour walk, the Colonial Ghost Walk was restarted with COVID-19 protocols from November 6. “We now cover the four-kilometre route that begins in New Market and ends at Writer’s Building in cars,” says Anthony. Of Armenian descent, he belongs to the Galstaun family who were property developers till 1947 and constructed famous Kolkata landmarks like Queen’s Mansion, Nizam Palace and Freemason’s Lodge. With important personalities like British Prime Minister Boris Johnson having been on his walks, Anthony emphasises on “the need to think beyond text books to enable history find its correct target, value and meaning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-city-of-yore/article33089291.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Growing old with Shikari Shambu||In 1980, during an editorial meeting, when Amar Chitra Katha ’s Anant Pai, aka Uncle Pai, suggested making the fortnightly comic book series a weekly, associate editor Subba Rao was baffled. “I told him that we will, in another one or two years, completely run out of the pool of stories,” Rao remembers, laughing. So, as a counter suggestion, Rao presented the idea of a comic digest comprising non-mythological stories (so that it looks different from ACK), compiled from various parts of the country. “Mr Pai was not sure in the beginning, but he asked me to work on the details and I put together a format,” he continues over phone from Mumbai. On that day, Tinkle, the children’s magazine with a tagline ‘where learning meets fun’, was born. Forty years on, the magazine and its characters that have for long become household names, continue to thrive. Watering the seed “In a way, Tinkle owes its birth to my grandmother. Many of the stories I heard from her in Coimbatore made its way into the early issues of the magazine,” he continues fondly, adding, “My son was hardly three years old at the time and the stories I told him would also surface on the magazine.” While he was the chief storyteller for Tinkle , Luis Fernandez was in-charge of the scripts and Kamala Chandrakant, editing: this was the core team, supervised by Uncle Pai, of course. Though the initial decision was to start off with folktales, the editorial team soon shifted its focus to creating original characters. Rao often asked his team, “Where is our answer to Detective Moochawala [an eponymous character created by Indian cartoonist Ajit Ninan]?” And one day, Rao was watching The Lucy Show (an American sitcom of the 1960s) on television, when a character struck him. “Lucy’s husband was a big-time hunter. And, I found one of the episodes around this character, extremely funny.” Inspired by Lucy’s husband, upon discussion with the team, the answer to Detective Moochawala took form: Shikari Shambu, the cowardly hunter who is perceived by the rest of the world as courageous, conceptualised by Fernandes and visualised by cartoonist Vasant B Halbe. Then, came Kalia, the Crow. “We used to have lunch in our editorial office in Colaba. Everyday, promptly at 1 pm, a crow would come to the window. Luis used to feed the crow,” remembers Rao. And, thus the crow became a character created by Luis and visualised by Pradeep Sathe. Interestingly, Suppandi, on the other hand, was created by a reader, whom Rao managed to coincidentally meet years later. Through a ‘write-in’ contest, Suppandi, the lovable simpleton visualised by Ram Waeerkar, arrived atTinkleand refused to leave (we are not complaining). Tantri the Mantri (who last year became the king after 35 years of plotting), Anwar and Mooshik followed soon after. Since then, many editorial and design changes have characterised the 40-year-old Tinkle to the magazine that it is today. As characters like Shikari Shambu and Tantri live on, a crop of new characters has also found its ground under the sitting editor-in-chief Rajani Thindiath: Super Weirdos (superheroes with weird powers), WingStar (a young crime fighter from Mizoram), YogYodhas (warriors who use yoga poses to fight evil)... the list goes on. Inclusivity is key Rajani took over as editor-in-chief, 10 years back. “At the time, there were some things I wanted to do: like making the new characters more regular and also making the magazine, balanced,” says Rajani. And to that end, strong female characters started making an entry into the main narratives. “Gender roles are shaped from childhood, right from when a child reads a pronoun. And, when we think of a doctor or an engineer, we would immediately think of a male figure,” says Rajani. Another focus of hers is on diversity: regions, festivals and cultures from across the country are featured. For instance, WingStar’s protagonist is from Mizoram. And, through Super Weirdos, she wished to draw attention to the oddities and quirks in one’s behaviour which are most often perceived as an embarrassment. How do they tide through the pandemic? The lockdowns sort of opened the doors to digital possibilities, says Rajani. They immediately shifted focus to their app which was launched last year. “Content-wise, on the app, we had to make it into a weekly. Because we are on the app, we do vlogs of editorials, host quiz shows, give general knowledge trivia and so on,” says Rajani, adding, , “Uncle Pai’s vision for Tinkle goes ‘of, for and by children’. So, it was important to have their voices on the platform.” Rajani adds that the platform, in fact, does not matter. “Tomorrow, if even the stories come in a hologram, they are still stories.” Rao agrees, “Ultimately, you must know how to tell a story.”  A live party will be streamed on the Facebook page Tinkle Comics Studio at 5 pm today. There will also be a game show at 11 am, November 14, on the Suppandi and Friends channel on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/growing-old-with-shikari-shambu/article33089297.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to chasing the wind||Recently, 37-year-old Rajith Cherian woke his friends up for a weekend ritual that had been on hold for months. The group of five, each on their bikes and covered in safety gear, headed out to a familiar, hidden green spot surrounding Kayar lake in Mambakkam. The ride did not take long, but offered hilarious memories as the offroaders navigated ditches, slipped on muddy trails, and helped each other pick themselves up from under their fallen bikes. “Before the lockdown, we would try to head out on our bikes every weekend. We used to do at least three or four trips every month, to some lesser-known lake near villages on the outskirts of Chennai. There are plenty of ponds and lakes around Thiruporur, Mambalam and Chengalpattu that are untouched by crowds,” says Rajith. Though these trips are often impromptu, some rules remain irrefutable: the person most familiar with the route sets the pace, everyone keeps an eye out for at least one person, and no one tries to overtake. Rajith adds that a slip invariably happens when offroading, which is why they never skimp on “body armour” — boots, gloves, jackets, helmets et al. “You are bound to slip at least once, so may as well avoid getting scratched or bruised, or hitting your head,” he explains, “We have known each other for 10 years now, so we know everyone’s capabilities and don’t try to show off.” Instead, the group documentsembarrassing moments — if one biker falls and another tries to help him up, a third can definitely be counted on to have whipped out a phone camera and begun shooting. So how many of these biker friends usually head out together? Says Rajith, “Minimum two because you will need a hand in case you fall, and maximum five because we don’t want to be a nuisance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/back-to-chasing-the-wind/article33089305.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the bunny years set you free||It all began with an Elmer Fudd cartoon. “I was watching Looney Tunes on YouTube,” recalls Vikram Vivekanand of Wascally Wabbits, who is also the guitarist for Grey Shack and Indosoul with Karthick Iyer. He adds, “And I realised it went with the whole idea of us being quite outrageous and not holding back [with our music].”  Vikram, Vinay Ramakrishnan and Aravind Murali’s first single ‘Who Ate The Wabbit?’, released earlier this month, lives up to this claim with its smooth yet raw, no-holds-barred energy. And their band name, Wascally Wabbits, lives up to the sense of abandon that they want to instil in future numbers, too. “We decided we didn’t want to conform to any particular songwriter structures,” says Vikram. Formed in January, Wascally Wabbits managed to get together for just one jam session before lockdown hit. “After that, we would mostly just jam online,” says drummer Vinay, adding, “This song was put together entirely from our separate homes.” ‘Who Ate The Wabbit’ extends for well over five minutes and is entirely instrumental, with occasional hints of the laid-back vibe reminiscent of sunlit Western films, and some roller-coaster spikes and dips in energy. According to Vikram, however, there is no saying if the band’s other songs will follow suit. All he can say is that it will be created off the reins. Maalavika Manoj, too, is in favour of trying out different kinds of sounds as an artiste, which is why her latest track, released last week, sounds different from her recent ‘Absolute’ and ‘Age of Limbo’, with fewer challenges for her softly powerful voice and a more straightforward, gentle composition. Mali admits as much: “It’s not a super-ambitious performance song. I feel this is going to have more longevity, instead of being an instant hit. It’s a good driving song, a good ‘playlist-able’ song.” The shift, she says, is deliberate: “My music is largely described as pop. But pop is such a wide genre; it borrows from everything. You can have rock-sounding, classical-sounding, synth-sounding songs that are all pop. And, if I wrote the same kind of song over and over again, I might just give up music and turn to gardening instead, like an actual mali (gardener),” she says with a laugh. Incidentally, ‘Mundane’ is about her decision to take up music as a career in the first place. She penned the lyrics years ago, right after graduation when her friends were solidifying their career paths. “I kept asking them, how are you so sure?” she recalls, adding that her choice was between pursuing what she loved and earning less money in the bargain, or “choosing the more mundane lifestyle with a steady pay”. The soft song with its mellow bridges addresses this dilemma, and also hints at something Mali spells out in this interview: “People think of being in a state of indecisiveness as failure. It is not.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/let-the-bunny-years-set-you-free/article33089328.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Short, simple and effective||Short films often are stepping stones to feature films; there are enough success stories in film industries to prove that. However, there is also a category of established filmmakers and actors, who opt being a part of shorts, occasionally, to tell strong stories. So, Anurag Kashyap directing a short, or actors of repute such as Naseeruddin Shah, Nawazuddin Siddiqui or Manoj Bajpayee acting in one does not come as a surprise. These films are also quickly lapped up by netizens. “Whether I choose a feature, web series or a short, I look for stories that can be clutter breakers,” says Bajpayee, speaking on the sidelines of a panel discussion held in Mumbai to launch LSF Evening, an initiative by Royal Stag Large Short Films platform. Under normal circumstances, the panel discussions would have been hosted in different cities. This year, a series of discussions were filmed in Mumbai and will be available to view soon on Zee network and Royal Stag Large Short Films YouTube channel. Moderated by Mandira Bedi, the panel featured actors Saif Ali Khan, Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Samantha Akkineni , Divya Dutta, Sayani Gupta, Shweta Basu Prasad, Tisca Chopra, Niranjan Iyengar and Shivani Raghuvanshi besides Manoj Bajpayee. Its focus was the emerging trends in Indian cinema, the collapse of commercial and indie barriers, and the changes brought about by COVID-19 on storytelling. “The audience have shown a great appetite for content and the onus is on us to deliver,” says Bajpayee. Some of the short films Bajpayee has featured in are Kriti ,  directed by Shirish Kunder and co-starring Radhika Apte, Zahir with Dia Mirza and Ouch with Pooja Chopra. “I try to select a story that shakes me up. Within a short duration, the story has to be narrated effectively to impact the viewers.” Actor Tisca Chopra had turned producer with the short film Chutney (2016). Her short film Rubaru marks her directorial turn. Starring herself alongside Arjun Mathur, the film will stream on the Large Short Films YouTube channel later this month. “ Rubaru talks about what it entails to be an artist and the struggle for relevance.” Her crew finished shooting in February and were on a break, intending to regroup for post-production few weeks later. However, it turned out to be a six-month break thanks to lockdown. Looking back, Tisca says, a short film entails enormous preparation where everyone in the crew has to hit the bull’s eye for each shot. “You can’t afford to say kal dekh lenge because you have to usually finish the film in three or four days,” she says, adding, “Short films are a great way to get introduced to new creators. Chutney clocked 131 million views on YouTube and was a rewarding experience.” Actor Sayani Gupta, who stars in the acclaimed short Shameless , has the final word. “There is room to narrate a wide variety of stories. Shorts have a different charm about them and can be effective messaging tools.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/short-simple-and-effective/article33089290.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Creative beyond their walls||Photographer Prarthna Singh and lawyer-turned-singer Aditi Ramesh are part of the first body of artistes who usher in Today At Apple into India. The sessions usually take place in the retail locations but this year, they both admit, they will miss out on the pre-pandemic, offline setting. Prarthna explains, “Usually, at these kinds of events, you meet the people and get a feel of the space. And after the talk, you don’t just leave, you grab a drink, have conversations with people who are curious about what you chatted about — it’s more social. But it is still exciting!” Aditi and Prarthna are appreciative of the diversity factor. Today At Apple does not feature the names one would expect; there are people across the board in terms of experience and style. Prarthna conducted a chat about her portrait photographic series Champion and The Wrestlers , which looked at the lives and practices of India’s female fighters. The hour-long virtual event covered Prarthna’s experience developing a rapport of trust with the wrestlers including Sarita, Pooja, Lipakshi and others. “I made it clear I wouldn’t approach the session as a tips-and-tricks kind of session. The backstories of these projects are far more interesting and unique to audiences at these kinds of events,” puts forth Prarthna. Aditi was prepped for a year of touring in Turkey and the UK, meeting other musicians, playing at a festival in Taiwan, and more. But the pandemic halted all thats. So when Apple approached her for their début Today At Apple sessions, she was elated, pointing out that the session has a different structure. “Unlike a social media live where you interact with the comments, this is more interactive but not like an interview,” she explains, “This is looking deeper at my creative process and hopefully have people want to create their own music after the session. It’s not going to be a planned talk, and it’ll be moderated by [radio presenter] Mae Mariyam Thomas, whom I like.” Aditi is keen to make sure her session is both practical and inspiring, and this comes from a point of empathy. “When I started out, I didn’t know where and how to start: recording music, marketing music, everything was learned through trial and error.” Over the lockdown, she released ‘Sambar Soul’, which quickly became a must-have in playlists. It is a song of persistence against labels, boxes and other constraints, and is deeply personal. She recalls being unable to go to a studio for the recording; she created a soundproof space using pillows and made the best of it. Always adapt, she advises. Prarthna and Aditi are ready to take on a live setting when things are safe again, but are excited at these opportunities. Aditi adds, “Virtual events increase the scope of those attending.”  Aditi Ramesh’s session   will take place on November 26 at 8 pm. Visit.https://apple.co/illuminatingcreativity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/creative-beyond-their-walls/article33089293.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||And they meet again||The Madras Crocodile Bank and Centre for Herpetology had been sorely missed by Chennaiites during lockdown. The team knew this, but did not realise the extent of it till they opened their gates on Tuesday. “One of the first families to step in were regular visitors. The parents had been waiting to check in on the spectacled Caiman crocodile that they regularly adopt, but their nine-year-old was excited to see the new ones,” says Gnaneswar Ch, coordinator of the bank’s snakebite mitigation project. “The new ones” are four Cuban crocodiles, two African slender-snouted crocodiles and the already popular saltie Ally. All long-time young residents, they had not been ready for public viewing back in March, when the bank last welcomed in visitors before closing the gates due to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. Come November, and they have freshly done-up pens of their own and are raking up fans already. Now that the bank is open again, it is taking things slow, steady, and cautious. While masks are mandatory and temperature checks are done at the entrance, pen watchers in charge of specific animal residences throughout the bank’s vast interiors now have an added duty of ensuring that groups maintain the right distance from each other. “Visitors so far have been relieved to notice that all our pen watchers and other staff members have face shields and masks at all times,” adds Gnaneswar. Online activities have also been increased. Says Zai Whitaker, managing trustee of the crocodile bank, “It appears to some extent that this [online] is how things are going to be for a long time. So we dived into the deep end, and are now fairly comfortable with it. We improved our Internet connection and have been doing a lot of online programmes like guided tours and Q&As.” There is an online session this Saturday as well. It is Children’s Day, and the bank plans to introduce child (and adult) viewers to its baby crocodiles. Their usual engagement sessions in the real world — like their popular workshops and camps for children — are still on hold. “So far, my understanding is that parents are hesitant to leave their children anywhere for a long time,” observes Zai. Walk-in visitors, however, are more than welcome. The crocodile bank relies on ticketed visits for about 50% of its income, and has been bereft of it for a large part of this year, including its peak months during the city schools’ summer holidays. Adds Zai, “This would normally be the peak time for foreign visitors, but there seems to be no chance for that this time.” Chennai-based visitors, she says, are making up for it, though of course, more would be welcome. “We had 101 visitors through the day,” says Zai, “And I was just thinking to myself that normally, that is how many people we would see in an hour.” But while Chennaiites are being cautious in footfall, they are compensating with affection. And have been doing so throughout the lockdown, says Zai. Adoptions — wherein a well-wisher picks a particular resident of the bank and funds its food, healthcare and general upkeep for the year — increased multifold, and individual donations also kept coming in steadily. “Every donation of Rs. 500 or Rs. 1,000 was precious,” says Zai, “Our connection with the city has really hit us during lockdown. We have been seeing just how much they love the croc bank, how they see it as their own place, how they want to help.”  The Crocodile Bank is open from 9 am to 5 pm all week, except Mondays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/and-they-meet-again/article33089300.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||This Deepavali, order in||The chefs at Malgudi, Hotel Savera have puttogether a Diwali Kari Virunthu for lunch, with sufficient portions to serve two to three people. The menu comprises mutton biryani, prawn masala, vanjiram meen varuval , leg piece pepper chicken,nandusamosa, paya curry, idiyappam , brinjal curry, ghee Mysore pak. Available on November 14 only. Price:Rs. 1,695, all inclusive. Call:9710947361    The Bayleaf has unleashed a range of meal boxes for both takeaway and dine-in. There are three categories: homely (everyday food such aschicken curry,paneerpaturi,dhabewali dal), indulgent (festive food such asaloo baja,aloo posto,methichicken gravy) and feast (specials such as mixed grilled veg with paneer kebab, barbecue mango chicken kebab,kawsha murghi). Each box serves two, and has North Indian (vegetarian and non-vegetarian) and authentic Bengali (vegetarian and non-vegetarian) options. The combo includes two freshly prepped and sealed five-partition trays. You can book your order via the app or website: www.thebayleaf.in Price:Rs. 699 to Rs. 1,379 Call:28114557    Qmin has curated dishes from signature Taj restaurants, for its Grand Diwali Soiree, on till November 15. A Soiree special menu also awaits guests who dine in at Taj, Vivanta and SeleQtions hotels. Hara mattar bhutta, lasooni makai palak, sliced kung pao chicken, murgh dum biryani, gilafi gosht seekh kebab and much more are on the menu. You can book your set menu order on the Qmin app.  Price:Rs. 2,500 upwards, serves two. Call:18002667476.    Mad Over Donuts has a limited edition range of doughnuts; three flavours that compliment the celebrations. Choose from Divinemotichoor(dipped in white chocolate and filled with motichoor crumble); Delightful Kathli (dark chocolate doughnut filled with kaju katli  chocolate ganache) or Soanpapdipataka (dipped in milk chocolate and filled with soan papdi  chocolate ganache). They also have The Signature Box of Bites, with 18 bite-sized doughnuts and chocolates. Delivered via Zomato or Swiggy, till November 17. Price:Rs. 105 Website:www.madoverdonuts.com    The chefs at The Park Chennai have curated a meal box of contemporary Indian festive dishes, an inventive take on Indian flavours with global accents. Choose from offerings such as masala arancini croquettes, mushroom and jalapeno gyoza, gunpowder-crusted grilled pinjalo snapper, water chestnut-stuffed baby potatoes, tadka kadhi and kataifi boondi entremet. The meal box is available for lunch and dinner, till November 21. Price:Rs. 1,899 for a meal box for two. Call:9884401601    Chef Gokul Prashanth and his team at Belly Boy are set to dish out vegetarian fare this Deepavali. The highlight is pakoda kurma (Chettinad style, spicy besan and onionpakodain a mild coconut gravy), masala vada and traditional athirasam , besides sambar , rasam , kootu and two vegetables. Book your meal in advance for delivery in and around ECR and OMR. Price:Rs. 150 per box Call:9962014707||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/this-deepavali-order-in/article33089324.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The big brunch||The big brunch Focaccia at Hyatt Regency, Chennai is now open to guests and travellers for Sunday brunch. The new brunch, has been put together by executive chef Deva Kumar and offers a pasta station, hand-crafted desserts, themed cocktails and Indian breads. The culinary team promises to extend all safety measures to guests. The brunch is priced at Rs. 2,200 and will be available from 12.30 pm to 3.30 pm.  For bookings, call: 9910444571||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-big-brunch/article33089311.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||My city, of yore||Did you know that nearly 250 years before Chennai became a centre for medical tourism, its hospitals — like the Government General Hospital (1664), the Eye Hospital (1819), Institute of Mental Health (1794) — pioneered medical advancements? That Bengaluru was a textile and arms manufacturing centre before it came to be known as the Garden City? That the Bezoras goats of Hyderabad’s droppings were as valuable as Golconda diamonds? Or that the spirit of Warren Hastings is rumoured to still visit Kolkata’s Writer’s Building at midnight? Such interesting tidbits of history often remain buried in academic documentation or people are often unaware of stories behind places in the city they call home. This gap is bridged by local historians, many self-taught, who host guided tours and storytelling sessions around monuments, streets and bazaars. They cull out interesting facets from books, libraries, architectural records and grandma’s stories to put together cohesive, lively histories for growing audiences seeking information on the cities they visit, as well as the ones they call home. In New Delhi, Swapna Liddle has been conducting walks in the capital for the last two decades. Armed with a PhD in history, she frequently lectures in colleges. “Heritage walks have been on in Delhi since the 1990s. Probably the earliest group to start them was the Conservation Society, a group of academics and architects. In the late 1990s, the India Habitat Centre (IHC) started including heritage walks in their programme calendar and their popularity grew. This was followed by INTACH in the mid-2000s and since then many people have started doing walks. Many of these are commercially a success too,” says Swapna, who has trained many walk leaders and designed walks. According to Swapna, a lot of Delhi’s rich history is found in Persian and Urdu texts that were difficult to access due to paucity of translated material. Her research is based on primary as well as secondary sources like original documents and published books. “When people try to re-imagine the present, they often call upon ‘history’ to justify their positions. History is a potential field for contestation because in popular imagination, our perception of the past is often closely tied up with our ideas about our identity in the present,” Swapna states. Bengaluru-based filmmaker and writer Basav Biradar agrees: “Historians should come forward and interact with the general public as history is an important space to be in. It is evident that it can be used to misinform.” On his return from the U.S. in 2010, he began to study the history of Bengaluru. In 2011, he started Historywallahs, which curates content for museums and Government organisations. In 2012, he began conducting heritage walks in Bengaluru and Mysore. As these walks became more popular, he found a growing awareness on the value of heritage. “Though the Karnataka government is yet to come up with strong legislation on preservation of monuments, Bengaluru’s citizen engagement with heritage is high and acts as a safety net,” says Basav, who has made several short documentaries on the city, the latest being on the Kolar Gold Fields. Chennai-based businessman V. Sriram’s interest in history was kindled by his stint in Kolkata and New Delhi where he was educated. He returned to Chennai in 1993 and came under the influence of renowned chronicler S. Muthiah. He pioneered heritage walks in Chennai; the first in 1999 had 35 participants. He had completed 80 different routes until the pandemic called a halt. Well-known monuments form 20% of the walks; the rest cover lesser-known aspects of the city. “Chennai may be a colonial town but its various temples show an enduring historical life via the Pallava, Chola and Vijayanagar rulers before the arrival of the colonials,” he says pointing to the loss of precious heritage. In 2008, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority identified 50 homes of heritage value, where historically distinguished personalities had resided. Today just 10 remain; the rest have been consumed by land developers. When speaking of facts, Sajjad Sajid believes that “there is a residual element of truth in the most improbable, impossible legends and stories.” The Hyderabad-based historian’s definition of history is not the straight and the narrow, but includes oral histories, stories, legends and myths. His family’s roots in the city go back to around 600 years and his paternal family is descended from the Sufi poet Qazi Mahmud Behri. Sajjad, a civil engineer, is currently a visiting faculty at the University of Hyderabad, where he teaches Islamic art and architecture of Deccan and is a consultant to the Aga Khan Trust’s project of restoring the Qutub Shahi tombs. The tales that were V.N. Venugopal in Kochi has a scrapbook of stories on Kerala, collected over the last 35 years. A conversation with Venugopal is replete with stories of events, characters, and places often offering small details like the dress code or cars used during an event or the material procured for building a bridge. He recalls watching Sir R.K. Shanmukham Chetty, the Dewan of the Cochin State, plant two divi-divi saplings in 1944. One of the huge umbrella-like trees was brought down in June 2020 by the Cochin Smart City Mission Limited to make way for footpaths. In Kolkata, Anthony Khatchaturian’s popular Colonial Ghost Walk, has a macabre tinge and was inspired by the night walks in London. “I stitched together 75% history with 25% of ghost stories associated with these heritage buildings,” says Anthony, launching into the story of how the spirits of two murdered Anglo-Indian women still haunt New Market at night and why the sound of the piano is still heard at Garstin Place, or how the sounds of a carriage ring out at midnight at Writer’s Building. Originally a three-hour walk, the Colonial Ghost Walk was restarted with COVID-19 protocols from November 6. “We now cover the four-kilometre route that begins in New Market and ends at Writer’s Building in cars,” says Anthony. Of Armenian descent, he belongs to the Galstaun family who were property developers till 1947 and constructed famous Kolkata landmarks like Queen’s Mansion, Nizam Palace and Freemason’s Lodge. With important personalities like British Prime Minister Boris Johnson having been on his walks, Anthony emphasises on “the need to think beyond textbooks to enable history to find its correct target, value and meaning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-city-of-yore/article33088969.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Creative beyond their walls||Photographer Prarthna Singh and lawyer-turned-singer Aditi Ramesh are part of the first body of artistes who usher in Today At Apple into India. The sessions usually take place in the retail locations but this year, they both admit, they will miss out on the pre-pandemic, offline setting. Prarthna explains, “Usually, at these kinds of events, you meet the people and get a feel of the space. And after the talk, you don’t just leave, you grab a drink, have conversations with people who are curious about what you chatted about — it’s more social. But it is still exciting!” Aditi and Prarthna are appreciative of the diversity factor. Today At Apple does not feature the names one would expect; there are people across the board in terms of experience and style. Prarthna conducted a chat about her portrait photographic series Champion and The Wrestlers , which looked at the lives and practices of India’s female fighters. The hour-long virtual event covered Prarthna’s experience developing a rapport of trust with the wrestlers, including Sarita, Pooja, Lipakshi and others. “I made it clear I wouldn’t approach the session as a tips-and-tricks kind of session. The backstories of these projects are far more interesting and unique to audiences at these kinds of events,” puts forth Prarthna. Aditi was prepped for a year of touring in Turkey and the U.K., meeting other musicians, playing at a festival in Taiwan, and more. But the pandemic halted all thats. So when Apple approached her for their début Today At Apple sessions, she was elated, pointing out that the session has a different structure. “Unlike a social media live where you interact with the comments, this is more interactive but not like an interview,” she explains, “This is looking deeper at my creative process and hopefully have people want to create their own music after the session. It’s not going to be a planned talk, and it’ll be moderated by [radio presenter] Mae Mariyam Thomas, whom I like.” Aditi is keen to make sure her session is both practical and inspiring, and this comes from a point of empathy. She adds, “Virtual events increase the scope of those attending.”  Aditi Ramesh’s session   will take place on November 26 at 8 p.m. Visit.https://apple.co/illuminatingcreativity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/creative-beyond-their-walls/article33088970.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Something’s amiss||Deepavali is here and, to be honest, I’m not feeling very festive. Usually, in the week before Deepavali, there’s this huge build up. We have a class party. We get invited to friends’ houses for parties where we’re allowed to stay up as late as the grown ups and drink fizzy drinks. We pack our bags and plan our trip to Chennai where we get to see our grandparents and cousins and the streeties who live near them. I’d get through the week at school, knowing that soon I’d be chilling with my cousins, eating more sweets than my stomach can manage, and watching Jord Indian videos. Same old This year, the run-up to Deepavali felt like more of the same. The same online school. The same Fortnite Team Rumble. The same social distancing basketball in the evening (don’t ask! Only four people on the court). Basically, this past week has been exactly the same as all the weeks before it and I’m pretty sure that all the weeks that follow will be exactly the same too. I know I sound spoilt and whiney, okay? How do I know this? Well, I was told off by… wait for it… myself. Let’s be honest, there’s only SO much of a pity party you can throw yourself. Mostly because the only person at the pity party is yourself. And since you’re feeling sorry for yourself, you’re not a lot of fun. So after much ‘self-introspection’ (I’d explain it if I could but it would take too much time, so go look it up!) I decided if my Deepavali was going to be a bummer, there was no reason someone else’s had to be too. The Pesky Brother was doing a bunch of learning kits for his Social Outreach Project at school. Basically, a box of stuff that he’d made with things to help kids learn Math and English. What a fun gift to receive in time for Deepavali! Well, I decided to add something really fun to the boxes. So I got my friends from the building together, and we each had to find one thing that we liked — no, loved — and that was in good shape and wasn’t broken or torn or covered in dog fur to add to these boxes. We managed to pool together comic books, graphic novels, Hot Wheels in mint condition and UNO cards. We then distributed them across the boxes and added a handmade Deepavali card. I know it sounds super sappy but, even though I may have a boring Deepavali this year, it made me happy thinking that someone would get a teeny tiny surprise on the day that would brighten up an otherwise boring learning kit. Guess what? In all the planning and finding and distributing of these small gifts, my otherwise boring every day schedule felt a little bit different and a little less boring. Hope you have a fun Deepavali. Hang in there, folks. Just two more months for this sucky year to end.  I know I sound spoilt and whiney, okay! How do I know this? I was told off by…||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/somethings-amiss/article33089715.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Lights and delights||After 14 long years of exile and a fierce battle with a demon king in a far-off land, it’s finally time for the prince to return home. This is the moment the people of the city have been waiting for. As he makes his way to the palace, flanked by his wife and brother, people cannot contain their joy. The streets come alive with happiness and lamps are lit in every house. According to legend, the tradition that began when Lord Rama, along with Sita and Lakshmana, returned home to Ayodhya after vanquishing Ravana continues till date. For, every year, on the darkest night of the Hindu month of Kartik , we remember Lord Rama’s triumphant return. Our homes are filled with light and our hearts with joy. The spirit of Deepavali reigns even today. Grand and gorgeous One of the biggest and most resplendent festivals in India, Deepavali is an occasion that people look forward to for the whole year. Be it the sumptuous variety of sweets and treats, the radiant new clothes, the hiss and bang of firecrackers or the chance to spend quality time with family, there’s truly something for everyone. This year, the five-day festival begins on November 12, with the main celebration on November 14. Besides the legend of Lord Rama, another popular Deepavali story is centred around Lord Krishna’s victory over Narakasura, a powerful demon king who terrorised everyone on Earth and Heaven, and even kidnapped 16,000 women. To put an end to his atrocious exploits, Lord Krishna and his wife Satyabhama waged a ferocious battle and defeated him. This is celebrated as Naraka Chaturdasi, the day before Deepavali. Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth and prosperity, is also worshipped during the festival. Five days of cheer Every day of Deepavali is significant in its own way. The first day is Dhanteras , when it is considered auspicious to purchase something precious. The second day is Naraka Chaturdashi or Choti Diwali, time to bring out the lamps and draw rangolis . This is the main festival day in parts of South India. The third day is the main festival in other parts of the country. People wear new clothes, light lamps, eat sweets, exchange gifts, burst crackers, and generally have a lot of fun. While the fourth day is the first day of the new year in the Hindu calendar and also marks Govardhan  Pooja ; the fifth day, Bhai Dooj, celebrates the bond between siblings. One festival, many meanings For Jains, Deepavali commemorates the day Mahavir attained enlightenment. For Sikhs, it marks the day Guru Hargobind returned to Amritsar after being released from prison. Newar Buddhists celebrate by worshipping Goddess Lakshmi. In Malaysia, the festival is called ‘Hari Diwali’ and, in Nepal, ‘Tihar’. Several other countries around the world also join in the festivities in their own way. No matter how it is celebrated, the underlying theme of Deepavali is common: the victory of good over evil, of light over darkness, and of wisdom over ignorance. This Deepavali, keep in mind that even while you make merry with friends and family, COVID-19 is still a threat. Wear a mask, wash your hands regularly, avoid crowds, maintain social distance and talk to your parents about how you can stay safe amid the celebrations. Have a happy, safe and cheerful Deepavali!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/lights-and-delights/article33089677.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A fair exchange||Bodhi Ram ran as fast as he could. Angry shouts followed him.  “Pakdo! Pakdo!” a voice said. Bodhi was sure it was the tall boy, the leader of the group and the one who had first attacked him. Bodhi had been thinking sadly of having to leave school, when the gang struck. The first day, they tripped him and sent him sprawling. Since then they had got bolder, grabbing and tossing him around, laughing and jeering. But now Bodhi had become more alert and, today, he had surprised the gang; running straight on, when they had expected him to make for the maidan. It had taken them a few minutes to understand and chase him and that helped Bodhi get away to a safe distance . But Bodhi knew they would not give up easily and looked around for a place to hide. Up ahead, he could see a large circle; he veered off to the left and leapt easily over the low wall. Hidden away He landed with a rustle among some bushes and peered out carefully. The house ahead was beautiful, with a pillared balcony running around it and a smooth dome on its roof. He heard loud voices; it was the gang. Bodhi bent low and crept away, careful to stay hidden in the bushes. The angry voices died away and Bodhi heaved a sigh of relief when he heard a burst of laughter. He parted the leaves and looked around. He saw some children on the lawn: four girls who sounded eager and happy. But there were sudden arguments which the oldest girl, whom they called Indu, settled with quiet confidence. The others were Lekha and Tara while the youngest was a chubby child called Rita. It was oddly comforting to watch them go about their games. He was smiling at something Rita had said, when a sudden shriek sounded. “Mamu!” they called. Who, Bodhi wondered, was this uncle? Curious, he edged forward and slipped. He recovered at once and moved away but the girls had heard him. “Mamu!” Lekha said fearfully. “There’s something there!” “It must be a squirrel,” Mamu said. “You aren’t afraid of a squirrel, are you?” There was silence. “Remember,” Mamu said, “ Sher ka bacha rota nahi !” (A lion cub never cries) “But I am not a lion. I am only Tara!” “Your Mummy and Papa are lions. I am one too. That makes you all lion cubs!” Mamu said. “But what if a lion cub gets scared?” Lekha asked. “It could happen,” Indu agreed and Bodhi nodded. The world was a scary place, whether you were a child or a lion cub. “When a lion cub feels scared, there’s only one thing to do,” Mamu declared. Secret formula Bodhi leaned forward eagerly. Here it came, he thought, a secret formula to help him overcome his own fears. “Now,” Mamu said, “say it with me: Sher ka bacha rota nahi! ” The girls spoke in a ragged chorus, their voices uncertain. But soon their voices grew stronger. In the bushes, Bodhi chanted with them, “ Sher ka bacha rota nahi! ” A warm courage filled him. When Mamu asked the girls, “Feeling brave?” Bodhi also nodded eagerly. Much later, walking home, he sang with every step, “ Sher ka bacha rota nahi! ” The words filled him with a calm, leaving no room for fear. Bodhi often went to the house to see the girls playing. Once, Mamu was leading them in a march, holding flags and shouting, “ Bharat Mata ki jai! ” Another time, Mamu was alone, dressed in his usual spotless white clothes. He looked so worried that Bodhi longed to cheer him up. But what could he do? Looking around, Bodhi saw a rose and had an idea. But what if Mamu scolded him? “I am a lion cub,” he reminded himself, as he stepped out. Mamu was surprised when Bodhi pushed the rose into his kurta pocket. Mamu smiled at its beauty and Bodhi’s heart sang with joy. After that, he bought the reddest and most beautiful roses for Mamu. But a rose was too small a gift for the man who had changed his life. What could Bodhi do for Mamu? Bodhi worried about this till he discovered that Mamu was Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of independent India. Bodhi stared, shocked. Then he saw the red rose. Bodhi smiled. Mamu had given him a chant that filled Bodhi’s life with courage. Bodhi had given Mamu roses, whose perfume continued to linger. It was, Bodhi thought, a fair exchange.  Here it came, he thought, a secret formula to help him overcome his own fears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-fair-exchange/article33089710.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Listen to the beat||Goopy Gyne and Bagha Byne have been banished from their villages for being horrible musicians. They meet each other and become good friends. When they perform in a scary forest one night, the ghosts who live there hear it and fall in love with their music. The King of Ghosts grants them three boons. With these, Goopy and Bagha set out to perform for the king of the land, and earn laurels. But when they scare the king by appearing suddenly in his room, they are accused of being ghosts themselves and locked away. Will Goopy and Bagha be able to escape and do what they love the best: play music for everyone? Will they stop the kingdoms of Halla and Shundi from going to war? How many sweets and how much pulao will they eat while they do? Find out in this story of friendship, music and magic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/listen-to-the-beat/article33089718.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Happy Children’s Day||Across  1. How long can you keep the ____ hoop spinning? (4) 3. His birthday is celebrated as Children’s Day (5) 6. You lose a point if the ball hits this (3) 7. You are a child if your age is less than this (8) 9. All work and no ____? (4) 10. The ____-captain is the captain’s deputy (4) 12. The last letter of the alphabet (in American English) (3) 13. You can glide on the ground with _____ skates (6) 15. What you do in school (5) 16. To be successful in an exam (4) 17. Child (slang) (3)  Down  1. ___ ‘n’ Seek: Popular playground game (4) 2. Your mother tongue, for example (8) 3. Children’s Day falls in this month (8) 4. Sprint (3) 5. A raised platform to perform on (5) 8. A fictitious prose narrative (5) 9. Jigsaw, for example (6) 11. Pizza topping (6) 14. Flows through a pen (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/happy-childrens-day/article33089691.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The silver bottle A strange discovery||The story so far: Aniket finds a bottle on the beach. He opens it and releases an imp named Fortune, who takes him to meet Lady Laura Lucklina, the queen of Luck.  Fortune had a wide and mischievous grin. He knew Aniket hated walking, however short the distance. He even cycled to his best friend’s house, which was just nine buildings away. Grumpily, Aniket started walking. The thick and gnarled trees along the roadside were in full bloom, laying out a colourful carpet of flowers. Guided by moonbeams, fanned by a gentle breeze, with the twinkling stars encouraging them, Aniket and Fortune walked towards Laura Lucklina’s castle. Soon, they reached the seashore. In the middle of the sea, on a large island, stood a tall and regal golden castle, surrounded by a high wall. Aniket frowned; he didn’t know swimming. He was sure Laura Lucklina wanted her visitors to swim across to her castle. As he stood staring in dismay, he heard Fortune murmur, “Laura Lucklina isn’t all that bad. There is a boat to take you across. The reason she likes people to walk the first half of the journey is to test their endurance, patience, and perseverance before she meets them.” “I thought as much,” Aniket nodded. Sounds of Nature “Do you know what these waves are?” Fortune asked. “Yes. A wave is a disturbance, a change from the equilibrium of one or more fields...” But Fortune interrupted him. “That’s the scientific explanation. Waves actually are conversations between water and land. Water comes towards the shore to speak to it. Once their conversation is over, the waves retreat. Listen quietly and you can hear them.” All of a sudden, a gentle voice whispered, “Don’t you think the moon and the stars look lovely today?” “You are right. The stars are brighter than usual. Even the crescent moon has more glow than ever before,” the shore replied in a thick, heavy voice. “Today, I’ve brought you two visitors who will sail over your surface to go to Laura Lucklina’s castle.” “Thank you. We will be happy to take them across,” the waves replied, before they started retreating. Aniket was flabbergasted. Even in his wildest dreams, he had never imagined land and water talking. He had no idea that all elements of Nature communicated with one another.  To be continued...   Waves are actually the conversation between water and land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-silver-bottle-a-strange-discovery/article33089725.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article33089663.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article33089695.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||From fields to the stage||When SS Truro arrived in Durban from Madras on November 16, 1860, aboard the vessel were not just 342 Indian indentured labourers but also a slice of Indian art and culture. Subsequently, many more Indians were brought to Natal in different ships. They were housed in cramped, dirty barracks and were made to work from sunrise to sunset on the plantations. “In that life of misery and hard work, it was music and dance that brought them some cheer,” says Vasugi Devar Singh, author of the book, Bharathanatyam: A journey from India to South Africa, who started Indian dance classes in Durban in 1975. The first batch of labourers came from South India, and “they performed therukoothu in open grounds, under trees or temporary shelters, particularly in Mount Edgecombe along the North Coast of KwaZulu Natal,” says Vasugi. Other dance styles were brought in by workers who came from other parts of India. To mark 160 years of the arrival of Indian indentured labourers to South Africa, the South African Indian Dance Alliance (SAIDA) has organised virtual performances and a global dance conference. In association with the 1860 Heritage Centre and Narthaki.com as digital partner, SAIDA will trace and document the journey of Indian dance from ‘Indenture to Stage’. “This event is important not only from the cultural aspect but is a way to revisit history. The trials faced by the indentured labourers are part of the story of how Indians established themselves as a community in this country. Today, we talk about that journey with pride because our culture and heritage have kept us unified. And in this landmark year, we need to highlight and celebrate it,” says Smeetha Maharaj, chairperson, SAIDA, and Principal, Nateshwar Dance Academy. The most difficult period was not just between 1860 and 1911, when more than a lakh labourers were brought from India and treated with scant concern. It extended into the apartheid era, when the cultural boycott of South Africa shattered the creative dreams of many performers. Some Indians with funding and community support travelled to India to pursue their art. “In 1959, Salochana Naidoo, the first woman to train in Bharatanatyam and have an arangetram in India, inspired other young women including the well-known Nydoo sisters, Rani and Prema. On their return to South Africa, they began to teach youngsters, conducting classes in the garage or backyards of their houses,” says Vasugi, who is among those who travelled to India. She learnt from Sharmilla Mohanraj at the Balasaraswati School of Dance at Madras Music Academy.  Creative influences Artistic exchange between communities was an exciting outcome of South Africa’s transition to democracy in 1994. Though classical and folk forms helped Indians establish their identity in a multiracial society, they designed their performances to reflect Afro-Asian sensibilities. “Artistes should not insulate themselves from diverse influences. It broadens perspective and helps art to be inclusive. As a classical artiste, I experience the spirit of India even while absorbing the essence of other cultures. Through the political and social upheavals, art has been a constant comforting factor,” she says. Choreographers have explored concepts of multiculturalism, cross-culturalism, contemporary, tradition and innovation. “Besides Bharatanatyam and Kathak, enthusiasts are pursuing Odissi and Kuchipudi too. The global conference ‘Voices across waters’ on November 21 and 22 will host speakers from the Indian diaspora in Surinam, Guyana, Trinidad and Tobago, Mauritius, Reunion and Fiji, who all have a shared history of indenture. The young invitees at the conference will address the question, ‘From here to where,’ looking at future challenges and issues,” says Smeetha. The virtual presentation on November 16 when the SAIDA event is to be launched will trace the development of Indian dance in South Africa through a collage of recorded performances that will showcase various dance genres that have defined the diasporic culture over the past 160 years.  Though the cultural boycott of South Africa during apartheid shattered the creative dreams of many Indians, some of them managed to travel to India to pursue their art||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/from-fields-to-the-stage/article33089257.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The men in Odissi||It’s an irony that Lord Nataraj, the creator of dance, is male while his creation has been the bastion of the female. Similarly, although the beauty and popularity of the classical dance style of Odissi owes much to the vision of pioneering male dancers like Kelucharan Mohapatra, it has become famous as a predominantly feminine form. In recent years, however, the number of male dancers has been on the rise, defying traditional expectations that women dancers might best depict the form’s fluid moves, sensuous curves, sculpturesque poses, and delicate gestures. In Odisha, of course, there is sculptural evidence of a strong tradition of male dancers. The ancient Parsurameswar temple in Bhubaneswar has the maximum number of sculptures depicting male dancers while Brahmeswar temple, Megheswar temple, Kapileswar temple, all in Bhubaneswar; Jagannath temple in Puri, and the Sun temple in Konark, built between the 12th and 13th centuries, also have several such depictions. In fact, the ancient dance form of Gotipua, performed by young boys dressed as girls, is considered a precursor to Odissi. In 1958, however, when Odissi was reconstructed as a classical dance form, the male dancer got marginalised. A prime factor for this was also the socio-economic background of male dancers. While the first generation of female dancers like Sanjukta Panigrahi, Sonal Mansingh and Kumkum Mohanty came from progressive and well-to-do families who supported their dance careers, most of the male dancers came from poorer backgrounds and had to fall back on teaching to make a living. Much-delayed boost In 1964, an All-India Classical Dance Festival was hosted in Hyderabad, and Odissi was featured in it for the first time after being conferred the ‘classical’ status. It was here that the late Ramani Ranjan Jena, disciple of Guru Kelucharan, who would later become a well-known New Delhi-based guru, performed. It was the first solo presentation by a male Odissi dancer on a national platform. Despite Ramani Ranjan’s performance receiving rave responses, there was no conscious effort to promote male Odissi dancers for the next three decades. The much-delayed boost came, finally, in 1996 when Sangeet Natak Akademi hosted an Odissi dance festival in Bhubaneswar in which a large number of men performed. It was followed, four years later, by a seminar and workshop on ‘ Purush ang in Odissi dance’ that critically evaluated male dancing and male dancers in Odissi. It was in 1975 that the late Guru Gangadhar Pradhan’s famed Odisha Dance Academy in Bhubaneswar played a pivotal role in this area. Having started as a Gotipua dancer, Guru Pradhan picked handsome and dedicated young men from the villages, most of them Gotipua dancers, and brought them to his academy. Here, he not only trained them in Odissi but also ensured their education in the state-run Utkal Sangeet Mahavidyalaya, Odisha’s premier college for the performing arts in Bhubaneshwar. The grooming of male dancers was finally institutionalised. Then, Guru Bichitrananda Swain, Pradhan’s student and arguably Odissi’s best trainer and choreographer to date, who had also served as principal of the Odisha Dance Academy, took the process to the next level. When Guru Swain had arrived in Bhubaneswar to be a dancer, he was saddened by the plight of male dancers. “Even for the role of Krishna, female dancers were chosen. Like most of my predecessors, I hardly got to perform and ended up as a teacher and choreographer. I realised the urgent need to promote the purush ang in Odissi. I not only trained men but also created special compositions for them,” says the guru, whose Rudrakshya Odissi ensemble, started in 2000, is popular globally. Today, there is quite a brilliant band of immensely talented male Odissi dancers. While the celebrated Malaysia-based Ramli Ibrahim continues to be a crowd-puller, Rahul Acharya, Lingaraj Pradhan and Yudhisthir Nayak — all winners of the Ustad Bismillah Khan Yuva Prativa Puraskar — as well as Debasis Patnaik and Pravat Kumar Swain have all turned out to be captivating solo performers. “With increasing awareness and global exposure, male Odissi dancers have certainly come of age. I see a lot more acceptance for them now,” says Rahul Acharya, the erudite dancer who is much in demand today. Adds Douglas Ridings, the most familiar face among male Odissi dancers in the U.S., “I see a lot of interest and excitement in audiences. I have been given many opportunities to perform across the U.S.” As Ramli Ibrahim says, “Odisha today has an incredible pool of talented male dancers. With the advent of institutions such as Rudrakshya Foundation in early 2000, with its dynamic founder-guru, the dancers have received international recognition. Bichitrananda’s exciting new repertoires show the male body and and movements at its best.”  The Bhubaneshwar-based author writes on classical dance   I realised the urgent need to promote the purush ang in Odissi. I not only trained men but also created compositions for them Bichitrananda Swain   In fact, the ancient dance form of Gotipua, performed by young boys dressed as girls, is considered a precursor to Odissi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-men-in-odissi/article33089254.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Kalamandalam turns 90||The story of Kerala Kalamandalam, among India’s most important centres for the performing arts, is interlinked with that of Kathakali, the dance form that once prospered under royal patronage. As this munificence began to dry up at the beginning of the 20th century, it practically orphaned the dance-theatre and various other classical arts of Kerala. It was against this backdrop that national poet Vallathol Narayana Menon held a discussion with the local ruler, Manakkulam Valiya Kunjunni Raja, who had a fully equipped Kathakali yogam (troupe) in his palace. Raja’s nephew, Manakkulam Mukunda Raja, also joined them. After considering various options, the trio established Kerala Kalamandalam, registering it as a charitable society in 1927 at Kozhikode. It was not only a realisation of their dream but an epochal moment in the history of Kathakali when, on November 9, 1930, Kunjunni Raja lit the traditional lamp in his palace to mark the birth of Kerala Kalamandalam. Incidentally, that day was also Vallathol’s 52nd birthday. The institution, now a deemed university, completed 90 years on November 9. The traditional ‘navathy’ celebrations have had to be postponed due to the pandemic. The benevolent Kunjunni Raja gifted the entire staff, students and paraphernalia of Kathakali training he held to Kalamandalam. As the students increased, the institution was shifted to Srinivasam Bungalow owned by Mukunda Raja at Mulankunnathukavu near Thrissur. Extensive tours were undertaken by Vallathol and Mukunda Raja to popularise Kathakali beyond the barriers of language, religion and geographical boundaries. In 1938, the Maharaja of Cochin granted a hectare on the picturesque banks of River Nila, where Kalamandalam was finally shifted. The Nila Campus is presently the campus for the university’s postgraduate courses. The expansion not only meant better infrastructure, it also meant the ability to offer training in other performing arts. Mohiniyattam, which was on the verge of extinction, was introduced as a separate department in 1932. In 1941, the government of Cochin issued a proclamation to take over the institution, and Vallathol became the chairman of the managing committee. Angry with this move, Mukunda Raja resigned as secretary. In 1955, for its silver jubilee celebrations, Jawaharlal Nehru visited Kalamandalam and donated Rs. 1 lakh. The birth of the State of Kerala in 1956 augured well. The first government headed by E.M.S Namboothiripad, an admirer of the arts, elevated Kalamandalam to a grand-in-aid institution and the administration was handed over to an executive board. The system continued until 2007, when Kalamandalam became a Deemed University. Vallathol had passed away in 1958, but by then the institution had already produced legends in Kathakali like Krishnan Nair, Ramankutty Nair, Padmanabhan Nair, Vazhankada Kunju Nair and Gopi; Neelakantan Nambissan in vocal music; Krishnankutty Poduval and Appukutty Poduval in percussion, and Kalyanikutty Amma and Sathyabhama in Mohiniyattam. The introduction of Koodiyattam in 1966 was a major decision for the institution. For the first time in the history of the ancient Sanskrit theatre, non-Chakyars and non-Nambiars were able to learn the art, breaking age-old tradition. Over the years, Kalamandalam has upheld the spirit of a secular approach to the arts, producing artistes such as Kalamandalam Hydrali, the well-known Kathakali musician, and Kalamandalam John, Kathakali dancer, whose institution Kalatharangini has branches across Europe. In 1973, the institution moved to a sprawling campus in Vallathol Nagar, to which it added a marvellous Koothambalam or theatre in 1977. After 2007, dovetailing the diploma courses with university education was not an easy job for the first vice-chancellor Dr. K.G. Paulose and registrar Dr. N.R. Gramaprakash. After their exit in 2011, the institution had to wait till 2018 before the experienced academician, Dr. T.K. Narayanan, arrived. “I had to start from scratch. Academic bodies had to be constituted and deans appointed. Efforts are now on for accreditation by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. The ‘deemed’ status has to be shed, as it makes us ineligible for UGC grants,” he says. . Kalamandalam offers 12 undergraduate and post-graduate courses apart from M.Phil and PhD in the classical performing arts of Kerala including percussion ensembles and ‘chutti’ (make-up and costumes). A major contribution of Kalamandalam has been in redesigning the costumes of Kathakali, Koodiyattam and Mohiniyattam. Where it lags behind is in an inadequate curriculum. Renowned artiste and former principal, Kalamandalam Gopi, who has pointed out that the curriculum needs to be redrafted by an expert committee, was nominated to the executive board recently.  The writer and culture critic is a trained musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kalamandalam-turns-90/article33089274.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The fading tribe of performer-gurus||How much does a star guru matter in Carnatic music? Empirically, the answer may be divided, going by the new careers that have blazed across the horizon in the past years. This statistic does not mean that there is a neutral correlation between a promising débutant and who he or she learnt from. Many great singers have proved otherwise. So the real question is, do we have a virtuous cycle of performing gurus spawning star disciples in every era? The oral tradition in Indian classical music is invaluable. The stalwarts who ruled vocal music from the 1930s to the 1960s made it an important part of their professional mission and responsibility. Masters such as Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar, Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, GNB, Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer, Madurai Mani Iyer and Musiri Subramanya Iyer had an army of disciples, many of whom went on to achieve similar laurels as their gurus. One easy metric is to enumerate Sangita Kalanidhis whose disciples also reached that peak. All these musicians went beyond their self-interest, with money seldom a factor. Then there were schools like the Dhanammal school, which collectively produced a huge club of performers and teachers. Even after the gurukula system vanished, top performers including D.K. Pattammal, D.K. Jayaraman, T.M. Thiagarajan, MLV and Dr. S. Ramanathan, among others, embraced a similar serious commitment to training. Then the chain started to weaken, although it was shored up by a set of brilliant teachers such as Calcutta Krishnamoorthy, P.S. Narayanaswamy, Suguna Purushottaman and Chingleput Ranganathan, who didn’t scale performance heights but were excellent at imparting skills. The broken link It was in 1980s and 1990s that the umbilical link between star performers and star disciples broke. In many private conversations with musicians and ardent followers, I haven’t quite cracked the reason why the tradition disappeared. There are some conjectures though. Foremost of these is that the singers started to become too busy with their own performance schedules to be able to track their students in a sustained way. Star students require 5-8 years of intense tutorship before their own careers can take flight. Continuity in their schooling is thus critical. A second possible reason is the declining faith in the one-guru formula. Many youngsters today have gone through a ‘guru-malika’ system. Is that a virtue or simply a more practical path for these times? Thirdly, barring a very small number, the children of the old masters didn’t take to professional music; many did not even go through formal learning. This too changed in the interim when the chain broke. Many scions took to formal learning from their star parents. Did that dissuade other serious and more capable students?  Teaching vs. performance There is also the monetary trade-off between teaching versus performance, especially after the expansion of overseas opportunities. Some musicians tell me that they had to take a careful call between preserving their voices for a tough and long performance calendar and serious teaching. That’s a fair point, as we have seen dramatic and sad declines in the voices of some stalwarts. Teaching is as much a passion as performing is. Is that the missing ingredient? There is also the question of whether the present-day star performers actually want to leave behind a teaching legacy. The answer will probably never be known. A whole generation of young students, meanwhile, will have very little live learning opportunities from the most accomplished performers of the day. Such tales will become part of music folklore.  The writer is a classical music critic and commentator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-fading-tribe-of-performer-gurus/article33089259.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Dharma in the time of pandemic||In a world driven by uncertainty, unhappiness and strife, COVID-19 has come as a sharp warning to humanity to introspect and heal. With values on the decline and humans seeming to have lost empathy, one feels a need to recharge and reconnect. Responding to this disconnect, writer and Hindi poet Surekha Kothari thought of using dharma as a tool. “Two years ago, I attended a lecture by my guru. He inspired me to write this book,” says Surekha. A Hindustani classical vocalist as well as Bharatanatyam and Manipuri dancer, Surekha’s book,Dharma by Design: A Universe in Harmony, simplifies the steps to dharma, offering ways and means to adapt and adopt, clean and simplify lives. “Dharma has always been important to me, and I saw the human, social and environmental deterioration around us as being due to the lack of dharma. Dharmic energy makes people conducive to benevolence from the universe,” she says. Dharma is not used as a synonym for religion, but as something beyond it, and a as a concept that can be universally applied by people the world over. The author offers four simple steps, four tenets or ways of living, drawn from her own life and learnings. According to the book, these four major pillars are satya (truth), tapa (austerity), shauch (cleanliness) and daya (compassion), and each can help people move towards a dharmic way of life, the book says. The book outlines each tenet clearly, making it accessible to the contemporary reader, even including pointers on how they can be practically adapted in daily living. With an introduction by N. Ravi, Publisher, The Hindu Group of Newspapers, and a foreword by writer Ashwin Sanghi, the book is to be launched virtually on November 19. You can register at tiny.cc/DharmaByDesign; webinar ID: 86265821111. Copies of the book are available on Flipkart and Amazon websites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dharma-in-the-time-of-pandemic/article33089270.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon melodies||The second edition of Barkha Ritu, hosted by Banyan Tree, will feature Carnatic musicians. The digital series, which began on November 12 with Ashwath Narayan’s performance, will stream the concerts of Akshay Ganesh (violin); B. Vijayagopal (flute); Abhishek Raghuram (vocal); and Sudha Ragunathan (vocal). The concerts will be available on the Bookmyshow website till November 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/monsoon-melodies/article33089262.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil play makes it to the finals||Mangai’s Tamil play One Can Only Laugh is one of nine plays from around the world to make it to the finals of The Red Curtain's Good The@ter Festival, which provided a platform this year when the stage has been out of bounds. It looked at plays that performed live to online audiences and broke barriers of geography and language. Finalists include performances from Brazil, the U.S., the UK, Finland, Germany, Nigeria, South Africa, Iran and more. Each production will be e-staged twice over Zoom between November 21-22 and 28-29. Season passes are available at theredcurtaininternational.org. Proceeds will be donated to organisations supporting theatre practitioners during this crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tamil-play-makes-it-to-the-finals/article33089264.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Tribute to SPB||Bharat Kalachar in association with ABBAS Cultural and Balaji’s Araadhana music team will present a musical tribute, ‘Isai Payanathil Thandhaiyum Maganum’, to SPB on November 15. Singer Shwetha Mohan and pianist Anil Srinivasan will present rare songs composed by M.S. Viswanathan and sung by SPB. The programme will be streamed live on the YouTube pages of YGM Galatta and Facebook Live at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tribute-to-spb/article33089268.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Global music contest||TVG’s Academy of Indian Music and Arts (TVG AIMA), Chennai, has launched an online devotional music contest, ‘Nav Navarathri,’ for those in the age group of 10 to 70. The top ten contestants will be featured at the academy’s nine-day music fest to be held in December. The last date for registration is November 20. Register ontvgaima.com.For further details, call +91 82481 26714.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/global-music-contest/article33089265.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||From fields to the stage||When SS Truro arrived in Durban from Madras on November 16, 1860, aboard the vessel were not just 342 Indian indentured labourers but also a slice of Indian art and culture. Subsequently, many more Indians were brought to Natal in different ships. They were housed in cramped, dirty barracks and were made to work from sunrise to sunset on the plantations. “In that life of misery and hard work, it was music and dance that brought them some cheer,” says Vasugi Devar Singh, author of the book, Bharathanatyam: A journey from India to South Africa, who started Indian dance classes in Durban in 1975. The first batch of labourers came from South India, and “they performed therukoothu in open grounds, under trees or temporary shelters, particularly in Mount Edgecombe along the North Coast of KwaZulu Natal,” says Vasugi. Other dance styles were brought in by workers who came from other parts of India. To mark 160 years of the arrival of Indian indentured labourers to South Africa, the South African Indian Dance Alliance (SAIDA) has organised virtual performances and a global dance conference. In association with the 1860 Heritage Centre and Narthaki.com as digital partner, SAIDA will trace and document the journey of Indian dance from ‘Indenture to Stage’. “This event is important not only from the cultural aspect but is a way to revisit history. The trials faced by the indentured labourers are part of the story of how Indians established themselves as a community in this country. Today, we talk about that journey with pride because our culture and heritage have kept us unified. And in this landmark year, we need to highlight and celebrate it,” says Smeetha Maharaj, chairperson, SAIDA, and Principal, Nateshwar Dance Academy. The most difficult period was not just between 1860 and 1911, when more than a lakh labourers were brought from India and treated with scant concern. It extended into the apartheid era, when the cultural boycott of South Africa shattered the creative dreams of many performers. Some Indians with funding and community support travelled to India to pursue their art. “In 1959, Salochana Naidoo, the first woman to train in Bharatanatyam and have an arangetram in India, inspired other young women including the well-known Nydoo sisters, Rani and Prema. On their return to South Africa, they began to teach youngsters, conducting classes in the garage or backyards of their houses,” says Vasugi, who is among those who travelled to India. She learnt from Sharmilla Mohanraj at the Balasaraswati School of Dance at Madras Music Academy.  Creative influences Artistic exchange between communities was an exciting outcome of South Africa’s transition to democracy in 1994. Though classical and folk forms helped Indians establish their identity in a multiracial society, they designed their performances to reflect Afro-Asian sensibilities. “Artistes should not insulate themselves from diverse influences. It broadens perspective and helps art to be inclusive. As a classical artiste, I experience the spirit of India even while absorbing the essence of other cultures. Through the political and social upheavals, art has been a constant comforting factor,” she says. Choreographers have explored concepts of multiculturalism, cross-culturalism, contemporary, tradition and innovation. “Besides Bharatanatyam and Kathak, enthusiasts are pursuing Odissi and Kuchipudi too. The global conference ‘Voices across waters’ on November 21 and 22 will host speakers from the Indian diaspora in Surinam, Guyana, Trinidad and Tobago, Mauritius, Reunion and Fiji, who all have a shared history of indenture. The young invitees at the conference will address the question, ‘From here to where,’ looking at future challenges and issues,” says Smeetha. The virtual presentation on November 16 when the SAIDA event is to be launched will trace the development of Indian dance in South Africa through a collage of recorded performances that will showcase various dance genres that have defined the diasporic culture over the past 160 years.  Though the cultural boycott of South Africa during apartheid shattered the creative dreams of many Indians, some of them managed to travel to India to pursue their art||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/from-fields-to-the-stage/article33089276.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The men in Odissi||It’s an irony that Lord Nataraj, the creator of dance, is male while his creation has been the bastion of the female. Similarly, although the beauty and popularity of the classical dance style of Odissi owes much to the vision of pioneering male dancers like Kelucharan Mohapatra, it has become famous as a predominantly feminine form. In recent years, however, the number of male dancers has been on the rise, defying traditional expectations that women dancers might best depict the form’s fluid moves, sensuous curves, sculpturesque poses, and delicate gestures. In Odisha, of course, there is sculptural evidence of a strong tradition of male dancers. The ancient Parsurameswar temple in Bhubaneswar has the maximum number of sculptures depicting male dancers while Brahmeswar temple, Megheswar temple, Kapileswar temple, all in Bhubaneswar; Jagannath temple in Puri, and the Sun temple in Konark, built between the 12th and 13th centuries, also have several such depictions. In fact, the ancient dance form of Gotipua, performed by young boys dressed as girls, is considered a precursor to Odissi. In 1958, however, when Odissi was reconstructed as a classical dance form, the male dancer got marginalised. A prime factor for this was also the socio-economic background of male dancers. While the first generation of female dancers like Sanjukta Panigrahi, Sonal Mansingh and Kumkum Mohanty came from progressive and well-to-do families who supported their dance careers, most of the male dancers came from poorer backgrounds and had to fall back on teaching to make a living. Much-delayed boost In 1964, an All-India Classical Dance Festival was hosted in Hyderabad, and Odissi was featured in it for the first time after being conferred the ‘classical’ status. It was here that the late Ramani Ranjan Jena, disciple of Guru Kelucharan, who would later become a well-known New Delhi-based guru, performed. It was the first solo presentation by a male Odissi dancer on a national platform. Despite Ramani Ranjan’s performance receiving rave responses, there was no conscious effort to promote male Odissi dancers for the next three decades. The much-delayed boost came, finally, in 1996 when Sangeet Natak Akademi hosted an Odissi dance festival in Bhubaneswar in which a large number of men performed. It was followed, four years later, by a seminar and workshop on ‘ Purush ang in Odissi dance’ that critically evaluated male dancing and male dancers in Odissi. It was in 1975 that the late Guru Gangadhar Pradhan’s famed Odisha Dance Academy in Bhubaneswar played a pivotal role in this area. Having started as a Gotipua dancer, Guru Pradhan picked handsome and dedicated young men from the villages, most of them Gotipua dancers, and brought them to his academy. Here, he not only trained them in Odissi but also ensured their education in the state-run Utkal Sangeet Mahavidyalaya, Odisha’s premier college for the performing arts in Bhubaneshwar. The grooming of male dancers was finally institutionalised. Then, Guru Bichitrananda Swain, Pradhan’s student and arguably Odissi’s best trainer and choreographer to date, who had also served as principal of the Odisha Dance Academy, took the process to the next level. When Guru Swain had arrived in Bhubaneswar to be a dancer, he was saddened by the plight of male dancers. “Even for the role of Krishna, female dancers were chosen. Like most of my predecessors, I hardly got to perform and ended up as a teacher and choreographer. I realised the urgent need to promote the purush ang in Odissi. I not only trained men but also created special compositions for them,” says the guru, whose Rudrakshya Odissi ensemble, started in 2000, is popular globally. Today, there is quite a brilliant band of immensely talented male Odissi dancers. While the celebrated Malaysia-based Ramli Ibrahim continues to be a crowd-puller, Rahul Acharya, Lingaraj Pradhan and Yudhisthir Nayak — all winners of the Ustad Bismillah Khan Yuva Prativa Puraskar — as well as Debasis Patnaik and Pravat Kumar Swain have all turned out to be captivating solo performers. “With increasing awareness and global exposure, male Odissi dancers have certainly come of age. I see a lot more acceptance for them now,” says Rahul Acharya, the erudite dancer who is much in demand today. Adds Douglas Ridings, the most familiar face among male Odissi dancers in the U.S., “I see a lot of interest and excitement in audiences. I have been given many opportunities to perform across the U.S.” As Ramli Ibrahim says, “Odisha today has an incredible pool of talented male dancers. With the advent of institutions such as Rudrakshya Foundation in early 2000, with its dynamic founder-guru, the dancers have received international recognition. Bichitrananda’s exciting new repertoires show the male body and and movements at its best.”  The Bhubaneshwar-based author writes on classical dance   I realised the urgent need to promote the purush ang in Odissi. I not only trained men but also created compositions for them Bichitrananda Swain   In fact, the ancient dance form of Gotipua, performed by young boys dressed as girls, is considered a precursor to Odissi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-men-in-odissi/article33089275.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The fading tribe of performer-gurus||How much does a star guru matter in Carnatic music? Empirically, the answer may be divided, going by the new careers that have blazed across the horizon in the past years. This statistic does not mean that there is a neutral correlation between a promising débutant and who he or she learnt from. Many great singers have proved otherwise. So the real question is, do we have a virtuous cycle of performing gurus spawning star disciples in every era? The oral tradition in Indian classical music is invaluable. The stalwarts who ruled vocal music from the 1930s to the 1960s made it an important part of their professional mission and responsibility. Masters such as Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar, Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, GNB, Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer, Madurai Mani Iyer and Musiri Subramanya Iyer had an army of disciples, many of whom went on to achieve similar laurels as their gurus. One easy metric is to enumerate Sangita Kalanidhis whose disciples also reached that peak. All these musicians went beyond their self-interest, with money seldom a factor. Then there were schools like the Dhanammal school, which collectively produced a huge club of performers and teachers. Even after the gurukula system vanished, top performers including D.K. Pattammal, D.K. Jayaraman, T.M. Thiagarajan, MLV and Dr. S. Ramanathan, among others, embraced a similar serious commitment to training. Then the chain started to weaken, although it was shored up by a set of brilliant teachers such as Calcutta Krishnamoorthy, P.S. Narayanaswamy, Suguna Purushottaman and Chingleput Ranganathan, who didn’t scale performance heights but were excellent at imparting skills. The broken link It was in 1980s and 1990s that the umbilical link between star performers and star disciples broke. In many private conversations with musicians and ardent followers, I haven’t quite cracked the reason why the tradition disappeared. There are some conjectures though. Foremost of these is that the singers started to become too busy with their own performance schedules to be able to track their students in a sustained way. Star students require 5-8 years of intense tutorship before their own careers can take flight. Continuity in their schooling is thus critical. A second possible reason is the declining faith in the one-guru formula. Many youngsters today have gone through a ‘guru-malika’ system. Is that a virtue or simply a more practical path for these times? Thirdly, barring a very small number, the children of the old masters didn’t take to professional music; many did not even go through formal learning. This too changed in the interim when the chain broke. Many scions took to formal learning from their star parents. Did that dissuade other serious and more capable students?  Teaching vs. performance There is also the monetary trade-off between teaching versus performance, especially after the expansion of overseas opportunities. Some musicians tell me that they had to take a careful call between preserving their voices for a tough and long performance calendar and serious teaching. That’s a fair point, as we have seen dramatic and sad declines in the voices of some stalwarts. Teaching is as much a passion as performing is. Is that the missing ingredient? There is also the question of whether the present-day star performers actually want to leave behind a teaching legacy. The answer will probably never be known. A whole generation of young students, meanwhile, will have very little live learning opportunities from the most accomplished performers of the day. Such tales will become part of music folklore.  The writer is a classical music critic and commentator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-fading-tribe-of-performer-gurus/article33089277.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Kalamandalam turns 90||The story of Kerala Kalamandalam, among India’s most important centres for the performing arts, is interlinked with that of Kathakali, the dance form that once prospered under royal patronage. As this munificence began to dry up at the beginning of the 20th century, it practically orphaned the dance-theatre and various other classical arts of Kerala. It was against this backdrop that national poet Vallathol Narayana Menon held a discussion with the local ruler, Manakkulam Valiya Kunjunni Raja, who had a fully equipped Kathakali yogam (troupe) in his palace. Raja’s nephew, Manakkulam Mukunda Raja, also joined them. After considering various options, the trio established Kerala Kalamandalam, registering it as a charitable society in 1927 at Kozhikode. It was not only a realisation of their dream but an epochal moment in the history of Kathakali when, on November 9, 1930, Kunjunni Raja lit the traditional lamp in his palace to mark the birth of Kerala Kalamandalam. Incidentally, that day was also Vallathol’s 52nd birthday. The institution, now a deemed university, completed 90 years on November 9. The traditional ‘navathy’ celebrations have had to be postponed due to the pandemic. The benevolent Kunjunni Raja gifted the entire staff, students and paraphernalia of Kathakali training he held to Kalamandalam. As the students increased, the institution was shifted to Srinivasam Bungalow owned by Mukunda Raja at Mulankunnathukavu near Thrissur. Extensive tours were undertaken by Vallathol and Mukunda Raja to popularise Kathakali beyond the barriers of language, religion and geographical boundaries. In 1938, the Maharaja of Cochin granted a hectare on the picturesque banks of River Nila, where Kalamandalam was finally shifted. The Nila Campus is presently the campus for the university’s postgraduate courses. The expansion not only meant better infrastructure, it also meant the ability to offer training in other performing arts. Mohiniyattam, which was on the verge of extinction, was introduced as a separate department in 1932. In 1941, the government of Cochin issued a proclamation to take over the institution, and Vallathol became the chairman of the managing committee. Angry with this move, Mukunda Raja resigned as secretary. In 1955, for its silver jubilee celebrations, Jawaharlal Nehru visited Kalamandalam and donated Rs. 1 lakh. The birth of the State of Kerala in 1956 augured well. The first government headed by E.M.S Namboothiripad, an admirer of the arts, elevated Kalamandalam to a grand-in-aid institution and the administration was handed over to an executive board. The system continued until 2007, when Kalamandalam became a Deemed University. Vallathol had passed away in 1958, but by then the institution had already produced legends in Kathakali like Krishnan Nair, Ramankutty Nair, Padmanabhan Nair, Vazhankada Kunju Nair and Gopi; Neelakantan Nambissan in vocal music; Krishnankutty Poduval and Appukutty Poduval in percussion, and Kalyanikutty Amma and Sathyabhama in Mohiniyattam. The introduction of Koodiyattam in 1966 was a major decision for the institution. For the first time in the history of the ancient Sanskrit theatre, non-Chakyars and non-Nambiars were able to learn the art, breaking age-old tradition. Over the years, Kalamandalam has upheld the spirit of a secular approach to the arts, producing artistes such as Kalamandalam Hydrali, the well-known Kathakali musician, and Kalamandalam John, Kathakali dancer, whose institution Kalatharangini has branches across Europe. In 1973, the institution moved to a sprawling campus in Vallathol Nagar, to which it added a marvellous Koothambalam or theatre in 1977. After 2007, dovetailing the diploma courses with university education was not an easy job for the first vice-chancellor Dr. K.G. Paulose and registrar Dr. N.R. Gramaprakash. After their exit in 2011, the institution had to wait till 2018 before the experienced academician, Dr. T.K. Narayanan, arrived. “I had to start from scratch. Academic bodies had to be constituted and deans appointed. Efforts are now on for accreditation by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. The ‘deemed’ status has to be shed, as it makes us ineligible for UGC grants,” he says. . Kalamandalam offers 12 undergraduate and post-graduate courses apart from M.Phil and PhD in the classical performing arts of Kerala including percussion ensembles and ‘chutti’ (make-up and costumes). A major contribution of Kalamandalam has been in redesigning the costumes of Kathakali, Koodiyattam and Mohiniyattam. Where it lags behind is in an inadequate curriculum. Renowned artiste and former principal, Kalamandalam Gopi, who has pointed out that the curriculum needs to be redrafted by an expert committee, was nominated to the executive board recently.  The writer and culture critic is a trained musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kalamandalam-turns-90/article33089283.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Dharma in the time of pandemic||In a world driven by uncertainty, unhappiness and strife, COVID-19 has come as a sharp warning to humanity to introspect and heal. With values on the decline and humans seeming to have lost empathy, one feels a need to recharge and reconnect. Responding to this disconnect, writer and Hindi poet Surekha Kothari thought of using dharma as a tool. “Two years ago, I attended a lecture by my guru. He inspired me to write this book,” says Surekha. A Hindustani classical vocalist as well as Bharatanatyam and Manipuri dancer, Surekha’s book,Dharma by Design: A Universe in Harmony, simplifies the steps to dharma, offering ways and means to adapt and adopt, clean and simplify lives. “Dharma has always been important to me, and I saw the human, social and environmental deterioration around us as being due to the lack of dharma. Dharmic energy makes people conducive to benevolence from the universe,” she says. Dharma is not used as a synonym for religion, but as something beyond it, and a as a concept that can be universally applied by people the world over. The author offers four simple steps, four tenets or ways of living, drawn from her own life and learnings. According to the book, these four major pillars are satya (truth), tapa (austerity), shauch (cleanliness) and daya (compassion), and each can help people move towards a dharmic way of life, the book says. The book outlines each tenet clearly, making it accessible to the contemporary reader, even including pointers on how they can be practically adapted in daily living. With an introduction by N. Ravi, Publisher, The Hindu Group of Newspapers, and a foreword by writer Ashwin Sanghi, the book is to be launched virtually on November 19. You can register at tiny.cc/DharmaByDesign; webinar ID: 86265821111. Copies of the book are available on Flipkart and Amazon websites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dharma-in-the-time-of-pandemic/article33089282.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon melodies||The second edition of Barkha Ritu, hosted by Banyan Tree, will feature Carnatic musicians. The digital series, which began on November 12 with Ashwath Narayan’s performance, will stream the concerts of Akshay Ganesh (violin); B. Vijayagopal (flute); Abhishek Raghuram (vocal); and Sudha Ragunathan (vocal). The concerts will be available on the Bookmyshow website till November 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/monsoon-melodies/article33089278.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil play makes it to the finals||Mangai’s Tamil play One Can Only Laugh is one of nine plays from around the world to make it to the finals of The Red Curtain's Good The@ter Festival, which provided a platform this year when the stage has been out of bounds. It looked at plays that performed live to online audiences and broke barriers of geography and language. Finalists include performances from Brazil, the U.S., the UK, Finland, Germany, Nigeria, South Africa, Iran and more. Each production will be e-staged twice over Zoom between November 21-22 and 28-29. Season passes are available at theredcurtaininternational.org. Proceeds will be donated to organisations supporting theatre practitioners during this crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tamil-play-makes-it-to-the-finals/article33089279.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Tribute to SPB||Bharat Kalachar in association with ABBAS Cultural and Balaji’s Araadhana music team will present a musical tribute, ‘Isai Payanathil Thandhaiyum Maganum’, to SPB on November 15. Singer Shwetha Mohan and pianist Anil Srinivasan will present rare songs composed by M.S. Viswanathan and sung by SPB. The programme will be streamed live on the YouTube pages of YGM Galatta and Facebook Live at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tribute-to-spb/article33089281.ece
13 November 2020||November 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Global music contest||TVG’s Academy of Indian Music and Arts (TVG AIMA), Chennai, has launched an online devotional music contest, ‘Nav Navarathri,’ for those in the age group of 10 to 70. The top ten contestants will be featured at the academy’s nine-day music fest to be held in December. The last date for registration is November 20. Register ontvgaima.com.For further details, call +91 82481 26714.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/global-music-contest/article33089280.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi/Gurugram/Ghaziabad,||This year, no cracker of a Deepavali||Thousands of livelihoods are at stake and business worth crores has been rendered worthless in a single stroke after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directive that banned the sale and use of firecrackers this festive season. Struggling to make ends meet for three consecutive years, firecracker retailers complained they felt shortchanged due to the decision, more so as it came in the 25th hour. If financial woes stare from one corner, disposing of hundreds of kilograms of firecrackers peer from the other. They are caught in a dilemma. While strict enforcement by Delhi Police led to the recovery of over 2,000 kg of illegal firecrackers in the Capital — even those who painstakingly procured the licence to sell green crackers had to shut shop — Ghaziabad’s firecracker hub Farrukh Nagar witnessed a shift in generational vocation. The tribunal’s direction to ban crackers in the National Capital Region a week before Deepavali dealt a severe blow to the wholesale traders of Gurugram, where a business that was badly hit by lockdown during the wedding season slipped closer to the abyss. ‘Black Deepavali’ “Business has been down for the last two years, but this Deepavali is truly a black Deepavali for us. A few days ago, we had Delhi government Ministers walking around the market brushing up their knowledge of green crackers and wishing us good business. The next moment, everything came crashing down,” complained Rakesh Kumar Yadav, president of the Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders Association. One of the largest wholesale markets in the country, Sadar Bazar is a firecracker hub as well. “There were around eight shops that had managed to get licence this year. Crores of firecrackers were bought by shopkeepers who put their life savings on the line besides taking loans to get their businesses on track. These shops have become storehouses of a product that was suddenly become illegal,” he said. Amit Jain of the Ajeet Fireworks in Jama Masid area complained that different governments seemed to be in a race to forge the impression that they are trying to do something to improve the air quality. But they are not bothered of the consequences their actions bear on livelihoods. “There is no policy when it comes to firecrackers, just orders. Why can’t governments sit down and chalk out actions at the beginning of the year instead of the last moment? Retailers are now forced to sit on stock worth Rs. 40 to Rs. 50 lakh, which is useless. Why allow manufacturing something you won’t allow to sell?” Mr. Jain asked. Odd jobs In Farrukh Nagar, residents said they were being forced to change professions. “For generations, we have been dealing with firecrackers. In 2017, after the Supreme Court order, around 80 permanent licences were revoked. Some of us were working with temporary licences but this NGT order took away all hope. We are jobless now,” said Mohammad Shaukeen of Rose Firecrackers. Most of them source firecrackers in bulk from Sivakasi and sell them to retailers in the NCR and adjoining districts. “What we earn during the Deepavali period helps us run our families for at least three-four months,” he said. Mohammad Dilshad, who used to run Shagun Firecrackers before switching to the textile business, said at least 20,000 people have been affected in Farrukh Nagar alone. “We were under the impression that we could sell green crackers and many of us stocked them for Deepavali. Now we are being told that selling green crackers is also out of question. If they had this in mind, they could have told us two months back. We could have avoided this loss,” he said. Locals said such orders give the administration the right to raid premises. “Our godowns have already been sealed, now police come and check our residences. Suddenly, a legal activity has become illegal and we are being seen with suspicion,” said a resident requesting anonymity. After the ban was announced, the Delhi Police has recovered around 2,000 kilograms of firecrackers in raids and arrested many for bursting firecrackers. According to the police, the DCPs of all the 15 districts will constitute station-wise teams to supervise the implementation of the NGT order. Each beat staff would be properly briefed by the SHOs to enforce the direction. All temporary fireworks licensees need to be informed in writing about the cancellation of such licenses and police teams will inspect the licensees and seal the stock. They will also ensure its storage in the safe custody of the licensees so that it is not misused, Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said. Stocks of unauthorised sellers would also be seized and legal action would be initiated against them, he added. The officer said all permanent licenses, issued by the licensing unit as well as the Joint Chief Controller of Explosives, Faridabad are to be suspended and the licensees should be informed about the same in writing. Ashok Kumar, a wholesale firecrackers trader in Gurugram’s Gadauli Khurd village, said he was looking forward to Deepavali to make up for the loss suffered during the lockdown, but the NGT order had left him high and dry. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, a day before the NGT order, had allowed a two-hour window to sell and burst crackers on Deepavali to mitigate the economic impact on the traders. With 14 of the 22 districts in Haryana falling under the NCR, the wholesale traders don’t have the option to even sell in the neighbouring districts. “Our business has been suffering for the past couple of years on account of ban or restrictions on the use of crackers during Deepavali. In 2018, the court ordered that only green crackers were allowed. We invested huge amounts on green crackers this year, but first the lockdown and now the court order has hit us hard,” said Mr. Kumar. He said there were nine wholesale traders in the Millennium City and were expected to suffer losses running into crores. Another trader, wishing anonymity, said that pollution was a round-the-year problem for NCR with vehicles, construction projects and factories being the chief culprits. He argued that it was wrong to single out firecrackers as the reason for pollution and enforce a blanket ban. He added that the court must spare a thought about the livelihood of lakhs of workers and traders involved in the business.  (With inputs from Anuj Kumar, Ashok Kumar, Saurabh Trivedi and Jatin Anand)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/this-year-no-cracker-of-a-deepavali/article33088990.ece
13 November 2020||Jaipur,||Gujjar protesters vacate rail tracks in Rajasthan||Gujjar protesters demanding reservation in jobs and education vacated the railway tracks at Peelupura in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district on Thursday after having occupied them for 11 days. The agitation was called off late on Wednesday night following an agreement signed with the State government in Jaipur. The Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti had launched the agitation on November 1 for a 5% quota under the Most Backward Class (MBC) category in the ongoing recruitments and backlog vacancies and inclusion of a State reservation law in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution. In the pact signed between Gujjar supremo Kirori Singh Bainsla and a Cabinet Sub-Committee, the State government has agreed to give regular pay scale to 1,252 MBC candidates recruited earlier and appoint a committee on new recruitments. The government has held out an assurance of considering the other demands. The agitators vacated the railway tracks after the agreement was read out to them by the community leaders. They repaired the fishplates and clips they had earlier damaged. Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla said railway gangmen were checking the lines for restoration of train traffic. The protesters also cleared the roads, including the Bayana-Hindaun road, in Bharatpur and Karauli districts which they had blocked during the stir. Mobile internet services, which were suspended in Gujjar-dominated areas, were restored after the announcement of withdrawal of agitation.  No more diversion A North Western Railway spokesperson said the trains on the Delhi-Mumbai route, which were diverted or cancelled because of the track’s blockade, would run on their original route and all the affected rail operations would shortly be restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gujjar-protesters-vacate-rail-tracks-in-rajasthan/article33088978.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||DFS deploys over 2,000 personnel||Despite a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers, the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) deployed as many as 2,500 fire personnel for Dilwai to deal with any emergency here, said officials on Thursday. Also, DFS has cancelled leave applications of all fire personnel. Earlier this week, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed a total ban on the sale or use of any kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region from midnight of November 9 to midnight of November 30. According to the fire department, they received at least 280 calls on Diwali last year but owing to a complete ban on the sale and usage of firecrackers, they expect 20-25% less fire-related calls this year. However, their officers have ensured that vehicles are fully repaired and equipped to handle emergencies. DFS director Atul Garg said: “Although there is a complete ban on sale and usage of firecrackers, the fire department is completely alert and equipped to deal with any emergencies. Like every year, all our fire personnel will be on duty on Diwali. We have also identified 24 spots where our vehicles will be deployed tomorrow [Friday] as well as on the day of Diwali to attend any emergency.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dfs-deploys-over-2000-personnel/article33088987.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality improves slightly||The air quality of Delhi and Noida improved slightly and remained in the “very poor” category on Thursday and Gurugram’s in the “poor” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air quality of the Capital is expected to deteriorate to the higher end of the “very poor” category by Saturday. “Air quality is predicted to deteriorate and remain in higher-end of very poor levels in absence of any additional emissions due to fireworks during Diwali. The stubble burning induced impact in AQI is expected to increase from negligible to moderate for the next two days,” said System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). A spike in PM 2.5, a chief pollutant, level in the small hours of Sunday, a day after Diwali, is likely and under zero firecracker scenario, the level of PM2.5 is likely to be lowest in the past four years, as not so calm surface winds in Delhi will help in dispersion of pollutants, as per SAFAR. The PM2.5 level in Delhi was 160.8 ug/m3 at 7 pm on Thursday — more than two and a half times the safe limit (60ug/m3) as per Indian standards. The AQI (Air Quality Index) of Delhi was 314 on Thursday and the values for Gurugram and Noida were 293 and 305 respectively, as per CPCB’s 4 pm bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhis-air-quality-improves-slightly/article33088985.ece
13 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||No HC relief for newspaper editor||The Meghalaya High Court has declined to quash a criminal case against a senior Shillong-based journalist for her Facebook post about continued attacks on non-tribal people in the State. Patricia Mukhim, the editor of The Shillong Times had on July 4 said Meghalaya has been a failed State because of continued attacks on non-tribal people and that the attackers and trouble-mongers have never been arrested since 1979. She said this in reference to an alleged attack on a group of non-tribal boys by 20-25 unidentified youths at a basketball court in Shillong on July 3. She approached the High Court after the police registered a criminal case against her on the basis of a complaint and asked her to appear before the investigating officer. She said that she had only expressed concern about the handling of the assault case by the police. Hearing the case on November 10, Justice W. Diengdoh observed that the Facebook post sought to create a divide in the “cordial relationship between the tribal and non-tribal” living in Meghalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-hc-relief-for-newspaper-editor/article33088980.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPWD launches design competition for ‘iconic structure’ at New India Garden||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Thursday launched a design competition for an “iconic structure” at the proposed New India Garden along the Yamuna near Purana Qila as a part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. The structure could be a tower or sculpture with a maximum height of 134 metres, according to the project brief released by the CPWD. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs said the competition would be held to “crowd-source implementable ideas for the conceptual architectural and structural design of the iconic structure at Nav Bharat Udyan (New India Garden), New Delhi to commemorate 75th year of Indian Independence”. As a part of the redevelopment of the Central Vista, the existing 2.9-km-long Central Vista Axis from Rashtrapati Bhavan till India Gate would be extended till the garden spread over 20.22 acre, the statement said. An official said a pathway connecting the existing Central Vista to the new garden could be part of the plan. “The Central Vista Master Plan envisages developing/redeveloping Central Vista as a world class public space, restoring its grandeur as an architectural icon, housing modern facilities for efficient functioning of administration, strengthening cultural institutions and commemorating 75th year of Indian independence...Spread over 20.22 acres, Nav Bharat Udyan will be open to the public and is being designed to have an iconic structure and infotainment facilities,” the Ministry said. The features in the garden would showcase historical and cultural heritage and “symbolise unity in diversity and aspirations of the New India”, it said. Among the requirements for the design, the CPWD asked: “The structure should be iconic in design and represent the national capitalcity. For example, at present India Gate erected by the British in the Central Vista in the early 20th century prominently signifies Delhi. The proposed iconic structure being built in the independent India should now become a new symbol of the Capital.” The structure should be built to last, like the Iron Pillar in Qutub Minar, it said, adding that it should use indigenous materials in keeping with the government’s vision of “Atmanirbhar Bhart” or self-reliant India. The project is expected to be completed by August 15, 2022 to commemorate 75 years of Independence. Indian citizens and organisations would be able to apply for the competition, which will have a prize of Rs. 5 lakh for the winning entry. The deadline for entries would be December 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cpwd-launches-design-competition-for-iconic-structure-at-new-india-garden/article33088983.ece
13 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police step up security in city ahead of festivals||The police on Thursday stepped up security arrangements here to put a check on any terror activity and ensure that people strictly adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines during Deepavali. Teams have been formed to check violations of social distancing guidelines. The staff on security duty has been instructed to wear masks and keep sanitising their hands. “We have installed three machines in Lajpat Nagar market to keep watch on any anti-social activity. We have also deployed police personnel in plain clothes in the market,” an officer said. A meeting was held with shop owners and market associations to regulate the crowd on Dhanteras at jewellery showrooms. More PCR vans are deployed around market areas. “To regulate smooth traffic, four-wheelers have been restricted to enter roads leading to the market. Cranes have been deployed to keep a check on vehicles parked at unauthorised places,” added the officer. Quick Reaction Teams and armed paramilitary personnel have been deployed in key areas, including Khan Market, Bengali Market, Connaught Place, Sarojni Nagar, Karol Bagh and other market areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-step-up-security-in-city-ahead-of-festivals/article33088988.ece
13 November 2020||Bhopal,||Court refuses to quash case against Ekta Kapoor||The Indore Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High court has dismissed a petition of television producer Ekta Kapoor seeking quashing of a case registered against her for alleged obscenity in a web series. On Wednesday, Justice Shailendra Shukla observed that the facts of the case were not such that the court might exercise its extraordinary powers under Section 482 of Cr.P.C for quashing the FIR at least in respect of sections 67 and 67-A of the Information Technology (IT) Act and 294 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The complainant had alleged an episode of the series ‘XXX uncensored’ was obscene and caused annoyance to him, hurt his religious feelings and dishonoured the Army. Yet the court noted section 298 (Uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person) of the IPC and the State Emblem Act were not found to have been breached. The case was registered at the Annapurna police station, Indore, under sections 294 (Obscene acts and songs), 298 and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and sections 67( Punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) and 67-A (Punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form) of the I.T. Act and Section 3 of the State Emblem Act. The scene of physical intimacy depicted acts of copulation which were although not graphic in nature but were simulated which had been termed to be “obscene,” the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-refuses-to-quash-case-against-ekta-kapoor/article33088979.ece
13 November 2020||Guwahati,||Mystery shrouds death of Assam TV journalist||A television journalist based in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district died on Thursday following what his colleagues said was a mysterious road accident. Parag Bhuyan, 47, was the brother of former Minister Jagadish Bhuyan who had quit the Bharatiya Janata Party a year ago over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Nitumoni Saikia, editor-in-chief of Pratidin Time, said a pick-up vehicle hit Mr. Bhuyan near his house at Kakopathar on Wednesday night and escaped through a check-gate put up by the local police station nearby. “The initial indifference of the police makes us suspect that he was murdered for exposing illegalities and corruption around Kakopathar,” Mr. Saikia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mystery-shrouds-death-of-assam-tv-journalist/article33088981.ece
13 November 2020||New Delhi,||Rs. 4.39 crore aid given to 77 sportspersons||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal felicitated 77 sportspersons under the ‘Mission Excellence Scheme’ here on Thursday. The scheme provides financial assistance to players for training. Mr. Kejriwal and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia provided financial assistance of Rs. 4.39 crore to 77 players from Delhi. Mr. Sisodia said that a total of 708 applications were received this year out of which 77 players have been selected by a prestigious expert committee without any interference from the government. Para athlete Reena said she received a cheque of Rs. 8 lakh from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rs-439-crore-aid-given-to-77-sportspersons/article33088984.ece
13 November 2020||Dharamshala (H.P.),||Noted actor Asif Basra found dead||Actor Asif Basra, known for starring in movies such as “Jab We Met”, “Once Upon a Time in Mumbaai” and “Kai Po Che!”, died on Thursday here, the police said. He was 53. The actor was found hanging in a private complex here by the police and a team of forensic experts is on the spot, said SSP Kangra Vimukt Ranjan. The police is investigating the case and further details are awaited, Mr. Ranjan added. It is being reported that the actor had a property on lease for the past five-six years in McLeodganj, Upper Dharamshala, and used to visit the place regularly. In his over two decade-long career, Basra played supporting parts in many critically-acclaimed features like “Black Friday”, “Parzania” and “Outsourced”.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/noted-actor-asif-basra-found-dead/article33088976.ece
