24 November 2020||London,||Oxford vaccine is 70% effective||Pharma major AstraZeneca said on Monday its COVID-19 vaccine could be as much as 90% effective, giving the world’s fight against the global pandemic a new weapon, cheaper to make, easier to distribute and faster to scale-up than rivals. The British drugmaker said it will have as many as 200 million doses by the end of 2020, around four times as many as U.S. competitor Pfizer. Seven hundred million doses could be ready globally as early as the end of the first quarter of 2021, it said. “This means we have a vaccine for the world,” said Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford University vaccine group that developed the drug. The vaccine on average prevented 70% of COVID-19 cases in late-stage trials in Britain and Brazil but the success rate rose to 90% if the vaccine was administered as a half dose followed by a full dose. The efficacy was 62% if the full dose was given twice, as it was for most study participants. No serious safety events were confirmed, the company said. Shares fall However, AstraZeneca’s shares fell 4%, on track for their worst daily performance in six months, as investors perceived the efficacy data as disappointing compared with rivals. Pfizer and Moderna, which reported that their vaccines prevented around 95% of cases, had set the bar for success sky-high. The AstraZeneca shot does, however, have some advantages over offerings from U.S. rivals. The drug’s cost to governments works out at just a few dollars a shot, a fraction of the price of shots from Pfizer and Moderna, which use a more unconventional technology. It can also be transported and stored at normal fridge temperatures, which proponents say would make it easier to distribute, especially in poor countries, than Pfizer’s, which needs to be shipped and stored at -70C. The faster roll-out means both rich and poor countries that had been drawing up plans to ration vaccines can distribute them more widely. “The big advantage of having the vaccine is that it can be stored, transported and handled at 2-8 degrees Celsius, and we have that storage facility,” said Britain’s Health Secretary Matt Hancock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/single-dose-of-oxford-vaccine-is-70-effective-against-covid-19/article33165206.ece
24 November 2020||MANGALURU,||‘High temperature may have caused sea sparkle in city’||The College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, has said that bioluminescence being witnessed along the Dakshina Kannada-Udupi coast during the past few days was due to the bloom of dinoflagellates, scientifically called Noctiluca scintillans and commonly known as sea sparkle. College dean A. Senthil Vel in a statement here said that though it was difficult to exactly find the reason for the sudden bloom of the Noctiluca species, prima facie it looks like the result of high temperature of the water, 32 degrees Celsius as against 30 degrees Celsius on the surface of the Earth, as observed at 6 p.m. on Saturday. The luminoucity of plankton was high at 7.30 p.m. along the coast, he said. High temperature, high quantity of organic material such as sewage and effluents and increased turbulence/wave action of the water could be the cause for the sudden bloom. Apart from human causes, the adverse impact of global warming leading to increased sea water temperature could be playing a major role in such phenomenon. The college would track the bloom and find out if there were any fish kill or obnoxious smell from the area. Prof. Vel said that following reports of bioluminescence, the college deputed a team of scientists comprising M.T. Lakshmipathi, T.S. Annappaswamy, D.P. Rajesh, Chandran and Harshath to Malpe-Padukare, Sasihithlu and Surathkal on Saturday. The team collected water sample for plankton analysis as well as bacterial composition. The major plankton composition consisted of Noctiluca scintillans causing bioluminescence in the coastal waters. Bioluminescence, or light emitted by living organisms or algae through chemical reactions in their bodies, could also be the ghostly glow of bacteria on decaying organic matter or in the sediment/sand. Bioluminescence by Noctiluca , genus of marine dinoflagellate in the family of Noctilucaceae , was the most commonly occurring event across the world, Prof. Vel said. Such blooms, which form a thick scum across the sea surface, visibly red or pink in daylight, are known to be hazardous to fish and certain other marine species. However, no such fish kill has been reported on the coast so far. The bacterial analysis would be out on Tuesday and the results would indicate if there were any other bioluminescent bacteria or other micro organisms as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-temperature-may-have-caused-sea-sparkle-in-city/article33165838.ece
24 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Hubballi-Dharwad No. 1 in State in Smart City contest||Hubballi Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL) has topped the State in the implementation of various projects under the Smart City Scheme and has bagged the 13th position among the 100 Smart Cities in the country. In all, 57 projects were proposed under the Smart City Scheme in Hubballi-Dharwad and of them, 10 projects have already been completed. While 43 projects are in various stages of implementation, four projects are going through the tendering process. There is one project worth Rs. 150 crore for which a detailed project report is being prepared. There are no projects in the concept stage. The twin cities have improved their ranking at the national level because of the progress achieved in the implementation of the projects and also financial progress made. HDSCL was in the 27th position at the national level in the ranking published last week. According to Special Officer of HDSCL S.H. Naregal, the issue of work order for the LED Street Light Project worth Rs. 65 crore being taken up under public-private partnership has helped HDSCL secure more points. HDSCL floated tenders for three projects worth Rs. 54.24 crore in the last week. Mr. Naregal has said that as there had been good financial progress in the various projects under implementation, the twin cities had secured more points in project implementation. Among the projects under implementation, 10, estimated at Rs. 96 crore, are expected to be completed by January 2021. Mr. Naregal has said that steps are being taken to expedite the projects and complete them in advance without compromising on quality. And, these measures had helped in improvement in the city ranking at the State and national level. Along with Hubballi-Dharwad, there are two more cities from Karnataka that have figured in the top 20 ranking at the national level. Davangere, which is ranked 2nd at the State level, has secured the 14th rank at the national level, and Tumakuru ranked third in the State is ranked 18th at the national level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hubballi-dharwad-no-1-in-state-in-smart-city-contest/article33165357.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Get vocal for local in GHMC polls — Vote TRS’||Working president of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) K.T. Rama Rao has asked the people living in GHMC areas to get “vocal for local” and support TRS instead of Delhi-based BJP or Congress. Addressing road shows at Ashtalaxmi Arch Chowrastha in R.K.Puram, Big Bazar Chowrastha in Mansoorabad, near Rythu Bazar in Vanasthalipuram, near Indra-Nagendra theatres in Karmanghat and P&T Colony Chowrastha in L.B. Nagar on Monday, he said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was suggesting people to get vocal for local, why was the BJP against the PM’s slogan in Telangana. Terming both the BJP and Congress as Delhi parties, he requested the voters to prefer a ‘galli’ (local) party like TRS in GHMC and Telangana. Criticising the BJP’s campaign issues such as offer to pay traffic violation challans by the civic body, the TRS leader sought to know what kind of message the BJP was planning to get across to the youth. Rubbishing Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s claims of giving Telangana Rs. 1 lakh crore, Mr. Rama Rao said Telangana had contributed nearly Rs. 2.73 lakh crore to the Centre in the form of taxes since its formation in June 2014, while it had received only Rs. 1.4 lakh crore from the Centre. “In layman’s terms, Telangana has got only 50 paise per every Rs. 1 contributed by it to the Centre,” Mr. Rama Rao said. The development taking place in BJP-ruled States such as Gujarat, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh had a contribution of taxes collected in Telangana too, the TRS working president said. Against the request for Rs. 1,350 crore flood assistance, the Centre had not trickled anything so far, he noted. However, Karnataka and Gujarat were given ample funds within days of their requests, he pointed out. On Dubbak poll result, the TRS working president observed that while the TRS leaders were busy helping flood-affected people in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the State, the BJP and Congress leaders were busy going round villages in the Assembly constituency seeking votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vote-trs-get-vocal-for-local-in-ghmc-elections/article33165786.ece
24 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala puts new libel law on hold||The Kerala government on Monday decided not to put into immediate effect an ordinance that sought to empower the police to prosecute persons disseminating defamatory content. Announcing the rollback, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said various quarters had aired scepticism about the recent revision to the Kerala Police Act, 2011. Hence, the government had decided not to implement the ordinance signed into law by Kerala Governor Arif Muhammad Khan last week. Alternatively, the government would seek a consensus by placing the amendment for debate in the Assembly, he said. The decision came after Mr. Vijayan held discussions with members of the CPI(M) State secretariat and the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Earlier, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury indicated in New Delhi that the Kerala government would “reconsider” the implementation of the contentious amendment. The LDF and the government had come under widespread criticism from opposition parties, journalists’ organisations and civil rights activists for promulgating a “black law” that threatened free speech and the freedom of the press. LDF convener and CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said concerns raised by progressive persons had prompted the rethink. The misuse of social media as a potent vehicle for slander targeting women, children and families had necessitated the law, he said. However, the scope of potential abuse of the law prompted its abandonment. Arch rivals Congress and BJP found themselves on the same page opposing the newly introduced Section 118 A of the Act. The amendment proposed a three-year prison term and a fine of up to Rs. 10,000 for those convicted of producing, publishing or disseminating derogatory content through any means of communication to intimidate, insult or defame any person. Opposition parties pointed out the law did not restrict itself to curbing “vile and inhumane social media posts against women and children” alone, as claimed by Mr. Vijayan repeatedly. Instead, the ordinance stopped short of limiting the law to social media and left the amendment open to broad and subjective interpretation by the police. At a stroke, the amendment brought the conventional media and also the whole gamut of social media posts and online commentary under its ambit. It also conceivably granted the police untrammelled authority to examine published and broadcast content and register cases on their own and even in the absence of a specific complaint, the opposition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-protests-kerala-puts-changes-to-libel-law-on-hold/article33165207.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Cyclone Nivar may bring heavy rain to some districts||The first cyclonic storm of this year’s northeast monsoon is likely to bring extremely heavy rain to one or two places in the delta region and the northern coastal districts of Tamil Nadu on Tuesday and Wednesday. To be named ‘Nivar’, as suggested by Iran, according to the list prepared by the World Meteorological Organisation’s panel, the weather system, currently a deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal, is about 360 km east-southeast of Puducherry and 420 km southeast of Chennai. It is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours, and further into a severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and cross the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry as a severe cyclonic storm on Wednesday evening. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the rain spells over the State would last three days, till November 26. The Department has issued a red alert, indicating that the State authorities should take action as extremely heavy rain of over 24.4 cm is possible in one or two places in some districts, including Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur, on Tuesday. More districts, including Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore and Perambalur, are likely to get extremely heavy rain in isolated places on November 25. 20 kmph speed S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the potential cyclone was moving at an average speed of 20 kmph. “Squally weather with wind speeds of 55-65 kmph may prevail in the north coastal areas on Tuesday and Wednesday. Heavy to very heavy rain (up to 24 cm) may occur in isolated places of north coastal areas, including Vellore, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Krishnagiri, on both the days. Chennai, too, will experience very heavy rain in some areas,” he said. “We are monitoring the dynamic weather system and tracking the landfall. We expect the system to reduce the overall deficit in the State’s seasonal rainfall, which stands at 25%,” he added. Senior meteorologist Y.E.A. Raj noted that in all probability, it may be a rain-filled storm, and may not have time to intensify further as its travel over the ocean area is less. “Nearly 13 weather disturbances have crossed the Karaikal-Mamallapuram belt during November and December, going by the records from 1971. A depression in 1993 and a cyclonic storm in 1994 originated from the same location as the present weather system,” he said. The Meteorological Department warned of a storm surge of 2 m near the landfall area, which may cause flooding in low-level areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyclone-nivar-may-bring-heavy-rain-to-some-districts/article33165252.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Supreme Court dismisses Delhi govt. plea against bail to riots accused||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed an appeal filed by the Delhi government against a High Court decision to grant bail to a SIM card salesman who was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. A three-judge Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, refused to set aside or intervene with the bail granted to Faizan Khan by the Delhi High Court on October 23. The High Court had noted that the prosecution did not produce any evidence to link Mr. Khan directly with the conspiracy to riot in the background of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests. Dismissing the appeal, the Bench said the remarks made by the High Court would not prejudice the trial. “We, however, make it clear that observations made by the High Court in the impugned judgment are only for the purpose of granting the bail and shall not be treated as any expression of opinion during trial,” the top court said. The High Court had pointed out that there was no allegation against Mr. Khan that he engaged in any form of terror funding or such other ancillary activity. “For invoking the UAPA against the present petitioner [Khan], it is the duty of the investigating agency to demonstrate that the petitioner had ‘actual knowledge’ that the said SIM card would be used for organising the protests,” the High Court had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supreme-court-dismisses-delhi-govt-plea-against-bail-to-riots-accused/article33165751.ece
24 November 2020||MANGALURU,||In understanding the impact of a pandemic||Having addressed reporters at the Press Club near Urva Market in the city on Monday, communication strategist Ahmer Siddiqui and community worker Neha Chaturvedi quickly get down the building to meet 28-year-old Pruthvi Raj who is among the artists who have made a mural of a fisherwoman on the wall of a bakery at the Urva Market Junction. “This is the way we try to understand the impact of COVID-19,” said Ms. Chaturvedi, a native of Agra. “There are both positive and negative responses. Such interactions help us understand the diverse ways in which people are responding to the pandemic,” said Mr. Siddiqui, who hails from New Delhi. Mr. Siddiqui, Ms. Chatruvedi and Siddhartha Dutta from Mumbai are criss-crossing the country in a car as part of their “Road Ashram” campaign to get an insight into the humanitarian impact of COVID-19. On the 51st day of their campaign on Monday, they were in Mangaluru. They started from New Delhi on October 4. They have planned to go to Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana before ending their journey in New Delhi in another fortnight. Mr. Siddiqui’s son, Arsh, a Class 7 student, has joined the team from Chennai. Mr. Siddiqui is taking the team in his car around the country. The car, incidentally, sports different stickers of various cultural identities of the country. They drive everyday for about 12 hours and meet, among others, Dabbawallahs, fish sellers, truck drivers, toddy sellers. “In the last 51 days we have met more than 100 people, which included around 25 celebrities,” Mr. Dutta said. The journey so far has been an eye-opener, said Ms. Chaturvedi, a fine arts lover who has been making short videos and posting them on the social media. Among the things that Ms. Chaturvedi is greatly impressed with is the way women have taken the lead in every walk of life in Nagaland, Tripura and other North East regions. In its journey in the regions that have had temperature ranging between 4 degrees Celsius and 40 degrees Celsius, the team has met a potter in Bihar who has lived without food for over a fortnight during the lockdown. “We have also been to a place where villagers had removed the handle of the hand pump to stop migrant people from drinking water,” Mr. Siddiqui recalled. There were several instances of common people coming together to fight adversity, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-understanding-the-impact-of-a-pandemic/article33165840.ece
24 November 2020||MYSURU,||Three nabbed for robbing labourers||The police have nabbed three persons for allegedly robbing money and mobile phones from labourers who were resting in a temporary shed put up along the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway. Around 11 p.m. on November 18, the accused allegedly barged into the temporary shed put up by the labourers near Siddalingapura on the outskirts of Mysuru and began assaulting them with canes. The labourers, who were taking rest, were threatened with dire circumstances before they were forced to hand over their money and mobile phones. After a police complaint was lodged in Metagalli police station, the police nabbed Sharat, 19, a resident of Chikkanahalli Cross in Pandavapura in Mandya district, Sharat M.B., 20, a resident of Maratikyathanahalli in Mysuru taluk, and Srinivas, 32, a resident of Mandi Mohalla in Mysuru on Sunday. During interrogation, the accused confessed to have lifted a motorcycle parked in front of a house in Holenarsipura in Hassan district some time back and used it to commit the robbery on November 18. The police has recovered two mobile phones that the accused had snatched from the labourers, besides Rs. 400 cash and the motorcycle. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta has appreciated the police personnel involved in the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-nabbed-for-robbing-labourers/article33165504.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC extends Perarivalan’s parole by one week||The Supreme Court on Monday extended the parole period for Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict A.G. Perarivalan by a week. He had been on parole since November 9. It was scheduled to end on November 23. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan and advocate Prabu Ramasubramanian, for Perarivalan, informed a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao that the convict was not given police escort for a medical visit to the hospital. The court ordered that Perarivalan be given police escort. Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan appeared for the Tamil Nadu government. During the short hearing, the Centre raised a point of debate about the Tamil Nadu Governor’s power to grant remission to Perarivalan under Article 161 of the Constitution. Significantly, this submission comes on the heels of a CBI affidavit that said it was entirely up to the Governor to pardon Perarivalan. Mr. Sankaranarayanan objected to this, arguing that the convict was free to choose between the President and the Governor for pardon. The senior advocate referred to the Constitution Bench’s judgment in the Union of India versus Sriharan of December 2015, which said the “exercise of executive clemency” is “vested in the President or the Governor.” Mr. Sanakaranarayanan said the Centre’s rejection, in April 2018, of the Tamil Nadu government’s proposal to remit the sentence of convicts under Section 432 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) did not stop them from separately moving the Governor for pardon under Article 161 of the Constitution. He said the power of State or Central governments to remit sentences under Section 432 CrPC and the clemency power of the President or the Governor could not be equated with each other. Section 432 was a “creature of the Code [CrPC].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-extends-perarivalans-parole-by-one-week/article33165247.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Revised dates for reopening of schools||The government issued a G.O. on Monday revising the dates for reopening of schools to prevent a flare-up of coronavirus infections, like it happened in some other parts of the country, including in the national capital. The modified dates according to the G.O. issued by Principal Secretary (School Education) B. Rajasekhar are as follows. Schools will be reopened for Class 8 students on November 23, while students of Classes 6 and 7 can go to schools from December 14. Classes 1 to 5 will be opened after the Sankranti. Further, in view of the winter season, the schools which are now running from 9 a.m. to 1.45 p.m. will be rescheduled from 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m., the government order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revised-dates-for-reopening-of-schools/article33165889.ece
24 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Former Assam CM dies of COVID complications||Former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi passed away due to multiple organ failure at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Guwahati on Monday. He was 84. The Congress veteran was suffering from post-COVID complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-assam-cm-dies-of-covid-complications/article33165748.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR showers sops to woo GHMC voters||Chief Minister and TRS president K. Chandrasekhar Rao showered sops on people seeking support for the party in the GHMC elections. The bouquet of sops announced include waiver of water bills for up to 20,000 litres a month from December, waiver of power bills to hair salons, exemption of quarterly motor vehicle tax for the first two quarters of this fiscal to all transport vehicles, among others. The government also issued an order permitting reopening of cinema theatres and multiplexes with 50% seating capacity with immediate effect||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-showers-sops-to-woo-ghmc-voters/article33165767.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||White-out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/white-out/article33165842.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Over 75,000 in fray for local body polls||Going by data available till 9 p.m. Monday, 75,013 candidates are in the fray for local body polls in the State when the deadline for withdrawing the nominations ended at 3 p.m., the State Election Commission has said. This list is not a complete one and the final list is expected to be released on Tuesday. Nominations Approximately 1.7 lakh candidates had filed nominations for the elections. As per available data, 1,317 candidates are in the fray for the district panchayat elections, 6,877 for the block panchayat, and 54,494 for the grama panchayat, while 10,399 are in the line-up for the municipalities and 1,986 to the six Corporations. The available district-wise data are as follows: Thiruvananthapuram 6,469, Kollam 5,703, Pathanamthitta 3,699, Alappuzha 5,489, Kottayam 5,432, Idukki 3,234, Ernakulam 7,256, Thrissur 7,020, Palakkad 6,532, Malappuram 8,497, Kozhikode 6,033, Wayanad 1,858, Kannur 5,142, and Kasaragod 2,649.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-75000-in-fray-for-local-body-polls/article33165402.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Rajan flags move to allow corporates to set up banks||The RBI working group’s proposal to allow corporate houses to set up banks is a “bombshell” and at this juncture, it is more important to stick to the tried and tested limits on involvement of business houses in the banking sector, says an article jointly written by former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-Deputy Governor Viral Acharya. The authors suggest that the proposal is “best left on the shelf”. “The history of... connected lending is invariably disastrous —how can the bank make good loans when it is owned by the borrower? Even an independent committed regulator, with all the information in the world, finds it difficult to be in every nook and corner of the financial system to stop poor lending,” the article said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajan-flags-move-to-allow-corporates-to-set-up-banks/article33165209.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||White-out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/white-out/article33165250.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Move to allow corporates to set up banks attracts flak||The RBI working group’s proposal to allow corporate houses to set up banks is a “bombshell” and at this juncture, it is more important to stick to the tried and tested limits on involvement of business houses in the banking sector, says an article jointly written by former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-Deputy Governor Viral Acharya. The authors suggest that the proposal is “best left on the shelf”. “How can the bank make good loans when it is owned by the borrower?,” the article said. Last week, an Internal Working Group (IWG) set up by the RBI made various recommendations, including that a large corporate may be permitted to promote banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulation Act. TheIWG was set up to review extant ownership guidelines and corporate structure for Indian private sector banks. Referring to the group’s proposal to allow Indian corporate houses into banking, the article said, “Its most important recommendation, couched amidst a number of largely technical regulatory rationalisations, is a bombshell.” The article, posted on Dr. Rajan’s LinkedIn profile on Monday, noted that the IWG has suggested significant amendments to the Banking Regulation Act of 1949, aimed at increasing the RBI’s powers, before allowing corporate houses into banking. “Yet if sound regulation and supervision were only a matter of legislation, India would not have an NPA problem. It is hard not to see these proposed amendments as a subtle way for the IWG to undercut a recommendation it may have had little power over,” the authors opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajan-flags-move-to-allow-corporates-to-set-up-banks/article33165244.ece
24 November 2020||Guwahati,||Tarun Gogoi, former Assam CM, passes away||Three-time former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi passed away due to multiple organ failure at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Guwahati on Monday. He was 84. The Congress veteran was suffering from post-COVID complications. His wife Dolly Gogoi, son and MP Gaurav Gogoi, daughter Chandrima Gogoi and other relatives were by his side when he breathed his last. Mr. Gogoi had been in and out of the hospital, often in intensive care, for the past three months since he tested positive for COVID-19 on August 25. He was put on mechanical ventilation after his health deteriorated on Saturday. A team of doctors of the GMCH treated him in consultation with experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. In his political career spanning over 50 years, he represented the Congress as an MP from Assam six times and led the party to a record three straight electoral victories. He was CM from 2001 to 2016 and is credited with having tamed insurgency that ravaged the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tarun-gogoi-former-assam-cm-passes-away/article33165429.ece
24 November 2020||Srinagar,||Equal opportunity for all in J&K: K.K. Sharma||J&K State Election Commissioner (SEC) K.K. Sharma on Monday instructed top officials “to ensure comfortable campai-gning for all candidates”, amid allegations by regional parties that candidates, other than the BJP’s, were not being allowed to campaign for the maiden District Development Council polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/equal-opportunity-for-all-in-jk-kk-sharma/article33165551.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP wants to collect land transport cess||Shortly after announcing its decision to start collecting a Rs. 200 service charge for door-to-door collection of garbage from households, the financially beleaguered BBMP hopes to start collecting another cess from tax-paying citizens. BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta recently gave his assent to the collection of land transport cess along with property tax. The amount will be 2% of the property tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-wants-to-collect-land-transport-cess/article33165698.ece
24 November 2020||Chennai,||Inspector held for raping 13-year-old||The city police on Monday arrested a police inspector on the charge of raping a minor girl, who was illegally detained and forced into prostitution by a gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inspector-held-for-raping-13-year-old/article33165713.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees 4,454 new cases as testing declines||With lesser number of tests, Delhi witnessed 4,454 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,34,317, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. A total of 37,307 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, which is very less compared to over 60,000 tests carried out on many days last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-sees-4454-new-cases-as-testing-declines/article33165750.ece
24 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘Love jihad’: Kanpur SIT doesn’t find conspiracy||A Special Investigation Team probing cases of alleged “love jihad” in Kanpur has found criminality in 11 out of the 14 instances but found no evidence of foreign funding or organised conspiracy. The SIT was formed after 14 cases emerged in which the parents alleged that “Muslim boys had deceived their daughters and trapped them in love relationships”, said IG (Kanpur) Mohit Agarwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/love-jihad-kanpur-sit-doesnt-find-conspiracy/article33165552.ece
24 November 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra directive on people coming from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Goa||Air and rail passengers coming to Maharashtra from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa will need to have a negative RT-PCR test report, the State government announced on Monday. Those coming by road will be tested at border districts before entering the State. The RT-PCR sample collection of air passengers should have been done within 72 hours of scheduled time of landing. Those travelling by trains originating or having halt/stop at stations in the NCR of Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa need to carry RT-PCR negative test report. The sample collection should have been done within 96 hours. For those travelling by road, Collectors of land border districts shall make arrangements for testing. Passengers coming by rail without RT-PCR negative reports shall be screened at the alighting railway stations. In case of symptoms, passengers from rail and by road will be made to undergo antigen test at the passengers’ expenses. Air passengers without RT-PCR test reports shall compulsorily undergotests at the airports at their own cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-directive-on-people-coming-from-delhi-rajasthan-gujarat-goa/article33165858.ece
24 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Vinay Kulkarni’s judicial custody extended||Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni’s stay at Hindalga Jail in Belagavi will continue till December 7 with Second Additional District and Sessions Court, which is also a Special CBI Court, extending his judicial custody on Monday. Mr. Kulkarni was arrested on November 5 from his residence in Dharwad in connection with the murder of Zilla Panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vinay-kulkarnis-judicial-custody-extended/article33165360.ece
24 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Upset over bad roads, residents stage protest||Vehicular movement on the busy Hubballi-Dharwad Road was affected for some time after residents of Gandhi Nagar and adjoining localities blocked the road and staged a protest on Monday protesting against the pathetic road condition in their localities. The residents, including women, blocked the road near Gandhi Nagar Circle and raised slogans against the elected representatives and the municipal authorities for their failure to get the badly damaged roads repaired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/upset-over-bad-roads-residents-stage-protest/article33165362.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,||IMA scam: CBI raids Baig’s house, seizes documents||A team of Central Bureau of Investigation officials on Monday raided the residence of former MLA R. Roshan Baig near Coles Park in Pulikeshinagar and seized documents related to his properties and business ventures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ima-scam-cbi-raids-baigs-house-seizes-documents/article33165506.ece
24 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Ministerial expansion unlikely this month||Though the ruling BJP has been witnessing intense lobbying for the ministerial berths by its legislators, it has now turned out that the party high command is unlikely to give clearance for ministerial expansion/reshuffle this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ministerial-expansion-unlikely-this-month/article33165507.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Jayaprakash Hegde is BC panel chief||After a gap of over a year, the State government has appointed former Minister K. Jayaprakash Hegde as the chairperson of the Karnataka State Permanent Backward Classes Commission, leading to a speculation that caste census could be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jayaprakash-hegde-is-bc-panel-chief/article33165508.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi sees highest COVID fatalities||The country registered 44,509 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, with Kerala, Delhi and Maharashtra topping the list of States/Union Territories having both the largest number of new cases and recoveries. Delhi and Maharashtra also recorded the largest number of fatalities in this period, as per data released by the Union Health Ministry on Monday. Delhi in the past 24 hours reported 121 deaths, 6,746 new cases and 6,154 recoveries, while Maharashtra reported 50 deaths, 5,753 cases and 4,060 recoveries. Kerala reported 6,227 recoveries and 5,254 new cases. “At present, the active COVID-19 case load of the country is 4,43,486. The recovery rate continues to be above 93%, as 93.68% of all cases have recovered as of date. In the last 24 hours, the country registered 41,024 new recoveries, taking the total recovered cases to 85,62,641. The gap between recovered cases and active cases is steadily increasing and stands at 81,19,155,’’ said the Ministry. Reacting to the Delhi government’s move asking private hospitals to reserve 80% of their ICU beds for COVID-19 patients after the Capital saw a sharp spike in cases, the Association of Healthcare Providers (India) has said the order was creating serious problems for patients. “These hospitals cater to many non-COVID patients who had been waiting for long for their elective procedures which had started and more than 50% of ICU beds in general were occupied by non-COVID patients,” said Girdhar Gyani, director general of the association. The other problem faced by these hospitals was how to separate 80% beds from the rest 20%, he stated. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-sees-highest-covid-fatalities/article33165170.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to fast-track green nod||The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) wants to expedite the environment appraisal of industrial projects. These appraisals, as per norms, are conducted by independent panels of experts that have representatives from the government as well as from outside, trained in matters of ecology, wildlife and habitat preservation. The Expert Appraisal Committees (EACs) opine on whether a proposed project beyond a certain size ought to be commissioned and recommend ways to mitigate the potential environmental impact. Their advice is critical to the MoEF’s eventual decision to either clear or red flag a project. However, a November 11 letter from the Ministry’s Environment Impact Assessment division, that coordinates EAC meetings, issued fresh guidelines to accelerate the appraisal process. ‘Avoid delays’ “During the review meetings held for streamlining the Environmental Clearances (EC) process, it has come to notice that the grant of EC is delayed due to various reasons which could be avoided... Member Secretaries of the various sectors may strictly adhere to the following guidelines to avoid unnecessary delay while granting ECs,” the letter said. The recommendations include ensuring that EAC meetings are held at least once in 15 days. All proposals that were placed for approval 10 days before a meeting ought to be considered (It is 15 days now). “The queries or issues, which the division may have, should be raised during the EAC meeting only. Member Secretary (MS) ought to ensure that the relevant queries of the division are also pointed out at the time of EAC meetings itself so as to avoid occasion for such queries before and after examination by Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC),” the missive notes. Environmental law specialist and researcher at the Centre for Policy Research, Kanchi Kohli said it was legally contentious if an office order could curtail the role of the EAC that requires detailed scrutiny of applications seeking environmental clearance. “What is even more concerning is the Environment Ministry’s approach to reading down its own mandate for environment protection. Accelerated approvals definitely don’t allow for good environmental decisions and do not necessitate that projects will be up and running to support an already sluggish economy. Our current approval rates are close to 100%, and yet there is an economic slowdown,” she told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-to-fast-track-green-nod/article33165159.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhutan border village on disputed land||Chinese media on Monday claimed that a new border village built by China near Bhutan was on Chinese territory, but released images of the village show its location on territory disputed by the two countries. The Global Times confirmed that the village of Pangda had been newly built and residents moved there in September. An image released by the newspaper placed the village in disputed territory, a couple of kilometres inside what Bhutan sees as its territory. Last week, however, Bhutan’s officials denied the village was on their territory. Bhutan’s Ambassador in India Vetsop Namgyel told The Hindu , “There is no Chinese village inside Bhutan.” ‘124 people moved in’ The Global Times said “according to open records, authorities in Yadong county of Southwest China’s Tibet Autonomous Region confirmed that 27 households with 124 people voluntarily moved from Shangdui village of Duina prefecture of Yadong county to Pangda village in September 2020,” adding the village was 35 km away from the county. Chinese media reported there were 27 households, and the village was covered by asphalt roads and “has a public square, village committee, health room, police room, kindergarten, supermarket, and plastic runway”. China has in the past sought to bolster its territorial claims in disputed areas by building civilian settlements there, as on disputed South China Sea islands. According to China’s maps, the village is within China’s territory, but China’s border extends further south beyond where India and Bhutan say the border runs. The area is east of the India-Bhutan-China trijunction on the Doklam plateau, which was the site of a 72-day stand-off in 2017 triggered by China’s road-building up to where it sees its border. India moved in to stop the road, which was built a few hundred metres east of India’s border, saying China had entered Bhutanese territory and was unilaterally pushing the trijunction further south. The new village is located farther east, away from the trijunction. Chinese experts on Monday blamed India for the unsettled China-Bhutan border and stalled negotiations. “The border dispute between China and Bhutan is very minor, but it has not been formally demarcated because of India’s obstruction”, Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University, told the Global Times . “Indian media hyped the issue to create the illusion that China is encroaching on Bhutanese territory and bullying the small” to sow discord between China and Bhutan,” he was quoted as saying. “However, based on Bhutan’s official response, the country has seen through India’s real intentions, and it values its friendly relations with China”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-bhutan-border-village-built-on-disputed-territory/article33165204.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Yechury lauds Kerala’s decision on amendment||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s decision to put on hold the amended Kerala Police Act that gives additional powers to the police to crack down on defamatory or abusive social media posts showed the responsiveness of the Left government in the State and it would be the reason why people would re-elect the Left Democratic Front, CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on Monday. Last month, the Kerala Cabinet decided to give more teeth to the Act by recommending the addition of Section 118 A. It stipulates either imprisonment for up to five years or a fine of up to Rs. 10,000 or both for those who produce, publish or disseminate content through any means of communication with an intention to intimidate, insult or defame any person through social media. CM’s statement Mr. Vijayan, in a statement, said responses from several corners and apprehensions aired by those who supported the LDF and stood for defending democracy had led to this rethink. Mr. Yechury said, “Which other government is similarly responsive? The fact that this law has been put on hold shows that there is a very vibrant democratic process within our party and we are responsive to people’s opinion.” He pointed to the Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments which, he said, despite public outcry, were bringing in laws against inter-faith marriage in the name of ‘love jihad’. “Look at the Madhya Pradesh government, it wants to ban Suitable Boy. Despite outcry and national protest, they come up with laws against inter-faith marriage and so on,” he stated. The central leadership of the CPI(M) had to step in to reverse Kerala amendments. Widespread criticism “This is an issue on which there has been widespread criticism and we think very genuine criticism has come. We are a party that takes into account all this and we have our own recall,” Mr. Yechury observed. The amendments have been recalled in line with the party’s consistent position. As a Rajya Sabha member, Mr. Yechury said, he had moved a resolution against Section 66 A of the Information and Technology Act, which had similar provisions. “This is a consistent position of the party and in line with it, the Chief Minister announced that it will not be implemented,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yechury-lauds-keralas-decision-on-amendment/article33165138.ece
24 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Trains resume in Punjab after two months||Nearly two months after the rail blockade by Punjab farmers against the Centre’s farm laws, the Railways authorities on Monday operated two goods trains, under its Ferozepur division, and a passenger train. The trains were run after an inspection of all tracks falling under the division, officials said. The New Delhi-Una Janshatabdi Express became the first passenger train to depart for Punjab after nearly two months, they added. However, a farmer outfit in Amritsar has refused to lift its blockade of passenger trains. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said this will put people to major inconvenience and may have grave consequences for the State. The Ferozepur division caters to needs of Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and a part of Himachal Pradesh. Two goods trains, one empty and other loaded, were run at 2 p.m. on Monday, said Divisional Railway Manager (Ferozepur Division) Rajesh Aggarwal. A freight train carrying gypsum from Jammu via Kathua to Lucknow was operated, said Mr. Aggarwal, adding that an empty freight train was started from Jalandhar for Delhi. Talking to the media, he said a passenger train to Haridwar will resume its operations from Amritsar on Tuesday morning. Other trains will also be resumed, he said.  Passenger train The New Delhi-Una Janshatabdi Express left the capital on Monday afternoon with 559 passengers on board, officials said. Train services were suspended in the State since September 24 when the farmers protesting against the new farm laws converged on railway stations and tracks. While the Northern Railway has announced the restoration of 25 trains, the North Central Railway has announced the resumption of six trains. The Railways had earlier said it made plans to restore train services to the region, provided they had security clearance. “After the halt of the farmer agitation on railway tracks and stations in Punjab from November 23, Indian Railways is going to start rail services through Punjab and (in) Punjab,” Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. “Passengers, farmers and industries will benefit from the removal of the impasse in train operations for the last several days.” The Railways has said it suffered a loss of Rs. 2,220 crore due to the blockade. Farmers protest The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has refused to budge from its stand on clearing rail tracks. Capt. Amarinder said by striking the discordant note, the farmers’ union is acting against the interests of Punjab and its people. However, 30 other farmers’ bodies have already announced to lift the blockade. “When all other farmers’ organisations had decided unanimously to withdraw from the tracks for the next 15 days, this one union’s decision is not understandable,” said Capt. Amarinder. He said the committee should not do anything to derail the process of negotiation and discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trains-resume-in-punjab-after-two-months/article33165756.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC takes note of ‘grim’ health in four States||The daily hike in COVID-19 cases in Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam looked ‘grim’ and they should ‘take time to introspect’ and ‘prepare for December’, the Supreme Court observed on Monday. “Situation of COVID cases is worsening and likely to do so in December,” a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan noted. “We are of the view that immediate steps are required to be taken by all the States,” the court stated. The Bench directed the States to file status reports in two days on their preparedness and steps taken. It listed the case for urgent hearing on November 27. “Things have worsened in the last two weeks, in November... Our question is what is your present situation? What more steps are you taking?” Justice Bhushan addressed Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, for Delhi. The court hauled up the Gujarat government for unbridled celebrations, weddings and public gatherings despite an exponential rise in cases. Gujarat pulled up “Gujarat is worst after Delhi and Maharashtra. What is your policy? What is happening? Weddings, parties, celebrations by political parties are happening... What is all this,” Justice M.R. Shah asked the Gujarat side.  Justice R. Subhash Reddy noted that “there is a huge spike in cases”. He observed orally, “This is the time to introspect and prepare for December”. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta expressed his anguish at the situation as a human being. He said it was painful for him to witness the court passing orders on the handling of the COVID-19 dead. He said his comments were made in the name of humanity. The hearing is based on the suo motu cognisance taken by the court on the treatment meted out to COVID-19 patients and the bodies of those who lost the battle with the virus. The court , in June, referred to several media reports on the lack of infrastructure, patients and their families running from pillar to post to get themselves admitted and, ultimately, videos of COVID-19 dead being thrown into pits. Mr. Mehta said the Union Home Minister was monitoring the situation. Mr. Jain said there had been an “upsurge” in the request for ICU beds for patients in private hospitals in Delhi. The government had passed notifications to reserve 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 cases in 115 private hospitals in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-takes-note-of-grim-health-in-4-states/article33165210.ece
24 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Lower testing reduces cases in Kerala||Once again, with testing dipping to 35,659 samples, COVID-19 cases in Kerala dropped to 3,757 on Monday. However, the test positivity rate remained at 10.54%, similar to last week. The Health Department added 22 more deaths to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities on Monday. Four deaths each were reported from Ernakulam and Thrissur, three from Kottayam, two each from Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram, while one death each was reported from Kollam, Alappuzha, Palakkad, Malappuram, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. Across the State, 862 persons were critically ill and being treated in ICUs Among districts, Malappuram again reported the highest number of new cases at 1,023 cases, Kozhikode 514, Palakkad 331, Ernakulam 325, Kottayam 279, Thrissur 278, Alappuzha 259, Thiruvananthapuram 229, Kollam 198, Kannur 144, Pathanamthitta 57, Idukki 49, Wayanad 39 and Kasaragod 32 cases. Telangana recorded 602 cases on Sunday, from 24,139 samples. Three more COVID-19 patients died. The 602 new cases included 129 from Greater Hyderabad, 62 from Rangareddy, 60 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 51 from Karimnagar. The lowest of one case each was recorded in Narayanpet, Nirmal and Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, and two each in Yadadri Bhongir and Jangaon. Andhra Pradesh reported 545 new infections and 10 deaths on Monday. The tally increased to 8,62,758 and the toll rose to 6,948. The single-day infection tally was the lowest in over five months and the single-day positivity rate at 1.12% was the lowest in over 5.5 months. But at 47,130, the number of samples tested in a day was lower than in the past several days. So far 96.66 lakh samples were tested and the overall positivity rate stood at 8.93%. Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts reported two fresh virus deaths each. Six districts reported one fatality each. Only Guntur (117) and East Godavari (104) reported more than 100 new infections and West Godavari reported 76 new cases. Ten districts reported less than 50 new infections. They included Krishna (44), Chittoor (32), Kadapa (31), Nellore (30), Prakasam (25), Visakhapatnam (21), Anantapur (19), Srikakulam (19), Vizianagaram (17) and Kurnool (10). Tamil Nadu recorded 1,624 fresh COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the tally of total positive cases to 7,71,619 on Monday. At the same time 1,904 persons were discharged from health facilities after treatment. With this so far 7,47,752 persons have been sent home post treatment. As on date 12,245 are under treatment, either at home or in health facilities. A total of 11622 deaths have been recorded so far. This includes 17 deaths that were recorded in the last several hours as being due to the infection. Chennai and Coimbatore were the only two districts to record over 100 new infections. While six districts recorded cases in single digit, Perambalur had no new cases and just one active case.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-reports-low-positivity-of-112/article33165156.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Senior party leaders should maintain discipline: Cong.||The Congress on Monday said senior leaders, including those who have been “nominated” to the Congress Working Committee, should maintain discipline and avoid discussing the party’s internal issues on public platforms. The party’s statement came a day after Leader of the Opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, in an interview, claimed that the Congress party’s structure had “collapsed” and needed to be rebuilt by having elected leaders from block to CWC-level. He also said “five-star culture” had seeped in the party and the leaders had lost ground connect. “The nominated senior leaders have access to the party leadership. They can just pick up the phone and call anybody instead of speaking publicly,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told reporters in a virtual press briefing without naming Mr. Azad but responding to a question on the LoP’s remarks. ‘All platforms available’ “These leaders had taught us discipline and how to work in the organisation. So, today when they speak in public, we are shocked. All platforms are available within the party. They are also members of the CWC, nominated members since many years. They have also been Ministers in governments and got different responsibilities in the party,” he said, adding that the Congress had internal mechanisms to discuss all issues, including the recent Bihar poll and by-elections results. The veteran Congress leader was also targeted by other party leaders, including Haryana MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi, Youth Congress president Srinivas B.V. and party spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh. In a video message posted on Twitter, Mr. Bishnoi, an MLA from the Adampur constituency and the younger son of former Chief Minister Bhajan Lal, accused Mr. Azad of “hatching a conspiracy with political rivals to break the Congress and betraying the Gandhi family”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/senior-party-leaders-should-maintain-discipline-cong/article33165166.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tarun Gogoi: cometh the hour, cometh the man||Assam’s turnaround man. That’s a description one often used to describe Tarun Gogoi’s 15-year tenure as the Chief Minister of the State. His abiding political legacy was not just winning three successive Assembly elections (2001, 2006, 2011) for his party; it was also about bringing the State back from the spiral of violence to the path of development. “By 2001, indicators of development had fallen to an all-time low and insurgency was at its peak... When the history of Assam is penned, my three terms will show up both positives as well as negatives. There will be bouquets and brickbats, criticism and acclaim. But I will leave history to judge these years. I, as a son of the soil, am only content and gratified that I could take centre stage in the turnaround story,” Mr. Gogoi wrote in his memoir, Turnaround: Leading Assam from the Front . Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, in his message, called him “one of his close friends and tallest leaders of Assam”. In a letter to Mr. Gogoi’s son and Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi, Congress president Sonia Gandhi described his passing as a personal loss, recalling his association with Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi described him as a leader who shaped modern Assam; a rare gem with a profound understanding. Gogoi’s legacy of grooming young leaders displayed his vision as well as strategy. While the young Turks kept his detractors in the party at bay, it also allowed him the space to grow in stature. Among the young leaders, Himanta Biswa Sarma (now a Minister in the BJP government) was, perhaps, the most prominent. Mr. Sarma stood out for his political acumen and administrative brilliance but was also someone who was instrumental in the BJP’s growth in the State that eventually ousted the Congress. Political stature Such was Mr. Gogoi’s political stature that, in 2006, when the party high command decided to tie up with Badruddin Ajmal’s outfit, he almost single-handedly stalled it. But the changed political reality had “forced” the Congress leader to reach out to Mr. Ajmal ahead of the Assembly election in 2016. Until the summer of 2001, when the Congress won the Assembly election by ousting the Asom Gana Parishad, Mr. Gogoi was largely seen as a Delhi-based politician who had won multiple Lok Sabha elections since 1971. The Assembly election proved to be a turning point. From inheriting a State that was gripped by fear with rampant political killings carried out by outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA); unrest among State government staff who were not paid for months; allegations of extra-judicial killings of the family members of the militants rocking the State, in five years, Mr. Gogoi did boast of turnaround, something that gave him two more terms. He changed the narrative that development in Assam, whose per capita income post-1947 was higher than the national average, would be elusive unless the extremists were tamed. “Why should development wait for peace? Peace will come automatically if there’s progress,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/he-steered-assam-from-violence-to-development/article33165190.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,||IMA scam: CBI searches Baig’s residence, seizes documents||A team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials raided the residence of former MLA R. Roshan Baig near Coles Park in Pulikeshinagar early Monday morning, and seized documents related to his properties and business ventures. This comes a day after Mr. Baig was arrested by the CBI for his alleged involvement in the Rs. 4,000 crore I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) investment scam. The raid began around 7a.m. and search operations went on for eight hours. “Property documents and businesses ventures of Mr. Baig’s son R. Ruman Baig have also also been seized. The police questioned his family members and recovered their mobile phones for analysis,” said a senior official. The prime accused in the case, Mohammed Mansoor Khan, managing director and chief executive officer of the IMA Group of companies, has alleged that he had given Mr. Baig Rs. 400 crore to promote his venture and encourage people to invest in IMA using his political clout and media business. “Mr. Baig was one of IMA’s more prominent proponents and he did this for monetary gain,” the official added. CBI officials claimed to have found evidence of monetary transactions between Mr. Baig and Mr. Khan made through shell companies. “We are probing further. We are also questioning Mr. Baig to ascertain who tipped Mr. Khan when the Karnataka Special Investigation Team started the probe. He fled to Dubai evading arrest,” said a source. Mr. Khan was finally arrested in July 2019 by the Enforcement Directorate when he landed at Delhi airport. Investigators are also probing other people who may have helped Mr. Baig. The CBI is likely to seek his custody to further their investigation. Mr. Baig is currently in judicial custody at Bengaluru Central Jail in Parappana Agrahara. The CBI officials have also taken another accused P.D. Kumar Nayak into custody. Kumar, who was an executive engineer in the land acquisition department of the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) before he was suspended, had allegedly taken Rs. 5 crore from Mansoor Khan as bribe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-scam-cbi-searches-baigs-residence-seizes-documents/article33165149.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,||CBI officials raid Baig’s residence, seize documents||A team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials raided the residence of former MLA R. Roshan Baig near Coles Park in Pulikeshinagar early Monday morning, and seized documents related to his properties and business ventures. This comes a day after Mr. Baig was arrested by the CBI for his alleged involvement in the Rs. 4,000 crore I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) investment scam. The raid began around 7a.m. and search operations went on for eight hours. “Property documents and businesses ventures of Mr. Baig’s son R. Ruman Baig have also also been seized. The police questioned his family members and recovered their mobile phones for analysis,” said a senior official. The prime accused in the case, Mohammed Mansoor Khan, managing director and chief executive officer of the IMA Group of companies, has alleged that he had given Mr. Baig Rs. 400 crore to promote his venture and encourage people to invest in IMA using his political clout and media business. “Mr. Baig was one of IMA’s more prominent proponents and he did this for monetary gain,” the official added. CBI officials claimed to have found evidence of monetary transactions between Mr. Baig and Mr. Khan made through shell companies. “We are probing further. We are also questioning Mr. Baig to ascertain who tipped Mr. Khan when the Karnataka Special Investigation Team started the probe. He fled to Dubai evading arrest,” said a source. Mr. Khan was finally arrested in July 2019 by the Enforcement Directorate when he landed at Delhi airport. Investigators are also probing other people who may have helped Mr. Baig. The CBI is likely to seek his custody to further their investigation. Mr. Baig is currently in judicial custody at Bengaluru Central Jail in Parappana Agrahara. The CBI officials have also taken another accused P.D. Kumar Nayak into custody. Kumar, who was an executive engineer in the land acquisition department of the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) before he was suspended, had allegedly taken Rs. 5 crore from Mansoor Khan as bribe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-officials-raid-baigs-residence-seize-documents/article33165700.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Harsh Shringla to visit Nepal||After months of tensions and sharpened rhetoric between India and Nepal over disputed maps, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla will pay an official visit to Kathmandu on November 26 and 27. Sources in the government said this was a “courtesy” visit, the first since Mr. Shringla took over as Foreign Secretary in January, and was not meant to formally discuss the contentious border issue. The sources said India was responding to a “reach out” by Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, when he called his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on August 15. “The [Foreign Secretary’s] visit is in keeping with the tradition of regular high-level exchanges between the two countries and the priority India attaches to its relations with Nepal. During the visit, Foreign Secretary will meet his counterpart and other Nepalese dignitaries to discuss the wide-ranging bilateral cooperation between the two countries,” the MEA said in a statement released simultaneously with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) in Kathmandu. The MoFA said Mr. Shringla would meet his counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal on Thursday, after which he would call on “high-level dignitaries”. Mr. Shringla might also make a public address and visit an India-Nepal development cooperation project, depending on the arrangements required amid the pandemic. “He will also hand over COVID-19 related support to the Government of Nepal,” the MoFA added. New lows Relations between India and Nepal hit new lows in May after Nepal’s government decided to amend its Constitution to adopt a new map that included Indian territories, including Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, a move that India protested as “unilateral”, “unacceptable” and “unjustified cartographic aggression”. The Nepal government said that its actions followed the publication of a new map by India last November, after the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir showed what it called disputed territories under Indian control, and the inauguration by India of an 80 km long road connecting to the border with China at the Lipulekh pass. Matters took a turn for the worse as Mr. Oli accused India of interfering in domestic politics of Nepal to overturn his government, where deep cracks have emerged between Mr. Oli and Nepal Communist Party Co-chairman Pushp Kamal Dahal (Prachanda).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/harsh-shringla-to-visit-nepal-on-nov-26-27/article33165163.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India briefs foreign diplomats on Nagrota terror incident||The suspected terrorists who were killed in an encounter in Nagrota, Jammu and Kashmir, on November 19 belonged to the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla informed a select group of Heads of Missions on Monday. The diplomats were informed about the discovery of a cross-border tunnel that was allegedly used by the militants to reach the Indian territory. “The Heads of Missions were provided with a detailed information docket giving the details of the incident as it transpired as well as a list of items and munition that were recovered from the terrorists clearly indicating their Pakistani origins,” said a source familiar with the meeting that was attended by some of the leading foreign diplomats residing in India. Mr. Shringla said the attackers were clearly planning the biggest terror attack in India since the Pulwama strike in February 14, 2019. The diplomats were told that the attack appeared to be part of efforts to sabotage the DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir and was designed to “coincide with the anniversary of 26/11 Mumbai terror strikes”.  Mr. Shringla briefed the envoys about the past attacks by the Jaish-e-Mohammad in Jammu and Kashmir, saying that “...in the year 2020 itself we have seen 200 incidents of terrorist violence and neutralisation of 199 terrorists”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-briefs-foreign-diplomats-on-nagrota-terror-incident/article33165164.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Appeal to ramp up anganwadi services||The government must make efforts to ramp up services offered at anganwadis to make up for lost time, say experts after the Centre announced its decision to reopen anganwadis across the country after a gap of seven months. On November 11, the Ministry of Women and Child Development issued an order allowing the States to reopen anganwadis outside containment zones with immediate effect. “Provision of essential services such as Growth Monitoring Referral, and supplementary nutrition, etc. to ensure the health and well-being of the pregnant ladies, lactating mothers and children below five years is most important. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is imperative to ensure that the beneficiaries do not suffer and remain away from anganwadi services,” read the letter sent to various State governments. ‘Welcome move’ “The government’s decision to reopen anganwadis is a welcome move. The epidemiology of COVID-19 shows that children are less affected by it. At my hospital too, we have seen that most patients who test positive are adults. At the same time, anganwadis benefit the most vulnerable children such as those in urban slums or tribal population of rural areas, who don’t have any other government programme to support their nutritional requirement barring anganwadis,” says Dr. Maroof Khan, associate professor at GTB Hospital in Delhi, and Secretary, National Working Group of Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM). He said anganwadis were the focal point where many essential services were imparted, such as vaccination. “Experience from Ebola shows us how disruption in vaccination led to measles outbreak.” Health Ministry data showed that these services were severely hampered during the lockdown. “It is of utmost importance that service delivery is accelerated so that we can catch up on lost time,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/appeal-to-ramp-up-anganwadi-services/article33165173.ece
24 November 2020||Kochi,||Actor rape case trial in trouble after prosecutor steps down||The legal and procedural crisis in the trial of the actor rape has deepened with A. Sureshan, the special prosecutor, stepping down from the post. The special prosecutor submitted his resignation to the Additional Chief Secretary on Monday. The proceedings in the case had to be stopped for the past fortnight after the prosecution moved the High Court for a change of trial court raising allegations of bias against the special judge hearing the case. As the trial proceedings resumed at the Additional Special Sessions Court (SPE/CBI)-3, Ernakulam, on Monday, Joseph Manalavan, the lawyer assisting the public prosecutor, handed over a statement to special judge Honey M. Varghese stating that Mr. Sureshan has put in his papers. “Mr. Sureshan has placed the resignation before the authority concerned and requested them to relieve him from the duties as the special public prosecutor,” read the one-line statement that was submitted before the court. When contacted, Mr. Sureshan said he would respond to the developments later. Actor Dileep has been arraigned as the 8th accused in the case in which the actor was abducted and raped in a moving car.  HC rejects plea Incidentally, the trial court had resumed the proceedings in the case on the day after the single judge of the Kerala High Court rejected the application of the prosecution and the survivor in the rape and abduction case for a change of court. Though the prosecution and the survivor had sought a change of court arguing that the trial court was acting in a biased manner, the High Court had rejected their plea. With the information of the prosecutor stepping down reaching the trial court, the special judge directed the investigation officer in the case to make necessary arrangements for resuming the proceedings soon. The case has been posted for November 26, considering the directives of the Supreme Court to complete the trial in the case on or before February 4, 2021, sources indicated. On November 26, the investigation officer will have to submit a report to the court about the alternative arrangements made for resuming the trial. Implications If the State government accepts the resignation of the prosecutor and appoints a new one in his place, the new prosecutor will continue the proceedings from where his predecessor has ended. Normally, the examination of new witnesses will continue as scheduled by the court and the re-examination of the earlier witnesses may be required only if some clarifications are required, legal sources indicated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actor-rape-case-trial-in-trouble-after-prosecutor-steps-down/article33165142.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Kerala ordinance was not cleared by MHA’||The Kerala ordinance empowering the police to prosecute persons who disseminated information that the law enforcement deemed defamatory was not sent to the Centre for examination, a senior Home Ministry official said on Monday. The ordinance was brought under the Kerala Police Act, 2011, which is out of the purview of the Ministry of Home Affairs’ domain, explained the official. Several States have their own Police Act, which is governed on the basis of the Police Act of 1861. The Police Act broadly lays down the contours for administrative functioning of the Police Department and also specifies certain rules to be followed by the public. Other than this there are criminal laws, such as the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), and any amendment to them passed by the State Assembly needs the President’s nod after consultation with the MHA. The MHA examines the Bills passed by State Assemblies that are repugnant with Central laws before they get the President’s assent to become a law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-ordinance-was-not-cleared-by-mha/article33165139.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC verdict today on dismissed BSF jawan’s plea||The Supreme Court on Tuesday will pronounce its verdict on a plea by dismissed BSF jawan Tej Bahadur Yadav, who claims his nomination to contest from Varanasi in the Lok Sabha polls was rejected to orchestrate a “walkover” for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde is scheduled to pronounce its decision at noon. The court reserved the petition for judgment on November 18. Mr. Yadav’s lawyer, advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav, could not produce evidence on record to show he had asked the Returning Officer for time to produce his dismissal letter — to be appended with his nomination papers — as proof to show he was not dismissed from service for reasons of corruption or disloyalty. “We don’t want to carry on like this with the matter, the respondent’s [Prime Minister] is the only office of its kind in India,” Chief Justice Bobde had replied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-verdict-today-on-dismissed-bsf-jawans-plea/article33165175.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhutan border village on disputed land||According to China’s maps, the village is within China’s territory, but China’s border extends further south beyond where India and Bhutan say the border runs. The area is east of the India-Bhutan-China trijunction on the Doklam plateau, which was the site of a 72-day stand-off in 2017 triggered by China’s road-building. India moved in to stop the road, which was built a few hundred metres east of India’s border, saying China had entered Bhutanese territory and was unilaterally pushing the trijunction further south. The new village is located farther east, away from the trijunction. Chinese experts on Monday blamed India for the unsettled China-Bhutan border and stalled negotiations. “The border dispute between China and Bhutan is very minor, but it has not been formally demarcated because of India’s obstruction”, Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University, told the Global Times .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhutan-border-village-on-disputed-land/article33165752.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,||HC restrains Rehana from using social media||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed Rehana Fathima, an activist, not to use social media to make, share, forward, disseminate or propagate any comment, which may affect the religious feelings of any community or group of society. Justice Sunil Thomas issued the directive while partly allowing a petition seeking to cancel the bail of Ms. Rehana for violating bail conditions in a case registered against her for hurting religious sentiments through her Facebook posts. Derogatory posts The prosecution had alleged that she had uploaded photographs in her Facebook account exposing her in sexually implicit postures supplemented with derogatory materials referring to Lord Ayyappa. This was purposely intended to wound the religious feelings of the Ayyappa devotees. She was arrested and later released on bail. The court said that the accused had been repeatedly using social media for uploading her highly volatile comments. This needs to restricted in the interest of justice. Till the trial is over, the accused shall not directly, indirectly, or through any other person publish, transmit, share, upload, and disseminate any comments through any visual and electronic media open to the public, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-restrains-rehana-from-using-social-media/article33165393.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||SC takes note of ‘grim’ health in four States||The court hauled up the Gujarat government for unbridled celebrations, weddings and public gatherings despite an exponential rise in cases.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta expressed his anguish at the situation as a human being. He said it was painful for him to witness the court passing orders on the handling of the COVID-19 dead. He said his comments were made in the name of humanity. The hearing is based on the suo motu cognisance taken by the court on the treatment meted out to COVID-19 patients and the bodies of those who lost the battle with the virus. The court , in June, referred to several media reports on the lack of infrastructure, patients and their families running from pillar to post to get themselves admitted and, ultimately, videos of COVID-19 dead being thrown into pits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-takes-note-of-grim-health-in-four-states/article33165152.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Does NEP seek to end quota, Yechury asks Modi||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has sought a “clear and categorical” response from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on whether the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, seeks to end reservations for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, the Other Backward Castes and the disabled in educational institutions. In a letter to Mr. Modi, he said the NEP is being implemented in an ad hoc and piecemeal manner, without parliamentary approval or discussions with State governments, teachers, non-teaching staff, students and other experts. “This is creating grave uncertainties and confusion about the actual direction proposed for the Indian Education system under this new policy, by your government,” he wrote. ‘Widespread concern’ There is no mention of reservations for SC/ST/OBC and the disabled in the policy, either for admissions or for appointments to teaching and non-teaching positions, Mr. Yechury flagged. “In fact, even the word ‘reservation’ does not appear anywhere in the policy document! This has led to widespread concern whether this act of omission is deliberate, conveying the intention to reverse many decades of efforts to integrate quality, quantity and equity in the Indian Education system.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/does-nep-seek-to-end-quota-yechury-asks-modi/article33165161.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||J&K administration publishes list of Roshni Act beneficiaries||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday published on its website the list of beneficiaries under the Roshni Act. The beneficiaries include former Ministers, and retired civil servants. Among those who were allotted land under the now scrapped Act are Haseeb Drabu, former Finance Minister and former PDP leader; K.K Amla, businessman and Congress leader; Nighat Pandit, wife of retired IAS officer Shafi Pandit; Syed Akhoon of the National Conference; M.Y. Khan, former Chairman of J&K Bank; and Sujjad Kichloo, former NC Minister. In a related development, the CBI has registered another case in connection with the Rs. 25,000 crore “Roshni” scam, this time against the then District Collector of Jammu and others for alleged illegal grant of ownership of land parcels. The case was instituted by the then Vigilance Organisation in 2014. It named Deputy Commissioner Hirdesh Kumar Singh and one Bashir Ahmed as accused, apart from unknown officials of the Revenue Department in Jammu. The larger allegation pertained to irregularities in the implementation of the Jammu and Kashmir States Land (vesting of ownership to the occupants) Act, also known as Roshini Act, which has now been declared null and void.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-administration-publishes-list-of-roshni-act-beneficiaries/article33165688.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar begins trip to Gulf, Seychelles today||In a significant outreach to the Gulf states amid the COVID-19 pandemic, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will leave for Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates on Tuesday on a five-day trip during which he will also visit the Seychelles. Mr. Jaishankar will begin his tour by paying a condolence visit to the Bahrain government for the death of the Prime Minister, Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, who passed away this month. On Wednesday, he will fly to the UAE and meet his counterpart, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan. In both Manama and Abu Dhabi, Mr. Jaishankar is expected to discuss cooperation on post-COVID-19 economic recovery and in particular, the future of more than 3.3 million Indians expatriates there.  His visit to the Seychelles comes weeks after elections in the Indian Ocean Region island, where Opposition leader Wavel Ramkalawan defeated incumbent President Danny Faure. Mr. Ramkalawan, who is of Indian origin, has been opposed to the 2015 India-Seychelles naval agreement to build facilities on Assomption Island, and his election could deal the project a blow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-begins-trip-to-gulf-seychelles-today/article33165689.ece
24 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam ex-CM dies of COVID complications||Three-time former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi passed away due to multiple organ failure at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Guwahati on Monday. He was 84. The Congress veteran was suffering from post-COVID complications. His wife Dolly Gogoi, son and MP Gaurav Gogoi, daughter Chandrima Gogoi, who lives in the U.S., and other relatives were by his side when he breathed his last. Mr. Gogoi had been in and out of the hospital, often in intensive care, since he tested positive for COVID-19 on August 25. Tamed insurgency In his political career spanning more than 50 years, he represented the Congress as an MP from Assam six times and led the party to a record three straight electoral victories. He was Chief Minister from 2001 to 2016 and is credited with having tamed insurgency that ravaged the State. Born in 1934 in Jorhat district, Mr. Gogoi did his graduation from the J.B. College in Jorhat and LL.B. from the Gauhati University. His father was a medical practitioner at the Rangajan Tea Estate in Jorhat. He was first elected to Parliament in 1971 from Jorhat. In 1976, he was elected the joint secretary of the All India Congress Committee. Later, he served as the party’s general secretary from 1985 to 1990. He became a Minister in the Cabinet of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao in 1991. Mr. Gogoi also served as the president of the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (1986-90) and was an MLA for four terms. He first represented the Margherita seat in the Assembly. Since 2001, he had represented Titabor. In his tribute, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said, “We have lost a great leader whose contribution to the development of Assam cannot be ignored.” “We had our differences but he was one of the warmest persons who never harboured any ill-will,” said former Congress Chief Minister Bhumidhar Barman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tarun-gogoi-former-assam-cm-passes-away/article33165174.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||2014-29 period is very important for India: PM||Asserting that the 2014-29 period between the 16th and 18th Lok Sabha is “very important” for a young democracy like India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the last six years had been “historic” for the country’s development and a lot remains to be done in the remaining period. He was speaking after inaugurating 76 multi-storey flats in the national capital for MPs. The 16th Lok Sabha (2014-19) had been historic for the country’s progress, and the 17th Lok Sabha had already become a part of history due to a number of decisions it had taken, he said, referring to the passage of landmark legislation aimed at reforming farm and labour sectors besides removal of Article 370 and the citizenship law. “I am confident the next Lok Sabha (2024-29) will also play a very important role in taking the country ahead in this new decade ... There is so much for the country that we have to achieve. Be it ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ campaign, or economic targets or many other pledges like these, we have to achieve them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2014-29-period-very-important-for-india-pm/article33165184.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Single dose of Oxford vaccine is 70% effective||“The bulk of the vaccine rollout programme will be in January, February, March. And we hope that sometime after Easter, things will be able to start to get back to normal,” said Britain’s Health Secretary Matt Hancock. Britain has pre-ordered 100 million doses for its 67 million people. In poor countries, where the logistics of distributing rival vaccines posed a bigger challenge, the effect of a cheaper and easier alternative could be even more pronounced. Zahid Maleque, health minister of Bangladesh, which is buying in 30 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, called the findings “really good news”. The World Health Organization's chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan called the results “encouraging” and said the health body looked forward to seeing the data. The AstraZeneca vaccine uses a modified version of a chimpanzee cold virus to deliver instructions to cells to fight the target virus, a different approach from Pfizer and Moderna, which rely on new technology known as messenger RNA (mRNA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/single-dose-of-oxford-vaccine-is-70-effective/article33165136.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||TRS manifesto is old wine in new bottle, says Kishan||The TRS manifesto is a ‘carbon copy ‘of the previous one released during the 2016 GHMC polls, said Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy. “Only the paper on which it was printed is new. Just a few lines have been changed and the photographs too are the same. The same promises are being made this time too. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is under the impression that people have short memory and do not remember the earlier election eve promises, so the manifesto has been re-printed. If a lot of work was done in the past five years, why repeat the same promises,” he questioned at a press conference on Monday. The repeat of the manifesto only exposes the hollowness of TRS government, he charged. “KCR has converted the city into a sorrow city due to deaths and destruction during recent floods instead of the promised ‘global city’, the Union Minister added. Mr. Kishan Reddy sought to point out that free power supply to washermen community and barbers was also made in the last elections but was not fulfilled. “The sudden advancement of polls probably did not give them sufficient time to think of new schemes, so old ones have been repeated,” he claimed. KCR was welcome to tour the country and meet other Opposition leaders to change the course of the country, but first he should clarify the direction in which Telangana development is headed. “People are no longer willing to trust him as he is not known to keep his word, be it giving government jobs or two-bedroom houses. He has this habit of blaming the Opposition for no reason during the election time but no one is going to fall for his word play,” he claimed. The Minister said the TRS government had not explained where the Rs. 67,000 crore was spent for the twin cities and why it took more than six years for the issuance of ration cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trs-manifesto-is-old-wine-in-a-new-bottle-says-kishan/article33165777.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala puts new libel law on hold||LDF convener and CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said concerns raised by progressive persons had prompted the rethink. The misuse of social media as a potent vehicle for slander targeting women, children and families had necessitated the law, he said. However, the scope of potential abuse of the law prompted its abandonment. Arch rivals Congress and BJP found themselves on the same page opposing the newly introduced Section 118 A of the Act. The amendment proposed a three-year prison term and a fine of up to Rs. 10,000 for those convicted of producing, publishing or disseminating derogatory content through any means of communication to intimidate, insult or defame any person. Opposition parties pointed out the law did not restrict itself to curbing “vile and inhumane social media posts against women and children” alone, as claimed by Mr. Vijayan repeatedly. Instead, the ordinance stopped short of limiting the law to social media and left the amendment open to broad and subjective interpretation by the police. At a stroke, the amendment brought the conventional media and also the whole gamut of social media posts and online commentary under its ambit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-puts-new-libel-law-on-hold/article33165687.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||SC extends Perarivalan’s parole by one week||The court ordered that Perarivalan be given police escort. Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan appeared for the State. During the short hearing, the Centre raised a point of debate about the Governor’s power to grant remission to Perarivalan under Article 161 of the Constitution. Significantly, this submission comes on the heels of a CBI affidavit that said it was entirely up to the Governor to pardon Perarivalan. Mr. Sankaranarayanan objected to this, arguing that the convict was free to choose between the President and the Governor for pardon. The senior advocate referred to the Constitution Bench’s judgment in the Union of India versus Sriharan of December 2015, which said the “exercise of executive clemency” is “vested in the President or the Governor.” Mr. Sanakaranarayanan said the Centre’s rejection, in April 2018, of the Tamil Nadu government’s proposal to remit the sentence of convicts under Section 432 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) did not stop them from separately moving the Governor for pardon under Article 161 of the Constitution. He said the power of State or Central governments to remit sentences under Section 432 CrPC and the clemency power of the President or the Governor could not be equated with each other. Section 432 was a “creature of the Code [CrPC].” Articles 72 (power of President to grant pardon) or 161, on the other hand, was a “high prerogative vested by the Constitution in the highest functionaries of the Union and the States.”  The constitutional power of pardon of the President or Governor was “untouchable and unapproachable and cannot suffer the vicissitudes of simple legislative processes,” Mr. Sankaranarayanan said quoting from the Sriharan judgment. The 2015 judgment was on a petition filed by the Centre challenging the Tamil Nadu government’s first proposal to grant remission to convicts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-extends-perarivalans-parole-by-one-week/article33165150.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||New Bhutan border village built on disputed territory||Chinese media reported there were 27 households, and the village was covered by asphalt roads and “has a public square, village committee, health room, police room, kindergarten, supermarket, and plastic runway”. China has in the past sought to bolster its territorial claims in disputed areas by building civilian settlements there, as on disputed South China Sea islands. According to China’s maps, the village is within China’s territory, but China’s border extends further south beyond where India and Bhutan say the border runs. The area is east of the India-Bhutan-China trijunction on the Doklam plateau, which was the site of a 72-day stand-off in 2017 triggered by China’s road-building up to where it sees its border. India moved in to stop the road, which was built a few hundred metres east of India’s border, saying China had entered Bhutanese territory and was unilaterally pushing the trijunction further south. The new village is located farther east, away from the trijunction. Chinese experts on Monday blamed India for the unsettled China-Bhutan border and stalled negotiations. “The border dispute between China and Bhutan is very minor, but it has not been formally demarcated because of India’s obstruction”, Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University, told the Global Times .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-bhutan-border-village-built-on-disputed-territory/article33165151.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Move to allow corporates to set up banks attracts flak||“... it proposes to allow Indian corporate houses into banking. While the proposal is tempered with many caveats, it raises an important question: Why now,” the article said. The article, posted on Dr. Rajan’s LinkedIn profile on Monday, noted that the IWG has suggested significant amendments to the Banking Regulation Act of 1949, aimed at increasing the RBI’s powers, before allowing corporate houses into banking. “Yet if sound regulation and supervision were only a matter of legislation, India would not have an NPA problem. It is hard not to see these proposed amendments as a subtle way for the IWG to undercut a recommendation it may have had little power over. “In sum, many of the technical rationalisations proposed by the IWG are worth adopting, while its main recommendation — to allow Indian corporate houses into banking — is best left on the shelf,” the authors opined. “Have we learnt something that allows us to override all the prior cautions on allowing industrial houses into banking? We would argue no. Indeed, to the contrary, it is even more important today to stick to the tried and tested limits on corporate involvement in banking,” the article said. Further, Dr. Rajan and Dr. Acharya said that as in many parts of the world, banks in India are rarely allowed to fail — the recent rescue of Yes Bank and of Lakshmi Vilas Bank are examples. For this reason, depositors in scheduled banks know their money is safe, which then makes it easy for banks to access a large volume of depositor funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajan-flags-move-to-allow-corporates-to-set-up-banks/article33165135.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Mansoor Khan in CBI custody||A special court on Monday extended the Central Bureau of Investigation’s custody of Mohammed Mansoor Khan till November 27. The CBI had taken custody of Mr. Khan on Friday for four days but sought an extension to continue their investigation. “We are verifying information obtained from Mr. Baig with the accused and questioning him about the documents recovered from his house during the raid,” said a CBI official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mansoor-khan-in-cbi-custody/article33165701.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC notices over stalling Rs. 10,000 disbursal||The Telangana High Court on Monday issued notices to State Election Commission and State government in a PIL petition seeking cancellation of the SEC order stopping disbursal of Rs. 10,000 relief to flood affected families in the city. Hearing today A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing the PIL plea filed by lawyer S. Sharath Kumar, posted the hearing to today (Tuesday). The petitioner contended that the SEC’s direction to State government to stop identification of flood affected families in GHMC area and stalling disbursal of Rs. 10,000 each to affected families is against principles of natural justice. Dharani portal In a separate PIL petition relating to Dharani portal, the bench extended the order staying registration of non-agricultural properties till Tuesday. The arguments would continue on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-notices-over-stalling-rs-10000-disbursal/article33165768.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Owaisi to take BJP candidate to court||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party’s candidate from Ghansi Bazaar division, Renu Soni, produced a fake certificate and said that he would get a cheating case booked against her. Mr Owaisi was speaking at a public meeting where he said: Madam, I promise you, God willing, I will get a 420 criminal case booked against you. A case will proceed against you. You may go to court, it is your right. But you lied and obtained the certificate, this will attract 420 IPC case. I appeal to the people of Ghansi Bazaar, do not let your vote go waste. He further alleged that no developmental work was done in Ghansi Bazaar divison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/owaisi-to-take-bjp-candidate-to-court/article33165769.ece
24 November 2020||Kolkata,||AIMIM leaders in Bengal join Trinamool||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) suffered a jolt in West Bengal as a number of leaders joined the Trinamool Congress on Monday. This came on a day Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee proposed to double the honorarium to priests in the State. AIMIM leader Anwar Pasha and a number of his colleagues joined the ruling party in the presence of Trinamool leaders and Ministers Bratya Basu and Malay Ghatakat at the party headquarters in Kolkata. “Those who joined the Trinamool today are from different parts of the State and have joined the secular and inclusive politics of Mamata Banerjee,” Mr. Basu said. The setback to the Asaduddin Owaisi-led party comes at a time when speculation is rife over the role AIMIM will play in the upcoming Assembly election in the State. Muslims comprise about 27.01% of the total population of the State as per 2011 Census and have largely voted in the favour of the Trinamool Congress in the past decade. After joining the Trinamool, Mr. Pasha described the development in Bihar as “very disturbing”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aimim-leaders-in-bengal-join-trinamool/article33165434.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Shah opens mobile testing lab in Delhi||Union Home Minister Amit Shah inaugurated a mobile COVID-19 RT-PCR Lab at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) here on Monday. The lab is jointly launched by SpiceHealth and the ICMR. “RT-PCR tests will be offered at Rs. 499,” said a release issued by the Health Ministry. It added that test report would be available within six to eight hours from the time of sample collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-opens-mobile-testing-lab-in-delhi/article33165171.ece
24 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Night curfew to continue in Ahmedabad||Gujarat continues to see spike in COVID-19 cases and mortality as the virus is surging in cities such as Ahmedabad and Surat where the government has clamped night curfews. In Ahmedabad, night curfew will be in place till December 7 as per the notification brought out by the Police Commissioner Sanjay Srivastav. All shops and parlours, restaurants and eateries will be shut before 9 p.m.. Pharmacies and milk and dairy parlours have been exempted from the curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/night-curfew-to-continue-in-ahmedabad/article33165176.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||No nod yet for Cabinet expansion||Though the ruling BJP has been witnessing intense lobbying for the ministerial berths by its legislators, it has now turned out that the party high command is unlikely to give clearance for ministerial expansion/reshuffle this month. The lobbying for ministerial berths has intensified ever since Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa made a quick visit to New Delhi on November 18 and met party national president J.P. Nadda to discuss about ministerial expansion/reshuffle. The Chief Minister had said that the central leaders had told him that they would get back in about three days with regard to the expansion/reshuffle. After returning to Bengaluru, Mr. Yediyurappa had expressed confidence that the central leaders would send the approved list of legislators to be included in the ministry in about three days. But though the deadline has ended, the leadership is learnt to have not given the green signal. Though some of his ministerial colleagues have been saying that the high command may give clearance in another three days, sources said the central leadership was unlikely to give clearance this month. “This is mainly because detailed consultations on ministerial expansion/reshuffle is yet to take place between the Chief Minister and the party central unit,” sources noted. It is being said that the central leadership may be keen on detailed discussion as there is already a feeling of being let down among the party old-timers who have missed out on the ministerial opportunity as the Chief Minister is obligated to reward those who came from other parties with ministerial berths as the party could form its government mainly due to their political gamble. But what has complicated the matters is the winter session of the State legislature, scheduled to be held from December 7 to 15. Generally, it has become a practice not to resort to ministerial expansion or reshuffle just ahead of a legislature session as Ministers would need time to get a grip on their departments to answer the queries by legislators and also participate in any debate related to their departments. This would in reality mean that the ministerial expansion/reshuffle exercise may have to be put off till the completion of the legislature session if it is not held this month, observed a senior leader from the party. In all probability, the exercise may have to wait till the completion of the legislature session, he felt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-nod-yet-for-cabinet-expansion/article33165140.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi lawyer seeks action against Mehbooba Mufti||A Delhi-based lawyer on Monday filed a petition before the Delhi High Court seeking directions to register a case against former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti for her “dacoits snatched our flag” remark. “In this statement, it is quite clear that she is using this derogatory and instigating statement against the duly elected Indian government,” the petition filed by advocate Vineet Jindal stated. “It is an inciting statement which intends to create hatred and unrest among the communities and waging war against the duly elected government of this country as she is an influential and public personality,” the plea added. It stated that on October 23, while addressing her first press conference after being released from a 14-month detention, the Peoples Democratic Party chief made the remark. “When reporters asked her [Ms. Mufti] about the J&K flag placed on the desk, she called it ‘our flag’ and said, ‘we will take Tricolour in our hand when we get our flag back’,” the petition added. The advocate said the statement made by Ms. Mufti explicitly insulted the Tricolour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-lawyer-seeks-action-against-mehbooba-mufti/article33165160.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC rejects pleas in 2G case||The Delhi High Court on Monday rejected pleas challenging the decision-making process behind the Centre’s approval to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to appeal against the acquittal of the accused in the 2G case. Justice Brijesh Sethi, who will demit office on November 30, also released the appeals from his court for it to be listed before another Bench on December 1. Justice Sethi rejected the pleas made by some of the individuals, who were acquitted in the case, seeking direction to the government to place on record the documents containing the process to be followed before taking a decision to file an appeal. Leave to appeal In October, the High Court commenced day-to-day hearing on the CBI’s ‘leave to appeal’ against the acquittal of all the individuals and firms in the case. Leave to appeal is a formal permission granted by a court to a party to challenge a decision in a higher court. Acquitted in 2017 In December 2017, a Special CBI Court here had acquitted A. Raja, Kanimozhi and others in the CBI and Enforcement Directorate cases relating to the 2G spectrum case noting that the prosecution had “miserably failed” to prove the charges. The Special CBI Court also acquitted 17 others, including the late DMK supremo M. Karunanidhi’s wife Dayalu Ammal, Vinod Goenka, Asif Balwa, film producer Karim Morani, P. Amirtham and Sharad Kumar, director of Kalaignar TV, in the case registered by the ED. Challenges acquittal On March 19, 2018, the Enforcement Directorate approached the High Court challenging the special court’s order acquitting all the accused. A day later, the CBI too challenged the acquittal of the accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-rejects-pleas-in-2g-case/article33165177.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||President and PM mourn Gogoi||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday condoled the demise of former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi and said his passing away marked the end of an era. His long tenure in office was a period of epochal change in the State, the President said. “Extremely sad to know of the demise of Shri Tarun Gogoi, former Chief Minister of Assam. The country has lost a veteran leader with rich political and administrative experience. His long tenure in office was a period of epochal change in Assam,” Mr. Kovind tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the Congress veteran as a popular leader. “Shri Tarun Gogoi Ji was a popular leader and a veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti,” Mr. Modi tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-and-pm-mourn-gogoi/article33165690.ece
24 November 2020||Srinagar,||Equal opportunity for all: Sharma||J&K State Election Commissioner (SEC) K.K Sharma on Monday instructed top officials “to ensure comfortable campaigning for all candidates,” amid allegations by regional parties that candidates, other than the BJP’s, were not being allowed to campaign for the maiden District Development Council (DDC) elections in the Union Territory (UT). “All the Deputy Commissioners and the Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs) have been instructed to ensure comfortable campaigning by all candidates, besides providing them adequate security during their visits to their areas,” Mr. Sharma said at a press conference in Srinagar. Referring to the allegations made by parties associated with the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) that their candidates were being “detained in security enclosures,” Mr. Sharma said, “Putting up candidates in cluster accommodations is for their security and safety. It in no way means that they are being prevented from holding election campaigning." He said the SEC believed in providing equal opportunities to every contesting candidate and would not bar any candidate from going anywhere he wished to campaign.  The SEC has deployed additional 165 Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) companies “to ensure peaceful law and order situation, area domination, security of candidates and polling booths for incident-free polls in Kashmir.” NC’s charge Hours after the SEC’s assurances of a level playing field, the National Conference (NC) said the Centre was sabotaging the participation of parties “other than the BJP and the King’s party.” “The measure of denying level playing field to all parties is intended to help BJP and its ilk. Stopping the PAGD candidates from campaigning in the name of security reeks of a malicious and purposive discrimination, to help King’s party, BJP and its proxies,” NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said. He termed the move to shift the PAGD candidates to hotels and security zones as “a sign that New Delhi was up to some mischief.” “It is very evident from the fact that BJP and its ilk are given security cover and accorded facilities to campaign. Anyone who was not associated with BJP and its allies was spitefully dumped in hotels. It is clear that they don’t want us to campaign.” The eight-phase DDC elections are scheduled to begin on November 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/equal-opportunity-for-all-sharma/article33165188.ece
24 November 2020||Kochi,||Sivasankar to be formally arrested today||The Customs will formally record the arrest of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. Mr. Sivasankar, who is in the custody of the Enforcement Directorate following a case booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, is housed at the district prison at Kakkanad at present. On Tuesday, Customs officials will reach the jail to formally record the arrest. They will produce the remand report and other details at the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, which is trying the gold smuggling case. On Monday, the agency secured permission from the Principal District and Sessions Judge to arrest Mr. Sivasankar. Officials submitted that they had obtained “direct incriminating material” against Mr. Sivasankar in the gold smuggling case after interrogating Swapna Suresh on November 18 at the Vanitha Jail, Attakulangara. Custodial interrogation The agency submitted that it had become necessary to subject him to custodial interrogation after arresting him. The arrest and custodial interrogation were highly necessary for the smooth progress of the investigation. The agency has categorised him as suspected accused and noted that it was yet to determine the actual involvement of Mr. Sivasankar in the gold smuggling case. Considering the application of the Customs, Principal Sessions Judge Kauser Edappagath permitted the arrest of Mr. Sivasankar. Custody extension In another development, the Customs sought the extension of the custody of Swapna and P.S. Sarith, the other accused in the gold smuggling case, for the probe in the dollar smuggling case. In its application submitted before C. Deepu, the judge of the Economic Offences Court, the agency wanted the two accused in its custody for seven more days for carrying out a detailed investigation to “identify the key persons involved in the smuggling of huge quantities of foreign currency out of India, which is a grave threat to the economic and national security.” ED response sought Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre and the Enforcement Directorate on the bail plea of Mr. Sivasankar, in a money laundering case registered in connection with the gold smuggling case. According to his petition, there was no independent material collected by the ED to substantiate the allegations against him. The ED produced selected WhatsApp messages before the special court to mislead it and implicate him in the case. The court posted the petition on December 2 for further hearing.  The agency submits that it has become necessary to subject Sivasankar to custodial interrogation after arresting him. The agency has categorised him as suspected accused in the gold smuggling case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/customs-to-arrest-sivasankar-today/article33165396.ece
24 November 2020||Patna,||Controversy over Bihar MLA’s oath||A controversy erupted on the first day of the five-day Bihar Assembly session on Monday when All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) legislator and State party president Akhtarul Iman took oath in Urdu and used the word ‘Bharat’ instead of ‘Hindustan’.  Mr. Imam sought permission from Pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi to use ‘Bharat’. Later, speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Iman said, “It was just a suggestion that whenever we read the preamble to the Constitution in whichever language, it mentions the word Bharat. Since we’re taking oath in the name of the Constitution, I sought permission from the Chair to use the same word. But, let me be clear here, I have no problem at all with the word Hindustan.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/controversy-over-bihar-mlas-oath/article33165157.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Car rams into Safdarjung Tomb complex||A gate and signboard at the Safdarjung Tomb complex was damaged after a car rammed into it early on Monday morning, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials said. The iron gate and stone signage were brought to the ground by the high-speed impact, said an official of the ASI Delhi circle. A Delhi police officer said an FIR has been filed for rash driving (Section 279 of the Indian Penal Code) and under provisions of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 and the Motor Vehicles Act. The officer said the car was driven by Vijay Bahri, a 32-year-old Delhi resident. He rammed into the main entrance of Safdarjung Tomb from the Lodhi Road side and further hit the stone signage. Lost control The driver of the car was in an “inebriated state and hence lost control over his vehicle”, he said. “No one was injured and the driver was rushed to RML hospital. He also didn’t sustain any serious injury,” the official said. Earlier, this year the wall of the Qutub Minar complex in Mehrauli was damaged in a similar incident. On May 4, an allegedly drunk driver crashed his car into the wall of the UNESCO World Heritage site and damaged 50 metres of the boundary wall, according to the ASI’s police complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/car-rams-into-safdarjung-tomb-complex/article33165186.ece
24 November 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. govt. restricts number of indoor event attendees||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday reduced the number of people who can attend social gatherings in view of the COVID-19 situation. As regards indoor events, up to 100 people can attend or 50% of the total capacity of the hall. Earlier, 200 persons were allowed. Gatherings in open spaces or grounds would only be permitted up to 40% of their capacity now, an order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-govt-restricts-number-of-indoor-event-attendees/article33165168.ece
24 November 2020||Mumbai,||Bharti Singh, husband get bail||A magistrate’s court granted bail on Monday to comedian Bharti Singh and her screenwriter husband Haarsh Limbachiya on their furnishing a bond for Rs. 15,000 each. They were was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday and charges under several sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) were imposed on them after after 86.5 grams of cannabis (ganja) was found in their possession. They were remanded in judicial custody till December 4 on Sunday and they had immediately filed for bail. Appearing for the couple, advocate Ayaz Khan told the court that the quantity involved was really small and bail could, therefore, be granted. On Saturday, an officer of the Indian Revenue Services Sameer Wankhede questioned the couple for more than 10 hours before arresting them. The NCB’s press release said the couple admitted to consuming ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bharti-singh-husband-get-bail/article33165181.ece
24 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Kangana, sister move HC to quash FIR||Actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel on Monday moved the Bombay High Court to quash an FIR and order by a magistrate court. On October 21, the Mumbai police issued notice to the duo after the Bandra magistrate on October 17 ordered that an FIR be filed against them for “promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion” through their tweets. “The matter is likely to be heard by a division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik on Tuesday,” said their advocate Rizwan Siddhiqui.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kangana-sister-move-hc-to-quash-fir/article33165182.ece
24 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha Governor’s wife dies of COVID-19||Sushila Devi, wife of Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal, passed away on Monday three weeks after testing positive for COVID-19. She was 74 and is survived by Mr. Lal, seven sons and daughters. Six of her family, including the Governor, tested positive for the pandemic. While all recovered, she was undergoing treatment from November 2. Expressing deep grief at her passing away, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik described her as a very warm and pious person. The Odisha Assembly, which is in session, paid tributes to her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-governors-wife-dies-of-covid-19/article33165185.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hiccups in Chennai’s transition to new system of upkeep||This monsoon marks the transition from the old “tonnage” system of solid waste management to a new “performance-based” system of conservancy in Chennai. While residents of a few areas like Adyar have reported an improvement in services, many locations have started reporting civic issues because of inadequate infrastructure for implementing the new system. For instance, the infrastructure to charge electric vehicles has not been installed in locations like Kodambakkam ahead of the launch. Zones like Teynampet are yet to get infrastructure for charging all the battery-operated vehicles. Private conservancy operators will take over 11 out of 15 zones of the city by the time this northeast monsoon season ends. Residents have demanded that the civic body develop all infrastructure for smooth functioning of the system. Private conservancy operations, as per the performance-based indicators, have started in Adyar and Teynampet. The private conservancy operator will start operations in Kodambakkam on November 30. Work is expected to begin in Alandur, Valasaravakkam, Perungudi and Sholinganallur this December. Work order for Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram and Ambattur has been issued last week. Over 11,000 conservancy workers are expected to be hired by Urbaser Sumeet, the private conservancy operator for the Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Adyar, Sholinganallur, Alandur, Valasaravakkam and Perungudi zones. At least 4,500 workers have been hired till date. Bright spots The improvement in solid waste management has been significant in some parts of Adyar after the new private conservancy operator took over 30 days ago. “Conservancy operations are fairly good in Adyar. I won’t say the system has improved 100%. Previously, they never used to clean the road. Day-to-day collection was not regular. They have improved in the past few days,” said S. Thiruvengadam, secretary of Adyar Citizens Welfare Association. “Residents have requested officials to respect their sentiments. Door-to-door pick-up should be regular on Sundays. Dumping of waste by illegal hostels should stop after relaxation of the COVID-19 restrictions,” said Mr. Thiruvengadam. Services inadequate Following the launch of private conservancy operations in Adyar 30 days ago, the civic body launched operations in the Teynampet zone 10 days ago. But conservancy operations have not improved in many parts of the zone. A large number of new compactors, battery-operated vehicles and modern equipment have been used to clean the area for the past few days. The number of vehicles has increased in the past few days. But services have been inadequate because of lack of coordination between private workers and civic officials. Most new drivers of compactors are inexperienced, affecting conservancy operations in areas like Teynampet. The new drivers require guidance from corporation workers but they have not received any support at the field level. Sweeping of streets is inadequate. Some stretches like Anna Salai and Pattulos Road remain dirty. Sweeping has not been done for more than 15 days in some parts of the Teynampet zone. According to the data compiled by the Corporation, the number of complaints received from residents has come down from 15 every day to zero in most of the wards in the Adyar zone after the launch of the new system. Officials attribute the reduction in the complaints to the increase in the number of equipment and mechanisation of operations. But the number of workers has reduced in zones such as Adyar and Teynampet. For instance, just 30 sweepers have been deployed in a ward in Adyar to clean 160 streets. As a result, a sweeper has been asked to clean 1,100 metres of streets. New supervisors have been harsh in dealing with inexperienced conservancy workers. Each sweeper was asked to clean just 500 metres of road by the old conservancy operator. Representatives of conservancy employees said the risk of attrition among employees was expected to be high after the COVID-19 restrictions were relaxed. Many new conservancy workers have joined the private conservancy operator owing to loss of livelihood during the lockdown. They would leave their jobs after they get their original source of livelihood. Transport issues The issues relating to direct transport of waste from streets to the dumpyard at Perungudi has affected conservancy operations. After civic issues were reported because of the closure of transfer stations at Mylapore, small vehicles have been permitted to dump waste in the transfer station. Ahead of the launch in the Kodambakkam zone this month, conservancy operations have been disrupted in many parts of the zone. N. Thiyagarajan, a resident of Kodambakkam, said the number of conservancy workers had come down in the vicinity of Anna Main Road. “Garbage is dumped on Anna Main Road from the interior roads. Clearance is not done at regular intervals. Once a resident complains on the 1913 helpline, the worker is removed from the job, and the situation turns worse,” he said. Residents are waiting for the new conservancy operator to start full-fledged operations in Kodambakkam this month. Some parts of Kodambakkam have already received the services of the private conservancy operator. Former councillor S. Mangala Raj said the quality of conservancy work in areas like Bazaar Road in Mylapore had worsened in the past few days. The performance of the private operator would be evaluated by the Assistant Executive Engineer of the Corporation before payment. In the event of a poor score, the payment would be reduced significantly. Corporation Chief Engineer N. Mahesan said they were creating awareness among bulk waste generators who generate more than 100 kg a day to prevent dumping of waste near residential areas. “We held a meeting of 2,000 bulk waste generators, including malls and hotels, last week. We have advised them to stop dumping waste on the road. As per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, the bulk waste generators have to do on-site composting and recycling. Just 25% of the bulk waste generators have done it. We will start collecting fine for violations,” he said. “We will focus on night conservancy. Overflowing of bins will reduce. Seven zones will stabilise by January. Decentralised facilities such as bio-gas plants and resource recovery will start next month. Our awareness-creation activities for creating a cleaner Chennai among the shops in areas like Triplicane have helped to improve the conditions. Our focus is on waste segregation at source. Residents are requested to hand over the segregated waste only to the BOV operator. Waste management services by Urbaser Sumeet is free of cost. Residents are requested not to pay cash or in kind to any Urbaser Sumeet staff member,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hiccups-in-chennais-transition-to-new-system-of-upkeep/article33165916.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City all set to tackle inundation during this year’s monsoon||While the quantum of rainfall that the city will get from cyclonic storm Nivar is anyone’s guess, water managers point out that compared to the 2015 scenario, Chennai is now better placed in terms of infrastructure to tackle particularly heavy spells during the Northeast monsoon. Additional infrastructure has been created over the past five years to handle the probability of 50-year floods. With Cyclone Nivar expected to bring heavy to very heavy rain over some places in the city and neighbouring districts, the Water Resources Department is closely monitoring the level in city reservoirs, particularly the one in Chembarambakkam that has touched 21.18 ft against its full level of 24 ft. Each of the three other reservoirs need 1,000 million cubic feet of water to reach capacity. Officials of the WRD noted that unlike in 2015, when the Adyar received the surplus of nearly 186 waterbodies upstream, only 30% of the tanks have been filled now. Feeder waterbodies Moreover, the group of 40 tanks contributing to two major waterbodies in Pillaipakkam and Sriperumbudur that drain the surplus into the Chembarambakkam reservoir also need to fill up. “We plan to maintain the water level at 22 ft and expect to release up to 5,000 cusecs (cubic feet per second) from Chembarambakkam reservoir if it touches the level and depending on the inflow during the rain expected this week. A capacity of 2 ft will be left unfilled for the next spell. Another 5,000 cusecs of floodwater may flow into the Adyar if the tanks upstream in Kancheepuram fill up,” an official said. Over the past few years, the carrying capacity of the Adyar was doubled from about 8,000 cusecs in the upper stretch to nearly 1 lakh cusecs in the tail end near Maraimalai Adigal bridge. Besides desilting, flood protection walls were built in vulnerable areas, including Jaffarkhanpet, which was a disaster zone in the 2015 floods. “The current infrastructure can handle heavy rain up to 30 cm in a day. Even in Tiruvallur district, only 25% of the tanks have filled up so far. There are no chances of a repeat of 2015 floods this year,” the official added. The completion of the Thervoy Kandigai Kannankottai reservoir will help store additional Krishna water this year. The city continues to get about 650 cusecs of Krishna water. If the waterbody in Poondi receives rainwater this week, Krishna water will be diverted for 10 days and stored in Thervoy Kandigai. Officials of the Tamil Nadu Disaster Risk Reduction Agency noted that the obstructions in Adyar river that led to the spillover in the neighbouring areas during 2015 have been cleared. Waterbodies have been deepened under the Kudimaramathu scheme. Many tanks in the southern suburbs now have regulators to streamline surplus water, and their bund levels have been raised to 1.5 m above full tank level to avoid breaches. Long-term measures “We have executed long-term flood mitigation works in Chennai and its neighbouring districts to decrease the severity of inundation by 70%. Cut and cover drains emptying into Pallikaranai swamp have been provided to connect the tanks. These measures were taken without much land acquisition,” said an official. More checkdams across the Adyar and reservoirs formed in the river’s tributaries would also help divert floodwater. “We are confident that the time frame of inundation in localities would be largely reduced compared to previous years,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-all-set-to-tackle-inundation-during-this-years-monsoon/article33165719.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM issues directions ahead of cyclone||As the State braces itself for Cyclone Nivar, six NDRF teams have been shifted from Arakkonam to Cuddalore, while two teams will be stationed in Chennai. The Tamil Nadu government has suspended bus services in seven districts — Pudukottai, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Cuddalore, Villupuram and Chengalpattu — from 1 p.m. on November 24, till further orders. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami chaired a meeting on Monday to take stock of the preventive measures in place and gave a number of directions to officials to ensure that people remain safe. Mr. Palaniswami also requested the public in these districts to avoid venturing out of their homes unless it is essential to do so. Adequate equipment He instructed officials of the local administrations, municipalities, revenue, fire, public works, highways, electricity, health and other departments to be ready with adequate lighting equipment, JCBs, lorries, tree-removal equipment, sandbags and electric poles from Monday evening in districts that are on the path of the cyclone. Officials have been directed to camp in these seven districts and ensure precautionary measures are in place. Officials have also been instructed to move people living in low-lying areas and in unstable buildings to relief camps, and ensure adequate availability of water, toilet facilities, generators, raw materials to prepare food, cooking vessels and bedding for those at the camps. Keeping in mind the COVID-19 protocols, the necessary stock of sanitisers should also be kept at the camps, the CM added. Pump sets to draw out water from low-lying areas and disinfectants to prevent the spread of water-borne diseases from stagnant water should also be kept ready, while overhead tanks should be filled to ensure that water supply is not disrupted, he said. The Electricity Department has been instructed to get 1,000 additional staff. Additional electricity poles and transformers should also be kept ready. Earlier in the day, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar said the Chief Minister had also directed that bund-strengthening measures should be undertaken in lakes that are almost full to prevent any breach. Fishermen alerted Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said in a statement that the Department had stopped issuing tokens and diesel to fishermen from November 21. All those who had left for fishing before that date were asked to return ashore through VHF and satellite phones, and they have returned. The Minister said 146 fishing boats in the Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh waters have been contacted and asked to immediately return to Chennai or the Krishnapatnam port. As a precautionary measure, boats and other equipment have been stored in safe places, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-issues-directions-ahead-of-cyclone/article33165291.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK warns of dire consequences if its poll campaign is disrupted||The DMK leadership on Monday warned of dire consequences if the State government sought to disrupt its ongoing ‘Vidiyalai Nokki, Stalinin Kural’ campaign. “In a democracy, every political party has the right to undertake an election campaign. The DMK will demolish the attempts to prevent it from taking out its campaign, which is being done with the support of people,” said a resolution adopted in the DMK high-level executive meeting chaired by party president M.K. Stalin. The resolution said the people were angry with the AIADMK government which had “surrendered itself” before the BJP government at the Centre. “The AIADMK government is afraid of the people’s support to the ‘Vidiyalai Nokki, Stalinin Kural ’ , a campaign launched by party youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin last week. That is why they use the police department in violation of democratic norms. We will not watch it as mute spectators,” the resolution said. The DMK alleged that the ruling party was selective when it came to preventing the campaigns, public meetings and rallies organised by the DMK and had thrown to winds the dictum that all were equal before the law. Political platform “When Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited Chennai, the police turned a blind eye to the scores of AIADMK cadres who thronged the roads in the name of according a reception. The Police Commissioner himself controlled the crowd and the government meeting attended by Mr. Shah was converted into a platform for the election campaign of the BJP-AIADMK combine,” the resolution further alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-warns-of-dire-consequences-if-its-poll-campaign-is-disrupted/article33165296.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on peripheral ring road phase 2 to begin in February||Work on phase 2 of the Chennai Peripheral Ring Road (CPRR) is likely to commence in three months. Tenders are under process for two packages for this 25.50-km stretch from Thatchur Kootu Road to Tiruvallur Bypass currently. “We expect the work to commence by February 2021. It will be through engineering-procurement-construction mode. The tenders for phase 3 will be called sometime next month,” said an official source in the Tamil Nadu Road Infrastructure Development Company, which is implementing the project from Thatchur Kootu Road to Poonjeri near Mamallapuram. The road on this stretch would have six lanes in the main carriageway and two service lanes on either side. Since a 100-member strong team of Revenue officials was working to complete the land acquisition for the road that would take three years to build, they hoped that they would hand over the land to the contractor as per schedule. “The alignment for the project was frozen in 2014 when the DPR was approved. It remains the same,” the official added. The total cost for phases 2, 3 (Tiruvallur bypass to Sriperumbudur) and 5 (Singaperumalkoil to Poonjeri) including land acquisition would be Rs. 7,500 crore. The State government has sanctioned Rs. 2,603 crore towards land acquisition for these phases. The stretch from Sriperumbudur to Singaperumalkoil had been widened as part of another project. The agency is at present looking for funds for the final phase, which would be four lanes wide. “The width of the road has been decided based upon the projected traffic flow,” another source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-peripheral-ring-road-phase-2-to-begin-in-february/article33165329.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Grassroots artisans brought under one collective||With stocks piling up after the lockdown was imposed, 25 organisations promoting handmade products, especially clothes, furnishings, masks, bags and stoles, have come together to form the India Hand Made Collective. Since offline sales are yet to return to normal, these organisations have taken to market the products online though the India Hand Made Collective (IHMC). Suresh Lakshmipathy, Co-founder, Tula, and one of the brains behind the effort, said that the idea was to help farmers, weavers, spinners and dyers who are all part of the cotton value chain and were affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. “A number of people kept producing during the pandemic not knowing what to do but they could not sell their stocks. So, instead of individually starting websites, where visibility would not be much, we started this common platform for some 25 brands. And as people who run the back end operations, we don't make a profit but only take salaries from the sales,” he said. Gathering pace It has been only a short while sincewww. indiahandmadecollective. comwas soft launched but it is doing well in terms of selling kurtis, saris and home furnishings. Malini Kumar, one of the partners of IHMC, said that individual brands or societies only managed the delivery part. “We are not into logistics. However, from the customer point of view, they will get updates about delivery and for now, deliveries are happening between two and five days,” she said. Biome Conscious Fashion, Blue Lotus, Cotton Racks, Gandhigram Khadi and VIPC Trust, Magan Khadi, MG Gramodyog Sewa Sansthan, MoralFibre, Nature Alley, Porgai Artisans Association, Soot, Trinjan, and WeaverBird are some of the brands that the platform supports for now. Uma Prajapathy of Auroville’s Upasana, which is part of the IHMC, said that before June they thought Upasana would close down and this was despite producing masks. “We could not pay our staff even half their dues as salary. However, now online sales is helping and we are seeing our market reviving,” she said. Swaminathan Vaithyalingam is the founder of the Kaskom brand that produces mundu, thorthu, stoles, honey comb cotton towels and plain Kora fabric made by farmers in Kurinjipadi, Batlagundu and Kannur. He said that during the pandemic, many weavers did not even have food. A helping hand “More than work, we had to arrange for food. We reached out to friends and gave small amounts to families to sustain themselves. Now, we are reaching out to friends who are buying and the situation has improved. We have learnt that numbers are strength and this effort by IHMC is one of those,” he said. The IHMC, which is currently 25 brands strong, is still expanding and more people are being brought on board, said Ananthu, co-founder, Tula.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grassroots-artisans-brought-under-one-collective/article33165328.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Perfect understanding between BJP, AIADMK’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s criticism of the DMK at a function in Chennai on Saturday is a reflection of the “perfect understanding” between the AIADMK and the BJP, R.B. Udhayakumar, member of the ruling party’s media committee and State Revenue Minister, said on Monday. “Why should there be any doubt?” asked the Minister, when asked whether Mr. Shah’s lack of explicit acknowledgement of the alliance disturbed the party. At the event, Mr. Shah had openly lauded the State government for its general administration and water management. “It was in his presence that our leadership announced the continuance of the alliance. This was not denied by him. He [Mr. Shah] is not only the Home Minister of the country but also one of the key deciding factors of the BJP. Had the announcement not been acceptable to them [the BJP], they would have made it public. If acceptable, they would let it be known in a matured way,” Mr. Udhayakumar said. Just as the AIADMK chose the Saturday’s event to make an announcement on the alliance as “we considered it the appropriate occasion”, the BJP would also like to make its decision public at the “right time and platform”, the Minister added. Tirupathy Narayanan, spokesperson of the BJP, said Mr. Shah, in his interaction with party leaders, did not say anything about the alliance. Rather, he had underscored the need for expanding the roots of the party in the State and propagating the organisation’s ideology. Mr. Shah had reminded the audience that the party grew from nowhere to a principal force in northeastern States such as Assam, Tripura and Manipur, and this could be replicated in Tamil Nadu too, the spokesperson added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perfect-understanding-between-bjp-aiadmk/article33165281.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai, Coimbatore record over 100 COVID-19 cases in last 24 hours||Tamil Nadu recorded 1,624 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally of total positive cases in the State to 7,71,619. At the same time, 1,904 persons were discharged from health facilities after treatment. With this, 7,47,752 persons have been sent home post treatment. As on date, 12,245 persons are under treatment, either at home or in health facilities. A total of 11,622 deaths due to COVID-19 have been recorded so far. This includes the 17 deaths that were recorded in the last 24 hours. Chennai and Coimbatore were the only two districts to record over 100 new cases. While six districts recorded cases in the single digit, Perambalur had no new case and just one active case. Less than 100 In eight districts, the number of active cases as on date was less than 100. Ariyalur had just one new case since Sunday and 24 active cases. In Chennai district, 483 more persons were found to be infected and in Coimbatore, another 140 persons tested positive. In Chennai, 504 more were discharged during the day. The district also recorded six deaths, public health officials said. As on date, 4,354 persons are undergoing treatment. As many as 2,12,504 positive cases have been recorded in Chennai so far. According to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health, 2,04,328 persons have been discharged so far in the district. The district has recorded 3,822 deaths due to the infection. Of the 17 persons who died of the infection in the last 24 hours in the State, one person, who died in a private hospital, had no co-morbid conditions. A 64-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted on November 17 to a private hospital, tested positive for COVID-19 on November 19, with complaints of a fever for 10 days, and a cough and difficulty in breathing for two days. He died on Sunday and the hospital recorded the reason for his death as COVID-19-induced pneumonia. Among the remaining 16 who died, eight succumbed to the infection in government facilities and the other eight in private hospitals. These persons had pre-existing co-morbid conditions. The youngest was a 34-year-old man from Madurai, who was admitted to a private hospital on November 16 and tested positive on November 21. He was admitted after complaining of a fever, a cough and myalgia. He died on Sunday night due to COVID-19-induced pneumonia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-coimbatore-record-over-100-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours/article33165286.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIMIM to contest ‘at least 25 to 30 seats’ in State||After tasting success in the recently-concluded Bihar Assembly election, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), headed by Hyderabad-based politician Asaduddin Owaisi, will contest “at least 25-30 seats” in the Tamil Nadu Assembly election next year, the party’s State president, Vakeel Ahmed, said on Monday. “I have been speaking to Mr. Duraimurugan [general secretary] of the DMK over the last two months about an alliance, but haven’t heard back from him,” Mr. Ahmed told The Hindu. Claiming that his party enjoyed widespread support among Muslim youngsters, he said it would contest seats in Krishnagiri, Vellore, Tiruchi, Madurai and Pudukottai, among other districts. “If the DMK loses, they should not blame us,” he said. According to him, Muslims have begun to realise the need for a pan-India Muslim leadership. Responding to the criticism that the AIMIM is helping the BJP by splitting Muslim votes and weakening the Opposition, Mr. Ahmed said, “Before 2014, we were in an alliance with the Congress. Today, BJP has given 10% reservation for the economically weaker sections. The Congress could have provided 10% reservation for Muslims when it was in power for 10 years. Did it? The Congress contested 10 Lok Sabha seats in Tamil Nadu. Did it give even a single seat to a Muslim?” he asked. “The BJP is the enemy that we can see eye to eye. The Congress stabs us in the back,” he said. Muslim political leaders in the State dismissed concerns that ‘vote-splitters’ could be used successfully to affect the electoral outcome for the DMK-Congress front. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M.H. Jawahirullah said Mr. Owaisi’s strategy of placing the BJP and the Congress on the same plane would have no resonance in the State. “The Muslim political landscape in Tamil Nadu is vastly different from the one in north India. Sizeable numbers of Muslims support the DMK, the AIADMK and the Congress when they are in an alliance with Muslim parties. Therefore, the idea that the BJP and the Congress or the BJP and the DMK are one and the same will not work in Tamil Nadu,” he said. Indian Union Muslim League’s national president K.M. Kader Mohideen said, “He [Mr. Owaisi] may get some support in Hindi-speaking States by using radical rhetoric towards Muslims, but it won’t work in Tamil Nadu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aimim-to-contest-at-least-25-to-30-seats-in-state/article33165279.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corporation readies 75 relief centres||Greater Chennai Corporation has started work on relief centres at 75 locations across the city ahead of the cyclonic storm. Chennai Corporation Deputy Commissioner (works) Meghanatha Reddy said each of the 15 zones will get five relief centres to help residents in vulnerable areas. A total of 170 relief centres are likely to be readied based on the requirements of each neighbourhood, ahead of the cyclone. As many as 19 areas in the city are vulnerable to flooding. Civic officials have been asked to advise residents in such areas to reach the relief centres 24 hours ahead of the cyclonic storm. Special teams have been formed to remove trees uprooted during the cyclone. Toilets and drinking water supply facilities have been readied for the relief centres. Assistant engineers have started identifying weak structures that are likely to cause injury to commuters, pedestrians and residents during the cyclone. Disaster management expert N.Mathavan who worked on resilience index for Chennai said residents should avoid venturing out during rain as a number of high rise buildings have weak structures on top that may cause injury to pedestrians. "Residents should follow the guidelines issued by the State. It is not the repeat of 2015 floods. It is going to be the repeat of the event in 2016 when Chennai succesfully handled the cyclone without any major disaster events. At the same time this situation is different due to COVID-19. Residents should follow the protocol. People should give more importance to sanitation measures.” Proper arrangements should be made in relief centres to handle medical emergencies, he added. Chennai Corporation officials said all preparations for maintenance of subways, draining of water from low lying areas and identifying the elderly and pregnant women from the vulnerable areas have been done in the 200 wards of the 426 sq km of the city. More than 1,000 dilapidated buildings have already been identified by the civic officials. Residents have been advised not to go near such structures. Chennai Corporation will conduct a meeting of monitoring officials on Tuesday and start using social media to give advisory to residents. Many of the 3,500 corporation buildings in the city are also dilapidated. Some of the buildings are yet to be redeveloped.  It is not the repeat of 2015 floods. It is going to be the repeat of 2016 when Chennai succesfully handled the cyclone without any major disaster||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-readies-75-relief-centres-to-help-during-cyclone/article33165725.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro to beautify areas around phase I extension stations||Sometime next year, after Metro Rail starts services in north Chennai, commuters will find a refreshing change of scenery in the area with plants adorning the space between pillars. At present, Chennai Metro Rail Limited has been wrapping up the construction of the elevated and underground structures and stations in the phase I extension project from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar. A small section of this 9-km stretch from Washermenpet to Tondiarpet is built underground while the rest, including the final station Wimco Nagar, is elevated. According to CMRL officials, this was being done to beautify the space. They have now called for tenders and the chosen firm will have to plant and maintain the plants for two years. Horticulturists and gardeners would be hired to tend to the plants, officials said. “We are planning to plant species such as Benjamin fig ( Ficus blackiana ), ficus prestige , nerium red dwarf and allamanda yellow. We have chosen these plants because they need less water. We will keep pruning them at regular intervals,” an official said. But there were no plans for vertical gardens so far, officials said. The phase I extension is likely to be completed by the end of January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-to-beautify-areas-around-phase-i-extension-stations/article33165727.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Promoter asked to refund amount to two home buyers with compensation||Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA), Chennai, has directed Ozone Projects Private Ltd. to refund the amount paid, along with interest and a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each to two home buyers for non-delivery of flats.  Petitions In two separate petitions, Yogi Saraf and Rinku Saraf said they had booked two flats in Ozone's 'The Metrozone' project at Pillayar Koil Street, Anna Nagar, Chennai, and entered into agreements for on September 20, 2019. The agreed price for the flats was about Rs. 1.82 crore each and the two buyers said they had so far paid about Rs. 70.60 lakh each and the due date for delivery of flats was March 2019, with a grace period of 6 months which ended in September 2019. Till date, the construction of the two apartments was not yet completed, the petitions noted.  Housing loan The buyers said they had availed of housing loan for purchasing the flats and the EMI was to start from March 2019. There was no development in the project site and the bank was making demands for payment of EMI, they added and sought refund as per the provisions of the RERA Act. As per a tripartite loan agreement entered into between the developer, buyer and Axis Bank under the subvention scheme, Ozone had agreed to pay interest on behalf of the buyers till the date of handing over the flats and failed to complete the construction and hand over the flats within the agreed time limit, the buyers noted. TNRERA said though sufficient time was given no counter was filed by the developer and no evidence was submitted. TNRERA ruled that the two buyers are eligible for refunds and directed Ozone to refund the amount along with interest of 10.05% per annum.  Litigation expenses It also awarded Rs. 25,000 each towards litigation expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/promoter-asked-to-refund-amount-to-two-home-buyers-with-compensation/article33165297.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AG-DMS Metro station gets a makeover||Commuters travelling through Anna Salai can get a glimpse of AG-DMS Metro station’s walls painted with a dark blue shade with the brand name Lalitha Jewellery. Already, Nandanam Metro station has been painted red with the Muthoot group’s name prefixed to the station name. This is a part of the “semi-naming rights” initiative of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. under which a firm’s title can be prefixed to the name of the station and the exteriors can be painted to a different colour, according to the firm’s choice. Through this, CMRL aims to better its “non-fare box” revenue. AG-DMS Metro station records a footfall of nearly 800 to 1,000 a day. Teynampet and Saidapet stations are likely to be brought under the ‘semi naming rights’. ‘Good visibility’ R. Anandakrishnan of Mark Metro, the firm that has acquired the semi-naming rights for some stations in the phase I project, said, “Quite a few companies are keen on taking the ‘semi-naming’ rights from us for stations on Anna Salai since they get a good visibility. The brand name is highlighted prominently and the structures of a station are painted to match the colour of their respective brand too. We are now focussing on stations on Anna Salai since the patronage is relatively better on this stretch and the brands will get good visibility on an arterial road as well,” he added. Sources said more companies would be keen on advertising inside the stations only when the number of people travelling through Metro Rail goes up. Before COVID-19, Metro had a steady inflow and by March, the average daily ridership touched about 1 lakh to 1.2 lakh. But after the lockdown, the numbers plummeted to 10,000 initially and now gradually the number has risen to 30,000 passengers a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ag-dms-metro-station-gets-a-makeover/article33165915.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pattinapakkam SHG gets award for ‘wealth from waste’ venture||Every afternoon, 500 kg of fish waste collected from the markets of Marina Loop Road and other places in the city make their way to a small house in Pattinapakkam. Over the next four days, the waste is processed into a liquid feed for aquaculture farms and as manure in horticulture. This fish farmer’s group called Nambikkai. Comprising three women and four men, this team won this year’s Best Fisheries Self-Help Group Award instituted by the National Fisheries Development Board. The group bagged the award for successfully adopting the technology to convert fish waste into value-added products that have been developed by ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (ICAR-CIBA). T. Kenithraj, who heads the SHG, said the Institute had provided his team training in 2018, following which the team members began production under its guidance in 2019. “The ICAR-CIBA has provided us with the equipment and gives us necessary packaging material. It helped us find the market for our products. So far, we would have made around Rs. 10 lakh but apart from salaries we also had to spend for GST registration, PAN and the auditor, which left us with around Rs. 1 lakh,” he said and added that about 20% of the waste collected daily was made up of crab shells, used tea cups and plastics, which had to be discarded. Mr. Kenithraj, who received the award at an event in Delhi, said that as a child, he had seen his mother pour water while cleaning the fish on an empty plot and vegetables growing in that nutrition-rich soil. “I used to wonder what makes the plants grow so well. When we were told about reason, I was thrilled. We now make the products on a small scale but if all the waste is collected from markets, it would help the environment and keep those places clean. Now, farmers also benefit from the fish waste,” he added. K. K. Vijayan, Director of CIBA, said that Plankton Plus was used in aquaculture systems to boost and maintain healthy plankton blooms. The other product, Horti Plus, was used as organic compost in horticulture. The products are developed under the concept of “Waste to Wealth” initiative of CIBA in line with the Centre’s Swachh Bharat mission, he said. Cutting costs Mr. Vijayan said Sai Aqua Feeds, a start-up from Andhra Pradesh, adopted CIBA’s technology in formulating feeds for shrimps and won the Best Fisheries Enterprises Award. The company won the award for commercially selling CIBA’s Vannamei Plus, a feed that helps reduce production cost. Having included a financial incentive of Rs. 2 lakh, both the awards come under the category of the best enterprises or entrepreneurs, Mr. Vijayan said. More companies, including some in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, have tied up with CIBA for transfer of technology and would be commencing production shortly, he added.  We make products on a small scale but if all the waste is collected, it would help environment  T. Kenithraj Nambikkai SHG||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pattinapakkam-shg-gets-award-for-wealth-from-waste-venture/article33165918.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||50 of the top 150 candidates absent at medical counselling||The first day of general counselling for those under the government quota medical seats in the State on Monday ended with as many as 50 students among the top 150 remaining absent. This year, the topper was a candidate who ranked 16th in the State. The candidate had scored 681 in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The second candidate, who got into the Madras Medical College, was ranked 19th in the merit list. Among the self-financing medical colleges, only the PSG Institute of Medical Sciences had opened their account when a candidate with a score of 631 opted for it. Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu said the candidates who were absent had probably taken a seat under the all-India quota provision. Also, some candidates were from other States and had chosen a seat in their native States, he added. According to him, counselling was slow due to officials taking time to verify the claims made by candidates. During the counselling, officials distributed allotment letters to three government school students who had taken seats in self-financing colleges. The candidates had not taken their allotment letter as they felt they could not afford the fees in a private college. “We asked them to pick up their allotment letters,” Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. He said the toppers had opted for JIPMER and AIIMS. Meanwhile, medical counselling for Tuesday has been postponed to November 30, the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) has announced. The decision was taken due to inclement weather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-of-the-top-150-candidates-absent-at-medical-counselling/article33165282.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police inspector arrested for raping 13-year-old girl||A police inspector was arrested in Chennai on Monday on the charge of raping a 13-year-old girl, who was under the illegal custody of a few persons and had been forced into prostitution. C. Pugalendhi, 46, who was handling law and order at the Ennore police station, has been charged with committing aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the girl. He and his associate, G. Rajendran, 44, identified by the police as a functionary of a national party in north Chennai, allegedly raped the girl at the latter’s office in Washermenpet in September last. Recently, eight other persons were arrested in connection with the case. Pugalendhi is the latest to be arrested. “This action sends across the message that the law will take its course irrespective of who the criminal is. On coming to know of the inspector’s crime, we immediately arrested and suspended him,” a senior police official told The Hindu.  The minor, hailing from north Chennai, had dropped out of school three years ago after her father’s death. She used to accompany her mother to the houses where she worked as a domestic help. Two months ago, the mother’s relative from Vyasarpadi had requested her to send the girl over so that she could take care of her two children. The mother obliged, the police said. The relative, the mother’s niece, was estranged from her husband and was living with another man named Madhan Kumar. During a visit to her niece’s house, the mother had found her missing. The girl was finally brought back on her mother’s insistence and she disclosed that she was forced into prostitution by the couple. The police said the girl was raped by Madhan’s customers. Based on a complaint from the girl’s mother, the police had arrested eight persons, including six women, on November 12. “During interrogation, one of the accused told the police that the girl was taken to Rajendran’s office, where Pugalendhi and Rajendran raped her. Rajendran was arrested and, on being questioned, said the inspector was also involved in the crime,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-inspector-arrested-for-raping-13-year-old-girl/article33165283.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNRERA awards compensation, refund to two home buyers||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA), Chennai, has directed Ozone Projects Private Ltd. to refund the amount paid along with interest, and pay a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each to two home buyers for non-delivery of flats. In two separate petitions, Yogi Saraf and Rinku Saraf said they had booked two flats in Ozone’s project “The Metrozone” at Pillayar Koil Street, Anna Nagar, Chennai, and entered into two separate sets of agreements for sale and construction on September 20, 2019. The price of the flats was about Rs. 1.82 crore each and the buyers said they had paid about Rs. 70.60 lakh each so far and the due date for delivery was March 2019, with a grace period of 6 months which ended in September 2019. Till date, the construction of the apartments had not been completed, the petitions noted.  As per a tripartite loan agreement entered into between the developer, buyer and Axis Bank under the subvention scheme, Ozone had agreed to pay the interest on behalf of the buyers till the date of handing over the flats but failed to complete the construction within the agreed upon time limit, the buyers noted. The TNRERA said despite sufficient time given no counter was filed by the developer and no evidence was submitted and ruled that the two buyers were eligible for refunds and directed the firm pay them along with an interest of 10.05% per annum. It also awarded Rs. 25,000 each to the complainants towards litigation expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnrera-awards-compensation-refund-to-two-home-buyers/article33165728.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Birds throng Vaduvur, Udhayamarthandam and Point Calimere||After a two-year lull in the wake of Cyclone Gaja that ravaged the Cauvery delta districts, birds have, in good numbers, visited the Vaduvur, Udhayamarthandam and Point Calimere sanctuaries in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts. “This time the season started well in advance, and we have a lot of birds in Vaduvur, Udhayamarthandam and Point Calimere. The climate is ideal for the birds to congregate for nesting and breeding,” said K. Arivoli, District Forest Officer, Tiruvarur. He said the district witnessed a sharp decrease in the arrival of birds in 2018 and 2019; now the situation had become somewhat normal with the arrival of migratory — from the country and abroad — and local birds. Mr. Arivoli said 11 species of migratory birds — including Eurasian coot, Eurasian spoonbill, Greater flamingo, Eurasian wigeon, White ibis, Glossy Ibis, Pheasant-tailed jacana, Asian openbill stork, Bar-headed goose and Lesser flamingo — were spotted in these sanctuaries. Besides, there are 33 local species. “The Forest Department is regularly patrolling the areas to prevent poaching. We have also ensured that the birds get adequate prey as it is important for raising their chicks,” he explained. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director, Bombay Natural History Society, said that unlike Vaduvur and Udhyamarthandam, 90% of the birds that had arrived at Point Calimere were foreign species. “Vaduvur is the place where local birds, including Intermediate egret, White Ibis and Darters, nest in good numbers. Ducks such as Garganey and Northern shoveller, which migrate from the Arctic and subarctic regions, have started arriving at Vaduvur,” he said. Two waves The ornithologist, who has been staying at Point Calimere, said there would be two waves of migration; the first wave would normally begin in early October. “But only 25% of the birds of the first wave will stay back, while the rest will leave for other places. For the second wave, Point Calimere is the final destination. But again their stay will depend on the water level in the sanctuary,” Mr. Balachandran said. About 40 types of shovellers, two types of flamingos, gulls, terns and ducks have arrived at Point Calimere. Mr. Balachandran said that since there was rain, the mixing of seawater and freshwater would result in a proliferation of prey, and it was an ideal condition for the birds. Recalling the days when the sky was covered with migratory birds, he said local conditions brought on by climatic changes contributed to the decline in the number. “When other natural habitats dried up after January, the only habitat for the birds will be a reservoir of salt industry. We must find some way, maybe diverting seawater to the other parts of the swamp, to make it wet throughout the year,” Mr. Balachandran said. “Swamps dried up because they are at the end of the Cauvery delta. We should also revive the old tributaries that brought water to the Vedaranyam swamp. It will be very helpful to restore the habitat,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birds-throng-vaduvur-udhayamarthandam-and-point-calimere/article33165333.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Segregation at source remains a challenge||Enforcing segregation of solid waste at source continues to remain a challenge for the Greater Chennai Corporation. Representatives of conservancy workers point to the need for additional workers to manage source segregation initiatives in the city. “We need 100% additional workers to implement source segregation. It has failed in Chennai because of inadequate manpower. We need modern equipment for source segregation to prevent infection to workers,” said a representative. Owing to the failure to enforce source segregation, the civic body has not been able to achieve the goal of stopping dumping of waste in Perungudi and Kodungaiyur by December 2020. After CES Onyx started work in March 2000 in areas such as Triplicane, Kodambakkam and Adyar, the civic body initiated source segregation without much success. Similarly, Neel Metal Fanalca started work in August 2007 in Ice House, Kodambakkam, Adyar, and Pulianthope. But the initiative ran out of fizz. Ramky Enviro Engineers and the Corporation formed a special purpose vehicle, Chennai Municipal Solid Waste Ltd. in January 2012 to remove garbage from Adyar, Kodambakkam and Teynampet. But Ramky could not enforce source segregation. Urbaser Sumeet, which has been roped for conservancy work, has to do source segregation as part of its fulfilment of its key performance indicators. But the operator is yet to carry out source segregation in Adyar and Teynampet. Representatives of conservancy workers said Ramky had been asking at least 50% of the conservancy workers in each ward to go home to avoid payment of salary during COVID-19. Many conservancy workers lost their source of livelihood during COVID-19, sources said. Time frame fixed Corporation Chief Engineer Mahesan said the new private conservancy operators will get six months to achieve the target of source segregation because of COVID-19 pandemic. “COVID-19 has led to a reduction in source segregation. The amount of garbage recycled has reduced from 700 tonnes to 300 tonnes. We will increase the quantity of waste segregated,” Mr. Mahesan added.  The amount of garbage recycled has reduced from 700 tonnes to 300 tonnes Mahesan GCC Chief Engineer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/segregation-at-source-remains-a-challenge/article33165917.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC wants to know how shops are allotted in Koyambedu||The Madras High Court on Monday doubted whether any poor would have been allotted shops in Koyambedu wholesale market here and called for all details regarding allocation of shops on the complex. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha directed advocate M. Velmurugan, representing the Market Management Committee, to submit all relevant details by January. The judges wanted to know the mode of allotment, whether the shops had been leased or rented out, how many had defaulted payment of rent and how many had violated the allotment conditions. The directions were given while hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by a lawyer seeking monetary assistance to 1,256 shop owners who had lost their livelihood due to closure of the market since May. The petitioner P. Usha, 52, of Nolambur, pointed out that the government had ordered the closure of the market complex after the break out of a COVID-19 cluster and then allotted temporary shops to the traders at Tirumazhisai. Alternative allotment According to the petitioner, the alternative allotment of shops was given only to 196 traders who fell under the A1, A2 and A3 categories under which bigger shops had been allotted at Koyambedu. The small shop owners under A4 and A5 categories were left in a lurch. Even in September when the government decided to reopen the market complex, only A1 to A3 categories had been given priority and the rest had not been permitted to commence business, the petitioner said and insisted upon providing subsidy, grant or monetary compensation to the latter. The petitioner also insisted on exemption from payment of property tax to the corporation and maintenance fee to the market committee for the period when the traders were not allowed to do business from the market complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-wants-to-know-how-shops-are-allotted-in-koyambedu/article33165732.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Infectious diseases specialist passes away||C. Rajappan, who served at the Communicable Diseases Hospital in Tondiarpet, died on Monday at the age of 72. A graduate from the Madras Medical College, he had been involved in controlling epidemics such as cholera, dengue and swine flu at the hospital for several decades. P. Kuganantham, a former colleague of Dr. Rajappan, said: “I am personally grieved and depressed by his demise. He was with me for about two decades and has seen epidemics such as cholera, dengue and swine flu,” he said. “Dr. Rajappan was our beloved doctor. He was with me for two decades and supported me in my hard times in Chennai Corporation. We started a paramedical course for poor students and he was a good help,” Dr. Kuganantham, who was then the Corporation Health Officer, said. Dr. Rajappan, an infectious diseases specialist, was highly respected and popular in Tondiarpet. Ernest Paul, president of Royapuram Resident Welfare Association, said: “He was a social activist and would help anyone in need. He was beyond politics and definitely was a service-oriented person. North Chennai people have lost a good human being and a doctor. We are upset and we would like to pay our condolences to his family.” Dr. Rajappan had been treating patients during the pandemic and had contracted COVID-19. He was being treated in a private hospital in Vadapalani for the past 10 days, Dr. Kuganantham added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infectious-diseases-specialist-passes-away/article33165730.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway partially cancels long-distance train services||The Southern Railway has partially cancelled nine long-distance train services in view of Cyclone Nivar. In a press release, the Southern Railway said it had partially cancelled nine trains and fully cancelled two trains. The nine trains partially cancelled include the Mysuru-Mayiladuthurai special train between Tiruchi and Mayiladuthurai; the Ernakulam-Karaikal train between Tiruchi and Karaikal; the Bhubaneswar-Puducherry special train between Chennai Egmore and Puducherry; the Mayiladuturai-Mysuru train between Mayiladuthurai and Tiruchi; the Karaikal-Ernakulam train between Karaikal and Tiruchi; the Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdi between Tiruchi and Mayiladuthurai; the Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore train between Mayiladuthurai and Tiruchi; the Puducherry-Bhubaneswar train between Puducherry and Chennai Egmore; and the Puducherry-Howrah Superfast Special between Puducherry and Villuppuram. The nine trains had services running on November 24 and 25, but now stand partially cancelled. The Southern Railway has also fully cancelled the Chennai Egmore-Thanjavur-Chennai Egmore services for two days on November 24 and 25. The Chennai Egmore-Tiruchi-Chennai Egmore train stands fully cancelled on November 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-partially-cancels-long-distance-train-services/article33165288.ece
24 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||HC rejects Ayyakannu’s plea||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed as withdrawn a writ petition filed by farmers’ leader P. Ayyakannu seeking permission to stage a sit in protest either at Chepauk or opposite to the Secretariat in Chennai pressing various demands. The litigant chose to withdraw the case after Justice T. Ravindran said he was not inclined to interfere with the permission rejection order passed by Greater Chennai Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Agarwal on October 16. The judge told the petitioner’s counsel S. Muthukumar that it might not be conducive to permit protests and agitations when the lockdown to fight COVID-19 was still in force and not all restrictions on public congregations had been relaxed. He advised the petitioner to make another application to the Commissioner of Police after a month. When the counsel claimed that the police might reject that application too, the judge asked him to wait for the developments to take place and then approach the court if necessary. He also stated that it was not necessary for the court to mention in writing that the petitioner would be at liberty to approach the police once again after a month since the petitioner would naturally have a right to make an application since the lockdown guidelines were being reviewed every month. In his affidavit, Mr. Ayyakannu said that a majority of the farmers in the State had not been able to make profits for the last few years due to unavailability of sufficient rain water and also ground water. Nevertheless, banks were forcing them to repay loans and thereby adding their miseries. Hence, an association led by him had been demanding waiver of all farm loans. It had also been impressing upon the need to interlink all rivers and ensure a fair return to the farmers on their produce since the profits were now being taken by middlemen and traders. The proposed agitation was aimed at pressing all these demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-rejects-ayyakannus-plea-for-farmers-agitation/article33165301.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin seeks separate counselling for medical aspirants who opted out||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to arrange another round of counselling for NEET-qualified students of State government schools who had opted out of joining private medical colleges due to financial constraints. He called on the CM to help them join medical colleges. In a letter to the Chief Minister, he said the government had not stated earlier that a revolving fund had been created to meet the educational expenses of students from government schools who had secured admission to medical colleges. “The delay on the part of the government in conveying the message proved that access to medical education turned out to be a slip between the cup and the lip [for these students],” he said in the letter that was sent through former Chennai Mayor and DMK MLA Ma. Subramanian. Mr. Stalin wrote to the CM after meeting two students — Ilakkiya and Dharshini from Cuddalore — who were allotted seats in private medical colleges, but could not join the institutions due to financial difficulties. He also cited a report published by The Hindu that a differently-abled student, S. Subhadra, of Salem, Arun Pandi of Tiruchuzhi, S. Thangapandi of Usilampatti and Thangapetchi could not accept offers from private medical colleges and were awaiting a government college seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-seeks-separate-counselling-for-medical-aspirants-who-opted-out/article33165302.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M researchers develop solar-powered craft||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras have developed a solar-powered craft that can undertake autonomous surveys and transmit real-time data over long distances. The unmanned survey craft will be used in Indian ports and inland waterways. It can be equipped with an echo sounder, GPS system and broadband communication module to deliver precise depth measurements. The vehicle can also be loaded with oceanographic payloads , 360-degree Camera, LiDAR for seamless topography and bathymetry measurements. The craft was recently tested off the Chennai coast at the Kamarajar Port. More field trials will be taken up at the Kolkata Port. A team from the National Technology Centre for Ports, Waterways and Coasts at the Institute developed the craft. The research team is in the process of commercialising the technology with help from the Shipping Ministry and the Institute’s incubation cell. K. Murali, professor in charge of the NTCPWC termed the work as a significant leap towards indigenisation of the Indian maritime sector. The craft is fully solar-powered and can endure over five hours, depending on user requirements. The team includes Mr. Murali and principal scientists D. Leo and D. Kumaran Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-researchers-develop-solar-powered-craft/article33165733.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rural Development assistant engineers upset at panel’s recommendations||Dissatisfied with the revision of their pay scale based on the recommendations of the Pay Grievance Redressal Committee, the Rural Development Assistant Engineers Welfare Association has submitted a representation to the Chief Minister seeking to set right the salary anomaly and allow them to migrate to the Seventh Pay Commission. Misconception  In its representation, the association said there was a misconception between CPWD engineers (with a diploma qualification) and State service assistant engineers (recruited through the TNPSC with an engineering qualification). “Even after submitting relevant documents explaining the difference between the two posts, now the salary of Assistant Engineer [with BE qualification] of the State service is fixed on a par with a CPWD engineer with diploma qualification,” they said. Educational qualifications, job requirements, duties and responsibilities, risks involved in the job, the method of recruitment and promotional avenues were to be considered for the determination of the pay structure. “On the contrary, a horizontal and vertical pay parity logic has been applied to different categories/cadres instead of within similar cadres/categories,” the association said.  7th Pay Commission The association said the salary of an assistant engineer would come down by Rs. 10,000-Rs. 15,000 because of the revision. “We once again humbly submit our prayer to the Chief Minister to fix the salary structure and allow us to migrate to the Seventh Pay Commission and provide justice,” it said.  A horizontal and vertical pay parity logic has been applied to different categories/cadres instead of within similar cadres/categories||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-development-assistant-engineers-upset-at-panels-recommendations/article33165334.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for selling ganja in George Town||The Esplanade police on Monday arrested three suspects who were using WhatsApp to sell ganja in the George Town area. Following a tip off, a special team detained three persons standing near Prakasam Road. They were brought to the police station and interrogated. Police identified the suspects as identified as Thofiq, 26, Mohammed Yosuf, 27, and Mohammed Ismail, 30, of Tondiarpet. They procured the contraband from Andhra Pradesh and delivered it to their customers after receiving orders over WhatsApp calls in Tondiarpet, Mannady, Sowcarpet and other areas, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-selling-ganja-in-george-town/article33165720.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for snatching mobiles in Madhavaram||The Madhavaram Milk Colony police on Monday arrested two persons, including a juvenile, for allegedly snatching mobile phones. The police said on Sunday, B. Ravikumar, 41, of Vadaperumbakkam, an auto driver, was standing near Aavin gate. Four unidentified persons on bikes snatched his mobile phone and fled the spot. Scrutinising CCTV camera footage, the police traced the suspects to Red Hills and apprehended N. Sridhar, 19, of Gandhi Nagar, and his 17-year-old associate. Five mobile phones were seized from them. The suspects, along with others, had been snatching mobile phones and chains from pedestrians, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-snatching-mobiles-in-madhavaram/article33165721.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New TFPC president elected||Murali Ramaswamy of Thenandal Films has been elected President of the Tamil Film Producers Council (TFPC). The election for the council’s office-bearers was held on Sunday at the M.G.R. Janaki College in Chennai and nearly 1,050 members cast their votes. Mr. Murali had contested for the post of president against producers T. Rajendar and P.L. Thenappan. He secured 557 votes and beat Mr. Rajendar by 179 votes. After the results were declared, Mr. Murali said his faction was looking to address the concerns of producers whose films were seeing a delay in release due to COVID-19. “We will work towards implementing welfare measures for the benefit of the producers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-tfpc-president-elected/article33165734.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco keeps men, machinery ready||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has kept men, machinery and materials ready to handle the fallout from Cyclone Nivar in the city. Local officials have been deputed for cutting down tree branches, which could cause damage to transformers or overhead power lines during downpours. The cyclone is expected to make landfall on Wednesday. Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, after chairing a meeting with senior officials at the Tangedco headquarters on Monday, said the electricity department was ready to face the cyclone by stocking more than 1.5 lakh poles and keeping in good condition hundreds of power saws to remove fallen trees. He said as part of precautionary measures, power supply would be disrupted for one hour during the cyclone’s passing. Mr. Thangamani said the city would not have much to worry as more than 75% of places were supplied by underground cables. He said: “The ECR has overhead power lines and could face problems of poles falling down but steps have already been taken to replace damaged poles with new ones.” A senior Tangedco official said monsoon preparatory works had been completed in both northern and southern suburbs. The senior electricity official said that in the north region, over 1,500 electricity poles had been replaced with new ones, and in the south region a total of 1,164 poles were changed. Maintenance staff of Tangedco had installed new conductors for over 45 km in the north and 130 km in the south, and had taken steps to prevent low-sagging of conductors in 2,600 locations in southern localities and 563 in the northern suburbs, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-keeps-men-machinery-and-materials-ready-for-any-crisis/article33165722.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murali Ramaswamy is TFPC head||Murali Ramaswamy of Thenandal Films has been elected the president of the Tamil Film Producers Council (TFPC). The election for the council’s office-bearers was held on Sunday at the MGR Janaki College in Chennai, and nearly 1,050 members had cast their votes. Mr. Ramaswamy had contested for the president’s post against producers T. Rajendar and P.L. Thenappan. He secured 557 votes and beat Mr. Rajendar by 169 votes. After the results were declared, Mr. Ramaswamy said his faction was looking to address the concerns of producers whose films were seeing a delay in release due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “We will also work towards implementing welfare measures for the benefit of the producers,” he added. 1,030 members had been eligible to vote in the elections and the candidates had said that they were happy with the turnout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murali-ramaswamy-is-tfpc-head/article33165287.ece
24 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Decline in occupancy of special trains after festival season||Occupancy of the special trains originating or stopping at the Coimbatore Junction has seen a decline after the festival season, according to sources at the Salem Division of Southern Railway. Around 15 special trains are currently originating from Coimbatore Junction or stop at the station, the sources said. These trains were introduced gradually since September following the relaxations in the COVID-19 lockdown. While there was a slight uptick in demand during the festival season between the second week of October and second week of November for these trains, the demand and occupancy have subsided in the past one week. Many are still hesitant to frequently travel in trains even though the pandemic is waning in the State, according to the sources. Southern Railway recently cancelled Train No.06027/06028 Shatabdi special trains between Chennai and Coimbatore citing poor patronage. However, it is unlikely that more special trains may get cancelled, the sources said. MP plea Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram on Saturday requested Union Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal to resume Train No. 22651/22652 Superfast Express between Palakkad and Chennai. In his letter to Mr. Goyal, the MP said that the train connected Pollachi, Udumalpet, Palani, Karur and Namakkal regions to Chennai and has not been operated since March. Inter-State trains As inter-State trains from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Ernakulam in Kerala are being operated to Chennai, the Palakkad-Chennai train must also be resumed, Mr. Shanmugasundaram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decline-in-occupancy-of-special-trains-after-festival-season/article33165336.ece
24 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation’s one-off action sealing building raises questions||The Coimbatore Corporation sealing a building on the busy 100 Feet Road recently has raised many questions on its commitment to check building rule violation. The Corporation had sealed the building saying that the owner had constructed the building in violation of the approved plan and converted the space earmarked parking to commercial use. The Corporation’s action against illegal commercial buildings by sealing those has been few and far between. The last time the Corporation took serious action was in 2010 and that too after a court order, says consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon. The Corporation then sealed around 70 buildings and thereafter had not undertaken any drive. Prior to that and thereafter the Corporation had acted only after accidents like the Kumbakonam fire tragedy or the Srirangam wedding hall fire. And that too for a brief while. The Corporation, it appears, is least bothered about building rule violation because it is the public that suffers, Mr. Kathirmathiyon says and points out that one of the biggest contributors to the city’s traffic congestion and parking problem is the Corporation’s failure to ensure that buildings have parking space and they are not misused. It is because of the Corporation’s ineffectiveness that builders and owners violate building rules with impunity. This ineffectiveness continues even after the Madras High Court has observed in an order that those who comply with the rules by allowing for parking space turn into a laughing stock in the eyes of those who violate rules with impunity, he adds. To overcome the Corporation’s poor show in acting against existing illegal buildings, the Coimbatore Consumer Cause moved the Madras High Court asking for making mandatory the issuance of building completion certificate and providing power, water and sewerage connection based the certificate. The Tamil Nadu Government agreed with the need for the issuance of such a certificate. The Housing and Urban Development Department then issued a government order and based on that the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department framed and notified the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019. Even thereafter the Corporation or other local bodies are unwilling to issue the completion certificate, which if issued, will prevent illegal construction, Mr. Kathirmathiyon says and wants the Corporation to disclose the number of water and sewerage connections given to illegal buildings. Sources in the civic body admit on condition of anonymity that the Corporation’s action against illegal buildings has been in fits and starts. Even in cases where the civic body issues notices, it does not follow those to see conclusion. The last time the Corporation demolished a building was at least two years ago in R.S. Puram – a residential building – and that too based on court order, the sources add. Town Planning Officer R. Sasipriya was unavailable for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporations-one-off-action-sealing-building-raises-questions/article33165738.ece
24 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Transport Dept. places sign boards in Gandhipuram||Transport Department officials on Monday placed sign boards at four points in Gandhipuram to provide directions to the locations frequented by the public from the city. Regional Transport Office – Central in collaboration with Rotary Club of Coimbatore Texcity erected these boards at V.O.C Park Gate Stop, near Gandhipuram traffic signal, near G.P. traffic signal and at the western side of 100 Feet Road. According to the Regional Transport Officer – Central J.K. Baskaran, this was done as per the recommendations of the Transport Department officials who inspected the locations recently. These boards pointed to locations such as Pollachi, Mettupalayam, Sathyamangalam, Salem and Marudhamalai from the given point. The boards did not provide the distance as it was intended to only guide the commuters towards a particular location, he said. Wherever such boards were required in future, the Regional Transport Office - Central would take action within its limits, Mr. Baskaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transport-dept-places-sign-boards-in-gandhipuram/article33165740.ece
24 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two get life term in sexual assault case||A special court in Coimbatore on Monday awarded life term to a 38-year-old woman in a case wherein her male friend had sexually assaulted her minor daughter. The special court for the trial of cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act also awarded life term to the woman's male friend, a 43-year-old man from Venkitapuram in the city. As per the charge sheet filed by the All Women Police Station (AWPS), Perur, the man used to visit the woman at her apartment near Sugunapuram where she was staying with her 15-year-old daughter. The woman's husband had separated from her, allegedly due to the affair. The man, as per the charge sheet, sexually assaulted the girl on June 20, 2017 when her mother was sleeping. Though the girl had complained about the incident to her mother, she pacified her and failed to report the incident to the police. When she was at her father’s house a year later, the girl told him about the ordeal she went through. With his help, she lodged a complaint at the AWPS, Perur, on September 18, 2018. Subsequently, the woman and her friend were arrested for various offences under the POCSO Act. The trial in the case was completed on Monday. J. Radhika, Sessions Judge, POCSO Court, also slapped a fine of Rs. 6,000 on the woman and Rs. 5,000 on the man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-get-life-term-in-sexual-assault-case/article33165355.ece
24 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP plea to keep ‘vel’ in temple declined||The request of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Sunday to place the ‘vel’ (spear) carried by the party’s State president L. Murugan for the Vetrivel Yatra near the deity at the Subramaniyaswami Temple in Marudhamalai was declined, officials said on Monday. Mr. Murugan, along with several BJP leaders, visited the temple on Sunday afternoon ahead of the yatra in Coimbatore. According to the officials from Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department privy to the incident, the leaders requested the temple priest during their darshan to place the spear near the deity inside the sanctum sanctorum. However, the priest and the temple officials declined to do so, which resulted in a minor verbal altercation. Following this incident, the leaders including Mr. Murugan left the temple and proceeded for the Vetrivel Yatra. According to the officials, the request was declined due to the COVID-19 standard operating procedures (SOPs) as well as the agama rules. The SOPs state that offerings from devotees which are brought from outside should not be allowed inside temples. As per the agama rules, things which are offered to the deity inside the sanctum sanctorum should not be given back to the devotees and the request was declined as they wanted the spear back after performing the rituals, the HR&CE Department officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-plea-to-keep-vel-in-temple-declined/article33165294.ece
24 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Congress, BJP leaders booked for Plough Rally, ‘Vetrivel Yatra’||The police have registered cases against senior leaders of the Congress and the BJP in connection with the conduct of Plough Rally and ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ in Coimbatore on Sunday. K.S. Alagiri, president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee; Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu and V.M.C. Manoharan, Coimbatore north district president of the Congress were among the 93 persons booked by the police for taking out the Plough Rally against farm laws at Karumathampatti here on Sunday. The police registered a case against the 90 persons for offences under Sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 341 (for punishment for wrongful restraint) of the IPC. The police had stopped the rally of the leaders around 500 metre away from the venue of the public meeting which was held on Sunday. They were detained for a brief period. BJP gathering Meanwhile, the Coimbatore city police said in a release that around 6,000 people gathered at Sivananda Colony where BJP workers and leaders gave a reception to the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ conducted by party’s State president L. Murugan on Sunday. The Rathinapuri police registered a case against Mr. Murugan, BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai, and some party workers. Plea rejected The request of the BJP leaders on Sunday to place the ‘vel’ (spear) carried by the party’s Mr. Murugan for the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ near the deity at the Subramaniyaswami temple in Marudhamalai was declined, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department officials said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-bjp-leaders-booked-for-plough-rally-vetrivel-yatra/article33165304.ece
24 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accidents||Two persons were killed in separate accidents reported in Coimbatore rural on Sunday. In the first accident, a man hailing from Kerala was killed after the car he drove collided head on with a lorry at Eachanari near Coimbatore on Sunday. The police said Leo Stanley from Kochi was killed in the accident while his friend S. Govind was injured. Stanley drove the car negligently when he tried to overtake another car and it collided with the lorry that came from the opposite direction. The body was handed over to relatives after post-mortem. In the second accident, A. Chitrakumar (55) from Karadimadai was killed after the autorickshaw he drove overturned due to alleged negligent driving. The police said the accident took place on Madampatti to Karadimadai road around 4 p.m. on Sunday. He died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accidents-in-coimbatore/article33165342.ece
24 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Changes to Kerala Police Act draconian’||The amendment made to the Kerala Police Act to curb defamatory content on social media is “draconian”, Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan said in Coimbatore on Thursday. He, along with BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan and BJP Mahila Morcha’s national president Vanathi Srinivasan, participated in the ground-breaking ceremony of the BJP’s district office, proposed to be built at Peelamedu here. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Muraleedharan said the amendment will “suppress” the media, the freedom of expression and the democratic rights of the public. He said the farm laws were introduced by the Central government for the “welfare of the farmers” and to help them get better remunerative prices for their produce. He also said that the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ would conclude in Tiruchendur on December 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changes-to-kerala-police-act-draconian/article33165292.ece
24 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Congress rally was not political, says Dinesh Gundu Rao||The ‘Plough Rally’ organised by the Tamil NaduCongress Committee on Sunday was “not for political purpose” but was meant to highlight issues faced by the people, asserted the All India Congress Committee’s in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Dinesh Gundu Rao, on Monday. Mr. Rao spoke to mediapersons after his visit to the Subramaniyaswami temple in Marudhamalai. “We do not use god for selfish purposes,” he remarked, taking a jibe at the BJP’sVetrivelYatrawhich was also held in Coimbatoreon Sunday. On seat sharing Claiming that the DMK-Congressalliance will secure majority in the 2021 Assembly elections, Mr. Raosaid that the seat-sharing agreement is yet to be finalised. He criticised Union Home Minister Amit Shah for accusing the Congress of dynasty politics and charged that Mr. Shah’s son was made the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI) secretary despite an alleged lack of experience. “Is that not nepotism?” he asked. Regarding the release of A.G. Perarivalan, who is serving a life sentence in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case, Mr. Rao said the Congress would accept any decision made by the courts and the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-rally-is-not-political-says-dinesh-gundu-rao/article33165293.ece
24 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Home-based palliative care services||PSG Hospitals in partnership with the Coimbatore Cancer Foundation will start home-based palliative care services for those suffering from chronic diseases within city limits from Tuesday. A release from the hospital said the focus of the service would be on oncology, respiratory and geriatric patients in the beginning. Other specialties would be added as the service progressed, it said. Pain and Palliative Medicine at PSG Hospitals would provide pain relief and comfort care to patients suffering from life-threatening or life-limiting medical conditions. The service would be available on Tuesday and Thursday. For details, contact: 82200-13330.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-based-palliative-care-services/article33165343.ece
24 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore helpline numbers announced||The administration has established control rooms in different parts of the district to assist people in getting relief during cyclone Nivar. As per the current prediction by the India Meteorological Department on Monday, cyclone Nivar could make a landfall between Mamallapuram in Tamil Nadu and Karaikal district in the Puducherry region. The Cuddalore district administration has established control rooms at the District Collectorate (04142 220700/233933/221383/221113), Cuddalore Revenue Divisional Office (04142-231284), Chidambaram Sub-Collector Office (04144-222256/290037) and Vriddhachalam Sub-Collector Office (04143-260248).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-helpline-numbers-announced/article33165919.ece
24 November 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Body recovered from Cauvery river||Fire and Rescue Service personnel recovered the body of 14-year-old girl who drowned in Cauvery river at Alampadi on Sunday. Search operations are continuing for another body. According to police, a mother, two children drowned in Cauvery river at Alampadi near Hogenekkal here on Sunday. A family from Salem had visited the place on Sunday and the deceased Abitha (38), daughter Fathima (14) and son Rabaz (9) drowned in the river while Abitha’s husband Riyazudeen managed to escape. Riyazudeen alerted Hogenekkal police and search operations were begun. Fire and Rescue Service personnel recovered the body of Abitha on Sunday and Fathima’s body was recovered near Uthamalai on Monday. Search continues for Rabaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-recovered-from-cauvery-river/article33165344.ece
24 November 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Strike at Dindigul onion market||A rift between an office-bearer of the Loadmen Workers' Welfare Association and the merchants' association here resulted in a strike at the Onion Market situated on the Dindigul-Karur by-pass road on Monday. According to the merchants association, there were over 100 onion merchants selling the produce to wholesale buyers. Shallots arrive here from Tirupur, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Perambalur, Dindigul, Theni and Karur districts, while big onions were procured from Maharashtra and Karnataka. There were about 300 men and women working here in loading and off-loading consignments from trucks. They were affiliated to a trade union in which Thomayar was the secretary. It is alleged that for some time, there was a rift between a few merchants and Mr. Thomayar. Repeated pleas not to intervene in the daily activities by the workers' association's office-bearer had fallen in deaf ears, the merchants said. On the other side, the trade union office-bearer denied it and claimed that he intervened only in the workers’ interests. As there seemed to be no consensus, the workers announced a strike from Monday. The workers’ union stayed away from their work. They were led by president Sirumani and Durairaj from AITUC. As the standoff was unresolved, the normal business activity at the market got badly hit. Truck loads of onions from many districts could not be off-loaded. In the meantime, a group of merchants lodged a complaint with the Thadicombu police and wanted protection so that they would bring in workers from outside and engage them in the loading/unloading activity. A senior officer said that they were holding talks with the two sides and hoped to resolve the issue soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strike-at-dindigul-onion-market/article33165256.ece
24 November 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Villagers surrender country guns following call by police, forest department||Nine unlicensed country guns that were found abandoned in Jawlagiri forest area were recovered and handed over to police by Forest Department. Recently, a female elephant aged about 10-year-old was found shot dead with multiple metal pellet injuries in Jawalagiri forest range. According to forest officials, 3 to 4 pellets was found in the elephant skull and they were found to have come from a country gun. Following investigation by a special team, Muthumalesh, a farmer, was arrested. Forest and police later created awareness among villagers in Sennamallam, Sulugunda, Nandhimangalam, Devarpetta, Belakarai and advised them to hand over unlicensed country guns. Following the call, villagers handed over their unlicensed guns at Kakmaleshwaran Temple and Pandavarpanda region in Jawlagiri Reserve Forest areas on November 22. Forest officials during patrolling in the area on Monday recovered the guns and they were handed over to police personnel. S. Prabhu, District Forest Officer, Hosur, Assistant Conservator of Forest Bakan Jagadish and other senior officials were present. According to forest officials, in current year, 38 unlicensed country guns were recovered. Mr.Prabhu said that the drive would continue and they and awareness is being given to villagers to hand over the guns if they are in possession of any. He said they are also mulling ways for alternative measures to prevent elephants from attacking agricultural lands here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-surrender-country-guns-following-call-by-police-forest-department/article33165349.ece
24 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Staff shortage haunts UPHCs||Nine posts of medical officers are lying vacant among the 31 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) in the city, reveals an RTI reply. The shortage of medical officers and staff nurses has brought into focus the problem of the overburdened staff. An RTI reply received by A. Pandi, a member of Communist Party of India (Marxist), reveals there are three vacancies for medical officers in Zone 1, one vacancy each in Zone 2 and Zone 3, and four vacancies in Zone 4. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said the department had written to the Directorate of Public Health to fill up vacant posts of medical officers and staff nurses in the UPHCs. “Medical officers working with the Corporation have been temporarily deployed to fill these vacancies. It is ensured that medical officers are present in all the UPHCs,” he said. A. Veronica Mary, a woman and child rights activist, said information received through an RTI reply showed an increase in number of inpatients and outpatients in all the 31 UPHCs. With the increase in patronage, the medical officers and staff nurses are overburdened, says a staff nurse. “Though norms prescribe that each UPHC must have four staff nurses, there are vacancies in most of the UPHCs. Since, we are understaffed, the possibility of human error also rises," she said. At some UPHCs the medical officers are not present on all days, alleged Mr. Pandi. “This affects people who are dependent on these facilities,” he said. The RTI reply also indicates that there are four facilities with operation theatre. Dr. Kumaraguruparan said the UPHCs at Sellur, K. Pudur and Ansari Nagar are being upgraded to Community Health Centres (CHC). These centres would have an operation theatre to conduct sterilisation and caesarean section. They would also have an upgraded laboratory with X-ray machines. The Sellur UPHC would be commissioned as CHC this week and the one in K. Pudur next week. “Though the norms call for the presence of five medical officers for each CHC, we plan to start with one medical officer who will be present round-the-clock,” he said. Construction work is under way at the UPHC in Ansari Nagar. The fourth facility with an operation theatre is the Rayalu Iyer Family Planning Centre near Gandhi Pottal. “Since the building is in a dilapidated state, we have decided to shut down the unit. The equipment from the maternity home will be shifted to the new CHCs,” said Dr. Kumaraguruparan.  Good patronage  RTI reply shows increase in number of people using all the UPHCs in Madurai  Sellur, K. Pudur and Ansari Nagar units to be upgraded as Community Health Centres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-shortage-haunts-uphcs-in-madurai/article33165310.ece
24 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Appointments are governed by TWAD Board regulations: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ruled that recruitment, regularisation and permanent absorption in the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board must be made strictly in consonance with service regulations of TWAD Board. Any other order passed by the authority under the general law, running counter to the service regulations of the TWAD Board cannot be implemented at all. Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that appointments, regularisations and permanent absorptions of employees to the TWAD Board, which is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, is governed by the TWAD Act and 1970 and its service Regulations. The court was hearing a writ petition filed by the Executive Engineer, TWAD Board (Maintenance Division), Madurai challenging an order passed by the Inspector of Labour, Madurai, who had confirmed permanent status to a batch of contract labourers. These labourers were engaged to execute the works of the TWAD Board. The employees said that they were experienced workmen and were working continuously as contact labourers for two years with the TWAD Board. They were engaged in various works and thus they were rightly conferred permanent status by the Inspector of Labour. While the TWAD Board maintained that there was no direct employer-employee relationship and a permanent status cannot be granted to the contract labourers, the labourers made a reference to the provisions under the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (Conferment of Permanent Status to Workmen) Act, 1981. Applying the ratio decidendi laid down by the Supreme Court, the judge said that the court was bound to follow the judgement in the matter of permanent absorption or regularisation or appointment. The Inspector of Labour had not considered the legal principle settled by the Supreme Court and had adopted a mechanical approach in granting relief. Further, the court observed that a large number of such casual labourers were engaged by various government departments. These labourers are engaged on a daily wage basis so as to complete projects or to meet certain emergencies or exigencies. Thus the casual labourers were not appointed by following the recruitment rules in force. At the outset, all such engagements are made at the choice of the authorities on need basis and are either illegal or irregular appointments. In the event of granting permanent status for these casual labourers based on the orders of the Inspector of Labour under the Permanent Status Act would become an illegal channel for appointment, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appointments-are-governed-by-twad-board-regulations-hc/article33165830.ece
24 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand faster disbursal of insurance||Around 200 maize farmers from Peraiyur taluk petitioned the Collector here on Monday, demanding disbursal of crop insurance pending for 2018-19. The farmers said the crop insurance had not been disbursed in the following 12 villages in Mothagam firka: Gopinaickanpatti, Muruganeri, Sengulum, Kannapatti, V. Chathirapatti, Vaiyur, V. Gopalapuram, Rettiraipatti, Silarpatti, Chinna Muthulingapuram, Subbulapuram and Venkatachalapuram. O.A. Narayanasamy, State president of Tamil Vivasayigal Sangam, who led the protest, said while crop insurance for other regions for 2018-19 had been disbursed, these 12 villages were alone left out owing to an error made by the officials. All the farmers had paid their premium for the crop insurance and had receipts for the same. “The officials say we have paid the premium for a different crop season. But all farmers have paid the premium during the correct season and an error has been committed by the officials. Ultimately, the farmers have been affected,” he said. The maize farmers suffered huge crop damage during 2018-19 due to fall armyworm attack on a large scale, said P. Srinivasan, district president of the farmers’ association. “Moreover, rains were sparse that year, which resulted in lower yield,” he said. The farmers brought grown maize crop to the Collectorate to show the fall armyworm infestation of the crop. “The fall armyworm has attacked maize fields of Peraiyur taluk this year too. The officials must support farmers in preventing the fall armyworm attack," said Mr. Narayanasamy. If the pending crop insurance is not disbursed within a week, the farmers would resort to road blockade, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-faster-disbursal-of-insurance/article33165834.ece
24 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Actor Thavasi dead||Tamil film actor Thavasi, who had been undergoing treatment for cancer at a private hospital in Madurai, died on Monday. He was 60. Tirupparankundram MLA P. Saravanan, who is the managing director of Saravana Multispeciality Hospital where Thavasi was undergoing treatment, said the actor was suffering from oesophageal cancer for the past eight months. Thavasi is known for his role in Varuthapadatha Valibar Sangam . Last week, a video seeking financial help for the actor to undergo cancer treatment went viral on social media. Following that, Dr. Saravanan offered him free treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-thavasi-dead/article33165737.ece
24 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Give permanent govt. jobs to differently abled sportspersons’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought a response from the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction for provision of permanent government jobs to distinguished differently abled sportspersons. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought the response on the PIL petition filed by R. Parasuraman from Madurai, a retired physical education teacher, who now coaches differently abled sportspersons free of cost. The petitioner said the government had issued an order by giving reservation to differently abled sportspersons under Section 34 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Subsequently, the percentage of reservation was also increased. However, it was not implemented, he said, pointing at the current status of Gurunathan, a distinguished sportsperson from Madurai who had won several medals at international, national and State-level sports meets. The petitioner said Gurunathan was working in the office of the Madurai Collector as a temporary contract employee. Though several representations were made for regularisation of services, no steps had been taken, he said. Many differently abled sportspersons like Gurunathan had not been given permanent jobs. The government should provide permanent employment opportunities to such achievers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-permanent-govt-jobs-to-differently-abled-sportspersons/article33165257.ece
24 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Four, including three PMK functionaries, arrested||Four persons, including three office-bearers of Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), have been arrested on a charge of extortion of truck driver K. Murugesan, 36, at Poochampatti uner Vadipatti police station limits on Sunday evening. The police identified the accused as Naveenkumar, 29, East district secretary of PMK, R. Karthi, 32, Vadipatti union party secretary, and N. Seeni alias Rajendran, 45, district vice-president, and V. Sasi, 45. Murugesan, a truck driver working with a blue metal crushing unit, was driving the lorry near Poochampatti when it was intercepted by a car at around 5 p.m. The foursome abused him and brandished a machete and snatched Rs. 7,500 from his pocket. They also threatened him with dire consequences. Based on his complaint, the Vadipatti police arrested all the four.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-extortion/article33165307.ece
24 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Frame recruitment rules for post of Sub Staff’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Banking authorities concerned to frame recruitment rules, if not already framed, prescribing qualification for the post of Sub-Staff and notify the same in the Gazette. The court disposed of a batch of writ petitions filed seeking to be selected and appointed to the post of Sub-staff to Indian Bank. Justice R. Mahadevan observed that the petitioners cannot claim as a matter of right to be recruited to the post of sub staff, in the absence of any recruitment rules in the Indian Bank. At the same time, to sub-serve the interests of justice, the court directs the authorities to frame the recruitment rules, the judge said. Indisputably, recruitment rules will be required for any post which is to be filled up or for any service which is created. Equal opportunity in public employment is a constitutional mandate and all the citizens who are eligible for public employment should be provided an opportunity in the open competitive process. The judge said that all selection to the public post must be in accordance with the rules in force. The court took cognisance of the submission made by Indian Bank that said for the appointment to the said post, the Bank notifies the vacancies, calls for applications from eligible candidates through a public advertisement. The applications received will be considered subject to fulfilling the eligibility criteria and upon clearing the selection process as per the based on rules and regulations of the bank, it was submitted. The relief sought by the writ petitioners cannot be granted. The judge observed that the formation of Recruitment Rules does not prevent the petitioners to compete in the selection process, if they satisfy the norms as prescribed in the Recruitment Rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frame-recruitment-rules-for-post-of-sub-staff/article33165264.ece
24 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor dead||Tamil film actor Thavasi, who had been undergoing treatment for cancer at a private hospital in Madurai, died on Monday evening. He was 60. Tirupparankundram MLA P. Saravanan, who is the managing director of Saravana Multispeciality Hospital where Thavasi was undergoing treatment, said the actor was suffering from oesophageal cancer for the past eight months. Thavasi is known for his role in ‘ Varuthapadatha Valibar Sangam’ . Last week, a video seeking financial help for the actor to undergo cancer treatment became viral on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-dead/article33165316.ece
24 November 2020||MADURAI/KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Fall in number of fresh cases||Madurai recorded 24 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday to have a case tally of 19,533. Forty-two persons were discharged from hospitals, leaving 245 active cases. The district recorded one fatality to have a total death toll of 437. The district had 33 new cases on Sunday. Kanniyakumari reported 20 fresh cases to mark an overall case tally of 15,553, with 133 active cases. A total of 22 persons were discharged from hospitals in the district. Thoothukudi added 18 cases to its total case count, which now stands at 15,574. After 22 persons were discharged, the district has 115 active cases. Tenkasi, after continuously recording daily fresh cases in single digit for the past few days, reported 13 new cases on Monday to register a tally of 8,008. After the discharge of four persons, the number of active cases in the district stands at 67. Similarly, 13 new cases were recorded in Dindigul too. With this, the district’s tally rose to 10,137. Fifteen persons were discharged from hospitals, and the district now has 68 active cases. Ten persons tested positive in Virudhunagar, taking its total case count to 15,792. With 17 persons having been discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases dropped to 73. The death toll of the district remains at 225. Theni too recorded 10 new cases, with which the district’s tally went up to 16,518. With the discharge of 12 persons, the number of active cases in the district stands at 26. One death was recorded in the district, which has now marked a death toll of 196. Nine persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Ramanathapuram, taking the total number of cases in the district to 6,179. Twelve persons were discharged and there are 45 active cases in the district. Sivaganga too recorded nine new cases, which increased the district’s case count to 6,230. While 13 persons were discharged, 68 others are still under treatment. Tirunelveli added seven fresh cases, which took the district’s infection tally up to 14,700. After 28 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 121 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fall-in-number-of-fresh-cases-in-madurai/article33165306.ece
24 November 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||TNJFU celebrates World Fisheries Day||An interaction meet with fish farmers, guest lectures, and competitions for students and fishers marked the celebration of World Fisheries Day by Tamil Nadu Dr. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University on Saturday. The day celebrated to focus on sustainability of fisheries witnessed interaction between experts and fish farmers on the theme: Ways for sustainable Fisheries Productivity and the contribution of each one of us’. People dwelling in the coastline regions and closer to the sea consume fish as part of their staple food, warranting a focus on maintaining the balance in ecosystem and environment. Seafood being customary diet for many and a major source of protein for over one tenth of the populations across the globe, the World Fisheries Day highlighted the sustainability of resources and protection of fishermen welfare, according to the organisers. The constituent units of Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalaithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam conducted various activities such as national level webinars on sustainable management of aquatic resources for fish production and conservation; and special lectures on Social skills: A sensitization for fisheries graduates to empathise and serve the fisher community, Sustainable Management of Fisheries, Biological Invasion in Inland Aquatic Ecosystem, Management of Coral reefs and Marine Vertebrates in Gulf of Mannar. A guest lecture on marketing and value chain with special reference to modern trade practices in fisheries was also conducted. Besides, several competitions were conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnjfu-celebrates-world-fisheries-day/article33165261.ece
24 November 2020||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Yatra for teaching a lesson to people with disregard for Hindu gods, says BJP||The BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra would teach a lesson to those who had disregard for Hindu gods and their beliefs, its State president L Murugan said in Palani on Monday. Addressing a public meeting in the temple town, he said the DMK, under the guise of secularism, was supporting “fringe groups,” which targeted Hindu gods. The BJP, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, would put an end to such groups very soon. Claiming that DMK Alangulam MLA Poongothai Aladi Aruna was humiliated by party functionaries, he questioned the “silence” of DMK leader Kanimozhi who had criticised the Uttar Pradesh government on crimes against women after the Hatharas incident. Saying the DMK and corruption were inseperable, he said its president M K Stalin’s aspiration to return to power in 2021 would remain a dream. “If the DMK comes to power, it will only be bright for the party, but dark days for the people will start,” he said. Earlier, Union Minister of State for External Affairs Muraleedharan, who arrived here from Coimbatore, was given temple honours by HR & CE Department officials. According to him, the BJP and Mr. Modi were working hard to improve the standards of living of the common man. The Yatra was to create awareness among the people to vote for the right party in the Assembly elections and to thank the frontline workers who fought against the COVID-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister, Mr. Muraleedharan said, had been spreading the nuances of Tamil and Tirukkural but some fringe groups, supported by the DMK, gave a wrong colour about the BJP. The party would not be cowed down by such false campaigns. Later, when Mr. Murugan, accompanied by party State vice-president Annamalai, general secretary R. Srinivasan and others attempted to take out the yatra, the police detained them. Mr. Murugan told journalists that the yatra would be suspended on November 24 and 25 in view of the cyclone forecast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yatra-for-teaching-a-lesson-to-people-with-disregard-for-hindu-gods-says-bjp/article33165980.ece
24 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of cyclone, Puducherry administration on high alert||All government departments will be on round-the-clock alert to prevent loss of life and minimise damage to property and disruption of normal life in view of Cyclone Nirav predicted to make a landfall in the region on November 25, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Monday. The Chief Minister, who chaired a high-level meeting to assess emergency preparedness along with Revenue Minister M.O.H.F. Shahjahan and other officials, said control rooms would function round-the-clock to respond to distress calls while measures were on to remove hoardings and shaky trees and protect electric poles. With heavy rainfall forecast, the administration would use motor pumps to drain away water from low-lying areas. In places beset by excessive waterlogging, the residents would be relocated to relief camps set up in marriage halls, community halls and schools and their essential needs taken care of. Industries, traders and schools have been directed to prevent workers/students from attending until the storm passes. Back-up generators would be used to ensure uninterrupted drinking water supply in case of a power outage and the Electricity Department would aim to restore power in case of disruption within 12 hours, Mr. Narayanasamy said. The Chief Minister said most fishermen who had been to sea from Puducherry had returned to the shore while the Indian Coast Guard has been alerted on the 90-odd vessels that were yet to return to shore in Karaikal region. The Health Department has been asked to stock up on essential medicines and take steps to prevent outbreak of communicable diseases. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, Balaji Srivastava, Director General of Police and other officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-cyclone-puducherry-administration-on-high-alert/article33165736.ece
24 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases drop to a new low of 27 in Puducherry||New COVID-19 cases dropped to a new low of 27 cases on Monday while no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours in the Union Territory. After the discharge of 57 patients who recovered, the number of active cases stood at 527. Two cases were transferred to Tamil Nadu. Of the active cases, 217 patients were in hospitals and 310 in home isolation. Puducherry accounted for 25 of the newly-infected persons and Karaikal and Mahe reported one new case each. No new cases were registered in Yanam. The test positivity rate stood at 1.17%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 96.91%. The toll in the Union Territory remained at 609 and the cumulative caseload was 36,718 against 35,582 recovered patients. The Health Department has so far tested 3.84 lakh samples of which 3.43 lakh returned negative. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said after a daily review meeting that the Relief and Rehabilitation Secretary had been tasked with evolving a clear roadmap for implementing the recommendations of the ICMR in a situation of declining COVID-19 cases. ICMR recommendations The ICMR had recommended for dispensing with the practice of retaining COVID-19 positive patients in home isolation as the caseloads had waned and to place all patients in institutional care. A press note from T. Arun, District Collector said there were adequate reserve beds to tackle any surge. The occupancy in COVID-19 beds was 152 against 5,082 vacant beds, ICU beds/ventilators was 15 against 123 available and oxygenated beds was 62 against 919 unutilised beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-drop-to-a-new-low-of-27-in-puducherry/article33165926.ece
24 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory recovering from economic slump||The Union Territory has almost come out of COVID-19 induced economic slump with government lifting restrictions on a gradual basis. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy who convened a meeting of Finance Department officials was given a detailed presentation on Monday. A senior official told The Hindu that on the tax collection front, the Union Territory was slowly moving towards pre-COVID period levels. Good momentum The tax collection had started picking up in August, the official said adding there had been good momentum last month. “But for a slight variation, we can say that we have reached almost normal tax collection. Our overall tax collection, including commercial, excise, registration, property registration, vehicle registration, non-tax revenue sectors (electricity tariff collection), used to be between Rs. 300 crore and Rs. 350 crore per month,” he said. The Union Territory which was walking a tightrope on the financial front after grant-in-aid from the Centre started gradually coming down since a separate account was opened for the Union Territory in the Reserve Bank of India in 2007, has almost drained its resources. The complete lockdown of business activity due to COVID-19 restrictions till May had shut off avenues of revenue generation, the official said. During pre-COVID times, on an average per month, the territory collected around Rs. 120 crore as GST/VAT, Rs. 70 crore as excise duty, Rs. 10 crore from registration of vehicles, Rs. 7 crore from property registration and tariff collected on utility front. Officials in the Commercial Taxes Department said once the hospitality sector become more vibrant, tax collection would further improve. However, tax buoyancy was yet to be witnessed in property and heavy vehicle registration, the official also said.  Our overall tax collection, including commercial, excise, property registration, vehicle registration, non-tax revenue sectors (electricity tariff collection), used to be between Rs. 300 crore and Rs. 350 crore per month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-recovering-from-economic-slump/article33165922.ece
24 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Association extends support to strike called by trade unions||The Confederation of Government Employees Association has decided to extend support to the nationwide strike called by trade unions on November 26 to protest against Central government’s policies, including labour laws. Addressing a press conference here, general secretary of the association K. Radhakrishnan said government employees would stage a protest near the New Bus Stand as a mark of solidarity with trade unions. They would take out a rally from the Swadeshi Mill Complex to the bus stand area before staging the agitation. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the Modi government had declared a war on the working class. Laws were being framed to satisfy corporate entities. Honarary President of the association C.H Balamohan said the Central government had taken a pro-corporate and anti-working class stand. The salaried class are facing difficulties due to the policies of the Centre, he said. The Centre should take steps to fill up vacancies in all departments, public sector undertakings and other utilities. Government employees are also concerned about the new pension policy, he said. He also urged the Congress government in the Union Territory to immediately provide pending salary of employees working in government undertakings and societies. Hundreds of people are working without salary for months, he also added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/association-extends-support-to-strike-called-by-trade-unions/article33165921.ece
24 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer to open clinic for cured COVID-19 patients||Jipmer is opening an out-patient clinic for post-COVID patients from December 1. The clinic will be run by the Departments of Medicine and Pulmonary Medicine. Patients who have chest pain, body ache, or breathlessness after recovery from COVID-19 infection can book an appointment by tele consultation. Patients can call in on the number 6384404071 on Tuesday and Wednesday between 9 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. Once they call in and book an appointment, the patients will receive a call/SMS, and if necessary, be asked to attend the Jipmer post-COVID Clinic. The clinic will function twice a week from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. The venue is the Medicine OPD on Tuesday and the Pulmonary Medicine OPD on Wednesday. Patients are advised to bring their COVID-related reports, discharge summary/SMS at the time of the hospital visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jipmer-to-open-clinic-for-cured-covid-19-patients/article33165356.ece
24 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Do not venture into sea, fishermen told||Ahead of the cyclone announcement made by the weather station, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver on Monday said that the Agriculture Department officials have offered adequate preventive steps to be taken by farmers in such circumstances. Speaking to farmers at a coconut groove here at Vanniyan near Perungulam in Mandapam block, he said that coconut was grown on 8652 hectares in the district across Mandapam, Ramanathapuram, Thiruppulani and other locations. The fruit crops too were grown in the district on a large scale. Hence, it was important to prevent them from such natural calamities, he said and added that by allowing the coconut trees to dry, the roots may remain stronger. Similarly, by creating adequate channels, the rainwater logging can be prevented in fields which may save the standing crops. Above all, the Collector urged the farmers to ensure that they have insured their crops with insurance companies. By submitting the basic details with the Agriculture offices, which included the name, crop particulars, extent of area, type of crop, patta and " chitta adangal" can be furnished. During a meeting, Sub-Collector N.O. Sukhaputra, Agriculture department Joint Director Gunabalan, Deputy Director S.S. Sheik Mohideen among other officers shared their experiences with the farmers. Officials at the Pamban hoisted the flag warning people. The well marked low pressure area over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal concentrated into a depression over southwest Bay of Bengal and lay centered at 2.30 hours on Nov 23, about 700 km south-southeast of Puducherry and 740 km south-southeast of Chennai, an official said in a press release. The Fisheries Department officials said that they had already instructed the fishermen to stay away from venturing into the sea until further information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-venture-into-sea-fishermen-told/article33165312.ece
24 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Fire breaks out at dump yard in Chettichavadi||Fire fighters have been battling to douse the fire at the Salem Corporation’s dump yard at Chettichavadi since Sunday. According to Corporation officials, the fire broke out at the dump yard on Sunday and it soon spread to other piles of waste dumped at the yard, which is the main dump yard operated by Salem Corporation. About 350 tonne of waste is collected from various parts of the Corporation and majority of the biodegradable waste from the lot is being diverted to micro-composting centres. According to sources, the smoke that emanated from the yard has caused inconvenience to the public living in areas close to the yard. Dayanidhi, a resident, said, “due to winter, the smoke emanated from the yard stayed and it spread over residential areas. Three children had to be rushed to the hospital after they faced breathing difficulties. Officials should find a permanent solution for this.” Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said, “some rag pickers, who enter the yard, are foound to have caused the fire. Arrangements have been made for proper fencing of the yard and for round-the-clock security. Also, waste collection would be further streamlined to prevent dumping of waste here.” According to Fire and Rescue personnel, about 25 fire personnel and two fire engines are involved in the dousing efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-breaks-out-at-dump-yard-in-chettichavadi/article33165351.ece
24 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest with cattle in Salem||Farmers and villagers living in the vicinity of Aavin dairy plant near Salem Steel Plant staged a protest infront of the plant with cattle demanding steps to handle seepage of rainwater and effluents from the plant. The villagers alleged that the discharge has made life difficult to them and the water stagnates in residential areas and agricultural lands. K.Raja, president of Thalavaipatti panchayat, said that nearly 300 acres around the plant has been affected due to this. “The discharge happens mainly during the rain and there is no proper measures taken by the plant to prevent the discharge. Though peace committee meetings and discussions have been held, no concrete measures have been taken to prevent this”, he said. The villagers said that despite repeated petitions to authorities concerned no action has been taken so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest-with-cattle-in-salem/article33165345.ece
24 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corporation conducts awareness on Swachh Bharat||An awareness session on Swachh Bharat scheme was held for the public at Ayyasami park here on Monday. Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran advised them to extend co-operation for waste management here. Waste management Mr. Ravichandran said in a release that waste management activities are happening at full swing in its limits. Mr. Ravichandran requested the public to hand over waste to conservancy workers after segregating them as biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. The Commissioner also advised the public with space facility to convert biodegradable waste into manure and use them for terrace garden. Earlier, Mr. Ravichandran inaugurated hand washing facilities set up at a cost of Rs. 2 lakh at 10 primary health centres by Rotary Club here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corporation-conducts-awareness-on-swachh-bharat/article33165347.ece
24 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||The outflow from Mettur dam was reduced to 500 cusecs on Monday. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam on Monday was 98.20ft against a total scale of 120ft. The storage capacity of water at the dam was 62,533 mcft. The inflow to the dam was 7,464 cusecs and the discharge through Cauvery river was reduced from 1,000 cusecs to 500 cusecs and the discharge through East-West Canal was maintained at 700 cusecs. According to officials, the discharge from the dam was reduced following heavy rain in delta region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article33165346.ece
24 November 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||More ambulances for Sivaganga||Dedicating three more ‘108’ emergency service vehicles for the district, State Khadi & Village Industries Minister G. Baskaran said that the State government was committed to improving the welfare and standards of the common man. Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy presided over the function where he said that the district had 20 emergency service vehicles (108). Three more to the fleet would facilitate faster mobility and help victims reach the hospitals quickly. The new ambulances would be stationed at Karaikudi GH, S.S. Kottai and Saruguni PHC. With this, all the panchayat unions and the highways were connected. In view of the northeast monsoon, the district administration had already geared up its machinery. To ensure that farmers got their due share of water, PWD engineers have been instructed to keep a close watch on the inflow into the tanks and ooranis. The officials were watching the Vaigai at Tiruppuvanam, Manamadurai and other points. The Collector said that the Health Department officials had commenced camps across the district covering all the hamlets. It would help the people to get screened at the camp. With rainy season around, the officials have proposed to hold the camps at Singampunari, S Pudur, Tirupathur, Kallal, Sakkottai, Kannangudi, Devakottai, Manamadurai, Kalayarkoil, Tirupuvanam, Sivaganga and Illayankudi till November 28. The officials received close to 300 petitions from the public at the weekly grievance meeting. The Collector has instructed the staff receiving the petitions to issue receipts and ensure they tracked the petitions. “We have to ensure that the petitions did not remain pending for long. After a reasonable time, they have to be redressed by the officers concerned,” he added. The Minister gave away welfare measures to 40 people worth Rs. 4.37 lakh from various departments, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-ambulances-for-sivaganga/article33165320.ece
24 November 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||DVAC search at JD’s office||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption conducted a search at the office of the Joint Director (Health) here on Monday. An employee of the office, while escaping from the premises, dumped a bag in sewage, it was said. Following complaints of bribery and corruption against some of the staff members of the office, the DVAC team, led by the DSP Manimannan and Inspectors Kumaravel and Chandran, conducted the search at the office functioning on old Government Hospital campus. Suddenly, an employee attempted to flee from the spot after allegedly throwing a bag containing cash in sewage. The police team chased him and started searching for the bag in the sewage. Media persons were prevented entry into the campus. After a few hours, DVAC sources said the team seized cash and some letters written by some employees seeking transfer. There were also bribery charges against some staff members by private hospitals. “We are investigating with the officials concerned,” the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-search-at-jds-office/article33165315.ece
24 November 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Youth found murdered||A youth was found murdered near Kadanganeri near Alangulam in Tenkasi district on Sunday night. Police said that A. Sivanraj, 23, a driver from Kadanganeri under Ooththumalai police station limits near Alangulam, did not return home after he went out on Sunday night with his friends Selvakumar, Raja and Kanagaraj, also from the same village. As Sivanraj did not come back even after late in the night, his father Aanaikutti Pandian and others started searching for him and found his body lying on the village outskirts with multiple cut injuries. Ooththumalai police sent the body to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Police found that two rival groups from Kadanganeri clashed frequently in which one Samuththirakani was hacked a few months ago. In retaliation, the opposite group might have murdered Sivanraj after taking him to a secluded place with the help of his friends, the police suspect. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-found-murdered/article33165324.ece
24 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Delta farmers seek premium collection centres at PACBs||Delta farmers have called upon the State government to start premium collection centres for crop insurance under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana at Primary Agriculture Cooperative Banks (PACBs) for the convenience of cultivators. Crop insurance was mandatory till last season for cultivators who availed farm loans from recognised financial institutions. Non-loanee farmers had the option of remitting premium through empanelled banks or e-service centres. This season, crop insurance has been made optional, and farmers willing to avail the facility are being directed to approach Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperative Societies or nationalised banks to insure their crop, or fulfil insurance formalities through e-service centres by submitting necessary documents. However, in some parts of delta districts, the requests from farmers for insuring crops have been turned down by financial institutions citing ‘work overload’ and they have been directed to approach e-service centres to complete the formalities, said Arupathi P. Kalyanam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations in Delta Districts. In a memorandum addressed to the Secretary to Government (Agriculture), Commissioner, Agriculture Department and the Collectors of Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai districts, Mr. Kalyanam said the e-service centres were experiencing a sudden influx of customers due to diversion of both loanee and non-loanee farmers to complete crop insurance formalities through the centres. Urging the State government to initiate steps to ensure that insurance premium payment facilities were made available at PACBs, Mr. Kalyanam wanted the rule that crop insurance could be made only through financial institutions having IFS Code be relaxed or withdrawn. If that was not possible, then an e-service facility should be created temporarily at PACBs to help farmers complete crop insurance formalities without any difficulty and delay. Setting up of temporary e-service centres at the office of the Assistant Agriculture Officers or at other Agriculture Department Offices was also welcome, Mr. Kalyanam said. ‘Immense help’ Expressing similar views, S. Sundaram of Maharajapuram near Thirukattupalli, a progressive farmer, said such measures would be of immense help to farmers particularly those who were yet to get themselves accustomed to online mode of completing formalities. He also called upon the administrations in delta districts to issue instructions to village administrative officers to issue cultivation certificates to farmers on request for areas measuring lesser than the extent mentioned in a survey number. “As the farmers may prefer to insure the crop, they have undertaken planting so far keeping in view the weather predictions,” he added citing the fact that they could not apply for insurance if the transplanted nurseries were affected in the cyclone or heavy rainfall predicted by the Meteorological Department. Meanwhile, the Collectors of Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts, M. Govinda Rao and V. Santha visited the e-service centres in their domains and checked whether the crop insurance formalities were being carried out as per the rules laid down in the PMFBY.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-farmers-seek-premium-collection-centres-at-pacbs/article33165258.ece
24 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP-AIADMK alliance will prove advantageous to DMK’||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin on Monday said the BJP-AIADMK alliance would turn out to be advantageous to his party in removing the current dispensation from power in 2021. Addressing functionaries of the DMK’s Thanjavur North district youth wing at Kumbakonam, Mr. Udhayanidhi claimed that the BJP-AIADMK alliance would meet the same fate as the one it did in the 2019 parliamentary polls. The forthcoming Assembly election would be different from the hustings of the past. The BJP-AIADMK alliance has made it easier for the DMK to emerge the victor, he said, adding that members of his party have been reaching out to voters through the internet and social media. Mr. Udhayanidhi received memoranda from a group of transpersons at Kumbakonam and met Jamaat members at Chakkarapalli near Papanasam, farmers at Thiruvaiyaru and ‘veena’ manufacturers at Thanjavur, party sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-aiadmk-alliance-will-prove-advantageous-to-dmk/article33165303.ece
24 November 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered in Theni||Theni police arrested a man and his son on the charges of murder here on Monday. Police said that Maheswari (39) wife of Paramasivam was living in Miranda Line in Government Hospital Road here with her husband. It is said that some two years ago, she divorced her first husband - Nagaraj (52) of Melakottai near Chinnalapatti in Dindigul district and married Paramasivam (58). Annoyed, her first husband approached her frequently and forced her to live with him. On Sunday, it is said that Nagaraj and his son Jeyasurya (20) came to Maheswari's house and picked up a wordy altercation. In the melee, Nagaraj had attacked Maheswari and Paramasivam with an aruval in which Paramasivam died on the spot. Theni police Inspector L Victoria Lourdu Mary registered a case of murder and investigating. Maheswari has been admitted to the hospital as she suffered multiple injuries, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered-in-theni/article33165313.ece
24 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Jail term for teacher||The Special Court for POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Cases here has awarded five-year imprisonment to a teacher for sexually harassing three minor girl students studying in the school where he was working. According to prosecution, craft teacher K. Rajkumar Muthupandi, 52, of Shanmugapuram near Kurumbur in the district, who was working in a school at Nallumavadi, sexually harassed them in 2018. Victims’ parents filed complaints with Srivaikundam All Women Police. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar honoured then Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Srivaikundam, Gnanapragasi, present Inspector Lakshmi Prabha and Grade I constable of the police station Hepzi for ensuring early conviction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jail-term-awarded/article33165314.ece
24 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||10 dropouts identified||Ten school dropouts were identified during a survey conducted by the Integrated Child Development Scheme at Terespuram here on Monday. When the census to identify the school dropouts in the age between 6 and 18 was conducted at Terespuram on Monday, the team found the 10 children from this coastal area had stopped going to school. After explaining to the parents about the importance of education, the officials told them that the children would be admitted in classes according to their age or level of understanding once the schools are reopened after the lockdown. Moreover, a special coaching will be given to these children, said Block Resources Supervisor Amudha. The public may inform the officials about the school dropouts to 97888 59173 and about the differently abled children to 97888 59188, said Subramanian, Assistant Project Officer, Integrated Child Development Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-dropouts-identified/article33165974.ece
24 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Anti-Sterlite protest firing: Collectorate staff depose||As the Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission probing police firing during the anti-Sterlite protests in which 13 persons were killed commenced its inquiry on Monday after a gap of two months, 5 Collectorate staff deposed. When violence and arson erupted in the anti-Sterlite protests organised on May 22, 2018 near the Collectorate, police fired at the protesters in which 13 persons were killed. As Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission was set up to probe the firing, 512 witnesses have so far deposed in the past 21 sittings. The present sitting is likely to go up to November 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-sterlite-protest-firing-collectorate-staff-depose/article33165321.ece
24 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi hospital gets 20,000 additional COVID-19 testing kits||As part of measures to check the spread of COVID-19, the State government has supplied 20,000 RT-PCR additional testing kits to the laboratory of K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital in Tiruchi. Highly placed sources told The Hindu that the testing kits would facilitate health officials to collect as many samples as possible in Tiruchi city and all 14 blocks in the district. The fresh consignment was sufficient to meet the testing requirement for the next 10 to 15 days. In addition to the testing kits, the Tamil Nadu Medical Supplies Corporation (TNMSC) has also sent consumables meant for collecting samples and testing them. The laboratory receives samples from 50 Primary Health Centres, 15 Community Health Centres, 20 Urban Primary Health Centres and 20 Government Headquarters Hospitals. There has been a slight decrease in interest among the people in getting themselves tested for COVID-19 in recent days. However, instruction has been given to field officials to collect as many samples as possible, the official added. “We expected a spike in the number of fresh cases during Deepavali mainly due to heavy rush in market areas and poor compliance of physical distancing norms prior to the festival. However, we feel relieved that the spike has not been in the scale we apprehended,” Dr. Lakshmi, Head, Department of Microbiology, KAP. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital, Tiruchi, said. “We run close to 2,000 tests a day. On Sunday, we completed about 1,000 tests. It was sad to see many patients testing positive until recently. It is not the same story nowadays. We come across only a handful of positive cases. Most tests turn negative,” she added. The physician said 2.34 lakh RT-PCR tests had been conducted so far since March 24. There was no dearth of testing kits. The laboratory received 15,000 to 20,000 testing kits once in 10 days. It facilitated ramping up the testing. The total testing would cross 2.5-lakh mark within this month. “There has been no significant rise in cases for the last 15 to 20 days. The next 15 days are crucial in the fight against the virus. We closely analyse the results of swab samples in each and every block on a daily basis,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-hospital-gets-20000-additional-covid-19-testing-kits/article33165277.ece
24 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone Nivar: district adminstrations in alert mode||District administrations in delta region and central region of the State have put in place measures to tackle the impact of Nivar cyclone. The emphasis of the district adminstrations was on preventing loss of human lives, livestock, cattle and property. The Police, Fire and Rescue Services, Revenue and other line departments have been put on high alert.  Tiruvarur Low-lying areas prone for inundation have been identified at 212 places in Tiruvarur district and rescue and relief centres have been set up at 249 places to accommodate those who might need food and shelter, according to the Food Minister, R.Kamaraj. Detailing the elaborate precautionary and preparatory measures put in place in the district, the Food Minister said that rations to meet the requirements of family cardholders for three months have been stocked in the public distribution system outlets, and that and 5,000 electric posts, overhead power cables for a length of 70 kilometres and 30 transformers have also been stocked at 12 sub-stations of the Electricity Board in Tiruvarur district. Special rescue teams, including training swimmers, have been formed and first responders’ have been posted throughout the district. Necessary arrangements have also been put in place to safeguard the people from the reptile attacks, if any and also to protect the cattle. Regular precautionary measures such as stocking of sandbags, pruning of trees near overhead power cables in both urban and rural pockets have also been carried out, he added. Meanwhile, the Collector, V.Santha has urged the people residing in weak and old buildings to move to the rescue centres set up by the District Administration temporarily to remain safe during the next three days wherein the Meteorological Department had predicted heavy rains.  Thanjavur A total of 195 places have been identified as inundation prone areas in Thanjavur district and rescue and relief centres have been set up at 251 places. Necessary precautionary measures have been put in place to protect the 349 bridges and 5258 small bridges/culverts in the district. Earth moving vehicles and tools to clear uprooted trees have also been kept ready, said the Collector, M.Govinda Rao in a press release. Urging the people to shift and lodge their cattle and personal vehicles to safe places, the Collector said that SoS or rescue calls could be made through WhatsApp number 93453 36838 or by dialling the toll free number 1077.  Pudukottai Sixty cyclone protection centres have been set up in Pudukottai district, according to Collector P. Uma Maheswari. Speaking to reporters after presiding over a meeting on cyclone preparedness here on Monday, she said that the officials had already inspected the cyclone protection centres in different parts of the district. They had been asked to provide all basic facilities for the people, who wanted to take shelter in the centres. The people, particularly fishermen and those living in low lying areas, were advised to take shelter in the event of any emergency situation arising out of the cyclone. She said a cyclone alert had been sounded in the district. All departments including revenue, police, Fire and Rescue Services personnel, Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation, Highways, rural development, Health and others had been asked to coordinate the cyclone relief and rescue measures. Ms. Uma Maheswari said people could dial at 1077 or 04322-222207 for any assistance. It would function round the clock. The people should follow the cyclone advice of the Government.  Ariyalur Collector D. Rathna held an emergency meeting with the senior officials on steps to be taken to reduce the sufferings of people in view of the Nivar cyclone, which was expected to make landfall on Wednesday between Mamallapuram and Karaikal. She visited Jayamkondam and T. Palur and inspected the cyclone relief centres. Ms. Rathna said that 29 places had been identified as low lying areas in the district. The Public Works Department had been asked to closely watch the flood situation so as to prevent breaching of lakes and ponds.  Nagapattinam Collector Praveen P. Nair on Monday determined the preparedness of the official machinery in Kollidam block to tackle the flood. He inspected the arrangements in Anaikaranchathiram Nathalpadukai, Arapallam, Nallur, Tsunami Nagar, and Pazhyayar Fishing Harbour. Officials of Revenue and Line Departments inspected low-lying areas and other vulnerable locations in the district for planning response measures. The boats have been fastened to one another at the harbors to prevent damage. Coconut farmers have been advised to reduce the weight at the top by cutting down fronds. Officials have advised people to be on guard on November 25 and 26 when the cyclone is expected to make landfall. The essentials have been stocked for carrying out relief measures, and medical shops have been advised to have sufficient supplies, the Collector said.  Perambalur District Collector P. Sri Venkata Priya visited the Arumbavur Big Tank, and the inlet-outlet points of Chitheri to assess the possible impacts of flooding. Weak electricity poles and low-lying power lines have been identified for rectification, and measures have been taken for relocating people from low-lying areas to safer locations, the Collector said. People in need of help can contact the helpline number 1077. The people have been advised not to step into water bodies or to venture out to witness the flooding, she said, addiing that the Police, Fire and Rescue Services and Revenue Departments have been instructed to monitor the movements of people stepping out of their homes.  Karaikal The Karaikal administraiton has urged the people not to be mislead by rumours about Nivar cyclone and that authentic information would be communicated through mainstream media. Residents of localities along coastal area have been advised to move to safer locations under the guidance of Disaster Management division, Collector Arjun Sharma said. The fishers have been told to inform about those among them who ahve not returned from the sea to the Control Room, and the residents, in general, have been instructed to stay indoors at the time of heavy rainfall and winds, and to keep ready emergency lights and candles, besides replenishing food stock, particularly to meet requirements of children and aged people. Important documents must be shifted to safer places inside households. While going out to safer locations, the gas stoves must be switched off. In case of emergencies, the following numbers could be contacted: Free helpline numbers - 1070/ 1077, Control Room - 04368 - 228801 227704, Whatsapp number - 99438 06263.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyclone-nivar-district-adminstrations-in-alert-mode/article33165274.ece
24 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK cadre hold protest against DMK functionary||AIADMK cadre on Monday staged a demonstration demanding action against Kaduvetti N. Thiyagarajan, Tiruchi (North) district secretary of the DMK, for allegedly using abusive words against women belonging to an intermediate caste and police personnel. More than 300 cadre participated in the protest organised by the AIADMK’s Tiruchi urban district unit. Taking strong exception to the content of the purported audio clip, which went viral on social media platforms over the last few days, in which Mr. Thiyagarajan was heard abusing women of a particular community as also the police personnel, the AIADMK partymen said it was unbecoming of a person holding an important party post to portray women in poor light. Suitable action should be taken against him, they demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cadre-hold-protest-against-dmk-functionary/article33165268.ece
24 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Change of guard in BHEL Tiruchi Complex||General Manager T S. Murali has assumed charge as Head of BHEL Tiruchi Complex comprising the High Pressure Boiler Plant and the Seamless Steel Tube Plant here, and the BHEL Industrial Valves Plant at Goindwal in the Punjab, following the transfer of Executive Director R Padmanabhan, Executive Director to the Corporate Office in New Delhi. Mr. Murali, who has been vested with full powers of Executive Director in the new posting, was transferred to BHEL Tiruchi during August as General Manager (Operations) in charge of the High Pressure Boiler Plant, Outsourcing, Materials Management and Advanced Technology Products and subsequently given additional charge of New Growth Areas and Research and Development (R&D). A technocrat, strategic thinker and administrator with over 33 years of diverse experience across BHEL's project sites, manufacturing units and head office at New Delhi, Mr. Murali had graduated in Mechanical Engineering from Andhra University College of Engineering and joined BHEL's Power Sector as an Engineer Trainee in 1986. Mr. Murali was posted as General Manager (Operations) of Bharat Heavy Plates and Vessels at Visakhapatnam in 2008 where he played a significant role in the introduction of modern operations management, capital investment, maintenance and planning to revive the unit after it was taken over by BHEL. In 2013, he moved back to BHEL's Corporate Office and was posted to the CMD's Secretariat where he became General Manager (Planning) before being shifted to BHEL's newly formed Corporate Strategic Management function. Mr. Murali was given independent charge as Head of BHEL's Heavy Equipment Repair Plant at Varanasi in 2018. Mr. Murali has served as Senate Member of the Indian Institute of Technology-BHU (formerly IT-BHU) Varanasi from 2018 and is a member of the Indian Institute of Welding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-of-guard-in-bhel-tiruchi-complex/article33165271.ece
24 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Puthirai Vannars seek 3% internal reservation||Seeking community certificate for all the Puthirai Vannar community members under Scheduled Caste category, Poorvika Makkal Viduthalai Katchi has appealed to the State government to give them 3% internal reservation in education and government jobs. Led by S. Ramesh, Tirunelveli district president of Poorvika Makkal Viduthalai Katchi, a political arm of Puthirai Vannar Ezhuchchi Peravai, the petitioners staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate for a while to highlight their demands and submitted the petition later. Mr. Ramesh said most of the applications being submitted by the people belonging to Puthirai Vannar caste for community certificates recognising them as a ‘Scheduled Caste’ were rejected by the revenue officials on flimsy reasons. Consequently, a good number of children belonging to this community could not be admitted to schools and colleges. “Of the 10,000 Puthirai Vannar community people living in Tirunelveli district, only 2,000 have been given ‘Scheduled Caste’ community certificate while the others are living without community certificates and facing a range of hardships,” Mr. Ramesh said. The Puthirai Vannar community petitioners also said they should be given 3% internal reservation in education and employment for their community in the reservation meant for the Scheduled Castes. Since all the Puthirai Vannar community members were from below poverty line families, they should be given free house sites. The petitioners also wanted the district administration to allocate land for separate cremation ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puthirai-vannars-seek-3-internal-reservation/article33165978.ece
24 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sloth bear falls into well, rescued||After struggling for more than four hours, Forest Department employees attached to Kalakkad–Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve’s Kalakkad Division rescued a sloth bear that accidentally fell into an open farm well with a short parapet at Singikulam near Kalakkad in the district on Monday morning. The bear, which is believed to be one among the eight that were living in a hillock between Singikulam and the reserve forest of the Western Ghats, fell into the well dug amidst paddy fields. After five of the sloth bears were translocated on various occasions in the past whenever they strayed into the fields, three bears are apparently living in the caves in the hillock. When passers-by noticed the animal struggling to stay afloat in the water, they alerted forest officials. The 20-foot-deep well had water for about 13 feet following good northeast monsoon rainfall. Led by Deputy Director (in-charge) of KMTR’s Kalakkad Range M. Elango, the forest personnel from Kalakkad and Thirukkurunkudi ranges commenced the rescue operation around 10 a.m. They decided to not tranquillise the animal as it could lead to its drowning. When they tried to catch the animal with a net, the bear thwarted their repeated attempts. As the rescue team lowered an opened cage with ripened palmyrah fruits inside to the surface of the water to lure the bear, it held the iron rods of the cage and jumped atop the 5-foot-tall cage to easily come out of the well even as the curious villagers and forest personnel ran helter-skelter around 11.30 a.m. Without injuring anyone, the bear started to run away even as forest veterinarian Manoharan fired the first tranquilliser shot at it. The fully grown animal was found unconscious inside bushes some 300 metres away later. After mildly tranquillising it again around 1.30 p.m., the forest personnel took the bear to Sengaltheri, 19 km away from Kalakkad, and freed it into the forest around 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sloth-bear-falls-into-well-rescued/article33165323.ece
24 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sloth bear falls into open farm well, rescued||After struggling for more than 4 hours, officials from the Forest Department rescued a sloth bear that accidentally fell into a open farm well at Singikulam near Kalakkad in the district early Monday. The stray bear, which is believed to be one of the 8 sloth bears living in the hillock between Singikulam and the reserve forest of Western Ghats, fell into the well with a short parapet wall, in the midst of the paddy fields. After five of them were translocated on various occasions in the past whenever the animals strayed into the fields, three bears are apparently living in the caves in the hillock. When the passers-by noticed the animal struggling to keep itself afloat in the water, they alerted the officials attached to the Kalakkad–Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve’s Kalakkad division. The 20-feet-deep well had water for about 13-feet following the recent rains in the region. Led by Deputy Director (in-charge) of KMTR’s Kalakkad range, M. Elango, the forest personnel mobilised from Kalakkad and Thirukkurunkudi ranges commenced the rescue operation at 10 a.m. The weary bear was trying to keep itself afloat and was holding the stones in the wall of the water body to take rest. The officials decided to not tranquillise it fearing that it could lead to drowning of the animal. When the forest personnel tried to net the animal, the bear panicked and thwarted repeated attempts. Then the rescue team lowered an opened cage with ripened palmyrah fruits as bait down to the surface of the water to enable the bear to enter the iron enclosure. The omnivore, after holding on to the iron rods of the cage, jumped atop the roof 5-foot-tall cage to come out of the well even as curious villagers and the forest personnel ran helter-skelter, around 11.30 a.m. Without injuring anyone, the bear fled the spot even as forest veterinarian Manoharan fired the first tranquilliser shot at the animal. However, the fully grown adult swooned inside the bushes situated about 300 meters away from the well after outsmarting the 40-member rescue team for about 90 minutes. After mildly tranquillising it again on being netted around 1.30 p.m., the bear was taken to Sengaltheri, a scenic spot in the elevated areas of the Western Ghats 19 km from Kalakkad, to be freed around 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sloth-bear-falls-into-open-farm-well-rescued/article33165299.ece
24 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Was it a red-throated pipit?||Birdwatchers from Dharapuram in Tiruppur district spotted a red-throated pipit ( Anthus cervinus ) near Uppar dam on Sunday, which they claim it to be the first-ever recorded sighting in the State. Member of Dharapuram Nature Society R. Magesh said on Monday that he along with another member Sadhasivam Dhamu visited the Uppar reservoir area on Sunday morning for birdwatching when they spotted this lone bird. “We initially thought it was a tree pipit, which is commonly seen,” he told The Hindu . However, he said that many streaks were visible on its plumage, which was characteristic of red-throated pipit. After confirming with a few experts with the available pictures, Mr. Magesh said they checked the eBird portal, which contained data about bird sightings from all over the world. He said there were no other recorded sightings within Tamil Nadu in the portal, which purportedly made theirs the first recorded sighting of a red-throated pipit in the State. This bird bred in far north of Europe which was a winter visitor to parts of the African continent and was a passing migrant to India, Mr. Magesh said. “While a few sightings of [red-throated pipit] have been recorded in Kerala, no sightings in Tamil Nadu have been recorded so far,” said K. Selvaganesh, coordinator of Coimbatore City Bird Atlas who was one of the experts that confirmed the bird’s identity. Contrary to its name, the red-throated pipit spotted on Sunday did not have a red throat, which appeared only during its breeding season, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birdwatchers-claim-to-have-spotted-red-throated-pipit-near-uppar-dam/article33165340.ece
24 November 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvannamalai Collector honours school girl||Tiruvannamalai Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Sunday honoured 14-year-old Vinisha Umashankar from the district, who recently won the Children’s Climate Prize conferred by the Children’s Climate Foundation from Sweden, for her innovation — solar ironing cart. A class 9 student of SKP Vanitha International School in Tiruvannamalai, Vinisha was announced as winner on November 2 and presented with the award online on November 18. “In 2019, Vinisha won the Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam IGNITE Award after submitting a technical paper on the solar ironing cart. Later, the National Innovation Foundation designed a prototype and they have applied for a patent in my name and it will be transferred to Vinisha's name once she is 18,” said the girl’s father Umashankar . Vinisha has been shortlisted for the Rashtriya Bal Shakti Puraskar 2021. “The cart will charge in five hours and can be used for six hours. We are planning to approach a German company to make customised solar panels that can charge the batteries in two hours,” he added. He said that it was just casual talk about coal production and cutting down of trees that prompted Vinisha to embark on this project. “I have always told her to come up with innovations that can help the underprivileged and something that can have a positive impact on the environment. It is a way of giving back to society,” he said. Vinisha had made a sensor-based smart ceiling fan. “It will stop when no one is around and resume once movement is detected by the sensor. This will help conserve electricity,” added Mr. Umashankar. On Sunday, Mr. Nanduri met her in the Collectorate and honoured her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvannamalai-collector-honours-school-girl/article33165330.ece
24 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Afforest Davis Park with native flora’||The Davis Park in Udhagamandalam town has been in a state of neglect since 2018 due to lack of sponsors for the park’s maintenance. Local residents said the park was recently spruced up prior to the visit of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “However, since then, cattle have once again been allowed to enter the park, while people also enter illegally after sunset to consume alcohol,” said R. Anbu, a resident living near the park. The park was one of the most easily accessible public parks in the district, said G. Janardhanan, president of the Ooty Public Awareness Association. The park was located just opposite the iconic St. Stephen’s Church, the more than 150-year-old heritage building, as well as the Collectorate premises. “Not only is the park’s lack of maintenance an eyesore, but also a missed opportunity, as it can serve to be a truly unique space where native biodiversity can be exhibited to tourists,” said Mr. Janardhanan. “The municipality, which is in charge of taking care of the park, can sanction funds that can be used to plant Shola trees as well as other native flora in the park,” he said. “No other park run by the government in the district showcases the beauty and uniqueness of native flora, so this could be a great opportunity to redress that,” added Mr. Janardhanan. When contacted, the Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya said a private company in the district that had since closed down had been in-charge of maintaining the park. “Now the municipality is maintaining the park,” said the Collector. The municipality and the district administration were open to sponsors helping to fund efforts to maintain the park and for also planting native species there, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/afforest-davis-park-with-native-flora/article33165742.ece
24 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Average number of cases continues to decrease in the Nilgiris||More than 2 lakh swab samples had been collected and tested from tourists and residents in the Nilgiris since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, officials from the Health Department said. The officials said that over the last couple of weeks, the average daily caseload had seen a steady yet substantial decrease to below 30 cases. In fact, on Saturday, only eight persons tested positive, the first time in the last few months that the daily caseload had dipped below double digits. Despite the decrease, the officials said the number of swab tests conducted each day would remain the same for the foreseeable future. The number of containment zones in the district had decreased from a couple of hundred till a few months ago to just 105 on Monday, they added. Strict enforcement The district administration continued to strictly enforce personal distancing norms as well as making it mandatory for tourists and residents stepping out of their homes and hotels to wear mask. Signage had been put up across the district warning people to wear mask and ensure personal distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/average-number-of-cases-continues-to-decrease-in-the-nilgiris/article33165745.ece
24 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fall Armyworm attack leaves maize farmers in the lurch||An attack of Fall Armyworm on several acres of maize grown in the district has rendered over 80 days of hard work and huge investments on farm inputs, a wasteful exercise for hundreds of farmers. “I have lost the crop raised on 25 acres of land,” said A. Subbaraj (59) of Veerachellaiahpuram. Like several others, he too had started sowing maize as early as September after the first showers of the season on the rain-fed region. Even as the crops started growing at first, without any pest attack, the sharp showers for more than a week during Deepavali kept the farmers away from their farms. “It was during this time that pests started attacking,” said another farmer V. Srinivasan (69). He has raised maize on four acres of land. “We have spent at least Rs. 24,000 per acre from ploughing to pesticide and from seeds to weeding. Now, it looks like we have lost the entire crop,” he said. Farmers fear that maize raised on 1,200 acres in the village will have to be only burnt as even cattle will not feed on it. “The irony is that we will have to spend at least another Rs. 5,000 on hiring harvesting machinery,” Mr. Srinivasan said. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar MP, B. Manickam Tagore, visited the village on Monday to inspect the pest attack. “Farmers have said that they need full compensation for the crop loss,” said Mr. Tagore. Despite good rainfall, the farmers have lost the entire crop. As farmers complained that while some of them had got as much as Rs. 15,700 compensation per acre and others received amounts as low as Rs. 1,800 in the past, he wanted the government to give Rs. 20,000 as compensation per acre. The MP has promised to take up the issue with the officials to ensure that all the farmers got full compensation. Stating that over 60,000 acres of maize crop has been lost in Madurai and Virudhunagar districts, Mr. Tagore wanted the officials to inspect the fields to know the gravity of the crop loss. Meanwhile, the Virudhunagar district administration has issued notification asking farmers to pay Rs. 262 per acre as premium for crop insurance for the maize. The officials say that only the crop raised in October (as per the adangal, record issued by the Village Administration Officer) would be eligible for crop insurance. Mr. Subbaraj said he feared that at least 500 acres of maize would become ineligible for compensation under the crop insurance scheme. However, allying his fear, a senior official from Department of Agriculture, said that district Collector, R. Kannan, has instructed the revenue officials to ensure that all farmers become eligible for the compensation. The last date for paying insurance premiums for maize is December 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fall-armyworm-attack-leaves-maize-farmers-in-the-lurch/article33165254.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘People must hold Tamil language and heritage sites in high esteem’||On the one hand people were disregarding the antiquity of Tamil language and on the other hand ancient sites in Madurai were facing the threat of destruction owing to public apathy. It is important to protect the heritage spots and restore them to their original state, said Madras High Court judge N. Kirubakaran here on Sunday. He was speaking at World Tamil Sangam after inaugurating a photo exhibition along with Madras High Court judge B. Pugalendhi. The event was organised by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) as part of World Heritage Week celebrations. Justice Kirubakaran said that while it was essential to learn English language, it was more important to learn one’s mother tongue. Tamil-Brahmi script found on potsherds, which were around 2,500 years old, showed that the ancient Tamil society was literate. “Carbon dating indicates that Tamil is among the most ancient languages. But we must also recognise and accept if some other language is found to be older than Tamil,” he said. Justice Kirubakaran urged the ASI officials to erect boards at convergence spots such as railway stations and bus stops to indicate the location of heritage spots. This will help in raising the tourist footfall even while increasing revenue generated through tourism, he said. Justice Pugalendhi asked the ASI officials to employ technology at major archaeological sites to explain the importance of those sites to the visitors. Earlier, the judges inaugurated a photo exhibition of important archaeological excavation sites across the country. V. Vedachalam, former senior epigraphist of Tamil Nadu Archaeology Department, said Madurai was an ancient city with several hills having Tamil-Brahmi inscriptions. Those sites must be declared World Heritage Sites so that quarrying could be prevented at these hills. Several ancient heritage spots were facing the onslaught of urbanisation and hence it was all the more important to declare them as heritage villages or towns or cities, Mr. Vedachalam said. S. Rajavelu, adjunct professor at Alagappa University, urged the ASI to take steps to protect ancient temples and heritage spots across the State. There were several evidences that indicate that Madurai had been continuously inhabited for the past 2,500 years, said K.T. Gandhirajan, a resource person at Tamil Virtual Academy.  To do list  Erect boards at convergence spots to indicate the location of heritage sites  Employ technology at major archaeological sites to explain their importance  Declare hills with Tamil-Brahmi inscriptions heritage sites to prevent quarrying||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-must-hold-tamil-language-and-heritage-sites-in-high-esteem/article33165331.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 140 cases||Coimbatore district reported 140 new COVID-19 cases on Monday. The Health Department said 698 patients were under institutional care in the district. On Monday, 163 persons were discharged and the total number of persons recovered from the disease stood at 46,376. Tiruppur district reported 67 fresh cases, taking its overall tally to 14,903. The district did not report any deaths, according to the bulletin. Of the 14,903 cases, 14,073 recovered and 623 were active cases. On Monday, 79 persons were discharged. The district reported 207 deaths so far. In the Nilgiris, 34 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 7,266. The district administration said that 144 people were undergoing treatment. The toll in the district stood at 40. Of the 77 cases reported in Salem district, 65 were indigenous including 28 in the Salem Corporation limits. Twelve patients returned from Dharmapuri and Namakkal. A 59-year-old died of the disease in Salem. In Namakkal, 42 cases were reported. According to officials, 11 patients returned from Salem, Tiruchi, Karur, the Nilgiris and Karnataka. In Erode, 72 indigenous cases were reported. Dharmapuri reported 19 indigenous cases and Krishnagiri 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-dist-reports-77-cases/article33165338.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||College student designs solar-powered bicycle||A solar-powered bicycle has been designed by M. Danush Kumar, a third-year Physics student of The American College. A press release from the college said the bicycle had two batteries which could be charged by electricity as well as energy generated through a solar panel. The bicycle could run continuously for 50 km with the help of the solar panel. It could run for a maximum speed of 30 km per hour. When the solar power was low, one couldpedal the bicycle. Congratulating the student, Principal M. Davamani Christober said more students must come forward with such innovative ideas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-student-designs-solar-powered-bicycle/article33165309.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Grantsmanship Workshop’ held at TRRI||A workshop for scientists on ways to tap funds for research projects from various sponsoring agencies was conducted at Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute, Aduthurai, by Tamil Nadu Agricultue University recently. Inaugurating the three-day ‘Grantsmanship Workshop’ through video-conference, N. Kumar, vice-chancellor, TNAU, told participating scientists that tapping funds from funding agencies would help in developing research infrastructure and overall development of research stations, alongside giving a fillip to their career. Objective V. Ambethgar, Director, TRRI, said the objective of the workshop was to provide insight into formulating successful research project proposals. A total of 41 scientists from Region II jurisdictions of TNAU consisting of TRRI, Aduthurai; Rice Research Station, Tirur; Centre of Excellence in Millets, Athiyandal; National Pulses Research Centre, Vamban; Regional Research Station, Vridhachalam; Oilseeds Research Station, Tindivanam; Sugarcane Research Station, Cuddalore; Sugarcane Research Station, Sirugamani; Sugarcane Research Station, Melalathur; Agricultural Research Station, Virinjipuram; and Cotton Research Station, Veppanthattai took part. Framing proposals Senior scientists from the institutes discussed ways of preparing winning research project proposals and the importance of tapping external funds for development of the institutes. During the workshop, the scientists formulated research project proposals addressing emerging research needs in mandate crops of Region II in theme areas viz., integrated farming system, water harvesting and recycling, drought mitigation, crop variety development, resistance breeding, physiology of pest and disease resistance, pathogen-host-environment interactions, use of plant-based products in pest management, disease forecasting, artificial intelligence, biosensors, biofortification, value addition, farm mechanization, modelling, ecological engineering and nanotechnological applications. The proposals would be submitted to funding agencies such as Life Sciences Research Board, SEED, BRNS, DBT, NABARD, IMPRINT and DST, a TRRI press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grantsmanship-workshop-held-at-trri/article33165260.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNJFU students excel in AIEEA 2020||Three students of Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University (TNJFU), Nagapattinam, have bagged the first, second and fourth ranks in the All India Entrance Examination for Admission (AIEEA) 2020. The students will receive a monthly stipend of Rs. 12,650 to pursue Masters in Fisheries Sciences in Central Institutes and State Agricultural Universities in different disciplines. Atshaya, Jancy Robina and Ganesh Kumar of Fisheries College and Research Institute, Thoothukudi, bagged the first, second and fourth ranks. Students from more than 25 fisheries colleges throughout India appeared for AIEEA 2020 examination conducted by the Union Ministry of Higher Education through National Testing Agency (NTA) for Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi. This year, five students of TNJFU came within the top 10 ranks, 13 students within top 25, and 31 students within 100 ranks. “This is a remarkable achievement” University Vice-Chancellor G. Sugumar said. The Vice-Chancellor felicitated the achievers in the presence of deans, directors and professors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnjfu-students-excel-in-aieea-2020/article33165963.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone Nivar may bring heavy rain to districts||The Department has issued a red alert, indicating that the State authorities should take action as extremely heavy rain of over 24.4 cm is possible in one or two places in some districts, including Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur, on Tuesday. More districts, including Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore and Perambalur, are likely to get extremely heavy rain in isolated places on November 25. 20 km speed S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the potential cyclone was moving at an average speed of 20 kmph. “Squally weather with wind speeds of 55-65 kmph may prevail in the north coastal areas on Tuesday and Wednesday. Heavy to very heavy rain [up to 24 cm] may occur in isolated places of north coastal areas, including Vellore, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Krishnagiri, on both the days. Chennai, too, will experience very heavy rain in some areas,” he said. “We are monitoring the dynamic weather system and tracking the landfall. We expect the system to reduce the overall deficit in the State’s seasonal rainfall, which stands at 25%,” he added. Senior meteorologist Y.E.A. Raj noted that in all probability, it may be a rain-filled storm, and may not have time to intensify further as its travel over the ocean area is less. The Meteorological Department warned of a storm surge of 2 metres near the landfall area, which may cause flooding in low-level areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyclone-nivar-may-bring-heavy-rain-to-districts/article33165714.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||131 fresh cases, 2 deaths||The central districts on Monday reported 131 fresh cases of COVID-19 and deaths of two patients. All eight districts recorded less than 30 fresh cases. Of them, Tiruvarur district recorded the maximum number of cases with 30 patients testing positive for the virus. It was followed by Nagapattinam district with 27 cases. The daily case count in Tiruchi district was 24. There were 21 in Karur and 16 positive cases recorded in Thanjavur district. Pudukottai recorded 12 cases, and Ariyalur district registered just one case. There had been no report of fresh cases in Perambalur district. Tiruvarur and Thanjavur recorded the death of one patient each due to COVID-19. Discharges outnumbered the fresh cases in the districts. A total of 169 patients, who had been getting treatment in various hospitals after being treated for COVID-19, were discharged on Monday. Nagapattinam recorded the maximum discharges with 39 patients returning home. A total of 30 patients were discharged in Tiruchi district. Twenty-seven patients were discharged in Thanjavur district, 25 in Tiruvarur, 22 in Karur and 16 in Pudukottai district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/131-fresh-cases-2-deaths/article33165266.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Set to bloom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-to-bloom/article33165354.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flagging a storm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flagging-a-storm/article33165924.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Private bus operator pulled up for excess fare||A private bus operator was directed by Revenue and Transport authorities to levy only the stipulated fare after the issue of excess collection was flagged by the local unit of Democratic Youth Federation of India. The collection of excess fare came to light last Friday when the office-bearers of Pattukottai DYFI unit travelled in the private bus from Pattukottai to Maruthapallam. They were made to pay Rs. 20 per person for the trip instead of the normal fare of Rs. 15. When they questioned the conductor, the latter reportedly told them that he was collecting the fare fixed by the State government. Subsequently, DYFI office-bearers led by Pattukottai Union secretary Sundarapandiyan lodged a complaint with the Sub-Collector, Pattukottai, and the Regional Transport Officer, Pattukottai. The officials sought an explanation from the private bus operator, who reportedly clarified that the conductor being a new appointee had erred and that the mistake would not be made again, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-bus-operator-pulled-up-for-excess-fare/article33165259.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Harvest-ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harvest-ready/article33165263.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Career opportunities programme||Children’s clothing store Yaminee announced that it had launched a new programme for school students to discover career opportunities. Titled ‘Tutorage’, the programme was aimed at students from Classes IX to XII. “Tutorage is a comprehensive, development programme designed to assist individuals in making and implementing informed educational and occupational choices,” a release said. The project is free of cost and those interested for enrolling may contact 98432 49854 oryaminee_egoessentials@ hotmail.com.    The NGO Round Table India (RTI) inaugurated its ‘RTI Week’ celebrations at North Coimbatore on Sunday. According to a release, the NGO will donate various materials including 500 artificial limbs worth Rs. 20 lakh to the Artificial Limb Centre and relief materials for COVID-19 worth Rs. 4.5 lakh in various cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/career-opportunities-programme/article33165341.ece
24 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||News on Cabinet expansion shortly, says Karjol||Deputy Chief Minister and BJP leader Govind Karjol asked journalists to wait for three-four days for news on expansion of the State Cabinet. “You will have to wait for three-four days for news on Cabinet expansion,” he said in Bableshwar in Vijayapura district on Monday. He was replying to questions from journalists after laying the foundation stone for some civil works. He did not give further details. Mr. Karjol asked Kannada activists to stop opposing the development corporation for Marathas. “We will stop opposing it if we know our history well. Few people know that Belliyappa, great grandfather of Shivaji Maharaj, was a Kannadiga who migrated to Maharashtra. We should respect the Bhosle Royal family also because they fought to establish the Hindu kingdom in South India,” he said. He said that the Union or State governments were not interfering in the functioning of investigating agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate or the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/news-on-cabinet-expansion-shortly-says-karjol/article33165368.ece
24 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Focus on education’||Members of the deprived communities, including Dalits and backward classes, should focus on educating their children, KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi said in Gokak on Sunday. “We should remain free from blind belief and invest in our children. We should ensure that our children not only go to good schools and colleges, but also develop the spirit of scientific inquiry,” he said. He was speaking at a programme organised by the Madiga Samaj Seva Samiti to facilitate meritorious students. He also spoke against social evils.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-on-education/article33165367.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP wants to collect land transport cess||Shortly after announcing its decision to start collecting a Rs. 200 service charge for door-to-door collection of garbage from households, the financially beleaguered Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) hopes to start collecting another cess from tax-paying citizens. BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta recently gave his assent to the collection of land transport cess along with property tax. The amount will be 2% of the property tax. Though approved by the Administrator, it has to be ratified by the State government. If the BBMP get its way, then the property tax paid by citizens will see an increase in the coming fiscal, when it is likely to be implemented, said sources in the civic body’s Revenue Department. The BBMP already collects four cesses – Beggary, Library, Health and Solid Waste Management – along with property tax. Sources said that it has been estimated that nearly Rs. 150 crore can be collected as land transport cess, if the State government gives its approval. Incidentally, this is not the first time that the cess has been proposed. After audit objections were raised by the Comptroller and Auditor General, the civic body had tabled the proposal several times before the BBMP’s elected council. However, the council deferred the decision on the cess each time it was tabled. Earlier in January this year, the then Mayor M. Goutham Kumar approved the proposal and stated that the money collected would be used for maintenance of roads. However, following objection, he did a U-turn, claiming the decision to levy the cess had been deferred, not approved. BBMP Special Commissioner (Revenue) Basavaraj S. was not available for comment, despite repeated attempts. Citizens up in arms Citizens have expressed their objection to the new cess given the abysmal quality of roads and the fact that many families are facing financial constraints due to the fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. G.S. Renukaprasad, president of Shanthinagar Residents’ Welfare Association, pointed out that citizens are already paying high road tax. “We are not bothered if the road tax is going to the government or the BBMP. What we want is simple: good roads. However, the roads in the city are riddled with potholes, are dug up and in poor motorable condition. Why should citizens be burdened with this cess?” Prakash D.R., founder-president of Osborne Road Residents’ Welfare Association, who is also a property tax consultant, said that property owners were not bound to pay for maintenance of roads. The road tax collected should be shared between government and BBMP. “Citizens are struggling to earn a livelihood, and this is not the time to impose the cess,” he said, and added that instead of burdening citizens, the BBMP should collect arrears from various government departments. Former BBMP Opposition Leader Abdul Wajid reiterated that the elected body had rejected the cess proposal several times. “Power tariff was increased, BBMP is going to start collecting service charge for solid waste management… and now, this additional cess. How much more will citizens be burdened?”  We are not bothered if the road tax is going to the government or the BBMP. What we want is simple: good roads. However, the roads in the city are riddled with potholes, are dug up and in poor motorable condition. Why should citizens be burdened with this cess? G.S. Renukaprasad, president, Shanthinagar Residents’ Welfare Association   Power tariff was increased, BBMP is going to start collecting service charge for solid waste management… and now, this additional cess. How much more will citizens be burdened? Abdul Wajid, former Opposition Leader in BBMP council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-wants-to-collect-land-transport-cess/article33165703.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2020-21 will not be a zero academic year, says Minister||Although physical classes have not been conducted in schools for seven out of 10 months in the 2020-21 academic year and will not resume in December either, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has ruled out the possibility of a zero academic year. He said that even though students are unable to physically report to class, teaching and learning have been an ongoing process during the pandemic. “Teachers in government and private schools are using different platforms to interact with students and ensure that there is no halt on learning,” he said. The Minister pointed out that even though no examinations were held for the 2019-20 academic year for students up to class 9, they were promoted to the next grade. While most stakeholders, including school managements and associations, agree with the government’s decision to delay reopening of schools, many education experts do not agree with the Minister’s view that offline classes — either via the Internet or through televised programmes — have been effective. They point out that students not just in rural areas but also in top private schools are not grasping concepts taught on various remote learning platforms. With a majority of government schools unable to hold online classes, the State government launched televised classes for middle school students only on Monday. But this was introduced seven months after the academic year had started. Parents worried Parents, too, are worried about their children’s academic future. A mother of a class 6 student of a private school in Bengaluru said that the teachers are not making optimal use of technology. “Teachers have not broken out of the traditional mindset of teaching and it is not interactive at all. I would say that a large chunk of the learning is happening because of the involvement of parents,” she said. The situation is far worse for students of government schools — many of whom will be unable to get any academic assistance from their parents. A headmaster of a government high school in North Bengaluru said that many teachers were trying to find ways to teach their students. “But a majority of our students do not have access to gadgets. They have not even grasped the basic concepts. We are doing everything we can from conducting online classes to sending worksheets to their homes, but students are completely blank when they stare at their textbooks,” she said, adding that most of the students before being promoted to the next grade will have to undergo an intense crash course. Rishikesh B.S., associate professor at Azim Premji University, said that there was a need for the State government to restart the Vidyagama programme as remote learning options are sub optimal. “The government needs to start the programme and place the ownership and operational aspects with the School Development Monitoring Committee. They can supervise to ensure that all COVID-19 protocols are in place while classes are conducted,” he said. A study by Azim Premji University titled “Myths of Online Education” stated that 60% of the students could not access online education. The study also said 90% of parents of government school students were willing to send their children back to school if the health of their children was taken care of.  Children tend to fall sick in winter. As parents, we are struggling with keeping our children occupied at home. We do want them to return to school, but with cases on the rise in some cities, I think the government wants to play it safe for now and understandably so.Shweta SharanParent and founder of Bangalore Schools   In the absence of alternatives to online classes, they need to restart the Vidyagama programme. Although it was held for a short time, teachers were able to cover around 25% of the syllabus.V.P. Niranjan AradhyaFellow at the Centre for Child and Law, National Law School of India University   All our internal surveys show that parents prefer online classes at the moment and are not ready for their children to come to school. However, it is a matter of concern for students of classes 10 and 12 who want to visit schools to get their doubts clarified.Mansoor Ali KhanGeneral secretary, Management of Independent CBSE Schools’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2020-21-will-not-be-a-zero-academic-year-says-minister/article33165380.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lack of clarity on quarantine leave continues||The lack of clarity over quarantine leave for workers in the State continues despite a gazette notification by the Karnataka government on special leave recently. Instead of providing stricter guidelines, the gazette rather makes an appeal to employers, and one of the suggestions is transferring leave from the account of another employee, who has surplus, if the COVID-19 patient does not have adequate leave in his account. In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has resulted in many workers losing out on their pay as there was no official clarity to the employers, the State government on November 6 published a special gazette on quarantine leave following a direction from the High Court of Karnataka, which is hearing a writ petition on the issue currently. The special gazette is an “appeal” to private and public sector employers. Listing out six suggestions, while appealing to the employers to consider them, the State government has said that employers may not consider absence as unauthorised when COVID-19 patients stay out of work during quarantine period, and the employers should allow such workers to utilise the leave available in their account. Leave transfer If a worker does not have any leave, the gazette suggests that leave may be transferred from the account of other workers, who have surplus. Incidentally, those workers who are covered under the ESI are eligible for quarantine leave, and in the same establishment if a worker is outside ESI, he is not eligible for quarantine leave. A large number of workers in factories are also outside the ambit of ESI for whom quarantine leave has become an issue.  Paid leave Further, the government has suggested to the employers to consider providing paid leave of absence during the quarantine period for those workers who do not have any leave in their account, by adjusting it with the future leave that the employee might earn in the company. “In case if the employers are not willing or unable to approve the leave and workers do not have adequate leave, the employers and the workers can hold discussions to sort out the issue of special leave for the quarantine period,” the special gazette said. ‘Without basis’ AITUC Bengaluru secretary M. Satyanand said: “The order for quarantine leave should be under the Disaster Management Act as per the court direction. The order to advance leave from the next year to transfer surplus leave from other employees is ridiculous and without basis in law.” Further, he said such an order would create a strong disincentive for workers to hide their symptoms. “ This will increase the spread of infection in factories and workplaces.” However, B.C. Prabhakar, president of the Karnataka Employers’ Association, said that the employers were getting fake leave applications by workers claiming to be in contact with a COVID-19 positive patient. “Production in factories is recovering now and workers are required. This will help prevent those making false claims. In genuine cases, managements are going out of the way. If it is made compulsory, there is a threat of workers misusing the provisions,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lack-of-clarity-on-quarantine-leave-continues/article33165385.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decide early on one more special court to try cases against MPs and MLAs: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the State government to decide at the earliest on the need to set up one more special court to exclusively deal with the criminal cases regarding former and present MPs, MLAs, and MLCs in the State. SC directions A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi, made these remarks orally during the hearing of a PIL petition initiated suo motu on the directions of the Supreme Court to monitor the progress of trial in criminal cases against both former and present elected representatives. When Additional Advocate-General M. Dhyan Chinnappa said that the government was yet to decide on establishing one more special court, in addition to the one set up in 2018, the Bench said the government needs to take the decision immediately. The SC, on noticing many cases pending against MPs and MLAs across the country, had asked State governments to examine the need of establishing more special courts depending upon pendency of cases. Also, the Bench directed the government to submit the particulars of the selections made to the posts of public prosecutors posted to the special court as the cases are sensitive in nature. Jurisdiction Meanwhile, senior advocate Aditya Sondhi, amicus curie appointed by the High Court in this petition, brought to the notice of the Bench two separate orders passed by a single-judge Bench holding that special courts also have jurisdiction to conduct the trial of criminal cases filed by MPs, MLAs, and MLCs, and not just those cases filed against them; and the special court in Karnataka has no jurisdiction to conduct trial of criminal cases registered against elected representatives from other States in Karnataka. The Bench directed the Registrar-General of the HC to send these orders to senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, amicus curiae appointed by the SC, to being these verdicts, dealing with separate issues on special court’s jurisdiction, before the SC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decide-early-on-one-more-special-court-to-try-cases-against-mps-and-mlas-hc/article33165387.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka’s RT-PCR tests per lakh population is highest in country||The State has done the highest RT-PCR tests per lakh population in the country at 16,360. While Ladakh and Puducherry have conducted the second and third highest number of RT-PCR tests (14,769 and 14,488, respectively), Telangana has done the lowest at 221. Tamil Nadu, which claims to be the only State to go entirely by RT-PCR testing, has recorded 13,591 such tests per lakh population, according to information provided by the State’s COVID-19 war room data. Munish Moudgil, who heads the war room, said this is one of the reasons for better COVID-19 control in the State. “One of the ways to avoid a second wave, apart from citizens exercising SMS – Social Distancing, Masking and Sanitisation – is to have high daily testing with RT-PCR,” he said. “While the State government is doing its part by maximising tests, citizens are requested to adhere and obey masking, social distance and sanitisation of hands. Prevention is only in the hands of the citizens by their proper conduct,” he added. New cases Meanwhile, the State on Monday reported 1,509 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number to 8,74,555. With 24 deaths, the toll rose to 11,678. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. A total of 1,645 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,38,150. Of the remaining 24,708 active patients, 438 were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.57%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.59%. Bengaluru Urban reported 725 cases, taking its tally to 3,64,390. With 10 deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,078. The active cases in Bengaluru touched 18,409. As many as 96,095 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 87,413 RT-PCR. With this, the total tests rose to 1,03,29,473.  While the State government is doing its part by maximising tests, citizens are requested to adhere to wearing of masks, maintain social distance, and sanitise hands. Prevention is only in the hands of the citizens by their proper conduct.Munish MoudgilHead of State’s COVID-19 war room||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnatakas-rt-pcr-tests-per-lakh-population-is-highest-in-country/article33165374.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks govt. to relook at measure formulated in lieu of midday meal||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the State government to re-examine the compensatory measure formulated to distribute foodgrains to eligible students, studying in government and aided schools, covered under the midday meal scheme for having failed to supply foodgrains to these students between June 1 and October 31 as per the National Food Safety Act, 2013. “ Prima facie, we are of the view that the compensatory measure may not be consistent with the Midday Meal Rules, 2015,” observed a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar during the hearing on petitions related to issues that have cropped up due to COVID-19 restrictions. The government, in its affidavit, had stated that tur dal would be distributed along with prescribed quantity of foodgrains instead of paying cooking charges by way of cash transfer to the parents of eligible children. However, the Bench pointed out that there were discrepancies in the manner in which the government calculated the cooking charges. Already, the government has admitted its lapses before the court in not distributing the foodgrains when midday meal scheme could not be implemented in view of the closure of the schools due to pandemic even though the NFS Act mandates supply of foodgrains and cooking charges or pay food security allowance as compensation for not being able to provide hot midday meal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-asks-govt-to-relook-at-measure-formulated-in-lieu-of-midday-meal/article33165523.ece
24 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP begins preparations for panchayat elections||In a bid to establish political hold at the grassroot level in rural areas, the ruling BJP has commenced preparations for the forthcoming elections to gram panchayats. Though these elections are being fought on non-partisan basis, the party has embarked upon a Statewide programme to strive for the victory of candidates backed by it. The importance being attached by the BJP to rural local bodies was visible with party national organising general secretary B.L. Santosh travelling to Bengaluru from New Delhi to chair the GP poll preparation meeting of party leaders on Monday. The meeting was attended by party State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Rural Development Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, and Revenue Minister R. Ashok, among others. Mr. Kateel later told reporters that the party would launch a campaign titled Gram Swaraj under which two conventions would be held in each of the district. He said the party had constituted six teams of its office-bearers and leaders to undertake State tour under the Gram Swaraj campaign. These teams would be led by Mr. Kateel, Mr. Eshwarappa, Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol and Mr. Savadi, and Mr. Ashok. Mr. Kateel said the party would back candidates from all communities in the GP polls, and expressed confidence that they would win nearly 80% of the seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-begins-preparations-for-panchayat-elections/article33165524.ece
24 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Indigenous IJT begins spin flight testing||The indigenous Intermediate Jet Trainer (IJT), designed and developed by HAL to replace the ageing Kiran aircraft fleet of the IAF, has commenced spin flight testing in Bengaluru. The spin testing of an aircraft is the most crucial phase of its flight testing. Accordingly, the testing will be gradually progressed to assess the behaviour of the aircraft till six turn spins to either side to meet the targeted requirement. According to a release by HAL, the IJT has already been tested to its full envelope in terms of speed, altitude, and load factor and has also been integrated with drop tanks as well as bombs. For the spin test, HAL has redesigned the aircraft by moving the vertical tail aft and extending the rudder surface. These changes for ensuring a satisfactory spin behaviour required extensive redesign of the rear fuselage and the rudder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indigenous-ijt-begins-spin-flight-testing/article33165389.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Akshaya Patra: MLC seeks panel to probe charges||In the light of allegations of “governance issues” in the Akshaya Patra Foundation (APF) made by former trustees, Lahar Singh Siroya, BJP MLC, on Monday urged the chairman of ISKCON and APF, Madhu Pandit Dasa, to temporarily hand over charge of the foundation to an independent administrator until exonerated of all charges, and set up an independent committee to inquire into the allegations. “I was very disturbed to read serious charges of misuse of power, misappropriation of resources, and mixing up of accounts being levelled against the APF by former trustees. I am glad that you have instituted an enquiry by a two -member committee headed by K.V. Chowdary, the former Chief Vigilance Commissioner,” he noted in a letter addressed to Mr. Dasa. Pointing to the other two member of the panel, who are non-executive trustees of the foundation, he said that there may be a conflict of interest, but clarified that he does not suspect their professional integrity. Mr. Siroya also said that suggestions of the Chief Justice of India or the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court be taken in appointing an unimpeachable panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/akshaya-patra-mlc-seeks-panel-to-probe-charges/article33165388.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lecturers stage protest||Lecturers awaiting appointment orders from across the State staged a protest here on Monday, demanding lifting of ban on appointment of lecturers in aided first grade colleges where posts are lying vacant due to retirement, death and resignations. A release from lecturers said that the government, through its earlier orders, had allowed filling posts that have fallen vacant prior to December 20, 2015, and all due process had been followed to draw up the selected candidates list. However, due to COVID-19, the Finance Department had stalled approved appointments. They said that while they had been working as guest lecturers earlier, they had been selected for appointment on permanent basis in the first grade colleges. The ban on appointment had come at a time when most selected candidates awaiting appointment orders are exceeding the age limit. They urged Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa to lift the ban on fresh appointments at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lecturers-stage-protest/article33165528.ece
24 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||B.L. Santhosh meets BSY||BJP national general secretary B.L. Santhosh on Monday called on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at his official residence in Bengaluru and held discussion for a brief while. The visit of the party’s prominent functionary, that followed Mr. Yediyurappa’s meeting in New Delhi with the party high command on ministerial expansion/reshuffle, has assumed political significance. Speculations are rife that he may have carried a message or response from the party high command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bl-santhosh-meets-bsy/article33165533.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. allocates Rs. 500 cr. to VLDC||The BJP government on Monday set in motion the process of formation of the Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation (VLDC) with an allocation of Rs. 500 crore. The initial cost of setting up of the corporation would be borne by the Backward Classes Department, which will later be reimbursed, the Government Order issued on Monday said. The corporation will be registered under the Companies Act, and the Backward Classes Commissioner will oversee the formation till the time a managing director is appointed. The initial announcement to set up the VLDC was made last week by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa after his Cabinet colleagues, including Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil, urged him to form the corporation. The move came close on the heels of the announcement to form the Maratha Development Board and Kadugolla Development Board, all of which were viewed as vote attracting announcements ahead of the bypolls. Meanwhile, P.R. Ramesh, Congress MLC, has demanded a separate corporations for Tigulas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-allocates-rs-500-cr-to-vldc/article33165530.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reopening of primary classes to be delayed||The State government has decided to take a more cautious approach for students in primary classes. While the Technical Advisory Committee will meet at the end of December to discuss the feasibility of reopening schools in January, it will not be considering primary schools. R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, said reopening of primary classes would be delayed further. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that teachers will continue with online classes. “Teachers have devised ways to ensure that students are continuing with their learning this academic year,” he said. Apart from online learning, the government has also launched televised classes on DD Chandana and has tied-up with JioTV for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reopening-of-primary-classes-to-be-delayed/article33165378.ece
24 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Webinar||On the occasion of international day for the elimination of violence against women, PRCI Bangalore Chapter is organising a national webinar on November 25, between 4 p.m. and 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar/article33165702.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GP polls: JD(S) to hold meeting on November 28||As the countdown for announcement of dates for the gram panchayat polls by the Karnataka State Election Commission has begun with the High Court setting a deadline, the Janata Dal (Secular) has called a meeting of its leaders on November 28 in Bengaluru. The meeting will be attended by legislators, former legislators, district and taluk unit heads, and party leaders. A press note said the discussion is significant in the light of the election commission expected to announce dates for polling to 5,800 gram panchayats. The ruling BJP had tried to postpone the elections, it added. The release said the meeting will discuss election-related irregularities committed by the BJP in the polls held in the recent past, and that discussions will revolve strengthening the party at the grassroots level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gp-polls-jds-to-hold-meeting-on-november-28/article33165527.ece
24 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mansoor Khan in CBI custody||A special court on Monday extended the Central Bureau of Investigation’s custody of Mohammed Mansoor Khan till November 27. The CBI had taken custody of Mr. Khan on Friday for four days but sought an extension to continue their investigation. “We are verifying information obtained from Mr. Baig with the accused and questioning him about the documents recovered from his house during the raid,” said a CBI official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mansoor-khan-in-cbi-custody/article33165381.ece
24 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Five, including husband, held for woman’s murder||The Hassan police have arrested five people, residents of Hosadurga in Chitradurga district, on the charge of murdering a woman at Cheeranahalli in Hassan taluk. The woman was allegedly murdered by her husband with the help of others. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, in a press conference here on Monday, said that the woman’s body was found at Cheeranahalli tank in Dudda Police Station limits on November 1. She was later identified as Sushmita, 25, of Belaguru in Hosadurga taluk. She had gone missing on October 29 and a case was registered by the Srirampura police. The police team visited Belaguru and collected details of the victim. It was found that she was married to Nagaraj six years ago and they had a four-year-old daughter. A year ago, Sushmita learnt about her husband’s extra-marital affair with Shyla of Kodihalli in Hosadurga taluk. Upset over this, she returned to her father’s place and moved court seeking maintenance from her husband. Dumped body in tank Nagaraj invited his wife to his residence on the pretext of resolving the dispute on October 29 and murdered her. Later, he dumped the body with the help of his brother Mohan and his lover Shyla at Cheeranahalli tank. The police have arrested Nagaraj, 28, Mohan, 24, Shyla, 27, and Nagaraj’s parents Eshwara Rao, 59, and Jayanthi, 57. The Superintendent of Police has appreciated the efforts of Dy.SP Puttaswamy Gowda, CPI P. Suresh, and PSI M.C. Madhu and announced a cash prize for the police team that cracked the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-including-husband-held-for-womans-murder/article33165373.ece
24 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Push to complete Smart City project works on time||“Works taken up under Smart City project should be executed within the deadline,” said S. Selvakumar, senior IAS officer, secretary in-charge of Shivamogga district. He held a meeting with officers in Shivamogga on Monday. The Shivamogga Mahanagara Palike should complete works with the coordination of agencies in charge of power and drinking water supply. “The works should be completed as per the deadline to avoid inconvenience to the public,” he stressed. Chidanand Vatare, MD, Shivamoga Smart City, said the laying of 132 km-long pipelines had been taken up under the project. So far 85 km of pipeline had been laid. “Shivamogga stands fourth among the cities selected for the Smart City project in the State and is in the 25th position in the country. As many as 40 projects would be completed by December,” he said. Dr. Selvakumar told the officers to complete the 15 works related to storm-water drains in the city before March next year. He further asked them to send a proposal to the State government to hire workers to maintain the parks developed under the project, through an outsourcing agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/push-to-complete-smart-city-project-works-on-time/article33165511.ece
24 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Next 30 years could be worse: KRRS leader||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader K.T. Gangadhar has said the next 30 years could be worse in the country considering some new laws and amendments brought to the existing laws. He was speaking in a programme organised to pay homage to Kottur Srinivas, district president of the sangha, who passed away last week due to ill-health reaso. For the last 40 years, farmers and organisations fought for people’s welfare on the streets. “The tools we had to fight were the laws and the Constitution. We demanded what was guaranteed to us. But, now we have people who have no respect for the Constitution. Some laws passed by the present government take away the rights of common people. The activists fighting for people’s welfare have a tough time ahead,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/next-30-years-could-be-worse-krrs-leader/article33165509.ece
24 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man found murdered||A person was found murdered at Doddahatti near Sakharayapatna in Kadur taluk on Monday. The police identified the deceased as Pradeep, 32, a construction worker of Doddahatti. He was found murdered on his bed at his residence around 8.30 a.m. He is survived by his wife and two children. He had been living with his family in a rented house in the village for the last two years. S.R. Yogendra, a neighbour, filed the complaint with the Sakharayapatna police. The husband and wife had been having differences in the recent days resulting in heated arguments at home. The complainant has named Ragini, Pradeep’s wife, as an accused. The police have taken up the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-found-murdered/article33165510.ece
24 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Upset over bad roads, residents stage protest||Vehicular movement on the busy Hubballi-Dharwad Road was affected for some time after residents of Gandhi Nagar and adjoining localities blocked the road and staged a protest on Monday protesting against the pathetic road condition in their localities. The residents, including women, blocked the road near Gandhi Nagar Circle and raised slogans against the elected representatives and the municipal authorities for their failure to get the badly damaged roads repaired. The protestors said that repeated petitions to the municipal corporation, the district administration and also the elected representatives to get the road connecting Tejaswi Nagar and interior roads had remained neglected. They said that they were forced to stage the protest as none had responded positively. They said that because of the apathy of the municipal authorities and elected representatives, the number of accidents on these damaged roads had only increased and the downpour last month had further worsened the situation. They demanded the immediate relaying of roads or at least temporary repairs to the roads for the time being, till funds were released for their redevelopment. The residents also drew attention to the unused community hall in Gandhi Nagar, due to poor maintenance. They urged the authorities to utilise the community hall for setting up the Hubballi-DharwadOne centre to offer various services to residents of the localities nearby. The protestors withdrew the road blockade after the police intervened and municipal authorities promised an early solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/upset-over-bad-roads-residents-stage-protest/article33165370.ece
24 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni’s judicial custody extended||Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni’s stay at Hindalga Jail in Belagavi will continue till December 7 with Second Additional District and Sessions Court, which is also a Special CBI Court, extending his judicial custody on Monday. Mr. Kulkarni was arrested on November 5 from his residence in Dharwad in connection with the murder of Zilla Panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. After three days in CBI custody, he was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. On Monday, as his 14-day judicial custody ended, he was produced before Second Additional District and Sessions Judge M. Panchakshari through video conference. CBI counsel argued that they were in the process of interrogating more aides of Vinay Kulkarni and collecting evidence. As Vinay Kulkarni was a political leader, there was a possibility of him influencing witnesses and others in the case. They appealed to the judge to extend his judicial custody. After hearing both the sides, the judge issued order extending Vinay Kulkarni’s judicial custody for 14 days and asked the CBI sleuths to produce him before court on December 7. In fact, on November 16, counsel for Vinay Kulkarni had applied for bail. But in a surprising move, his legal team withdrew the application a day after saying that the family members of the accused had asked it to do so. Meanwhile, various political leaders, particularly of the Congress, seers of various mutts and members of various Lingayat organisations have continued visiting the residence of Mr. Kulkarni to console the family members and express solidarity with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vinay-kulkarnis-judicial-custody-extended/article33165371.ece
24 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Scrapping of panel questioned||The Aam Aadmi Party has taken exception to the decision to scrap the Screening Committee set up to select beneficiaries for industrial plot allotment at the Mahila Park for woman entrepreneurs at the KIADB Gamanagatti Industrial Estate near Hubballi and urged the Industries Minister to immediately set this right. Addressing presspersons here on Friday, Santosh Naragund, president, AAP Dharwad unit, executive committee member Vikas Soppin, Shashikumar Sullad, of Industries Subcommittee, alleged that the with the sudden decision to scrap the screening committee injustice had been meted out to woman entrepreneurs who were already shortlisted for allotment. Mr. Naragund said that screening committee had conducted an elaborate process to select beneficiaries for industrial plot allotment at the Mahila Park. “Now, suddenly the committee has been scrapped and a new one has been set up and a single window meeting under Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad has been called. This is nothing but injustice to the eligible beneficiaries. The Industries Minister should immediately take serious note of the issue and direct the Deputy Commissioner not to take any decision in this regard without ensuring transparency in the whole procedure,” he said. Mr. Naragund said that even if the new committee took any decision on plot allotment, it should be immediately cancelled. Subsequently, AAP office-bearers met Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil at his office and urged him to provide justice to the woman entrepreneurs who had applied for land in Mahila Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scrapping-of-panel-questioned/article33165366.ece
24 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘CM more keen on saving his chair than protecting farmers’||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar came down on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa alleging him of focusing on saving his position as the Chief Minister than working for safeguarding the interests of farmers. “The prices of farm produce have fallen when the prices of farm inputs such as fertilisers are going up. Paddy price has dropped to Rs. 900 a quintal pushing the growers in Raichur, Koppal and Ballari into a deep crisis. The government should offer an incentive of Rs. 500 a quintal at least. Even maize price has fallen. The government should announce Minimum Support Price and open procurement centres to purchase crops directly from farmers... When people are in trouble, the government has increased power tariff by 40 paise a unit to add to their woes. It should first withdraw the power tariff hike. Saving his Chief Minister chair is more important for Mr. Yediyurappa than safeguarding the interests of farmers,” Mr. Shivakumar said. He was speaking to media representatives at Hitnal village in Koppal taluk on Monday. Referring to the development corporations that the government recently announced for Maratha and Veerashaiva Lingayat communities, the KPCC chief said the government was doing everything to divide castes instead of binding communities together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-more-keen-on-saving-his-chair-than-protecting-farmers/article33165532.ece
24 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rainwater harvesting is feasible during north-east monsoon too, says expert||Rainwater harvesting may be taken up during the period of the north-east monsoon too when the coastal region receives about 15 % of its annual rainfall, suggested an expert in marine geology. North-east monsoon brings rain normally till the end of November; but this time it may get extended till December 15 as the south-west monsoon ended just before November, said Hejmady Gangadhar Bhat, professor in Marine Geology with Mangalore University. Though it does not rain continuously as it does during the south-west monsoon, north-east monsoon brings rain enough for storage as well as groundwater recharge. One centimetre of rain for a day on a 1,000 sq ft surface could yield up to 2,500 litres of water that could be stored safely, Prof. Bhat said. If the entire annual average rainfall of 3,500 mm on 1,000 sq ft surface in the coastal region could yield over 3.24 lakh litres of water; but one may not be able to store the entire quantity. However, rainwater could not directly be stored in tanks. One has to use filtering method to remove colour, micro organisms, insects, among others. The normal method of channelising rainwater through crushed stones, sand and netlon filters would remove impurities in the water and then, it could either be stored in tanks or used to recharge open wells or borewells, Prof. Bhat suggested. He noted that rainwater harvesting is one of the cheapest methods of water collection and groundwater recharge. Rainwater harvesting for groundwater recharge would help improve the groundwater level in the locality. On the other hand, rainwater stored in tanks could be utilised during dry days. The method not only helps preserve natural resources but also reduces supply costs of piped water. While a water tank measuring one metre by one metre could hold 1,000 litres of water, one could easily store not less than 10,000 litres of rainwater in an average size tank. This stored water could suffice for 10 days for a family of four members. One could get tanks constructed depending upon one’s requirement. Farmers too could store rainwater during the north-east monsoon utilising the available space from 50,000 litres to one lakh litres. Besides storing rainwater in ponds in their fields, they could resort to constructing temporary bunds (katta) across streams adjoining their fields to conserve water and recharge groundwater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rainwater-harvesting-is-feasible-during-north-east-monsoon-too-says-expert/article33165847.ece
24 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi CMC issues warning against plastic use or sale||The Udupi City Municipal Council (CMC) has warned that stringent action, including cancellation of trade licence, will be taken if traders are found using or selling banned plastic items in the municipal limits. Municipal Commissioner Anand C. Kallolikar in a statement said that no one, including shop owners, traders and hoteliers, could use or sell plastic bags of any thickness, non-woven bags, plastic banners and buntings, flexes, flags, plates, cups, spoons and plastic sheets. Manufacturing, supplying, storage, transportation, distribution and sale of all these items are banned across the State. If people are found using or selling the banned items, a fine of Rs. 2,000 would be imposed in the first instance followed by Rs. 3,000 fine the second time and cancellation of trade licence on the third occasion. Banned material would be confiscated on all occasions, Mr. Kallolikar warned. The Commissioner said that the use and sale of banned plastic was found to be rampant at Visvesvaraya Daily Market, Santhekatte Market, Parkala Market, Adi Upupi APMC Market and among street vendors. If this continues, fine would directly be collected from contractors empanelled for fee collection, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-cmc-issues-warning-against-plastic-use-or-sale/article33165848.ece
24 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Witness in activist murder case found dead||Vignesh Nayak (29), a witness in the RTI activist Vinayak Baliga murder case, was found dead in his house in Dhanwantri Nagar off V.T. Road here on Sunday night. According to Mangaluru North Police, Vignesh spoke with his fianceé on Sunday night. He then did not answer any other calls. His fianceé’s mother called Vignesh’s mother who rushed to her son’s room that was locked from the inside. She called her neighbours who then broke open the door and found him hanging from the roof of the room. Following a complaint by Vignesh’s mother, the Mangaluru North Police registered a case of unnatural death. Vignesh, an employee of Vivek Traders, was a witness in the murder of RTI activist Vinayak Baliga near his house in March 2016. In a statement recorded by a magistrate under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code, Vignesh said that his car was used by prime accused Naresh Shenoy and other accused arrested in the case. Naresh Shenoy, owner of Vivek Traders, had purchased the car in his name and he [Naresh Shenoy] was using it, Vignesh said in the statement. Rationalist Narendra Nayak, who along with family members of Baliga is fighting for the prosecution of the accused, in a statement on Monday said that as Vignesh’s vehicle has been used by the accused, it appears that he knew more about the murder. The police had failed to make further inquiries with him. The family members of Baliga demand that police investigate the circumstances behind Vignesh’s suicide, he said in his statement. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/witness-in-activist-murder-case-found-dead/article33165853.ece
24 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Motorcyclist dies in road accident||A 27-year-old taxi driver, who was returning home on a motorcycle, died after his vehicle was hit by a car in Kudrebetu of Baltila village near Kalladka in Bantwal taluk on Sunday night. The police gave the name of the deceased as Yatiraj (27). They said that the accident occurred at around 11 p.m. After the collision, the two vehicles hit a roadside electricity pole. Yatiraj and car driver Yogeesh were injured. Residents then called an ambulance and shifted the injured to a private hospital in Mangaluru. Yatiraj died of injury in hospital at around midnight. A case was registered by the Bantwal Traffic Police under Sections 279, 337, 427 and 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code, the police said. Rescued Two cows, which were being transported in a luggage van unauthorisedly, were rescued by the Bellare Police on Sunday. The police said that a team of policemen on patrolling duty noticed the vehicle near Manjunath Nagar in Savanur village. The vehicle driver did not have any document authorising transportation of cattle. Two persons, including the driver, were arrested for offences under Sections 11 (1) (D) of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Section 66 of the Indian Motor Vehicles Act 1988, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/motorcyclist-dies-in-road-accident/article33165852.ece
24 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NITK-Surathkal holds 18th annual convocation||The 18th annual convocation of NITK-Surathkal was held on Monday where 1,549 candidates were awarded various degrees via online. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Defence Research and Development Department Secretary G. Satheesh Reddy, and NITK’s Board of Governance Chairperson K. Balaveera Reddy took part in the event virtually. Of the 1,549 students, 763 were awarded B. Tech, 648 Masters, 17 M. Tech (Research), and 121 doctoral degrees during the virtual convocation. Mr. Pokhriyal spoke about the importance of ancient Indian educational universities such as Nalanda, Takshasheela, where thousands of students across the globe studied. He said, “The New Education Policy will help students to opt any subject of their choices, and give more importance to research and innovations in academia.” He congratulated NITK for achieving the 13th position in NIRF ranking from the previous 21st. He released the diamond jubilee souvenir and laid the foundation stone for the foot-over bridge which connects the eastern and western campus of NITK across NH-66.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nitk-surathkal-holds-18th-annual-convocation/article33165856.ece
24 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC bus fares reduced||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation’s Mangaluru Division has slashed fares on its premium services during the off-travel season with effect from Sunday. On the Mangaluru-Bengaluru sector, fares on Rajahamsa service have been reduced from Rs. 600 to Rs. 520; non-AC sleeper from Rs. 710 to Rs. 650; Airavatha (Volvo) from Rs. 750 to Rs. 700; Airavatha Club Class (multi-axle) from Rs. 850 to Rs. 800 and Airavatha Dream Class from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 900. Fares for the non-AC sleeper services between Mangaluru and Ballari have been reduced from Rs. 810 to Rs. 750; on Mangaluru-Raichur route from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 950 and on Mangaluru-Belagavi route, fares are reduced from Rs. 800 to Rs. 750. Tickets may be booked in advance on www.ksrtc.in or through booking counters of the KSRTC or its franchisees, said Divisional Controller S.N. Aruna in a notification here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-bus-fares-reduced/article33165849.ece
24 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MSCL accused of causing damage to academy||The contractor undertaking Mangaluru Smart City Ltd.’s (MSCL) work of laying drainage pipes on the road leading to Kadri Park has been accused of causing a huge roadside tree to fall and injuring a horse and causing damage to other articles in the Mangaluru Horse Riding Academy on Monday. According to Avinand Achanally, who runs the academy, personnel working for the contractor cut the roots of the roadside tree, which is near the compound wall of the academy, while digging earth for the drainage line. As a result, the tree fell and injured a horse that was grazing in the academy. Activist Dinesh Holla said the conduct of MSCL was in continuation of the mechanical way in which green cover was being reduced for road works in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mscl-accused-of-causing-damage-to-academy/article33165854.ece
24 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CM to inaugurate new Police Commissioner’s office today||The Mysuru City Police Commissioner’s office, built at a cost of Rs. 19.36 crore, on Mirza Road in the city, will be inaugurated by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday evening. The three-storeyed structure, built in Indo-Saracenic style of architecture on the lines of other heritage structures in Mysuru, is located in front of the Band House, which is currently serving as the office of the Police Commissioner. The CM will inaugurate the new office at 5 p.m. in the presence of Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar while former Minister and MLA representing Krishnaraja Assembly constituency S.A. Ramdas will preside over the inaugural programme. Police quarters Mr. Yediyurappa will also inaugurate 108 residential quarters for police personnel under the Police Gruha 2020 project. The construction of 36 houses in Jyothi Nagar and 72 houses in Jockey Quarters, totalling 108, had been taken up at a cost of Rs. 20.31 crore in March 2018 and completed in August 2020. The construction of the new office, taken up by the Karnataka State Police Housing Corporation, began in June 2014. Though the construction of the building spread across 4,268.42 sq.m had been completed about two years ago, a formal inauguration of the premises had not been conducted. Though former CM Siddaramaiah was scheduled to inaugurate the new office in March 2018 before the last Assembly elections, the inaugural programme was cancelled. A group of citizens had contended that they had moved the court against the construction of the office on a plot of land earmarked as a park. However, the Police Commissioner’s office, in a statement on November 23, had clarified that the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) had issued a completion certificate for the building on September 5, 2020. The new building will house the foreigners’ registration Office, a passport and police verification section, a computer and photography section, a records room and a canteen on the lower ground floor, while the reception and a well-equipped conference hall will be on the upper ground floor. The offices of the Police Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner of Police, besides the wireless section, traffic automation centre, CCTV Centre and fingerprints’ section will be on the upper ground and first floor of the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-inaugurate-new-police-commissioners-office-today/article33165515.ece
24 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Digital outreach programme for organic farmers launched||The digital outreach programme to connect with organic farmers and ensure continuous learning and sharing of information was launched here on Monday. This is the first in a series of 14 programmes to be held every Monday to ensure that the farmers and stakeholders including the officials in the Department of Agriculture continue to shore up their knowledge for mutual benefit. The digital outreach programme is being conducted by the District Agricultural Training Centre in association with the Department of Agriculture, Krishi Samvahana Vedike, Mysuru, Naganahalli Agriculture Research Centre, Horticulture College and Krishi Vijnana Kendra, Suttur. The programme was inaugurated by the Mysuru ZP president Parimala Shyam who urged the farmers to switch over to organic farming to avoid chemical contamination of food, water, soil and air. She said the food one consumes at present was laced with residue of pesticides and insecticides, and even the soil and water show traces of this contamination. Many benefits Though the yield per acre may be relatively less compared to the hybrid variety, organic farming reduces the input cost and ensures healthy food which commands a premium price in the market, said Ms. Shyam. G.H. Yogesh, Deputy Director, DATC, said the programme was attended by 70 persons at Naganahalli and as it was livestreamed on social media platforms, the reach was higher. In all, nearly 500 people took part in the programme including 417 who viewed it online, he added. The programme is expected to garner greater traction from next week’s edition as it will focus on specific issues related to organic farming and resourcepersons will help clarify the doubts. The authorities also identified 35 organic farmers from different taluks and felicitated them for pursuing chemical-free farming. The programme will be screened at all the 33 Krishi Samparka Kendras and the taluk agricultural offices so that more farmers could benefit.  Online training The DATC launched online training classes for farmers in the early phase of the first lockdown which began on March 25. These were up and running by the first week of April. So far, the DATC has reached out to nearly 3,500 farmers and this template is being replicated in many districts across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/digital-outreach-programme-for-organic-farmers-launched/article33165513.ece
24 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Families of pourakarmikas get aid||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) on Monday distributed relief to the family members of two pourakarmikas who had succumbed to COVID-19. The government had sanctioned Rs. 30 lakh compensation to the surviving members of the families of each of the deceased. The MCC lost five pourakarmikas in the battle against the pandemic and the relief for two was distributed. The relief for the family members of three more pourakarmikas is being processed by the government and would be released shortly, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/families-of-pourakarmikas-get-aid/article33165517.ece
24 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Three-wheelers for physically disabled||On the occasion of actor Ambareesh’s second death anniversary on November 24, Mandya MP Sumalatha will hand over motorised three-wheelers to ten physically-disabled persons. Ms. Sumalatha will distribute ten motorised three-wheelers to the identified beneficiaries from the MP’s Local Area Development (MPLAD) fund. The distribution programme will be organised in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Mandya at 3 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-wheelers-for-physically-disabled/article33165512.ece
24 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Varsity to conduct yoga classes||The University of Mysore (UoM) will conduct yoga pranayama and Kriya classes for the general public to help them increase their physical activity and fitness levels. A release said the classes will be conducted for anyone above 10 years at the new Yoga Hall in the Department of Physical Education. The classes are open to students, staff of the varsity and the general public. For registration, contact the Department of Physical Education, Sports Pavilion or call 0821-2419288, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-to-conduct-yoga-classes/article33165518.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Metro project: Details of trees to be axed in public domain||The two public notices on Monday – one issued by the Karnataka Forest Department and another by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) – have set a precedent of sorts. For the first time, complete details of trees identified for removal on the stretch between BTM Layout and Silk Board Junction to make way for Reach 5 of Namma Metro is now available in the public domain. This includes their species, condition, girth and location. Citizens can access the information with ease and submit their objections, if any. Rain trees, Gulmohars, Sihi Hunse, Dalichanda, Bottle Brush and Basri are among the 15 species that will make way for construction of a viaduct and metro stations between R.V. Road and H.S.R. Layout. The Forest Department has notified the trees that will be affected by extension of the Purple Line near Benniganahalli lake. Peepal, Akash Mallige, Subabul, Peltophorum, Banyan, Bili Kanagalu are among the species in the 91 trees proposed to be removed from the Benniganahalli lake bund area to make way for construction of metro rail structures, road diversion and metro viaduct. Environmentalist D.T. Devare of the Bangalore Environment Trust, who has filed a petition in the Karnataka High Court, said, “Four permissions for tree felling/transplantation for the metro project were uploaded on the BBMP’s website in October. As petitioners in the ongoing PIL, we were allowed to submit our objections to these permissions. We found out that the list of trees for which permissions was given included some trees for which no proper public notices were issued in the past.” He added that the court in its recent order on November 18 held that any question of raising objections will arise only when members of the public are made aware of all the details about the trees proposed to be felled. Vijay Nishanth, environmentalist, said citizens had to approach various offices earlier to get such details. BBMP’s Deputy Conservator of Forests Ranganatha Swamy said that details had been uploaded as per the directions of the High Court. “This is a step towards bringing in transparency. We are now hopeful that members of the public will submit their objections, which will be considered seriously by the authorities and the Tree Expert Committee,” said Mr. Devare. For details on the trees identified for felling, visit https://bbmp.gov.in/departmentwebsites/Forest%20Department/downloads.html||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-project-details-of-trees-to-be-axed-in-public-domain/article33165706.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC seeks DGCA’s view on metro line at Jakkur||The Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to inform the court whether the alignment of the metro line near the aerodrome of the Government Flying Training Institute at Jakkur breaches the rules related to restriction on construction around airstrips. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by Ajoy Kumar Patil, a city-based advocate. The DGCA, if necessary, can conduct a survey to find out whether the proposed metro line would violate provisions of the Ministry of Civil Aviation (Height Restrictions for Safeguarding of Aircraft Operations) Rules, the bench said. The bench issued the direction after the counsel for the DGCA contended that the authority to grant permission for metro work near Jakkur aerodrome, as per the rules, vests with the State government as Jakkur aerodrome is under the purview of the State government and not the DGCA. The court on September 29 had passed an interim order retraining the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) not to commence work on elevated structures until further orders. Earlier, counsel for the BMRCL had told the bench that the corporation has requested the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to clarify whether the metro rail alignment conforms to the prescribed norms. The bench directed the AAI to submit the extract of specifications related to Jakkur aerodrome from the book containing particulars of all the airstrips in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-seeks-dgcas-view-on-metro-line-at-jakkur/article33165704.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools, PU colleges will not reopen in December||Although colleges in Karnataka opened their campuses for final year students on November 17, attendance remains low at around 5%. While the Department of Primary and Secondary Education after conducting several rounds of consultations with different stakeholders was keen on starting classes for Class X and II PU in December, the Department of Health and Family Welfare opposed it vehemently. At a press conference, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said Vidyagama programme will not be restarted any time in the near future. The programme was stopped in October after reports that students who attended the classes contracted COVID-19. Mr. Suresh Kumar said that though several stakeholders pointed out that learning outcomes of students in rural areas had been affected and that there were reports of an increase in cases of child labour and child marriages, the State government had decided against reopening schools keeping the health of students in mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-pu-colleges-will-not-reopen-in-december/article33165383.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Roll back recent hike in electricity tariff, demands AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday demanded immediate roll-back of the recent hike in electricity tariff and a probe on why it was increased when the input cost of production had reduced. At a press conference on Monday, Pruthivi Reddy, State convener, AAP, also demanded that a high-level committee conduct a probe on power purchase made in Karnataka over the past 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roll-back-recent-hike-in-electricity-tariff-demands-aap/article33165707.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Munirathna, Rajesh Gowda take oath||Newly elected BJP legislators Munirathna and C.M. Rajesh Gowda were administered oath by Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Monday. While three-time legislator Mr. Munirathna defeated H. Kusuma of the Congress in Rajarajeshwarinagar by a margin of nearly 58,000 votes, Dr. Gowda made his electoral debut in Sira by defeating six-time legislator T.B. Jayachandra by around 13,000 votes. He is the son of C.P. Moodalgiriyappa, three-time MP from Chitradurga. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Munirathna said he would leave it to the BJP high command and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to decide on making him Minister. “I will be happy with any portfolio given to me.” Regarding doubts expressed by Bengaluru MP D.K. Suresh on the functioning of EVM, Mr. Muniratna said: "Mr. Suresh did not have any doubt when he won by a margin of 2.5 lakh votes in 2019.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/munirathna-rajesh-gowda-take-oath/article33165529.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli case: NIA questions former Mayor||National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials on Monday questioned former Mayor R. Sampath Raj in connection with his alleged role in the violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli on the night of August 11. He is accused of instigating a mob to attack the residence of Congress MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy and D.J. Halli police station. The NIA, which had moved an application before the court, was granted permission to question the accused for two days. A three-member team visited Central Prison, Parappana Agrahra and questioned him for several hours. Last week, a city court had remanded Sampath Raj in judicial custody for 14 days. He had been evading the police for over 20 days. He was hiding in a friend’s house at Fraser Town when he was arrested by the Central Crime Branch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dj-halli-case-nia-questions-former-mayor/article33165519.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||RTO officials seize 7 buses||The Regional Transport Office (RTO) has seized seven buses many of which were allegedly operating inter-State services with the same registration number. Up to three buses would have the same registration number, said an RTO official. “The buses were being operated from other States and entered Karnataka via Dabaspete and Nelamangala on their way to Bengaluru. A fine of Rs. 41 lakh has been imposed,” a senior official said, and added that the bus operators were also running services in Rajasthan and Maharashtra. “Private operates do this to evade road tax and fees. The seized buses even had fake permit authorisations, but not other necessary documents. We are looking into the modus operandi of such private operators,” a senior RTO official said. A case has been lodged in Nelamangala police station under the Indian Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rto-officials-seize-7-buses/article33165372.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||SSLC, II PU exams likely to be postponed||With the academic calendar gone awry on account of the pandemic, class 10 and II PU examinations are likely to be postponed. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, however, said that the portions for class 10 students will be completed by December through Samveda, the department’s e-learning programme. A total of 9.59 lakh class 10 and 5.7 lakh II PU students are scheduled to appear for the board examinations in the 2020-21 academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-ii-pu-exams-likely-to-be-postponed/article33165375.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Decision on fee payment||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education is yet to take a call on the payment of second term fees for 2020-21 academic year. While the State government had issued an order allowing private schools to collect first term fees and complete admission formalities, private school managements had submitted a requisition to collect second term fees as well. “We will have to evaluate how they are conducting online classes and also assess the financial position of parents before we take a decision,” said S.R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-fee-payment/article33165382.ece
24 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Help for Alappuzha’s Gujarati heritage||The Gujarat government has agreed to help restore Gujarati heritage areas in Alappuzha town as part of the Alappuzha Heritage Project, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Dr. Isaac held discussions with Gujarat Tourism Minister Jawahar Chavda at Kumarakom last week. In a Facebook post, Dr. Isaac said that a formal agreement would be signed in December after the local body polls. Project The project would cover the entire ‘Gujarati Quarters’ that include Beach road, Gujarati Street, and Muppalam area. “We have already started the renovation of Anil Seth’s house. It will be the headquarters of Gujarati heritage region. Other major components of the project include a history museum, spice museum, and restoration of the temple complex,” Dr. Isaac said. The Minister said that the most important among them would be the creation of ‘Orma Theruvu’ (memory street). As part of it, memorabilia, mural paintings, and plaques would be arranged near the houses once used by the people of Gujarati origin. The work on the ‘Orma Theruvu’ would begin in January 2021. Around 100 artists including those from Gujarat were expected to be part of the initiative. Dr. Isaac said that the Gujarat government had agreed to provide information, photos and so on related to Kutch and Saurashtra areas from where people came to Alappuzha to do business. They also promised to send a team of performing artists every year for Gujarati festival. The Rs. 208.25-crore Alappuzha Heritage Project aimed at giving a facelift to the Venice of the East by modifying 20 museums, 11 memorials, and five public places. The heritage project was being implemented under the guidance of the Muziris Project Ltd. The project would be funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (Rs. 162 crore), Department of Tourism (Rs. 35 crore), Department of Coir (Rs. 10 crore), and Department of Harbour (Rs. 1.25 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/help-for-alappuzhas-gujarati-heritage/article33165467.ece
24 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha logs 259 cases||The district logged 259 COVID-19 cases on Monday. The fresh cases include 256 patients who contracted the virus through local contact. Two persons who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. One death The district also recorded one COVID-19-related death. Of the 259 cases, 52 were reported from Alappuzha, 21 from Cherthala, 12 each from Aryad and Muthukulam, 11 each from Pallippad and Thakazhi, and 10 from Chengannur. Meanwhile, 252 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 7,318. The police registered 35 cases and arrested 27 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action taken Action was also taken against 146 people for not wearing face masks and 502 for not maintaining physical distance. Parts of ward 12 in Kainakary and ward 9 in Thanneermukkom were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-logs-259-cases/article33165469.ece
24 November 2020||G. AnandThiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A U-turn brought about by public opinion, poll politics||The State government had seemingly beat a hasty retreat from enacting the Ordinance that sought to empower the police to prosecute those who publish or air “libellous” material after it reportedly sensed that public opinion could turn against the ruling coalition in the election year. By one account, the “tactless” move to implement the law reportedly came under harsh criticism from within the Left Democratic Front (LDF). The ruling front felt that the widespread opposition to the law could manifest as a powerful tailwind for the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party at the hustings. The LDF also reportedly sensed that mounting public fear about the “black law” that appeared to threaten free speech, independent media and freedom of expression would not augur well for the ruling front as it sought a second innings in power. The Communist Party of India had stridently opposed the proposal in October. Nevertheless, its Ministers had gone along with the decision of the Cabinet to revise the Kerala Police Act, 2011, to give the police a sharper edge to curb what they deemed wanton slander. Curtailing free speech The controversial law also animated the opposition parties to seek political and legal recourse against the newly inserted 118-A section that arguably “imperilled” free speech and the independence of the press. They said the government had merely kept the law in abeyance and not repealed it. It hung like the sword of Damocles over democratic rights. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan staged a sit-in protest in front of the Secretariat asking the government to invalidate the “draconian” provision. BJP State president K. Surendran and UDF leader Shibu Baby John moved the High Court against the amendment. The Congress and the BJP argued that the new law had rendered defamation a cognisable offence. The amendment had resurrected the “same legal anomalies” the Supreme Court had “trashed” by scrapping Section 66 A of the IT Act. Mr. Chennithala said the law conferred on the police the power to assess the loss of reputation and mental injury caused due to dissemination of news and views. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said hostility towards the media was a defining character of the Pinarayi Vijayan government. It had manifested as a law aimed at muzzling the press. Mr. Surendran said the amendment had sought to curtail the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19 (I) of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-u-turn-brought-about-by-public-opinion-poll-politics/article33165490.ece
24 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Safety cover for wild animals on NH stretch||The fragmentation of forest areas and the resultant roadkills on the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway (NH 85) had prompted authorities to make canopy bridges for grizzled giant squirrels in the Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary nearly five years back. It has become a model for the other wildlife sanctuaries with the authorities constructing canopy bridges for simian population between Karimutty and the Tamil Nadu forest area of the national highway. Now, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has drawn up a special project to avoid roadkill on the Poopara-Devikulam stretch of the NH, which includes earthen ramps for wild elephants and canopy bridges for Nilgiri tahrs. Rex Felix, NHAI assistant executive engineer, said nearly 10 spots had been identified for elephants ramps. He said a canopy bridge (overbridge) would be constructed at the entry point between two hills on Gap Road for the smooth movement of Nilgiri tahrs. The project would be implemented in association with the Forest Department and speed restrictions would be considered on spots identified for animal crossings. The works would be part of the road widening works, he said. During summer Increase in roadkills had been reported at night during summer seasons, when animals cross the road for water from the river on the opposite side. A forest official at the Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary said roadkills had come down considerably after canopy bridges were built and speed breakers were laid on the sanctuary area of the highway. Munnar Divisional Forest Officer M.V.G Kannan said nearly 50 spots had been identified as regular passage of wild animals. There would be medians at spots identified as elephant crossings, he added. “With the fragmentation of animal corridors, chances of animals, especially elephants, reaching habitations and causing damage are high. The project includes construction of a bridge at Mathikettan, in addition to the one at Gap Road for Nilgiri tahrs,” he added. It has been found that once canopy bridges were constructed for tufted langur in the Chinnar sanctuary, other animals also started using them for crossing the road. The protection of animal crossings has become a necessity in view of the increased traffic after the road widening works. The Munnar and Chinnar wildlife sanctuaries have been identified as an exclusive natural habitat of Nilgiri tahr, grizzled giant squirrel, star tortoise, and many reptile species.  A canopy bridge will be constructed at the entry point between two hills on Gap Road for Nilgiri tahrs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-cover-for-wild-animals-on-nh-stretch/article33165498.ece
24 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Mega adalat of Vanitha Commission||A mega adalat of the State Vanitha Commission will be held at the conference hall of the distrtrict collectorate at Painavu on November 25. As many as 55 complaints will be considered and the adalat will be as per the COVID-19 protocol, a release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mega-adalat-of-vanitha-commission/article33165470.ece
24 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Kerala-Karnataka border under lens||Forest and police personnel intensified combing operations on the Kerala-Karnataka border forest areas on Monday. The operations, with the support of Forest Department officials in Karnataka, were being organised to tackle brewing of hooch inside the forest areas ahead of the civic body polls and to prevent poaching, T. Sasikumar, Forest Range Officer, Chethalayath forest range, told The Hindu . Poachers allegedly from Kerala crossed the Kabani river to enter forest areas on the border with Karnataka, resulting in an increase in poaching there, Mr. Sasikumar who supervised the operation said. Man-animal conflict The team discussed various strategies to be taken to mitigate the increasing man-animal conflict and crop raids by wild animals. As many as 42 officials, including 12 forest officials of Karnataka , took part in the combing operations and they searched the Vandikkadavu, Chamappara, Madappallikunnu, Kolavally and Gannur forest areas under the South Wayanad forest division and Banur and Gundra forest areas under the Gundre forest range of the Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Karnataka , Mr. Sasikumar said. The joint operations would continue in the coming days, he added. Gundre forest range officer V. Sasidharan and Pulpally Sub- Inspector K.P. Benny led the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-karnataka-border-under-lens/article33165502.ece
24 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||UDF, BJP allege attacks on candidates||he United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP have alleged attacks against their candidates and damaging of posters and vehicles on Monday. The leaders of the UDF and BJP staged protests and alleged that CPI(M) was behind the attacks. The party was trying to create tension and sabotage the elections, they said. However, the CPI(M) denied the charge and accused the two political rivals of spreading falsehood to misguide the people. On Monday, the UDF candidate in the first ward of Cheruthazham panchayat, Bindu Rajan, lodged a complaint after her scooter parked at the house was damaged by miscreants. The event took place in the wee hours of Monday. The assailants ran away when they saw her and family members come out of the house after they heard the noise outside the house. Similarly, Dileesh, son-in-law of UDF candidate P.K. Sajesh Kumar, was attacked and injured while he was pasting campaign posters of the candidate. He was allegedly attacked by a gang which arrived with an iron rod. DCC president Satheeshan Pacheni said that the violence against Congress workers in Keezhathalli was evidence of the CPI(M)’s attempt to create tension during the local body elections. He accused the CPI(M) leadership of trying to force nominees of other parties to withdraw their nomination papers by threatening them. The nominees in Anthoor municipality, Malappattam, and Muzhakkunnu panchayats faced such threats, he claimed. BJP stages march BJP district president N. Haridas said that the CPI(M) had intimidated those who tried to file nomination papers in various parts of the district. He said that in Anthoor, Muzhakkunnu, Mudakozhi, and Chokli, the CPI(M) had threatened those who had filed nominations. BJP national executive member P.K. Krishnandas took out a protest march to the Pinarayi police station on Monday. He said that the BJP was not allowed to carry out any political activities in the Chief Minister’s constituency and the police were siding with those unleashing violence against BJP activists. LDF’s counter-charge However, the LDF accused the UDF and BJP of destroying the election posters of the front and and attacking its cadres. LDF chairman M.V. Jayarajan said the BJP and UDF were trying to mislead people. N. Chandran, secretary, Kannur Corporation election committee, said the UDF had destroyed the boards and posters of the LDF candidate, K. Sita, in Kunnavu division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-bjp-allege-attacks-on-candidates/article33165414.ece
24 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Probe after video shows CI abusing vendors||Kannur District Police Chief, Yathish Chandra, has said that an investigation is under way into the incident in which street vendors were allegedly harassed and abused by the Circle Inspector of Cherpuzha police station. Mr. Chandra said the report would be submitted to the Deputy Inspector General of Police. The investigation was launched after a video in which Circle Inspector Bineesh Kumar was seen talking to vendors rudely and removing them from the street went viral on the social media. The issue began after traders questioned the sale of fruits on the road near Cherupuzha town. They approached the police and asked them to remove the street vendors. Mr. Kumar reached the spot and tried to remove the vendors. They were fined too. He allegedly abused and threatened them when a vendor resisted. The incident captured by a vendor was posted on the social media. CI’s version The CI, however, claimed that the vendors had provoked the police and that the footage on social media was edited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-after-video-shows-ci-abusing-vendors/article33165394.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||IC4 collating, analysing data during ‘stabilisation period’||Five months since the launch of Kochi’s Integrated Command Control and Communication Centre (IC4), a team of young professionals has been busy collating and analysing data regarding traffic movement, rule violations, public grievances on drinking water and power supply issues, operation of street lights on newly developed roads and power generated by solar panels installed atop 28 government buildings in Kochi. The IC4 has been tasked primarily with analysing electronic data gathered mainly from 35 junctions in the city through the recently launched Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS), which was among the key projects undertaken by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). A senior traffic police official said the data was becoming handy in traffic management and to identify rule violators. “The data is being collated on an experimental basis, since the project is in its infancy. Measures to streamline traffic flow and enforcement by penalising motorists who violate rules will follow suit,” he said. Sources associated with IC4 said that vehicle-actuated signals and other measures to prevent traffic hold-ups at junctions were currently in their “stabilisation period”. Altogether, 27 personnel work in three shifts and are monitored by nine subject matter experts, in order to analyse data streamed by ITMS. Already, IC4 has gathered data such as duration of traffic hold-ups and details of vehicles that frequently indulge in rash driving and those violating other traffic rules. Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajithkumar, during his visit to the facility, said that emphasis must be on penalising frequent rule violators. The RTO (Enforcement) of Ernakulam Shaji Madhavan said the Nirbhaya gang rape case catalysed the need to install GPS in all public transport vehicles. A trial run is on, with the help of Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC). “Apart from accidents and instances of rash driving, a panic button in these vehicles will help IC4 rush help to the needy through enforcement agencies. On its part, the Motor Vehicles Department has requested the police and Keltron to share artificial intelligence videos, to do real time monitoring of vehicle movement. This will come in handy to rein in reckless driving and offences like dumping of garbage and septic tank waste in vacant spaces,” he said. Street lights Another element of IC4 is real time control of street lights on roads being renovated by CSML. It also keeps track of energy generated from solar panels installed atop 28 government buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ic4-collating-analysing-data-during-stabilisation-period/article33165823.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||e-promotion goes full throttle||If a candid smile could win votes then Chandran Thiruvallathu, the LDF-backed Independent from Pillassery ward of Kunnamangalam panchayat in Kozhikode, is probably assured of quite a few by now. A picture featuring Mr. Thiruvallathu with a disarming smile turned such a rage on social media that his campaign team spun a slogan ‘Some smiles win hearts’ around it. With the pandemic hitting the conventional election campaign out of the park, social media is scoring big. “We are developing digital interactive posters of candidates, a single click on which will take visitors to their diverse social media handles. Most candidates are not aware of the potential of the social media and convincing them remains the biggest challenge,” said Anoop Radhakrishnan, a graphic designer for whom the local body poll has come as a godsend after being hit hard by the pandemic. Gone are the days when social media campaign was all about a few sporadic posters. Now firms run full-fledged digital war rooms for candidates clubbing together services from reputation management by taking down defamatory posts to boosting paid advertisements in social media. “Our web-based solution facilitates customisation of Election Commission data by adding against individual voters their contact numbers, potential political leanings, need for transportation on polling day etc. Polling booth-level updates could also be added in real-time on the polling day,” said Jiyas Jamal, director of Maha Mantra, a digital solution firm. BJP’s target Forced to prioritise digital strategies, political parties have left no stone unturned. The BJP has prioritised Corporations and has deployed tech teams for all six Corporations with content management teams in all districts. “We are planning to shake social media through a campaign around the need for a change in Kerala that will explode in five lakh Facebook profiles. Directions have also been given to feature Narendra Modi in all social media campaigns,” said Jeevanlal Ravi, a member of the State IT Vibagh of the party KPCC on Telegram Not to be left behind, the digital media cell of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee has rolled out Jana Shakthi, an internal communication programme, over Telegram. There is a team of 60-odd techies for content generation on digital platforms at the State-level and similar teams at the ward, block, district, and Assembly constituency levels. “This being a local body election, we have adopted a bottom-up strategy giving considerable leeway for grassroots-level content,” said Anil Antony, the digital cell convener. Photos get a makeover The social media rage has compelled innovations in conventional campaign tools too. “The new concept of photographs and video bios of candidates in their everyday lives and livelihood environs have caught the public’s imagination. Photographs are now pepped up using innovating lightings and technological tools making them more appealing,” said Arun Chandra Bose, a freelance photographer. But there are pitfalls too. “The trend of sharing pictures of women candidates on social media platforms with crass sexist remarks is so disgusting,” said Resmi Rajesh, a Malayali expatriate from Abu Dhabi.  We are developing interactive posters of candidates, a single click on which will take visitors to their various social media handles Anoop Radhakrishnan Graphic designer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-promotion-goes-full-throttle/article33165399.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Agrarian Piravom set for political slugfest||Battle lines have been drawn between rival fronts in the largely agrarian Piravom municipality with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) optimistic of tapping into the anti-incumbency sentiment to dislodge the United Democratic Front (UDF) while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is looking to further its footprint exploiting the perceived popular discontent against the two fronts. The UDF coasted to victory in the first local body polls held five years ago after Piravom panchayat was upgraded into a municipality, cornering 15 of the 27 divisions while LDF had to contend with a mere 9 divisions. Perceived to be its stronghold where the LDF’s last victory dates back 15 years ago, UDF remains confident of bucking anti-incumbency to return to power. Congress in 20 seats The Congress is set to contest in 20 seats while the Jacob and Joseph factions of the Kerala Congress have been allocated five and two seats respectively. The local Congress leadership was dismissive of the impact of the KC(M) led by Jose K. Mani hopping over to the LDF. “Even otherwise, they had little influence in the municipality and were hardly a factor in UDF’s electoral plans,” said Shaju Elanjimattom, president of the Congress Piravom Assembly constituency, who predicted that the UDF would win at least three divisions more than what it had managed in the last poll. The LDF, however, foresees a congenial atmosphere to bounce back into power, riding on the popular discontent against the incumbent front for its perceived failure on all fronts. ‘Growth stagnation’ “The last five years of municipal rule were of development stagnation marked by corruption and nepotism in contrast to the development and welfare-oriented policies of the State government. For a largely agrarian society, the UDF dispensation did nothing about hundreds of acres of fallow land. Even the government’s flagship project LIFE Mission for the homeless wasn’t implemented in the municipality,” said K. R. Narayanan Namboodiri, secretary, CPI(M) local committee, Piravom, who feels that the presence of KC(M) will help the cause of the LDF. The CPI(M) is contesting in 18 divisions, CPI in 6, KC(M) in 2 and Janata Dal in 1. Both the major Left parties gave up a seat each to accommodate the KC(M). Having won two divisions in the last poll, the BJP remains confident of at least a three-fold gain, having managed to wean away a couple of discontented Congress leaders whom they are fielding as their candidates. “We have been focussing on at least six divisions where we stand a very good chance and we are fielding local residents in the respective divisions, unlike the other two fronts who have fielded outsiders,” Prabha Prashanth, president of the BJP Piravom Assembly constituency. He also remains hopeful of tapping into the alleged frayed relations between the CPI(M) and the CPI in the municipality. “That is just a pipe dream. There is no disagreement between us and we remain as united as ever,” said Thankachan K.P., CPI local committee secretary, Piravom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agrarian-piravom-set-for-political-slugfest/article33165810.ece
24 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Uphill task for BJP, LDF in Aluva municipality||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) have an uphill task in Aluva Municipality as they gear up to make possible dents in the traditional Congress stronghold. The BJP, which had opened account in the 26-ward civic body in the last election, had set high plans in the initial lap. In 16 wards However, it has fielded candidates only in 16 wards. A senior mandalam leader termed it as a conscious decision not to field candidates in other 10 wards. “In those wards, the BJP does not have much hold and they are traditional Congress bastions. We did not want to end up performing poorly in those seats,” he said. The party had struggled to find candidates in these wards as many were not ready to step in realising that the chances of even putting up an average performance were remote. Inner-party tussle The inner-party tussle had also affected the selection of candidates in some of the wards. The resignation of two booth-level leaders protesting against the district leadership for ignoring their recommendations was a reflection of this divide. However, local leaders claimed that they had high hopes in five wards this time. These included wards 4, 21, 18, 11 and 5, they said. Alliance partners The increase in the number of alliance partners in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) had prompted the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] to give away its claim in one ward. The party had fielded its candidates in 20 seats in the last election. Seat sharing The Communist Party of India (CPI) had to forgo a ward that it had contested last time dashing their hopes of retaining its claim in the six wards that the party had contested in the previous election. The party had stated that it had won four of the six wards that it contested in 2015 while the CPI(M) could bag only five of the 20 seats. The Nationalist Congress Party and the Kerala Congress (M) have earned one seat each as alliance partners in the LDF this time. Previous council The 26-ward municipality council was under the Congress rule with the party winning 14 seats followed by CPI (M) — 5; CPI — 4; BJP—1 and Independents — 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uphill-task-for-bjp-ldf-in-aluva-municipality/article33165811.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Online loans leave borrowers, acquaintances a harrowed lot||Earlier this year, the staff member of a private educational institution in Ernakulam Rural limits petitioned the cyber police after the contacts on her mobile phone were bombarded with calls about an online loan she had not repaid but about which she had no clue. Things reached a state where the management of the educational institution sought an explanation from her after her colleagues complained about the harassment. However, before the cyber police could launch an investigation, the petition was withdrawn, after it emerged that a close family member had availed of the loan using her mobile phone without her knowledge. The humiliation was such that she resigned from her job. “Similar incidents involving online loans are fairly rampant now. It involves the lender asking the applicant to install an app as a precondition before sanctioning the loan, giving the lender full access to the contact list of the applicant. Any default in the repayment of the loan, which entails exorbitant interest, risks calls to contacts, urging them to ask their acquaintance to repay the loan leading to the humiliation of the borrower,” said cyber police sources. In another incident, a youngster had availed an online loan for playing a game and on failing to repay, his contacts were bombarded with calls. The loan was later repaid by his family.  “Such cases are often settled informally fearing that formal probe adds to the public humiliation. Such incidents have increased now with people spending more time online,” said an official. Though officials said that such humiliation was unlikely without actually taking a loan and ruled out accidental installation of an app leading to such trauma, incidents to the contrary are also being reported. ‘Number changed’ A young techie from Mannarkkad has been facing a similar problem since November 3, when he started getting calls asking him to repay a loan, which he claims he has not availed. “I was getting on an average 10 calls a day from different people, asking for repayment of the loan, the amount of which varied from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 10,000. I was forced to change the number and since then my key contacts started getting calls and even messages with my photographs stored in my mobile phone,” said the youngster. One of his contacts even received a message signed as “legal advocate”, warning the person of legal action unless he persuaded his acquaintance to repay the loan since he was liable as “a person has given your name and number as reference”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-loans-leave-borrowers-acquaintances-a-harrowed-lot/article33165829.ece
24 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||BJP bastion sees a keen contest this time||After Cherlai, Division 7 of the Kochi Corporation, was represented by the same Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor for 32 years, the area is set to see a change this time around, with three candidates, all contesting for the first time, vying for the seat. Outgoing BJP councillor Shyamala S. Prabhu has held on to the division since 1988. She would not contest in the upcoming polls since she wanted to make way for a younger candidate, she said. But, the BJP had a strong base in the division and the party’s candidate was likely to retain the seat, she added. Raghuram Pai, the BJP’s candidate from Cherlai, said that he hoped to reap the benefits of the work Ms. Prabhu had done over three decades. During her terms, basic services such as water supply had improved, and work on roads, community halls, a primary health centre and street lights had been completed, said Ms. Prabhu. In the outgoing council, the BJP had only two seats – Cherlai and Ernakulam Central. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidates contesting from the area are hoping to break the BJP’s hold over the division this time. The division had not seen any particular development over the years and had only been going with the flow, said Suresh S. Pai, the UDF candidate from the division. A lot more could be done including facilitating access to basic computer skill training for students in the area, he said. He conceded that the division traditionally had a support base for the BJP and contesting against Ms. Prabhu’s years of experience meant that rivals did not stand much of a chance earlier. Since Ms. Prabhu was not contesting, others had a good shot at winning the seat, he added. Janardhana Shenoy, an advocate, said he was contesting from Cherlai as an Independent candidate backed by the LDF. “Light rains lead to intense waterlogging here. There has been no long-term vision for Cherlai, apart from completing some drain work or tiling roads, and slums here have not seen much development. Several houses still rely on public taps,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-bastion-sees-a-keen-contest-this-time/article33165819.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court orders probe into rape survivor’s affidavit||The Kerala High Court on Monday ordered the State Police Chief (SPC) to conduct an inquiry into the affidavit signed by the survivor in the Pangod rape case and produced by the accused junior health inspector in which she said she was not raped by him. The affidavit was produced by the accused when his anticipatory bail petition came up for hearing. In the notary attested affidavit, the survivor deposed that there was no such incident and it was a consensual sexual intercourse. It was stated in the affidavit that she gave her earlier statement to the police because of the pressure from her relatives. The allegation was that the health inspector had raped the woman when she had approached him for getting a COVID-19 negative certificate . Bail granted Justice P.V Kunhikrishnan issued the directives while granting bail to Pradeep Kumar of Kollam. The court directed the State Police Chief to depute a senior officer to probe into the affidavit and file a report based on the inquiry before the High Court Registrar General within three months. The court observed that petitioner was working as a junior health inspector. Hundreds of health workers were working in the State to take care of those affected by the pandemic. In such a situation, this particular incident gave a black mark on the health workers of the State. It even affected their morale. Now, the survivor was coming before the court and saying that it was consensual act and there was no forceful sex as stated in her earlier statement. The court added that based on a false complaint, a person had been in jail for 77 days. The court could not shut its eye to such situations, it said.  Based on a false complaint, a person had been in jail for 77 days, says court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-orders-probe-into-rape-survivors-affidavit/article33165484.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fronts field fresh faces for district panchayat||The contest for seats in the Ernakulam District Panchayat Council promises to be a stiff one with both the political fronts choosing to field mostly fresh faces. Both Dolly Kuriakose, the outgoing president of the district panchayat and Congress veteran and Abdul Muthaleeb, vice-president, are not in the fray this time. However, Asha Sanil, who was president of the district panchayat in the first term of the UDF rule, will contest from the Pampakuda seat. She had represented Mulanthuruthy in the last council. Sarada Mohan of the CPI will be the only other member of the outgoing council, who is in the fray among the LDF constituents. She will contest from the Kalady seat, which she represented in the council in the last term. She said that she wanted to continue the good works over the past five years. She knew her constituency well and had understood the major problems facing the people and it would be easier to work for them in the new term. Asha Sanil said that the UDF was seeking votes in the name of the good performance of the district panchayat over the past five years. The district panchayat had been able to intervene positively in all aspects of welfare, especially for women and children, she said. She said that during 2016-17, Ernakulam District Panchayat had won national level recognition as the best district panchayat in the country. The State government too had honoured the district panchayat for its performance with the Swaraj Trophy. The following two years, 2017-18 and 2018-19 too had seen the district winning honours for its good performance, she said. The outgoing council was quite finely balanced with the UDF having the support of 15 members and the LDF 12 members in the 27-member council. Though surviving on a thin majority, the district panchayat rule was stable through the five years of its term. The UDF comprised one seat from the Kerala Congress (Mani) group and the shift of allegiance by the Mani group to the LDF may play a role in deciding the power equations in the new council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-field-fresh-faces-for-district-panchayat/article33165813.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KC(M) symbol: HC declines to stay order||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday declined to stay a single judge’s verdict upholding the Election Commission’s order that declared that the group led by Jose K. Mani was the official Kerala Congress (M) and granted it the official election symbol, Two Leaves. The Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar passed the order when an appeal filed by the group led by P.J. Joseph and others against the single judge’s verdict came up for hearing. Poll panel order The single judge, while dismissing the petition filed by Mr. Joseph and others, had refused to interfere with the poll panel’s order. The commission by a 2:1 majority had held that the group led by Jose K. Mani was the Kerala Congress (Mani) and “is entitled to use the name and the reserved symbol Two Leaves.” Mr. Joseph contended that the single judge should have found that the commission had committed a mistake in straight away going to test the majority without considering the test of constitution. The commission should not have passed an order indirectly reversing a civil court order which recognised him as chairman of the party. ‘EC lacks right’ Mr. Joseph further submitted that the Election Commission had no right to allot a party to a person. The only jurisdiction vested with it was to allot symbols to a party. Besides, the commission had not been authorised or empowered to decide the internal issues of a party. The issue of the name did not come under the Symbols Act. The party acquired the name as per the provisions of its constitution and it forms the property of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-symbol-hc-declines-to-stay-order/article33165483.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A campaign of claims and counterclaims||As parties claim to bring all fallow land under cultivation and highlight the need for a sustainable waste management system, the voters in Muvattupuzha will have a tough task choosing between the leading political formations. The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which ruled the municipality over the last five years, has claimed that it has been able to provide better road infrastructure and welfare support to the elderly. But, the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) is fighting a battle over what it claimed was LDF’s failure to fulfil any of the key promises in its election manifesto. Jinu Antony, who is contesting on a Congress ticket from Ward 18 (Model High School), alleged that the LDF was unable to fulfil its promises to deliver a waste management model and computerise public offices. It has also not been able to even lay the foundation for houses under the LIFE Mission project. The reforms brought about by the LDF council had failed to solve the problem of perennial traffic blocks in the town, added Mr. Antony. He said the UDF would be able to win by a clear margin in the upcoming elections because of the LDF’s failure. P.K. Baburaj of the Communist Party of India (CPI), who was the vice chairman twice (2005-10 and 2015-20), said that over the last five years, the LDF rule had ensured better roads as well as welfare measures for the elderly and women. It was the intention of the Left front to bring all fallow land in the municipal area under cultivation, he said. The LDF also wanted to build a stadium complex of international standards as well as a library council with the help of the MLA funds, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-campaign-of-claims-and-counterclaims/article33165809.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||At Maradu, the stress is on eco concerns||Contestants in the elections to the Maradu municipal council are focussing on issues mostly around environmental concerns. The municipality is surrounded by backwaters and encroachment of the water bodies is a major concern for the residents in the area. The municipality has been at the centre of public attention after the Supreme Court ordered in early 2019 that three apartment complexes should be demolished as they violated the Coastal Area Regulation Zone rules. The order was carried out in the first half of January 2020 and the apartment complexes were demolished. Since then, the municipality has been at the centre of public attention both for its scenic beauty and the way the violations were punished. Boban Nedumparambil, who was the vice-chairperson of the municipality in the outgoing council, said that there were big issues that needed to be addressed in the municipality. Waste disposal was one of the issues that confronted the municipal authorities now and the issue needed to be addressed. The municipality, with a total of 33 councillors, was ruled by the United Democratic Front during the past five years. Mr. Boban said that he was not contesting this time as an example for those who wanted to bring fresh ideas to the fore. Anthony Asanparambil of the Congress, who is contesting from ward 9, said that the UDF rule had ensured the welfare of the people during its last term. He expressed the confidence that the UDF rule during the past five years would ensure a majority for the political front in the coming elections. The outgoing council was quite balanced with 15 seats each for the political fronts and three Independents. The UDF governed with the support of the Independents. In the fray Disha Prabhakaran, Rathi Divarkaran, Raji Thambi, R. K. Suresh Babu, Anish Unni, and Ajitha Nandakumar are among the prominent candidates in the fray in the municipal contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/environmental-issue-focus-of-maradu-campaign/article33165471.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||325 new cases, 517 recoveries in district||As many as 325 new COVID-19 cases and 517 recoveries were recorded in Ernakulam on Monday. Thrikkakara registered 17 cases of the infection. Kunnathunad and Angamaly also recorded over 10 cases each on the day. While 24,625 people remain in quarantine, the district’s active case load is 8,746. For testing, 3,756 samples were sent on Monday. A total of 6,916 people are recovering at home, 106 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, 22 patients at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital, 49 at PVS Hospital and 644 people are being monitored at first-line treatment centres. The district has recorded 61,094 confirmed cases of the infection and 201 deaths so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/325-new-cases-517-recoveries-in-district/article33165821.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC disposes of plea on Fort Kochi beach||The State government has informed the High Court that the Department of Ocean Engineering, IIT, Madras, has been entrusted with the task of conducting a detailed study in connection with the beach reclamation and reconstruction and protection of the damaged walkway at the Fort Kochi beach. The submission was made when a public interest litigation filed by former Mayor C.M. Dinesh Mani seeking to protect the Fort Kochi beach from sea erosion came up for hearing. The court disposed of the petition in the light of the submission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-disposes-of-plea-on-fort-kochi-beach/article33165824.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No arrest even a month after assault on labour activist||More than a month after an activist working amidst the migrant workers in Perumbavoor was allegedly abducted and assaulted by a gang, the police are yet to make an arrest in the case. George Mathew, coordinator of the Progressive Workers’ Organisation, was abducted from near Bengali Colony on the night of October 18. He was taken to a godown in Mudikkal where he was brutally assaulted. A search was launched for him by migrant workers after he failed to turn up to fetch his bicycle kept at the colony. He was eventually tracked down by migrant workers who launched a petition at the Perumbavoor police station by which time the assailants reportedly dumped him back at his room. Mr. Mathew suspects the assault was the consequence of intervening for securing rightful compensation for a migrant worker who lost his right palm at a work site accident three months ago. The police had since then registered a case against eight persons on the statement of Mr. Mathew. However, two of the accused secured anticipatory bail while another six remain yet to be caught. The police attributed the lack of progress in the case to the victim’s inability to accurately recollect the incident. “We also need to record a detailed witness statement of a migrant worker with the help of a translator who is not immediately available,” said the investigating officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-arrest-even-a-month-after-assault-on-labour-activist/article33165826.ece
24 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Major fire in Aluva building||A major fire broke out in the open storage space of a sanitaryware shop and an adjacent textile unit in a building complex opposite the old private bus stand in Aluva, inflicting an estimated damage of around Rs. 80 lakh on Monday. The fire erupted around 4 a.m. and it took nearly three hours before three fire tenders from Aluva and Eloor fire and rescue stations doused the fire. A short circuit is suspected to have triggered the fire among the 40-odd PVC tanks and pipes stacked at a considerable height in the open storage space near the textile unit. “There was an electric post right next to the space, multiple electric metres and distribution boards, and it was hard to judge the igniting point,” said K.N. Sunil, an officer part of the fire and rescue team. The fire from the sanitaryware spread to the wooden windows of the textile unit on the first floor and spread internally. The fire had remained undetected for almost an hour before a milk deliveryman noticed the thick black smoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-fire-breaks-out-in-aluva-building/article33165812.ece
24 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CBI probe ordered into Popular Finance cases||The Kerala High Court on Monday ordered a CBI probe into as many as 1,368 cases registered against the directors of Popular Finance, the Pathanamthitta based non-banking finance company, in connection with the duping of depositors. The court directed the CBI to take over the entire investigation and constitute a special team to investigate the cases. The court also directed the State government to frame rules for implementing the Banning of Unregulated Deposits Scheme(BUDS) Act and appoint/notify a designated court in accordance with the BUDS Act in two weeks. The court passed the directives while allowing a batch of writ petitions filed by depositors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbi-probe-ordered-into-popular-finance-cases/article33165499.ece
24 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pleas in HC against amendment||The State government on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that it would revisit the amendment brought to the Kerala Police Act and would keep in abeyance its implementation. Senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy made the submissions when a writ petition filed by Anoop Antony, national secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, came up for hearing. Mr. Chakravarthy pointed out that the Chief Minister had already made it clear that the government did not intend to go ahead with the implementation of the amendment. The petition challenged incorporation of Section 118-A into the Act. BJP State president K. Surendran, Revolutionary Socialist Party leaders Shibu Baby John and N.K. Premachandran, and others also approached the High Court challenging the constitutional validity of Section 118-A. In their petition, RSP leaders submitted that many of the expressions used in Section 118-A were only cosmetically different from the expressions which had already been considered and rejected as vague in ‘Shreya Singhal’ case by the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pleas-in-hc-against-amendment/article33165482.ece
24 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||198 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 198 new COVID-19 cases, 572 recoveries, and one death on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 194 contact cases, two persons with no known source, one health worker, and one person who had travelled from another State. Death The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 54-year-old Kollam resident is due to COVID-19. The health workers who contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus include a 75-year-old Pattazhy resident and a 30-year-old Saktikulangara resident. The district currently has 20,312 persons under observation, according to official statistics. Total samples The total number of samples collected is 4,33,131. While 1,121 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 1,08,881 primary and 8,923 secondary contacts of the positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/198-new-cases-in-kollam/article33165472.ece
24 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Clear picture emerges in Kottayam||With the deadline to withdraw nominations expiring, a clear picture had emerged on what is expected to be a bitter but a largely two-corned fight to the Kottayam district panchayat. As per estimates, 89 persons including 39 women are contesting to the local body across the 22 divisions. With seven candidates each, Velllur, Kaduthuruthy and Poonjar divisions have the highest number of candidates. While the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) are the two leading coalitions in the fray, the battle to the district panchayat is more regarded as a stage for the direct fight between Mani and Joseph groups of the Kerala Congress (M). Of the 22 divisions, the two factions are contesting in nine seats each and have squared up to each other in as many as five divisions. In fact, it was a dispute over the sharing of the president’s post in the district panchayat that triggered a vertical split of the Kerala Congress (M) and subsequent decision of the Jose K. Mani faction to join the LDF. Fair number of seats While both groups could garner a fair number of seats regardless of the intense wrangling involved, the outcome of the election will have a considerable impact on their positions within the respective coalitions. On the positive side for the coalitions, they have managed to quell almost all rebellions over the candidature. The UDF, however, has a couple of rebel candidates in Athirampuzha with Moly Louis and Thressyamma George contesting as independents. Interesting turn In yet another interesting turn, Congress worker Laisamma George has quit the party to contest as LDF candidate in Vakathanam division under a CPI ticket. The LDF, as a whole, is betting big on the Kerala Congress votes by allotting nine seats to the Jose K. Mani faction. The BJP, which has shared seats with the BDJS, has put up candidates in all divisions and expects a major improvement in its vote share and hopes to put up a tough battle in a handful of divisions this time. Meanwhile, the entry of Shone George, the heir apparent of the Kerala Janapaksham leader P.C. George MLA, has made the contest in Poonjar division an interesting battle to watch out for. The party has fielded candidates in three more divisions namely Bhrananganam, Mundakkayam and Erumeli, which either fall or lie adjacent to the Poonjar Assembly constituency. Also contesting The Kerala Congress led by P.C. Thomas too has fielded candidates in Kaduthuruthi and Poonjar divisions without aligning to any political fronts. This apart, BSP, AAP and some independents are also contesting to district panchayat from various divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clear-picture-emerges-in-kottayam/article33165479.ece
24 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Seeking votes with blessings on her wedding day||Stepping out of the wedding stage in full bridal finery, Lavanya stopped off at a group of guests who had come to attend her marriage. “Please vote for me,” she requested, to collective replies in the affirmative and congratulatory messages. The inconvenient schedule of electioneering was not about to stop Lavanya, who contests the upcoming local body polls from ward 15 of the Maravanthuruth panchayat, near Vaikom, from entering into a wedlock with her fiancé on Monday. A native of Kulasekharamangalam, near Vaikom, she had been engaged to Sarath of Chemmanakari much before the local body polls were announced. Even while deciding on the candidature of Lavanya, both families decided stick to the date. But in view of the election and COVID-19-induced restrictions, the event was organised as a low-key affair at the Ayyankali cultural centre, Chemmanakari. The bride also chose the occasion to seek votes from her well wishers who attended the marriage. Interestingly, two of her rival candidates, Majitha Lalji of UDF and P.K. Binu of NDA, too came to extend their wishes to the newly married. A former activist of All India Students Federation (AISF), Lavanya also worked at a private hospital for a short period after completing her BCA degree. This is the first electoral fight for Lavanya, who has been fielded by the CPI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-votes-with-blessings-on-her-wedding-day/article33165474.ece
24 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||279 cases in Kottayam||As many as 279 persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases reported, all but three contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 32 children and 48 persons aged above 60. 46 cases With 46 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Ettumanur with 20 cases. Changanassery reported 17 cases of the infection while Pampadi and Erumeli reported 10 cases each. With 175 recoveries from the disease reported during the day on Monday, the district currently has 3,763 active cases of the disease while 19,389 people are in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/279-cases-in-kottayam/article33165478.ece
24 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||350 to vie for 75 seats in Kozhikode Corpn.||A clear picture about the contestants in the three-tier local body polls has emerged with the last day of withdrawal of nomination papers ending on Monday. As many as 350 candidates will contest in the 75 divisions of the Kozhikode Corporation. Of this, 173 are men and 177 women. As many as 459 withdrew their nomination papers. Major players The CPI(M) and the BJP have fielded the most number of candidates. This time, the post of Mayor has been reserved for women. Elections will be held to the Kozhikode Corporation, seven municipalities, 70 grama panchayats, 12 block panchayats and Kozhikode District Panchayat. There are 25,33,024 voters comprising 12,08,545 males and 13,24,449 females in the district. About 30 are transgenders and 1,064 are overseas electors. There are 4,62,000 voters in Kozhikode Corporation. Koyilandy municipality has 58,719 voters; Vadakara, 60,209; Payyoli, 40,961; Ramanattukara, 28,806; Koduvally, 40,364 ; Mukkom, 33,749 and Feroke, 42,998. In Wayanad As many as 1,858 candidates are in the fray for the upcoming civic body polls in Wayanad district. On Monday, the final day for withdrawal of nominations, 1,364 candidates, who had filed papers to the district panchayat, four block panchayats, three municipalities, and 23 grama panchayats in the district, withdrew their nominations. As many as 83 candidates filed papers to the Wayanad District Panchayat, of whom 28 candidates withdrew their papers. While 46 of the 88 candidates withdrew papers in Sulthan Bathery Municipality, 69 of the 188 candidates in Mananthavady and 16 of the 115 candidates in Kalpetta municipalities also withdrew their papers. Forty-five of the 86 candidates in Mananthavady block panchayat, 46 of 88 in Sulthan Bathery, 28 of 72 in Kalpetta, and 20 of 64 candidates in Panamaram block panchayats also withdrew their papers on the day. As many as 2,330 candidates filed papers to 23 grama panchayats in the district, of whom 1, 022 candidates withdrew papers on Monday. At the grama panchayat level, Panamaram grama panchayat had the largest number of candidates (101) withdrawing their papers, while only 19 candidates withdrew papers in Mupainad (lowest) grama panchayat. Electoral officers assigned symbols to the candidates on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/350-to-vie-for-75-seats-in-kozhikode-corpn/article33165406.ece
24 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||NIT-C admits record number of students||The National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NIT-C) has nearly finished the admission process to first year BTech and BArch courses for the new academic year. The institute has been allotted 1,244 seats in all branches, including economically weaker categories and supernumerary allotted for female candidates, during the six rounds of counselling. Its intake of students in numerous departments is among the largest in NITs. Online reporting at the institute for admission formalities had been completed by the Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) set up by the Ministry of Education between November 16 and 21. However, two special rounds are being conducted by the Central Seat Allocation Board (CSAB) for candidates who have opted for changing the institute or branch or surrender seats after finalisation of the counselling process. The entire exercise will be completed in a week, and classes will commence in December. “Usually, changes take place only for a few remaining seats,” said Sunil Jacob John, chairman, UG Admissions and Centre in-Charge of Central Seat Allocation Board Verification Centre at NIT-C. He added that as many as 78 students were admitted under the Direct Admission of Students Abroad (DASA) where Non-Resident Indians, Persons of Indian Origin, and Overseas Citizens of India could take admission. Nine students from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, and Botswana were admitted under the scholarship scheme of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, while two candidates were sponsored under the welfare scheme of the Ministry of External Affairs, Prof. John added. Highly competitive Admissions to the most sought-after branches at NIT-C were highly competitive this time for various reasons including the record placement and better ranking in the National Institutional Ranking Framework, a methodology adopted by the Ministry of Education. As in previous years, computer science and electronics and communication branches were the most preferred branches in the General Category, for both the home State and all-India quota. After the sixth and final rounds, the closing rank in the home quota for gender-neutral five-year B.Arch programme was 378; computer science and engineering 9,703; electronics and communication 17,119, and electrical and electronics 23,573 in the JEE (Main).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-c-admits-record-number-of-students/article33165405.ece
24 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity rate remains high||The test positivity rate (TPR) continues to be high in Kozhikode, with the district recording a TPR of 12.78% on Monday when 514 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The number of recoveries also continues to be higher than new cases. According to the District Medical Officer, 698 people were cured of the infection on Monday. Of the 514 fresh cases, 470 were locally acquired infections, and the source was unknown in 23 cases. Kozhikode Corporation had 124 cases of local transmission, Ramanattukara 50, Peruvayal 31, and Feroke, and Azhiyoor 20 each. Meanwhile, a 70-year-old man from Panthalat Meethal Pazhoor and another 70-year-old man from Nallalam, both in Kozhikode district, died at the Government Medical College Hospital on Monday and Sunday respectively. In Wayanad Wayanad reported 39 COVID-19 cases on Monday, and 82 persons recovered from the disease. All the patients contracted the infection through local transmission. There were 1,043 active cases in the district on the day. In Malappuram Malappuram witnessed yet another spurt on Monday when 1,023 people tested positive for the virus. Officials said 993 of them had contracted the infection through local contact. The source of infection in 20 cases could not be traced. Two health workers are among the new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-remains-high/article33165411.ece
24 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Most IUML rebels withdraw from race||Following conciliatory talks and pressure tactics, a majority of rebel candidates who submitted their nomination papers for the local body polls, challenging the Indian Union Muslim League’s official list of candidates, withdrew from the scene on Monday. The talks, however, failed to convince three candidates from Kunnamangalam who decided to remain in the fray ignoring possible disciplinary action. Muslim Youth League (MYL) leaders who initiated talks with the rebels from their organisation said those who had defied the party’s official list were found to have close alliance with LDF functionaries, and that they would be expelled from the League. One of the three rebels who refused to withdraw the nomination papers to contest from Kunnamangalam block was earlier part of the Indian National League, and his presence in the fray against the official candidate will never upset the results, they said. The entry of rebels, especially the annoyed MYL activists from Meladi, Nadapuram, Perambra, and Kunnamangalam, had posed a challenge to the party leadership, as many of them had started their own campaigns. Some had also won the support of local activists, causing further dilemma for the party. IUML sources said petty arguments over seat-sharing within the UDF had even led to the entry of rebels in some locations. However, the amicable settlement of those issues resulted in the timely withdrawal of all such nominations and the approval of the official list of candidates, they added. At the same time, the MYL’s complaint to the IUML leadership that none of their candidates was given a ticket to contest in the city corporation and the district panchayat was ignored. An MYL leader said the call for a reasonable increase in the number of seats allotted to the party in local panchayats and municipalities was also not considered in the expected manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/most-iuml-rebels-withdraw-from-race/article33165412.ece
24 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||After eight months, art gallery opens door to painting expo||The Kerala Lalithakala Akademi Art Gallery at Mananchira here has been a favourite hangout for artists and art lovers for decades. It was not just art that held them together. It offered a venue for discussions about literature, culture, and politics. Needless to say, when the facility was closed down by the end of March owing to the pandemic outbreak and subsequent lockdown, the intellectual community suffered. Hence, when it was reopened eight months down the line, news spread fast. Though not as active as before, the art street near the gallery is once again alive, and ‘Hadikka’, the first exhibition at the gallery post-lockdown, has turned out to be quite a crowd-puller. 30 paintings Hadikka is an exhibition of around 30 paintings by Wayanad-based artist Ramesh M.R. He is known for his unique style of work mixing line drawing and painting in equal measure. Mr. Ramesh is also famous for his choice of themes, which are always related to the tribal communities of Wayanad. Culture on canvas Hadikka stands for a unique system for curing diseases, and it is practised by the Kattunaikka community. In the exhibition, Mr. Ramesh has featured the lifestyle, culture, and rituals of tribal communities in Wayanad in their primitive forms. The exhibition features paintings depicting tribal people as hunter-gatherers, their association with nature, their deities, unique rituals, agriculture, and so on. The event was opened on Saturday by artist K. Sudheesh Kumar. It will conclude on November 28. Though no other exhibition has been scheduled to be held at the art gallery any time soon, the facility will be open for the public. In keeping with the COVID-19 protocol, the gallery timing has been changed to 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and holidays and Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-painting-expo-post-lockdown-begins-at-art-gallery/article33165408.ece
24 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tender process on for new server at varsity||Calicut University is going ahead with its plan to have a hyper converged infrastructure server system to store documents and files. The university had recently called for tenders for choosing bidders. According to sources, a digital document filing system is being used right now. This, however, is often found to be slow, and the current server does not have the capacity to store the increasing number of files, including certificates of lakhs of students. The move had its share of objections from the beginning itself. P. Rasheed Ahammed, Syndicate member, had pointed out at a Syndicate meeting on September 9 that it was inappropriate to spend around Rs. 2 crore to buy what he called an obsolete technology. He claimed that the project could be implemented using advanced technology by spending just Rs. 20 lakh. Cloud computing Mr. Ahammed said that elastic computer service was used in cloud computing system. A secure hybrid cloud system could be the most convenient and cost-effective way. The charge will be based on the usage. The other advantages are easy upgrading, low installation and maintenance costs, secure data access, and the ability to connect to an existing server via virtual private network. Virtual machines He claimed that if the hyper converged infrastructure system-based virtualisation and private cloud was implemented, the number of virtual machines could not be increased after a limit, and new servers and components may have to purchased in the future. Their maintenance and operational costs will be an additional financial burden. The entire system will have to be replaced after 10 years. Mr. Ahammed suggested that the State-run National Informatics Centre provide cloud services and there were other service providers as well. Data security Meanwhile, sources in the Calicut University Computer Centre said that the data security could prove to be a problem if an open cloud system is implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tender-process-on-for-new-server-at-calicut-varsity/article33165395.ece
24 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Squad to enforce green protocol||The district administration has formed a squad to enforce the model code of conduct and prevent anti-defacement, with Assistant Collector Sreedhanya Suresh as the nodal officer. The squad will also ensure that the green protocol is followed by the campaigners. The public can contact the district level control room on 0495-2374875/1950 for any complaints. Besides, the taluk level control rooms can be contacted on 0495-2372966 (Kozhikode), 0496-2513480 (Vadakara), 0496-2620235 (Koyilandy) and 0495-2982000 (Thamarassery).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/squad-to-enforce-green-protocol/article33165409.ece
24 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fishers object to Ordinance||Criticising the proposed Kerala Fish Auctioning, Marketing and Quality Control Ordinance, a section of boat owners, fishermen and allied workers staged a sit-in protest in front of the Fisheries Department office at Beypore on Monday. The protesters, owing allegiance to a State-level fishermen’s coordination committee, alleged that the proposed ordinance would double the financial burden on the community. Addressing the protest, M.K. Raghavan, MP, said the fishermen and allied workers were going through an acute financial crisis, and they would not be able to withstand the hostile provisions in the proposed ordinance. “When other States were offering subsidies for fishers, Kerala is ignoring such needs,” he said. Kerala Boat Owners’ Association leaders said the proposal to charge 5% of the total auction amount as commission to the government would compel many small operators in the field to leave their job. Karichal Preman, vice-president, All Kerala Fishing Boat Owners’ Association, said the workers in the sector would be compelled to launch an indefinite strike in harbours against the government’s plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-protest-against-proposed-ordinance/article33165413.ece
24 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Poll observers take charge in Malappuram||Election observers appointed for block panchayats and municipalities in Malappuram district took charge on Monday. Conservator of Forests K. Vijayanathan took charge as general observer. Senior deputy directors in the Finance Department, Habeen Mohammed, John Manohar, and K.P. Mathew Roy, and joint directors Sabu Joseph and Varghese Joseph took charge as expenditure observers. The district administration has asked the people to surrender their licensed arms at their respective police stations before November 30. The administration has warned of revocation of the licence of those who failed to surrender their arms. Inspectors in charge of the police stations will have to issue receipts to the arms licencees. They should also inform the District Collector about the arms surrender. The arms will be returned to their owners a week after the declaration of election results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-observers-take-charge-in-malappuram/article33165418.ece
24 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Recoveries exceed new cases in two districts||Palakkad district registered 331 new COVID-19 cases and 583 recoveries on Monday. District officials said that 182 people had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. However, there were 134 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Among the new cases were 14 people who came from other States, and one health worker. Health officials said 4,765 COVID-19 patients were currently under treatment across the district. Besides them, 196 persons from Palakkad were being treated in other districts in the State. Eighty-two of them were in Malappuram, 48 in Ernakulam, 36 in Thrissur, 22 in Kozhikode, five in Kannur, two in Thiruvananthapuram, and one in Alappuzha. In Thrissur, 278 COVID-19 cases were reported Monday. With 674 recoveries on the day, there are 6,985 active cases in the district. Eighty-four people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospital in various other districts. So far 55,345, cases have been confirmed and 47,969 people have recovered. According to the official figures, 264 people, including five health workers, got infected through local contact on Monday. Of them, 41 people are above the age of 60 and 16 are below the age of 10. In all 4,996 people are under home observation. As many as 3874 samples were taken for test on Monday.  In Thrissur 278 persons test positive, 674 recover||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recoveries-exceed-new-cases-in-two-districts/article33165908.ece
24 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Three rivals get a wall and a message||A nature lover from Pattambi has lent the compound wall of his house to the three main poll contestants to post their campaign graffiti. Vanamitra Mohandas, whose two-storey house enjoys a noticeable position at the junction where Nethiri and Mangalam roads meet in Pattambi municipality’s Ward 22, had a solid reason to state when he let the United Democratic Front (UDF), the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates use his long compound wall as a campaign tool. He says it is his way of contributing towards a green electioneering. “If more walls are used for electioneering, the use of banners, posters and other promos using non-biodegradable materials can be brought down. The prime motive is to encourage more nature-friendly means of electioneering during this pandemic times,” he says. Mr. Mohandas has distinct political leanings, but he has generously handed over the use of his property to the other two fronts too. According to him, people have the responsibility to help political parties, especially during elections. When the LDF got the front corner portion of the wall, the UDF and the BJP got the larger walls on the left and the right sides of the compound. Another gift Mr. Mohandas had another gift for the rival fronts. He gave saplings of fruit trees to the leaders who came to see the graffiti on the wall. Artist Manikandan, who did the graffiti for the UDF, the LDF, and the BJP on the same wall, said it was his first such experience. He lauded Mr. Mohandas for being a role model for others during electioneering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-rivals-get-a-wall-and-a-message/article33165958.ece
24 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||RBC-CPI(M) ties sour in T.N. border areas||The Right Bank Canal (RBC) civil society movement, a group supported by the Church, is pitted against the CPI(M) in certain wards in border panchayats such as Vadakarapathy and Eruthempathy. In the last Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, the RBC had supported the CPI(M) here. However, differences cropped up between the two parties in Eruthempathy and Vadakarapathy. However, the RBC has offered its support in certain wards in Kozhinjampara. Efforts are on to sort out the differences between the two parties at local level. The LDF poll managers were circumspect about the situation in the border panchayats. Fringe parties like the RBC and the AIADMK wield considerable influence among the voters there.  In the Lok Sabha and Assembly polls, Right Bank Canal had supported the CPI(M).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rbc-cpim-ties-sour-in-tn-border-areas/article33165937.ece
24 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Woman, grandchild drown in canal||A woman and her seven-month-old granddaughter drowned in Malampuzha canal near here on Monday. Lalitha, 52, wife of Madhusoodhanan from Akathethara, and her daughter’s child Daksha are suspected to have fallen into the canal accidentally. Malampuzha dam authorities had opened the canal for releasing water for irrigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-grandchild-drown-in-canal/article33165909.ece
24 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Battle lines drawn in Pathanamthitta||Stage is now set for stiff contests to the various local bodies in Pathanamthitta with the deadline to withdraw nominations expiring on Monday. With 16 candidates withdrawing their nominations on the final day, 60 persons including 26 women will now be contesting to the 16 divisions in the Pathanamthitta district panchayat. Though the authorities had received as many as 147 nominations, three were rejected during the scrutiny last week. Ranni division, which has seven persons in the fray, has the highest number of contestants while eight divisions including Pulikkeezhu, Mallapally, Pulickal and Kozhencherry divisions are set to witness a direct battle between the candidates fielded by the three major coalitions. Five divisions including Angadi, Konni and Pramadam have four candidates each while the Enathu division has five contestants. While one nomination each to 10 divisions including Ranni and Koyipram was withdrawn during the day, two persons each to the Konni, Elanthur and Enathu divisions also withdrew from the contest. Meanwhile, a total of 2,803 candidates including 1,533 women will be contesting across the 53 gram panchayats in the district as only 819 nominations were withdrawn on the final day. Pallickal panchayat has the highest number of candidates with 77 persons in the fray, closely followed by Koyipram and Eraviperoor respectively with 76 and 75 candidates. With 43 women in the fray, Pallickal also accounts for the highest number of women candidates, followed by Kalanjoor with 42. As many as 494 candidates including 259 women will be contesting to the four municipalities in the district. Among these, Thiruvalla has 84 women candidates, followed by Pandalam with 67 women. Of the 86 nominations withdrawn, 33 were from Pathanamthitta. Similarly, 342 persons including 189 women are contesting to the eight block panchayats as 64 nominations were withdrawn till Monday evening. Parakkodu block, which has 47 persons in the fray, has the highest number of candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-lines-drawn-in-pathanamthitta/article33165476.ece
24 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta reports 57 cases, two deaths||As many as 57 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 54 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Of this, the contact source of 21 persons are yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Konni panchayat reported 14 cases while Naranamoozhy panchayat reported four cases. Meanwhile, the district reported the death of two more COVID-19 patients due to co-morbidities. The deceased were identified as a 65-year-old woman from Pandalam and a 93-year-old woman from Mathur. With 109 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,805 active cases.  Of the contact cases, sources of 21 persons are yet to be ascertained||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-reports-57-cases-two-deaths/article33165477.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New cases drop to 229 in capital with 3,337 tests||The district has reported a relatively low caseload of 229 new COVID-19 cases when 3,337 tests were performed over the past 24 hours. The active case pool stood at 4,614 cases with 751 more people recovering from the disease in the district, health officials said. Local transmission accounted for 158 cases while the source of infection remained vague in 60 cases. The list also contained five health workers and six persons who arrived in the district, health officials said. The death toll in the district, meanwhile, rose to 530 with two more recent deaths being attributed to COVID-19. The deceased included a 48-year-old man from Manikanteswaram, and a 67-year-old man from Chakkai., apressnote said. Meanwhile, 1,181 people were newly quarantined in the district as part of the precautionary measures adopted to contain the spread of the infection. As of Monday, 26,615 people are quarantined in the district including 26,482 people in home isolation and 133 others who are hospitalised. As many as 1,272 people completed the observation period without developing symptoms. Meanwhile, the City Police have registered cases against nine more persons under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, as part of the inspections in connection with the enforcement of COVID-19 protocol. Action was taken against 50 people in all on Monday for violation of COVID-19-related guidelines, the police said. Fined Thirty-nine people were fined a total Rs. 19,500 for failing to wear masks and observe physical distancing norms.  The death toll in the district rises to 530 with two more recent deaths being attributed to COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-cases-drop-to-229-in-capital-with-3337-tests/article33165945.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One candidate for multiple jobs||Her routine work, which earns the family’s daily bread, is not something that S.Sunitha would set aside even amid her hectic election campaigning. For the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate contesting in the Anad division of the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat, the day begins at 5 a.m., when she heads to the nearby rubber plantation for tapping work. She and her sister had learned rubber tapping when they were still in school, in an effort to support their mother. In 2011, she set up a restaurant too here under a programme of the Kudumbashree. “Usually, I begin tapping early in the morning and my husband collects the latex later. Later, I would head to the Kudumbashree hotel. After the morning’s work at the restaurant, I would go to the Kudumbashree’s Panavoor CDS, of which I am the chairperson. By noon, I distribute food for the beneficiaries of the district panchayat’s Padheyam project. Now, my election campaign begins by 8 a.m. and so I am able to do rubber tapping only. I have found two persons to do the work at the hotel and for the food distribution,” she says. The Padheyam project, which the district panchayat launched in 2017 to ensure a hunger-free district, is the one that she talks about the most. For two years, she had been distributing food to 35 destitute persons in her region every day. Owing to her association with the project, one of her priority areas is initiatives for senior citizens, who have no one to take care of them. She plans to continue rubber tapping even if she wins, without compromising her responsibilities as a people’s representative.  Then, there is work at a restaurant, followed by food distribution for a panchayat project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-candidate-for-multiple-jobs/article33165401.ece
24 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bar case: hotelier alleges cover-up bid by Pinarayi||Kerala Bar Hotel Association (KBHA) former working president Biju Ramesh attempted to stir up a controversy on Monday by accusing Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of stopping dead the anti-corruption investigation against former Finance Minister and Kerala Congress (M) leader K.M. Mani. In the same breath, Mr. Ramesh also accused Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of accepting a bribe of Rs. 1 crore from the KBHA to roll back a proposed bar licence fee hike during the previous Oommen Chandy government. Mr. Ramesh said Mr. Vijayan had urged him not to backtrack on his complaint that the KBHA had bribed Mani to expedite the renewal of 418 bar licences the previous United Democratic Front (UDF) government had annulled on the ground that the hotels did not meet the minimum two-star standard. Stand reversal However, as Chief Minister in 2018, Mr. Vijayan abruptly reversed his position after he met Mani for breakfast at his residence. “The Chief Minister ordered the investigation halted,” Mr. Ramesh said. Mr. Ramesh said the LDF and the UDF were two sides of the same coin. “One covered up the corruption of the other when they came to power alternately,” he alleged. Soon, BJP State president K. Surendran echoed a similar sentiment and demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the scandal that rocked the previous UDF government. Mr. Ramesh’s simultaneous attack on the UDF and the LDF triggered intense speculation that he was promotingthe political interest of the BJP. However, he denied the accusation. Mr. Ramesh also alleged that Mr. Chennithala’s wife had “begged” him not to depose against her husband in court. Soon, Mr. Chennithala followed suit. Hence, he deposed only against the then Excise Minister K. Babu. He also accused Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani, MP, of offering him Rs. 10 crore to withdraw his complaint against K.M. Mani. Charges denied Mr. Chennithala has since denied the allegation. He also threatened to sue Mr. Ramesh for defamation if he did not withdraw the statement and render a public apology. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said Mr. Vijayan never interfered in the legal process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bar-case-hotelier-alleges-cover-up-bid-by-cm/article33165491.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special drive against sale of narcotics||A joint drive by the police, narcotics and excise departments will be launched in the district ahead of the upcoming local body elections to prevent the illegal sale and use of narcotic substances, District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Monday. As part of the drive, a 24-hour control room led by the Excise Department will be opened in the district on Tuesday, the Collector said. The elections to the local bodies in the district are scheduled to be held on December 8. Surveillance and inspection will be carried out across the district, including the checkposts, Ms. Khosa said, after chairing a meeting in this regard. Special teams will be formed by the police, excise and narcotics for carrying out inspection in the coastal areas. Inspection will be carried out in the forest regions with the assistance of the Forest Department. Arrangements will be made for carrying out joint inspections with the Railway Protection Force at railway stations, Ms. Khosa said. At present, nine squads are operational in the district for checking the sale of narcotics, Deputy Excise Commissioner P. V. Elias said. These squads function at the range level. The Excise Department has stepped up vigil at 15 minor checkposts and the two major checkposts with assistance from the Regional Transport Officer. Two 'strike forces' have been deployed for night-time patrolling, he said. ADM V. R. Vinod, Deputy Collector (Elections) John Samuel, Assistant Commissioner (Narcotics) Sheen Tharayil and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-drive-against-sale-of-narcotics/article33165480.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Welfare LDF’s main election plank||Employment generation, hike in welfare pension, providing basic amenities to all sections and evolving action plans for carbon neutrality are some of the key planks included by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in its manifesto for the local body elections. LDF convener and CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, CPI national executive member Pannian Ravindran and Nationalist Congress Party leader and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran on Monday launched the 16-page document that moots the slogan ‘A Vote for Development, a Vote for Social Harmony’. The coalition pitches for generating 10 lakh jobs through local self-government institutions (LSGIs) during the next five years. While half of the target will be achieved by ensuring an expansion of the job sector, the rest will be through small and medium-sized enterprises promoted in other sectors. A large chunk of jobs promised in the agricultural sector is envisaged by doubling the number of Kudumbashree-driven joint liability groups in the State. While around 3 lakh women were employed by 70,000 farming groups currently, the LDF hopes to create another 3 lakh jobs by increasing the number of such collectives to 1.5 lakh. They have also pledged to employ 3.5 lakh more people through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. While the State government has raised welfare pension to Rs. 1,400 from Rs. 600 , the LDF promises to hike it further to Rs. 1,500 from January 1. Setting sights on the next phase of the LIFE Mission, the coalition promises to meet the estimated requirement of around 5 lakh houses to ensure housing for all sections. They have also promised to provide everyone with food, water and electricity. Other promises In addition to promising permanent waste management solutions, the LDF manifesto also delves on environmental conservation. Hoping to extend the ongoing steps to achieve carbon neutrality, each Local Self Government Institution will evolve action plans on climate change. The LDF concludes its manifesto by touching upon recent controversies, including those surrounding the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, urging voters to ensure its victory to protect the State’s interests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-manifesto-promises-more-welfare-schemes/article33165494.ece
24 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Brothers lock horns in Maruthathoor||As election fever catches on, battlelines in Maruthathoor ward of the Neyyattinkara municipality have seen two brothers lock horns for rival coalitions. But unlike the popular Malayalam movie Sandesham , Purushothaman Nair and Sanal Kumar are not brothers at war. Mr. Purushothaman Nair is the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in the ward, while his younger brother Sanal Kumar is the choice of the United Democratic Front (UDF). Mr. Purushothaman Nair, who won from Maruthathoor ward in 1995 when it was part of the Perumpazhuthoor panchayat, is back in the fray after two decades, only to be pitted against his brother, a former armyman. Part of the DYFI from his student days in the early 1980s, Mr. Purushothaman Nair has been an active presence in the ward all these years, and feels his relationship with the people is what made the CPI(M) trust him to win the seat. His candidature, he feels, prompted the Congress to field his brother overlooking others ready to throw their hat in the ring. Mr. Sanal Kumar too was active in the KSU in his school and college days, but it is the first time that he is contesting the elections. A Congress booth president, he says the party has confidence that he will bring home the seat that was bagged by the LDF last time. He did not have second thoughts about contesting against his brother. “It is my responsibility to take up the job entrusted by the party and achieve success. I served the country as an armyman for 17 years, and now I’m working for my native place.” While their party ideologies are different and they spar over it, there is no animosity between the two. They live not too far away from each other and are committed that any political difference does not spill over into their brotherly bonding, says Mr. Purushothaman Nair. “Any difference is seen in that context; not as something that is to be made an issue within the family.” Mr. Sanal Kumar concurs. “This is not a contest between individuals but between parties. It is a contest between two different ideas but our personal relations need not suffer. Whoever wins, we should be able to accept the people’s verdict.” Mother undecided Their mother has accepted that both are fighting the polls. “She says do whatever you feel is right, but keep your relationship intact. That is what she has taught us. She has not decided whom to vote for and says whoever has the support of the people will win,” say the siblings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brothers-lock-horns-in-maruthathoor/article33165940.ece
24 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exciting tussle on cards in Neyyattinkara municipality||The 107-year-old Neyyattinkara municipality is set to witness an exciting tussle between the two main fronts, even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) looks to score an upset win in the upcoming local body elections. Neyyattinkara has long been a bastion of the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Since 1979, only once, in 2010, has the United Democratic Front (UDF) upset the apple cart. Independent support In 2015, the LDF emerged victorious only in half the 44 wards but managed to save face and come to power with Independent support. A rebel-plagued Congress held on to 12 seats, while the BJP, which last won a seat here in 2000, not only scooped up five wards, but finished a close second in 14. This time, the LDF is confident it will secure a comfortable majority to retain the municipality and be able to provide continuity in governance. With a seasoned leader like former CPI(M) area secretary P.K. Rajmohan in the forefront, the LDF hopes to capture at least 32 seats and cement its hold on the council. The presence in the fray of five party area committee members, including former municipal vice chairperson K.K. Shibu and CITU national council member V. Kesavan Kutty, is reassuring. The problems that have bogged down the State government recently will not have much of an impact here for people’s concerns are development at the local level, says CPI(M) area secretary Sreekumar T. Two rounds of campaigning are over, and a convention of LDF candidates in 44 wards will be followed by ward-level conventions and family meetings, says Mr. Sreekumar. The Congress is contesting all 44 wards this time. Though tight-lipped about the frontrunners for the chairperson’s post, the party is projecting DCC general secretary J. Jose Franklin and former municipal chairperson S.S. Jayakumar as its main candidates. The name of Leader of the Opposition in the past council A. Lalitha is doing the rounds as a possible vice chairperson candidate. The party has completed a couple of rounds of campaigning, and is set to distribute door-to-door a ‘charge sheet’ containing unkept promises of the LDF-ruled council, says Neyyattinkara block Congress committee president Venpakal Avaneendrakumar. A former councillor from Chundavila A. Prabha has left the Congress and joined the NDA to contest the polls, but Mr. Avaneendrakumar downplays it saying the candidate's loyalties were questionable. He also claims it is after long that the party is not facing rebel trouble. The BJP is optimistic it will improve its tally to 24 seats and bag the majority in the council. R. Rajesh, BJP Neyyattinkara Assembly constituency president, says they not only won five seats last time, but lost out the top spot in 14 wards by less than 20 votes. Taking that into account and the work done by the party in these five years, the party has reasons to feel confident. The BJP is contesting in 42 wards.,Shibu Raj Krishna, leader of the BJP in the council that just finished its term; former councillor S.S. Swapna Jith, and former Yuva Morcha State unit general secretary Ranjith Chandran are some of the prominent candidates. The BJP's poll plank is the 'failures' of both the LDF and the UDF on the development front, particularly town development, indoor stadium, refreshment centres for travellers, electric crematorium project, and waste management. Rebel trouble However, the BJP is facing rebel trouble with former party councillor from Nilamel V. Harikumar contesting as an Independent after he was denied a ticket in Alumoodu ward in favour of Manchathala Suresh, Karshaka Morcha district general secretary. The party hopes to extend the olive branch to Mr. Harikumar and persuade him to backtrack, says Mr. Rajesh. While R. Lekha of the CPI(M) has joined the Congress to contest from Ooruttukala ward, rebel trouble has reared its head in a couple of wards. The LDF though is not too perturbed, saying they are faring much better than their opponents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exciting-tussle-on-cards-in-neyyattinkara-municipality/article33165948.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Change necessitated by misuse: CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] acting State secretary and Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A. Vijayaraghavan has said that the controversial amendment to the Kerala Police Act, which the government has decided not to implement, was necessitated by the misuse of the freedom of expression which has affected various sections. Inaugurating the ‘Vottukaryam’ meet-the-press programme organised by the Kesari Memorial Journalists’ Trust here on Monday, he said that widespread concerns raised by liberal-minded people prompted the government to put the Ordinance on hold. “Being a government rooted in democratic ideals, it decided to adopt corrective steps to ensure that the law is not vulnerable to misuse. However, certain sections that hoped to reap political gains from the issue have apparently been disappointed by the decision,” he said. ‘Well-intentioned’ Pointing out that numerous Left workers have been victims to several draconian laws, including the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, Defence of India Rules and Preventive Detention Act, he said that the CPI(M) had always strived to uphold personal liberties. “However, we have witnessed rampant misuse of the social media in recent times. With such acts affecting various sections, such laws have become necessary under certain circumstances. The government’s move was a well-intentioned one,” he added. UDF’s poll slogan Taking a dig at the UDF’s purported decision to replace its slogan of ‘A Vote against Corruption’ for the local body polls, the CPI (M) leader said that it would have made the front a laughing stock, considering the fact that one of its former Ministers and a current lawmaker were behind the bars for corruption and financial fraud. He accused the Centre of attempting to scuttle the administrative system and development of the State by going against the federal values enshrined in the Constitution. “They have been using the enforcement agencies as political tools to destabilise a democratically elected government,” he said.  Government decided to adopt corrective steps to ensure that the law is not vulnerable to misuse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/change-necessitated-by-misuse-cpim/article33165495.ece
24 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Higher recoveries continue to be a relief||New cases of COVID-19 reported in the State dipped to 3,757 on Monday when testing done in 24 hours also dipped to 35,659 samples. However, the test positivity rate remained at 10.54%, more or less at the same rate of last week’s. The State also maintained the steady trend of the past two weeks, of reporting more recoveries than new cases, with 5,425 patients recovering from the infection. The active caseload of the State decreased by close to 1,700 cases to touch 64,166 cases. 22 more deaths The Health Department added 22 more deaths to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Monday, taking the official cumulative toll in the State to 2,071 deaths. Four deaths each were reported from Ernakulam and Thrissur, three from Kottayam, two each from Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram, while one death each was reported from Kollam, Alappuzha, Palakkad, Malappuram, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. Of the 3,757 new cases reported on Monday, 3,681 cases were locally acquired infections. No epidemiological link could be established in the case of 377 infections. The number of health-care workers who contracted COVID-19 is 32. Malappuram tops list Among districts, Malappuram again reported the highest number of new cases at 1,023 cases, Kozhikode 514, Palakkad 331, Ernakulam 325, Kottayam 279, Thrissur 278, Alapuzha 259, Thiruvananthapuram 229, Kollam 198, Kannur 144, Pathanamthitta 57, Idukki 49, Wayanad 39 and Kasaragod 32 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/higher-recoveries-continue-to-be-a-relief/article33165488.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||6,402 candidates in the fray in capital||The battle lines were drawn for the local body elections in Thiruvananthapuram after the deadline for withdrawal of nominations expired on Monday. As many as 6,402 candidates, including 3,329 women and 3,073 men, remained on the fray for the polls to various local bodies in the district, according to an official release. There are 4,710 candidates, including 2,464 women, who will be contesting to various grama panchayats. The numbers of candidates seeking election of the 11 block panchayats and the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat are 523 and 97 respectively. A total of 556 candidates are set to contest to the 100 wards of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, while 516 candidates are in the fray to the four municipalities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6402-candidates-in-the-fray-in-capital/article33165944.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||App to coordinate poll-related activities||The ‘Poll Manager’ app will be used to coordinate activities related to the local body elections in the district. Created by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), all activities, right from the moment polling officials receive the electronic voting machines (EVMs) to the point when they return them after the voting will be managed using this app, according to the authorities. The ‘Poll Manager’ app will be used on December 8, the voting day and the day before. This app will also be used to convey the poll percentages from the polling booths at regular intervals to the district control room. The app, which contains 21 pre-arranged questionnaires, will be used by the presiding officers, first polling officers, and sectoral officers. Data to be compiled The data updated by the polling officials will be compiled by the district-level nodal officers.  The app will also be used to convey poll percentages from polling booths at regular intervals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-manager-app-to-aid-in-election-work/article33165415.ece
24 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ED seeks details of Bineesh’s assets||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Karnataka has reportedly sought details of landed assets owned by Bineesh Kodiyeri in the State. It has reportedly written to the IG, Registration, seeking the details under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED in Bengaluru had arrested Bineesh on August 29 on drug trafficking-related money laundering charges. Subsequently, the Narcotic Control Bureau had also questioned him in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-seeks-details-of-bineeshs-assets/article33165500.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Soldier killed as car overturns in Parassala||A 29-year old soldier died after his car was involved in an accident near Parassala on Monday. The deceased was identified as Akhil, 29, of Veliyamkottukonam in Chenkavila. The incident occurred around 6 p.m. when Akhil and his friend Jibin Raj of Chenkavila were travelling in a car along the Ayira bypass road near Chenkavila. Akhil reportedly lost control of the car and could not prevent it from falling into a ditch and overturning on a side. While Akhil has brought dead at the Government Taluk Hospital in Parassala, Jibin continued to be in a critical condition in the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. Akhil had come to his native place for his marriage one-and-a-half months ago, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soldier-killed-as-car-overturns-in-parassala/article33165943.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested under KAAPA||The City police placed a notorious goon under preventive detention for the sixth time on Monday. The Nemom police arrested Kiran alias Melamcode Kiran, 39, of Ponnumangalam in Melamcode, who has been involved in numerous criminal cases. District Collector Navjot Khosa recently issued an order to detain him under provisions of the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) on the basis of a report submitted by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Divya V. Gopinath. 40 cases The accused has been allegedly involved in nearly 40 cases relating to murder attempt, burglary, assault, extortion and illegal sale of narcotics substances in various police stations including Poojappura, Karamana and Nemom as well as the Amaravila excise station. He has now been apprehended following an attack on a Karakkamandapam native on October 3 after which he also allegedly stole his phone, following which he had been absconding until his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-under-kaapa/article33165941.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC services to be hit as TDF joins stir||Employees owing allegiance to the INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation (TDF) in the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will resort to one day strike on November 26. The Kerala State Transport Workers Union and the KST Drivers Union under the TDF will resort to strike, TDF president Thampanoor Ravi said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-services-to-be-hit-as-tdf-joins-stir/article33165486.ece
24 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly 2||Applications have been invited for the education awards instituted by Kerala State Lottery Agents and Sellers Welfare Fund Board for the children of its members who scored highly in the SSLC, THLC, HSE, VHSC examinations this year. The entries must be submitted in the District Lottery Welfare Office by 5 p.m. on December 12. Further details can be obtained by contacting 0471-2325582.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/briefly-2/article33165942.ece
24 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RGCB Foundation Day||Prof P. Balaram, former Director, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, will deliver the Foundation Day lecture of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) here at 11 a.m on November 25. The topic of this year’s lecture is “Chemistry, Biology and the Unity of Nature.”The meeting link for the lecture ishttps://global.gototmeeting.com/join/791621653||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rgcb-foundation-day/article33165946.ece
24 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Life term for youth who killed woman||The Thrissur District Principal Sessions Court on Monday sentenced to life imprisonment Nidhish, 27, for killing 21-year-old Neethu, an engineering student, by stabbing and setting her ablaze, for turning down his marriage proposal. The court also slapped a fine of Rs. 5 lakh on Nidhish. The murder was committed on April 4, 2019, at Neethu’s uncle’s house. Nidhish had barged into the house with a knife and kerosene early in the morning and attacked her. Her uncle and grandmother nabbed him and handed him over to the police. He was working in a private firm at Kalamassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-term-for-youth-who-killed-woman/article33165905.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Question of survival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/question-of-survival/article33165417.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Leaving commuters powerless||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leaving-commuters-powerless/article33165815.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livelihood politics||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livelihood-politics/article33165404.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Solo fight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solo-fight/article33165911.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wait continues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wait-continues/article33165913.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Arrangements for polls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrangements-for-polls/article33165950.ece
24 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri Sathya Sai Global Council to come up next year||Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust (SSSCT) on Monday announced setting up of Sri Sathya Sai Global Council to monitor and guide the activities of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisations, both in India and other countries. The new body would function from Guru Purnima in 2021, said trustee S.S. Naganand, while presenting the report of Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust for the year ending March 2020, during the 95th birth anniversary celebrations of Sathya Sai Baba, held at Prashanthi Nilayam in Puttaparthi. Mr. Naganand listed various social, medical and educational activities being taken up. He said a new multimedia museum in Brindavan, Whitefield (Bengaluru), and a new convention centre at Prasanthi Nilayam were nearing completion, along with Sri Sathya Sai Media Centre. COVID-19 testing kit Referring to the dreaded COVID-19, he gave details of the initiatives of the trust to tackle the situation. At the 39th convocation of Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning (SSSIHL) held on Sunday, its Vice-Chancellor C.B. Sanjeevi said the Central Research Instruments set up at a cost of Rs. 53 crore helped researchers come out with a COVID-19 detection kit. Chief scientist at the World Health Organisation Soumya Swaminathan, who was chief guest at the convocation, said that technology plays an important role in society and cited examples of how institutions and countries used it to fight the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-sathya-sai-global-council-to-come-up-next-year/article33165212.ece
24 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State will have 25 or 26 districts soon: Botcha||The State will very soon have 25 or 26 districts once all the aspects related to the creation of the new districts are discussed and sorted out, Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana told the media here on Monday, after laying the foundation for the hospital blocks proposed at Kalyandurg and Rayadurg. “Demands are pouring in from various quarters to create new districts with separate cities and towns as their headquarters. However, a committee is looking into all those aspects. An announcement about the new districts will be made once all the issues are sorted out,” said the Minister. Approvals for layouts Mr. Satyanarayana further said that the government was seriously looking into the complaints of real-estate dealers cheating people in the name of layouts without taking permission from the Municipal authorities. “Those people cheated by the the dealers will be delivered justice. The LRS scheme has been re-started. In the future, no land registration will be done without obtaining the municipal approvals for the layout,” he said. Taking dig at the N. Chandrababu Naidu, Mr. Satyanarayana accused the TDP president of putting spokes in the land acquisition for distribution of house site pattas. “The government will keep aside the distribution of all such pieces of land and go ahead with the proposed distribution on December 25,” he said. ‘YSRCP ready for polls’ Saying that the YSRCP has no fear in facing local body elections, Mr. Styanarayana said the party was confident of winning the majority whenever it is held. “The YSRCP government has fulfilled 90% of the promises it has made within the first 18 months of assuming the office. The village and ward secretariats have taken the administration to the doorstep of the people,” he said, adding that the vision of the government is to ensure every section of the society get benefits of welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-will-have-25-or-26-districts-soon-botcha/article33165880.ece
24 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lodge manager done to death||A lodge manager, Pacharla Eswaraiah, 40, was done to death by three unidentified persons at Bathalapalli in the early hours of Monday reportedly for refusing to provide a room to them. According to Dharmavaram police, that the three accused came to Uma Lodge in the village past midnight and demanded a room without paying any advance amount, which Eswaraiah refused. The accused then persons allegedly dragged him out pushed him to the ground and banged his head to the ground. Listening to the scuffle, the owner of the lodge reportedly came out and saw the three persons fleeing. The police suspect the accused could be locals. No CCTV camera As there was no CCTV camera in the lodge, the police are going through cellphone tower locations to identify the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lodge-manager-done-to-death/article33165862.ece
24 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM urged to initiate steps to form Seema State||Rayalaseema Rashtra Samithi Party president K. Venkata Subba Reddy on Monday has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to initiate steps for formation of the Greater Rayalaseema State with eleven districts with Rayalaseema, Nellore and Ongole in Coastal Andhra; Raichur, Bellary and Kolar from Karnataka; and Vellore and Krishnagiri from Tamil Nadu. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister, the RRSP president said that the demand was in tune with Article 3 of the Constitution. He said that if the State of Greater Rayalaseema was not formed by December 2023, the party activists would storm New Delhi to launch protests. Mr. Venkata Subba Reddy also demanded that the Prime Minister release funds to the tune of Rs. 10 lakh crore for the special development of the Greater Rayalaseema region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pm-urged-to-initiate-steps-to-form-seema-state/article33165863.ece
24 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New vegetable market to ease traffic congestion||Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy on Monday inaugurated the newly-constructed municipal vegetable market at M.R.Palle-Vaikuntapuram park zone. Speaking on this occasion, Mr. Karunakar Reddy said the market, set up with an outlay of Rs. 52.68 lakh, has been facilitated for the public of M.R. Palle, Vaikuntapuram and surrounding areas on the outskirts keeping in view the expanding population of the city. Now, there is no need for people to go to Indira Priyadarshini municipal market in the heart of the city, 5 km away, or the rythu bazaar at Annamaiah Circle, he said. The MLA said the facility would also help ease traffic congestion in the city and provide empowerment of several entrepreneurs and farmers as well. Road under Bridge Earlier, the MLA along with Commissioner (Municipal Corporation of Tirupati) P.S. Girisha and MLC Srinivasa Reddy took part in the “bhumi puja” ceremony for the construction of the Road under Bridge at the Rayalacheruvu railway gate in Tirupati. The project, taken up with the Municipal Corporation and the Indian Railways, is estimated to cost Rs. 4.5 crore. Mr. Karunakar Reddy said that the project had been pending for the last two decades. “Steps are underway to complete the project in four to five months ,” the MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-vegetable-market-to-ease-traffic-congestion/article33165866.ece
24 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu Veerraju, officials visit Sri City||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president and MLC Somu Veerraju, accompanied by S. Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, vice president of Nehru Yuva Kendra Sanghatan (NYKS), Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, and V. Narayana Reddy, MLC, visited Sri City on Monday. Ravindra Sannareddy, Founder and Managing Director, Sri City extended a warm welcome to the guests and gave a presentation on its infrastructure and the features and the job opportunities created. Impressed with the eco friendly ambiance of Sri City, Mr. Veerraju appreciated the initiatives taken by the management in developing such a large industrial park. “It is very heartening to note that it offers job opportunities for over 50,000 people, 50% of them being women,” he said. Appreciating the efforts in creating jobs for youth, Mr. Vishnu Vardhan Reddy said, “Country cannot prosper unless youth are trained and employed. I am happy to note Sri City is doing its best in this direction.” Mr. Sannareddy said that the during their visit, the guests had evinced good interest to know more about Sri City, and the visit reflects their keenness and seriousness in monitoring the development works in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-veerraju-officials-visit-sri-city/article33165864.ece
24 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man charged with forcing wife into flesh trade||A 32-year-old man has been arrested by the police on charges of blackmailing his wife after posting obscene pictures in some social media websites. B. Vamsikanth Reddy, the prime accused, was charged under various Sections of the IPC and the IT Act. The police also arrested four others on charges of sharing the videos and allegedly behaving in an inappropriate manner with the victim. The episode came to light when the victim, mustered courage and approached the Disha police station, alleging that her husband had allegedly taken her videos without her knowledge and posted them in some paid social media sites. Further, he had allegedly coerced her to appear in videos. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban. R.N. Ammireddy, formed special teams to handle the case and during the course of investigation, it was found that the husband had allegedly forced his wife into flesh trade in return for easy money. The police presented the accused before the media on Monday. The accused had also reportedly cheated his wife and in-laws before marriage, stating that he had a government job, but later, it was found that he had never worked in government. The family members settled the matter but soon, the accused allegedly began pressuring the victim to get more dowry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-charged-with-forcing-wife-into-flesh-trade/article33165213.ece
24 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Land acquisition process for medical colleges begins’||East Godavari In-Charge Minister, who also holds revenue portfolio, Dharmana Krishna Das, has said that land acquisition for construction of three medical colleges has begun in the district, where Primary Health Centres are being renovated by spending Rs. 67 crore. The Minister was speaking at the District Review Committee (DRC) meeting here on Monday.  Input subsidy District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy informed the people’s representatives that Rs. 1,900 crore was spent on land acquisition for the housing project in the district. While reviewing the irrigation projects, Mr. Krishna Das directed the officials to initiate action for modernisation of Yeleru irrigation system and flood banks of the river Godavari which have been found weak during the recent floods. On the agriculture front, Joint Director of Agriculture Department K.V.S. Prasad said that Rs. 59.30-crore input subsidy was provided to over one lakh farmers affected by the floods in the Godavari and Yeleru irrigation system during the monsoon. Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu announced that the State government was initiating measures to procure discoloured paddy through Rythu Bharosa Kendras. Responding to District Central Cooperative Bank Chairman A. Uday Bhaskar on the alleged scandal in the Individual Sanitary Latrines (ISL) project in the Agency, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy assured him of ordering an inquiry into it. B.C. Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna, Social Welfare Minister P. Viswarup and Peddapuram MLA Nimmakayala China Rajappa and district officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-acquisition-process-for-medical-colleges-begins/article33165216.ece
24 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders engage in war of words at meeting||Kakinada MLA Dwarampudi Chandrasekhar Reddy and Rajya Sabha MP Pilli Subhash Chandrabose on Monday resorted to war of words with vulgar language, displaying indecent behaviour in the presence of group of Ministers from East Godavari district and MLAs during the District Review Meeting at Zilla Parishad hall. The meeting had to be called off before the lunch session as the situation turned unfavourable to proceed further. Mr. Subhash Chandrabose sought an action on the alleged scandal in the TIDCO housing project and advised that the ongoing construction of bridge in the city should be stopped to avoid inundation of areas located on the banks in future. Responding to the observations made by Mr. Subhash Chandrabose, Mr. Chandrasekhar Reddy attempted to offer an explanation on the projects in progress in the city, but the discussion soon heated up into a bitter war of words between the two. District In-Charge and Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, Rajanagaram MLA and Kapu Corporation Chairman J. Raja and Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu tried in vain to intervene between the duo, finally consenting to call it a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-leaders-engage-in-war-of-words-at-meeting/article33165214.ece
24 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Requests pour in as ‘Spandana’ resumes after a brief hiatus||A non-resident Indian residing in Dallas, U.S., sought the intervention of Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal during ‘Spandana Beyond Border’ programme, which was resumed on Monday after a brief break necessitated by the high incidence of coronavirus cases in the district. The NRI, A.Ranga Reddy, who interacted with the SP through video conferencing facility, complained that some persons in his native village, Kandulapuram, near Cumbum, allegedly tried to usurp the ancestral property by forging his father’s signature. SP promises action Giving a patient hearing, the SP asked the police personnel concerned to investigate the matter immediately and ensure justice to the NRI and his family members. The SP also asked the Giddalur police to initiate legal action into the case of a 21-year-old woman from Diguvamitta who alleged that her husband and her in-laws were harassing her for more dowry. A total of 98 grievances were received from all over the district, out of which 65 are through ‘Spandana’, 32 through ‘Spandana online’, 1 through Spandana Beyond Border. The complainants from all subdivisions (Ongole-8, Chirala-2, Darsi-2, Markapuram-12, Kandukur-8) spoken to the SP. The SP directed the police officers concerned to address the complaints as per the legal provisions. Timings Speaking on the occasion, the SP said complainants could speak face to face with him via video conference every Monday between 2.30 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. from any police station of their choice without coming all the way to Ongole. Differently-abled people, elderly persons and those living outside the district could also seek redressal of their grievances through the facility. They could also call 9121104792 or leave a mail on iccrongole.100@gmail.com or contact any police officer in the district to book their time slot to speak with the SP through the facility. A special ‘virtual room’ has been set up so that the complainants could feel free to air their grievances only to the SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/requests-pour-in-as-spandana-resumes-after-a-brief-hiatus/article33165870.ece
24 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll climbs to 494 in Nellore with one death||The toll due to coronavirus edged up to 1,071 in South coastal Andhra Pradesh as one more patient succumbed to the pandemic in Nellore district in the last 24 hours, while its neighbouring district Prakasam registered zero deaths for the third consecutive day, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Monday night. Prakasam’s toll remained unchanged at 577, while it marginally rose to 494 in Nellore district. Meanwhile, the trend of more persons returning home on recovery continued and fresh cases continued to decline further. As many as 55 persons tested positive to the virus taking the cumulative confirmed cases to little over 1.24 lakh. With 158 patients recuperating during the period, the number of active cases came down to 1,444. The recovery rate improved to a healthy 98.37% as over 1.22 lakh patients had been cured of the viral disease so far. For the first time in a while, Prakasam district recorded just 25 fresh cases in a span of 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 61,290. The number of active cases declined to 538 as 61 persons reported to have recovered during the period. Over 200 infected persons in 11 COVID-19 hospitals responded positively to the treatment. The remaining patients were home quarantined. With 30 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases rose slightly to 62,737 in Nellore district. The caseload came down to little over 900 patients as 97 patients were cured of the disease in the district during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-climbs-to-494-in-nellore-with-one-death/article33165868.ece
24 November 2020||PERUPALEM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Fisherfolk oppose rampant tourism activities on Perupalem coast||The fisherfolk and farmers of Perupalem coastal belt in West Godavari district led by the Human Rights Forum (HRF) on Monday condemned the extensive tourism activities and the infrastructure facilities being created for the purpose in the Coast Regulatory Zone (CRZ). On Monday, the coastal communities met at South Perupalem and deliberate on denial of their rights over the coastline, marine ecosystem and land by the government and private players. HRF Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Coordination Committee member V.S. Krishna said, “The fisherfolk are already suffering due to dwindling fish catch in sea in recent years and are now depending on land, cultivating coconut and casuarina plantations. The State tourism authorities and private players are threatening their livelihood with their intensified activities. They have already violated the CRZ guidelines, disturbing the fragile coast belt of Perupalem with illegal constructions.”  The State government’s encouragement to tourism infrastructure was a systematic deprivation of the natural right of the local communities on their coast, said Mr. Krishna, who joined the fisherfolk in a rally to the Narasapuram Sub-Collector office against the tourism activities. ‘Authorities silent’ HRF State secretary Y. Rajesh and State committee member G. Rohit alleged that the competent authorities remained silent on the brazen violations of the CRZ rules on the Perupalem beach front. “The Revenue and Police authorities have earlier uprooted coconut and casuarina plantations grown by the local communities in a large extent by the beach, paving the way for tourism facilities,” said Mr. Rajesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fisherfolk-oppose-rampant-tourism-activities-on-perupalem-coast/article33165896.ece
24 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bring pressure on Centre to complete Polavaram project’||Communist Party of India State Secretary K. Ramakrishna on Monday demanded that the State government should bring pressure on the Centre to fulfil the promise of completing Polavaram project, instead of trying to convince the people on the ‘betrayal’ by it. Addressing the media here, Mr. Ramakrishna came down heavily on the Centre. “The Central government has promised to complete the construction of the Polavaram project during the State bifurcation. Now, it is reneging on the promise by denying the required financial aid for Polavaram project,” he said. The ‘silence of the State government on this issue was also taking a toll on the idea of interlinking of the Godavari river with the Krishna and supplying water to the north Andhra region through Polavaram project, said Mr. Ramakrishna, adding that the CPI would meet political parties, farmers and intellectuals to bring pressure on the Centre to complete Polavaram project. Dam height Referring to the idea of decreasing the height of the Polavaram project from 150 feet to 139 feet, Mr. Ramakrishna lamented that the interlinking of the Godavari with the Krishna would remain a dream if the height was decreased. “A roundtable will be organised in Vijayawada on November 30 to discuss the future course of action to get the sufficient Central funds for Polavaram project,” said Mr. Ramakrishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bring-pressure-on-centre-to-complete-polavaram-project/article33165882.ece
24 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of family ‘end life’||Four members of a family allegedly ended their lives on Monday reportedly following a matrimonial dispute under One Town police limits in Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district. Bhupathi Siva Pavani, 31, reportedly served food laced with poison to her son B. Nishaan,12, and daughter B. Rithika,7, before she and her mother, Sangisetti Krishnaveni, 59, ended their lives by by hanging at their residence. The family allegedly resorted to the extreme step after Ms. Pavani’s husband, B. Nagendra Kumar from Vijayawada, reportedly decided to marry again. Rajamahendravaram Urban SP Shemushi Bajpai said investigation was on to ascertain further details. Investigation Officer and Central Zone DSP J.V. Santosh said the family, led by Pavani, reportedly discussed the issue with her husband in Vijayawada on Sunday and returned to Rajamahendravaram at night. Police complaint Ms. Pavani had recently lodged a complaint with local Disha police over the matrimonial dispute and physical harassment by her husband. Two months ago, the couple were counselled by the Disha police.  “We have received the information regarding the incident on Monday morning and sent the bodies to the Government Hospital in the city for post- mortem,” Mr,. Santosh said. Those with suicide tendencies could dial 100 and Rajamahendravaram police (94907-60792) for help and counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-of-family-end-life/article33165893.ece
24 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bridge repair to be over by Dec.-end||Member of Parliament from Rajamahendravaram M. Bharat on Monday said that the repair works of the Gammon bridge across the Godavari river would be completed by December-end. A team of Mumbai-based engineers led by Sanjay Mishra and Mr. Bharat on Monday inspected the ongoing works. The bridge connecting Diwan Cheruvu area in the city to Kovvuru in West Godavari district is the prime roadway for major vehicles. Traffic movement on the bridge suffered in recent years due to delay in taking up repair works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bridge-repair-to-be-over-by-dec-end/article33165894.ece
24 November 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees steady drop in cases||The district and the city has been witnessing a steady slump in COVID-19 cases, in this month. In the last 20 days, the district recorded about 1,600 cases, averaging about 80 cases per day. But despite the steady drop in cases, health officials fear that there could be a second wave. From July to September, the district recorded over 40,000 cases. The slump began from October, when the number of cases was below 6,000. “In November, it has dropped further, but we are anticipating a second wave due to the errant public behaviour,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. The health officials say that people have become complacent and have thrown the basic COVID protocols to the wind. “The Karthik Masam has just begun and people are actively taking part in ‘Vana Bhojanam’ or picnics. The picnics can wait for another year, as people are seen interacting with others without maintaining the basic norms of wearing a mask or maintaining social distancing,” said a senior doctor from KGH. Last Sunday, there was heavy rush at the beaches, zoo and various other picnic spots, including Araku and Anantagiri. “Even at testing centres, many people are seen coming without wearing a mask and some are seen wearing it around their neck. We are trying out best to educate the public through a sustained Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign, but it appears to go in vain,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “The only way to stop a second wave is by staying more vigilant and cautious. This is the time that people should be more cautious, as winter is setting in and we do not know how the virus will react,” he said. 21 new cases Meanwhile, the district recorded lowest number of daily cases since last five months on Monday. The tally of new cases on Monday was 21, taking the tally to 58,239. This has been the lowest daily record since July. According to Dr. Sudhakar, in the last 24 hours about 3,000 people were tested and only 25 turned out to be positive. Two deaths The district also recorded two deaths on Monday taking the total death count to 503. The number persons discharged was 81, taking the total discharges to 56, 545 and active cases stand at 1,191. The very active clusters as on date is one, active clusters four, dormant 325 and de-notified 627.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-steady-drop-in-cases/article33166015.ece
24 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||President to spend three hours at Tirumala today||President Ramnath Kovind accompanied by his family members will arrive at Tirumala on Tuesday for the darshan of Lord Venkateswara. The President will be spending about three hours here during his entire six-hour trip. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will receive the President at the airport and accompany him on his pilgrimage. Mr. Kovind is scheduled to fly in at Tirupati airport at 10.30 a.m. from Chennai and drive straight to the temple of goddess Padmavati at Tiruchanoor. From there he will reach the Padmavati guest house at Tirumala around 12.15 p.m. After a brief stay, he will visit the Varahaswamy temple as is the tradition, and then have darshan at the Lord Venkateswara temple. He is scheduled to reach the airport around 4.50 p.m. and fly back to Chennai. It is tentatively planned to suspend the darshan at the Tirumala temple a couple of hours in advance so as to enable the security personnel complete the mandatory sterilisation ahead of Mr. Kovind’s visit. The TTD, district revenue and police authorities have made elaborate arrangements for the visit. Inspection  TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy accompanied by Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Collector Narayan Bharat Gupta, Tirupati (Urban) SP A. Ramesh Reddy and Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy inspected all the places the President is scheduled to visit and took stock of the arrangements. The Collector told the officials and personnel to strictly adhere to health protocols and compulsorily wear a mask while on duty. The Collector and the staff taking part in the President’s programme underwent COVID-19 tests at the airport and the RDO office. He directed the District Medical and Health Officer (SNHO) to make N95 masks available in all the vehicles in the President’s convoy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/president-to-spend-three-hours-at-tirumala-today/article33165898.ece
24 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP’s Dubbak victory is KCR’s defeat: Babu Mohan||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s victory in Dubbak byelections should be construed as a defeat for Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao rather than his party, said BJP leader and actor-turned-politician Babu Mohan. Speaking to media here on Monday, he said the migration of leaders from various political parties which began in 2018, with the BJP winning four parliamentary seats, had reached its peak after the Dubbak results. The notion that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would again sweep the polls for the third time was attracting several leaders to the BJP’s fold. As far as the Congress is concerned, it would neither come to power either in Centre or in Telangana. Mr. Babu Mohan said the BJP was all set to win the GHMC elections. “I prayed for a good mandate in favour of the party in the elections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjps-dubbak-victory-is-kcrs-defeat-babu-mohan/article33165883.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abhayam app launched for safety of women passengers||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday launched “Abhayam” mobile phone application which helps women and children travelling in taxis and autorickshaws to raise an alarm in case of any emergency. To start with, 1,000 auto rickshaws equipped with Internet of Things (IoT)-enabled GPS devices would be rolled out in Visakhapatnam city. About 5,000 vehicles would be brought on to the platform by February 1, 50,000 by July 1 and 1 lakh by November 2021 covering Vijayawada and Tirupati and other towns later. Launching the app, Mr. Jagan said the government accorded top priority to the safety of women and children and that Andhra Pradesh was the first State to bring out a legislation (Disha Bill) for the security of women. Disha police stations were set up and steps were taken for establishing special courts and posting dedicated public prosecutors to ensure speedy disposal of cases of attack on women. Women police constables were being attached to every village and ward secretariat to help women in distress. Alert to police To be operated by the Transport Department, the Abhayam app would help the women in alerting the police by pressing a panic button in the event of their landing in any trouble. Disha app is handled by the police The policemen would be able to reach out to the women in need in 10 minutes by virtue of the vehicle tracking facility provided by the IoT-based system. Passengers have to scan QR codes displayed on the vehicles to facilitate tracking. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the autorickshaw drivers should not consider it as viewing them with suspicion. Rather, Abhayam sends a message that taxis and autorickshaws in the State were as safe as the vehicles operated by multi-national cab aggregators. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita and Principal Secretary (Road Transport and Buildings) M.T. Krishna Babu and other officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abhayam-app-for-women-passengers-in-ap/article33165143.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quantum jump in GST collections in October||Much to the relief of the officials, the GST collections improved significantly in the State in October 2020. There is a growth of 28.33% in the collections compared to the corresponding period the previous year. The Commercial Taxes Department realised Rs. 3,868.54 crore against Rs. 3,014.49 crore in October 2019. “In fact, it is a quantum jump in the GST collections in October if compared with 7.86% in September 2020,” says a senior official. The collections were only Rs. 1,984.67 crore in September 2019. The revenue reached Rs. 2,140.65 crore in September 2020. The collections were only Rs. 1,955.02 crore in August 2020 compared to Rs. 2,115.13 crore in August 2019. “The collections seem to be falling in line since September,” the official says. The GST revenue achieved, including the compensation component, stood at Rs. 2,688.78 crore in October 2020 against Rs. 1,440.82 crore in October 2019. The GST collections, including compensation, between April and October 2020 stood at Rs. 11,543.87 crore against Rs. 12,351.86 crore during the corresponding period the previous year, sources say. Interestingly, there was a dip in the GST revenues during the first quarter in 2019-20 too. The previous financial year started on a positive note as the GST collections touched Rs. 2,113.54 crore. But in the subsequent months, there was a dip. The State government, apparently, could not sustain the momentum during the first quarter then. The revenue was considerably good during April 2019. However, during May and June, the target could not be achieved. While Rs. 1,892 crore was set as target for every month, the collections did not cross Rs. 1,650 crore each in May and June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quantum-jump-in-gst-collections-in-october/article33165892.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||EAMCET topper meets CM||EAMCET (Agriculture) topper G. Chaitanya Sindhu met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Monday. The Chief Minister congratulated Ms. Sindhu who secured top rank in the agriculture stream of EAMCET-2020 and advised her to provide best services to the poor after completion of her medical course. Ms. Sindhu’s father G. Koteswara Prasad and mother Sudharani and Children's Space Club of India Secretary G. Shanta Murthy were present. Sindhu is a native of Tenali. She topped EAMCET (agriculture) in both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and was also AP topper in NEET-2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eamcet-agriculture-topper-meets-chief-minister/article33165222.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 districts report fewer than 50 new cases||The State reported 545 new COVID infections and 10 deaths in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. The tally increased to 8,62,758 and toll rose to  6,948. The single-day infection tally was lowest in over five months and also the single-day positivity rate at 1.12% was also the lowest in over 5.5 months. At 47,130, the number of samples tested in the past day was lower than the tests conducted during the past several days. So far 96.66 lakh samples were tested and the overall positivity rate stands at 8.93%. The recovery rate slightly increased to 97.64% while the death rate stands at 0.81%. With 1,390 patients being recovered in the past day, the number of active cases came down to 13,394  and the total recoveries increased to 8,42, 416. Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts reported two new deaths each while Chittoor, Kadapa, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reported no deaths in the past day. Six districts reported one new death each. Only Guntur (117) and East Godavari (104) reported more than 100 new infections and West Godavari reported 76 new cases. Ten districts reported less than 50 new infections. They include Krishna (44), Chittoor (32), Kadapa (31), Nellore (30), Prakasam (25), Visakhapatnam (21), Anantapur (19), Srikakulam (19), Vizianagaram (17) and Kurnool (10). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,21,728), West Godavari (91,651), Chittoor (83,126), Guntur (72,178), Anantapur (66,493), Prakasam (61,290), Nellore (61,171), Kurnool (60,085), Visakhapatnam (57,727), Kadapa (54,077), Srikakulam (45,326), Krishna (44,521) and Vizianagaram (40,490).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-districts-report-fewer-than-50-new-cases/article33165878.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Incentive package announced for Adani data centre project||The State government on Monday announced a package of incentives to the Adani Enterprises Limited (AEL) for setting up an Integrated Data Centre Park and Technology/Business Park in Visakhapatnam, on the recommendations of the State Investment Promotion Board, said a G.O. issued by Special Chief Secretary (industries and commerce) R. Karikal Valaven. Among the incentives is the extension of the timeline for implementing the project under the AI Cloud Hub Policy 2018-20, on the condition that it must commence operations within three years and the whole project be completed within seven years from date of handing over of the land. The government also announced alienation of the entire available 257.37 acres of land which is currently in the possession of the Tourism Department to the APIIC. The other components of the incentive package are allotment of 130 acres of land in another survey number that is usable as per the Town Planning Rules and Regulations in force after its demarcation by the APIIC and Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (the project proponent will be charged Rs. 1 crore per acre for the land so allotted) and provision of power incentives as per distribution license option for 20 years from the date of handing over of the land. SGST reimbursement Besides, 100% reimbursement of SGST will be given on all data centre units, electrical, communication and IT equipment for capital expenditure for seven years from the date of handing over of land. The data centre will be provided 24×7 water supply and the government will facilitate setting up of a 600 MW renewable energy park by the AEL at its own cost on its own land provided such a project is located within A.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/incentive-package-announced-for-adani-data-centre-project/article33165886.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power-for-all works exempted from reverse tendering, judicial preview||The State government on Monday issued a G.O. exempting ‘Power-for-All’ (PfA) works under the World Bank (WB) project from reverse tendering and judicial preview, directing that the tender process should be followed as per the World Bank’s procurement guidelines. According to the G.O. (MS No.26) issued by Energy Secretary N. Srikant, the exemption has been granted as the WB has not accepted the procedures introduced by the G.O. Ms.No.69 through which AP Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) Act, 2019 has been enacted, subjecting all infrastructure projects including Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects requiring an investment of over Rs. 100 crore to judicial preview to ensure transparency and to secure competition and equal opportunities. Another reason is that the Ministry of Finance (MoF), in its communication dated April 3, 2020, said that the loan agreements were with international agencies and the State laws should be exempted from the implementation of such projects, and because the loan agreement was signed prior to the issuance of the G.O. No. 69. The CMDs of the AP-Transco and the APEPDCL, the APCPDCL and the SPDCL have been mandated to complete the procurement process as agreed and ensure that the project is completed as per schedule in fulfilment of the assurance given to the Directorate of Economic Affairs of MoF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-for-all-works-exempted-from-reverse-tendering-judicial-preview/article33165888.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. focusses on food processing||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has the government is spending about Rs. 10,000 crore on augmenting the infrastructure in the food processing sector covering the entire supply chain. He insisted that a concerted effort should be made to facilitate remunerative price to farmers. At a review meeting on the proposed food processing clusters on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that officials should identify the places where the clusters should be ideally set up in order to realise the full potential of a rich variety of food crops grown in the State. Emphasis should be laid on solving the problems faced by plantain, sugarcane, chilli, tomato, mango and turmeric farmers and means to add value to those crops be explored. A separate wing in the government should work on processing and packing aspects, the Chief Minister said, agreeing with the suggestion by officials that a mega food processing plant would give a fillip to the sector.  Officials told the Chief Minister that it would be good to have a food processing plant in each Parliamentary constituency, with which the latter concurred and called for an action plan. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the Rythu Bharosa Kendras play a crucial role in growing high-quality crops, by supplying the required inputs to farmers. Millets have tremendous scope for value addition, which should not be wasted, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-focusses-on-food-processing/article33165221.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Cooperative societies’ role crucial in strengthening rural economy’||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has said that cooperative societies play a crucial role in strengthening the rural economy and in ensuring socio-economic development of the country in an inclusive and sustainable manner. Mr. Harichandan participated in the convocation of Vaikunth Mehta National Institute for Cooperative Management (VAMNICOM), Pune, Maharashtra, through video link from the Raj Bhavan on Monday. Addressing the participants, he said the cooperative movement, which was one the world’s largest, acted as an enabler to unify local human resources and channelise energies for the growth of rural India, and with more than eight lakh cooperatives, they had a significant presence in all the areas of socio-economic activities. The Governor said dairy cooperatives had ushered in milk revolution in the country making AMUL a household name, and institutions like IFFCO, KRIBHCO, and AMUL had become big success stories in the cooperative sector. Besides, a large number urban cooperative banks, primary agriculture cooperative societies, housing, fishery etc. at State-level, were contributing to improving the socio-economic conditions of the people in the rural areas. Mr. Harichandan virtually presented medals to top three rank holders in the PG Diploma in Management- Agri-Business Management programme. VAMNICOM director K.K. Tripathy, Joint Programme Director Dr. D. Ravi, Secretary to Governor Mukesh Kumar Meena and others took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cooperative-societies-role-crucial-in-strengthening-rural-economy-governor/article33165211.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP decries ‘attack’ on Muslim man in Guntur||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) State president K. Atchannaidu has deplored that the the condition of Muslims in the State was deteriorating under the ‘atrocious rule’ of the YSRCP government. Condemning the alleged attack on Moizzim Haneef in Guntur, the home district of Home Minister M. Sucharitha, Mr. Atchannaidu said ‘the attack by the YSRCP leaders on Haneef was alarming and despotic.’ In a statement on Monday, the TDP leader said that crimes against Muslims had been on rise in the State. “The hate crimes against Muslims has increased in the past 18 months. It poses a question that whether the Muslims in the State have any right to life under the present dispensation,” said Mr. Atchannaidu. The TDP leader said that it is time the YSRCP government explained to the minorities as to why it was failing to take deterrent action against those responsible for such atrocities. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has made countless promises for the welfare of the weaker sections . But, it is a fact that he is running an oppressive rule ,” alleged Mr. Atchannaidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-decries-attack-on-muslim-man-in-guntur/article33165885.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC asks advertisers to renew registration||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has asked all the agencies advertising through display boards in the city to register or renew registration on or before November 30. In a release, VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said the advertisements displayed through the display boards would be considered illegal and action will be taken against the owners as per law if they failed to renew their registrations or apply for new Shops sealed Meanwhile, VMC officials sealed six shops in the IGMC Stadium complex as the lease holders failed to handover the shops upon completion of 25 years of lease period. Also, shops in the Sri Krishna Devaraya Complext on Eluru Road were sealed as the lease holders failed to pay rent for a long time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmc-asks-advertisers-to-renew-registration/article33165993.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apadha Mitra community volunteers||Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority Commissioner K. Kanna Babu said that Apadha Mitra community volunteers will be trained in all the districts to help the administration. National Disaster Management Authority joint secretary Ramesh Kumar and others reviewed the APSDMA programmes here on Monday. Mr. Kanna Babu said of the 200 Apadha Mitras selected for Krishna district, 102 had completed training and the remaining were under training. He said volunteers would be picked and trained in all the districts soon. The team took stock of the programmes being implemented by SDMA in line with the NDMA guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apadha-mitra-community-volunteers/article33165994.ece
24 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health Dept. braces for cyclone Nivar||With the severe cyclonic storm Nivar likely to cause heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in Rayalaseema and South Coastal districts in Andhra Pradesh, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has sounded alert and asked the officials to brace up for any emergency. Health and Family Welfare, Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar asked the District Medical and Health Officers to form teams which will be deployed at relief centres and keep drugs, disinfectants ready in sufficient quantities. Medical camps He asked to officials to make arrangements for alternative power sources such as generators at hospitals including PHCs at villages, two ambulances at the PHCs in the high-risk areas. Officials were also told to deploy physical and mental trauma teams, identify vendors for food supply, shift pregnant women with due dates around the week to hospitals and organise medical camps in medium risk areas. Rain forecast As per the forecast, the districts in Ralayaseema and South Coastal region are likely to receive heavy to extreme rainfall on November 25 and 26. During the same days, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-dept-braces-for-cyclone-nivar/article33165875.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra-Odisha border dispute erupts again||The ongoing border dispute at Dumbriguda mandal in Visakha Agency is inching towards a major controversy, as there are indications that the dispute is fuelled by an alleged mining mafia. About 20 days ago, some locals from villages in Koraput district of Odisha bordering Andhra Pradesh, accompanied by some officials from that State, walked into Kolaput panchayat in Dumbriguda mandal on the Andhra Pradesh side, and allegedly forcibly encroached about 600 metres on the A.P. side. They also reportedly removed the signboards and stones demarcating the border and shifted them about 600 metres inside the A.P. side. The incident took place at Kolaput panchayat in Dumbriguda mandal and four villages of Decapadu, Bodalamamidi, Nitamamidi and Kolaput have been affected. A day after this was reported in the media, a team headed by the tahsildar and forest officials visited the spot and confirmed that the stones and signboards were shifted about 600 metres on the A.P. side. The incident happened in Malisingharam Gasaba Reserve forest, and some hillocks, roads, forest and patta lands and farm lands, have come under the alleged forced encroachment. The borders between Andhra and Odisha were discussed and demarcated way back in 1953, when Andhra Pradesh state was formed. Mining It is learnt that the motive behind the forced encroachment is gaining control over some hillocks that apparently contain granite. According to a senior police officer, the entire scheme was planned allegedly by a local politician on the Odisha side, who had interest in mining. Some hills on the other side in Koraput were being quarried for granite, and the attempt was allegedly made to gain control over a few hillocks in Dumbriguda mandal, to extend the quarry area. “In an attempt to do so, they have not only encroached our patta and farm lands, but destroyed acres of coffee and silver oak plantations,” said Kilo Surendra of Girijan Sangham. These villages are not far from Livitiputtu village in Dumbriguda mandal, where Araku MLA Kidari Sarveswara Rao and former MLA Siveri Soma were killed by the Maoists in September 2018. Though Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao confirmed that there had been no law and order issue so far in the border area, there was an uneasy calm in area with the reports of movement of some Maoist cadres.  Joint survey ITDA, Paderu, Project Officer S. Venkateswar said that initial survey by the revenue and forest had confirmed the shifting of boards about 600 metres inside A.P., but efforts were on to mitigate the dispute at the earliest. “We have already spoken to the officials concerned on the Odisha side and the District Collectors, RDOs and Deputy Collectors of both sides are in touch,” he said. “Both the sides have decided to conduct a joint survey and it will be done shortly to resolve the issue permanently and as of now we are maintaining status quo,” said Mr. Venkateswar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-odisha-border-dispute-erupts-again/article33165901.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people stage novel protest||Tribal people of various hamlets, in Anantagiri mandal in the Agency area of the district, who laid kutcha roads with 'shramdaan' staged a novel protest near the Gandhi statue, seeking immediate laying of BT roads. The participants wearing ‘adda’ leaves and carrying ‘dolis’ staged the protest. Later, they went in a rally to the Collectorate. As many as 300 tribal people of eight villages formed a 15-km kutcha road. The government had sanctioned Rs. 15 crore for construction of a BT road but the work has not been started to this day. They demanded immediate commencement of the work. They sought sanction of funds for laying of a BT road for the 8-km kutcha road constructed with ‘shramdan’ recently at Jajulabandha of Koyyuru mandal. A memorandum was submitted to the Collector on the demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-people-stage-novel-protest/article33165991.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drive puts brakes on rash and errant drivers||Stepping up the drive against rash and errant drivers, the city police conducted a special drive across the city last week and seized 211 bikes, including a few high-end one. They bikes were seized under various sections of IPC and MV Act. Focussing on Beach Road on Saturday and Sunday, the special team seized over 150 bikes. Many of the motorbikes were found without proper number plates or no numbers plates and documents required. DCP (Law and Order) Aishwarya Rastogi said that drag racing and rash driving were not only endangering the life of the rider but also of other people moving on the roads. According to him, most of the errant divers were in the age group of 18-25 years and they have been using WhatsApp groups to organise illegal racing events. He said that the parents of the youth will be summoned and told to give an undertaking that their children will not indulge in such activity again. “If the same person is caught for the second time, he or she will be arrested,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-drive-puts-brakes-on-rash-and-errant-drivers/article33166017.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,000 autorickshaws fitted with ‘Abhayam’ devices in city||A total of 1,000 autorickshaws in the city have been fitted with the ‘Abhayam’ devices, an emergency tracking app, as part of the pilot project to provide safety to women and girls travelling in autorickshaws. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the ‘Abhayam’ mobile app through video conference from his camp office at Tadepalli on Monday. An alert would be sent to the Command Control Room, when a passenger presses the panic button. The police officials would send the information to the nearby patrol parties, which rush to the rescue of the girl or woman travelling in the auto. Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao released pamphlets, brought out by the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Visakhapatnam, and later an auto rally was organised to create awareness among the public on the app. The Minister travelled in an auto to know the functioning of the app. District Collector V. Vinay Chand, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Superintendent of Police (Visakhapatnam Rural) Krishna Rao and Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam were among those who attended. “The device will be fitted in 25,000 autos in Visakhapatnam city and subsequently it will be installed in autos in Vijayawada and Tirupati,” the DTC told The Hindu . The tracking device will be installed in the auto and the vehicle will be given a QR code. At the time of starting the vehicle, the driver should tap his smart driving licence of the I o T device and the details of the driver would be loaded. Passengers having a smartphone can download the Abhayam mobile app from Google Playstore and register with their mobile number. They can either scan the QR code or type the vehicle’s registration number to get the details of the driver. On confirming that the details match with that of the driver, they have to register their destination and share the trip details. When the driver takes a different route other than the one specified or misbehaves, the passenger should press the panic button. GPS tracking will be used to locate the vehicle immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1000-autorickshaws-fitted-with-abhayam-devices-in-city/article33166008.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thammineni stresses on legal adoption||Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam has said that the legal adoption rules of the government will ensure security for the future of the children given for adoption and the foster parents. Mr. Seetharam released the pamphlets on ‘Adoption Rules and Regulations by Law’ at an event organised at the Government Circuit House here on Monday.  Children’s rights At another function, Mr. Seetharam said that it was unfortunate that the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) Act was being violated and the children were being illegally bought by IVF centres in violation of the Act and given for adoption through other channels. Those who indulge in such illegal practices could be sentenced to jail for periods ranging from three to seven years apart or having to pay a fine of up to Rs. 1 lakh or both, and called on government and non-governmental agencies to take up awareness programmes on the law. Child Rights Protection Forum (CRPF) State president Gondu Sitaram said that the organisation would work in association with the government departments for the protection of children’s rights apart from organising awareness programmes and seminars on the subject. Child Rights Protection Forum chief secretary B. Sakuntala and Visakha Rural Forum president B. Lavakusa participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thammineni-stresses-on-legal-adoption/article33166009.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reverence marks Sathya Sai Baba’s birth anniversary fete||The 95th birth anniversary of Sri Sathya Sai Baba was celebrated with utmost reverence and spiritual fervour by various samithis and bhajana mandalis under Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisations in Visakhapatnam district on Monday. The teachers and staff of Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar, led by Principal Ayyagari Kousalya, participated in singing all-religion ‘bhajans’ for universal peace and harmony. A cake was cut as part of the celebrations and ‘Jhula Utsav’ was also performed. Special ‘bhajans’ were rendered by city samithi singers for universal peace and harmony at Sri Sathya Sai Prema Sadan. A book titled ‘Yadbhavam Tad Bhavathi - Journey from i to I (Me to Thee)’ authored by V. Ramesh Kumar, AGM, Sankar Foundation, was released on the occasion. Sai Spandana, a special magazine, which covers various service activities and spiritual activities in Visakhapatnam district was released. V.R. Nageswara Rao, district president and P.R.S.N. Naidu, convener, city seva samithi, devotees and office-bearers participated in the celebrations. The celebrations started with ‘Omkaram’ and Suprabhatam and followed by ‘Nagara Sankirthan’ at Sri Sathya Sai Mandir at Ukkunagaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reverence-marks-sathya-sai-babas-birth-anniversary-fete/article33166012.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dark web, bitcoins used in drug trade||With more details coming out after the drug bust by the city police on Sunday, it is learnt that the drugs, mainly lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), were sourced through the dark web by the drug peddlers. The main accused, Arvind Agarwal (21), son of a businessman, who had recently come to the city after completing BBA at Bengaluru, allegedly got hooked to a website in the dark web that dealt in different varieties of drugs such as LSD, cocaine, heroin, ganja and methamphetamine or crystal meth. He used the website for procuring the LSD blots and paid them by converting the money into bitcoins. “Both dark web and bitcoins are common sources of procurement for drug peddlers across the world and he was familiar with it,” said DCP (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu. It is learnt that he had procured two sheets of LSD blots, each containing about 35 blots, on the website. He received the drugs from the vendors through courier. He sold the blots, each valued around Rs. 400, to his agents and four of his friends who doubled up as peddlers for Rs. 1,000 each. The agents further sold them to consumers at Rs. 2,000 per blot. A senior police officer said that most of his customers were students and the drug trade was nipped in the bud. His four friends, K. Sahil (20), a B.Tech. student, B. Chandra Sekhar (28), Michel Welcom (22) and M. Muralidhar (20) were arrested and another person identified as Y. Ashok, is yet to be nabbed. Second case This was the second case since 2019, where drug peddlers used the dark web and bitcoins to procure narcotics. In the first case in April, 2019, the city police raided a resort near Rushikonda and arrested one Manukonda Satyanarayana and a few others for supplying drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dark-web-bitcoins-used-in-drug-trade/article33165902.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions vow to make strike a success||All trade unions in the city will join hands to make the November 26 strike a success. This was decided at a gate meeting outside a public sector undertaking, here on Monday. CPI(M) State Secretariat Member Ch. Narasinga Rao said that the strike was not just to demand for bonus and enhancement of wages, but against the Union government’s move to privatise PSUs and Government Undertaking companies. “We strongly oppose the move to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, by entering into a joint venture with South Korean steel major POSCO,” he said. “Visakhapatnam has been a PSU hub and the city owes its development to the PSUs. The city still continues to be the number one city in the State when it comes to purchasing power and that is due to the presence of PSUs and a large of people being employed into them,” he said. Quoting the example of Hindustan Zinc Limited, he said that HZL was privatised despite it being a profit making unit and the move failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-unions-vow-to-make-strike-a-success/article33166005.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP government trying to create rift among tribals: BJP||MLC P.V.N. Madhav has alleged that the YSR Congress Party government is trying to create a rift among tribal people by introducing a new column on religion in the household survey. Addressing a media conference along with former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju here on Monday, Mr. Madhav took exception to the inclusion of a separate ‘Tribal religion’ column in the survey. He said that Girijans are a part of Hinduism but now a new column was introduced by the State government to divide them. He demanded removal of the column in the household survey. Ridiculing the demolition drive, Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju demanded that the proposed HC Bench in Visakhapatnam be made to function on Saturdays and Sundays also to avoid inconvenience to the people of Visakhapatnam. This was because a notice would be fixed on Friday evening and the building or property demolished on the very next morning. He also found fault with the State government for failing to hand over the TIDCO houses to the beneficiaries. The government promised to make fresh allotments but was now shying away from it, he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-trying-to-create-rift-among-tribals-bjp/article33165992.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 militia members surrender||Eleven militia members from Koyyuru, GK Veedhi and Munchingput mandals surrendered before the Additional SP (Operations) S. Satish Kumar at the Visakhapatnam District Police Office here on Monday. They are: Nariya Subba Rao (27), Vantala Subba Rao (25), Nariya Sannu (30), Vantala Gurumurthy (21), Kimudu Balaram (45), Vantala Sundara Rao (25), Pangi Kameswara Rao (28), Gunta Komulu (20), Pangi Hari (20), Killo Leku (38) and Killo Chandrababu (26). Some of the surrendered members used to collect money from tribals from the profits they earned through coffee cultivation on behalf of the Maoists. They were attracted by the speeches and songs of the Maoists during their visits to villages and used to assist them in conducting meetings. They used to supply food to the Maoists, distribute their literature and give information on police movements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-militia-members-surrender/article33165899.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Depression likely to intensify||The low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal intensified into a depression on Monday and lay over the southwest Bay of Bengal, 550 km off Puducherry coast and 590 km off Chennai coast. It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mahabalipuram on November 25 afternoon. Under the influence of this system, rain or thundershowers is likely to occur at many places over south coastal A.P. Thundershowers are likely to occur at most places over coastal A.P. and heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over south coastal A.P. on November 25. Fishermen are advised not to venture into sea off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts between November 23 and 25. Fishermen out at sea are advised to return to the coast and avoid the above sea areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/depression-likely-to-intensify/article33166004.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL executives express anguish over DA freeze||Steel Executives Association (SEA) of RINL, an affiliate of Steel Executives Federation of India (SEFI), has expressed their anguish over Central government’s decision to freeze the increment of quarterly DA of executive fraternity. RINL has over 6,000 executives. SEA president Harbhajan Singh stated that freezing of DA has affected the morale of the executive fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-executives-express-anguish-over-da-freeze/article33166018.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 20 lakh seized||Forest officials seized over 500 kg dry ganja worth around Rs. 20 lakh near Lammasingi under Chintapalle mandal of Vizag Agency, on Monday. The officials have intercepted a vehicle and seized the contraband from the vehicle. The seized contraband and vehicle has been handed over to the Special Enforcement Bureau officials for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-worth-rs-20-lakh-seized/article33166019.ece
24 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Job seekers ‘duped’ of Rs. 50 lakh||One person has allegedly duped a number of unemployed youngsters to the tune of over Rs. 50 lakh by promising to provide employment in various firms. Some B.Tech graduates on Monday approached the Fourth- Town police seeking action against the accused K. Sandarsh. They alleged that Sandarsh started a consultancy and collected money from them. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/job-seekers-duped-of-rs-50-lakh/article33166020.ece
24 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hone communication skills, students told||Minister for Tourism and chairman of Avanti Group of Colleges Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has suggested the youth to improve communication skills apart from technical expertise in their respective subjects to impress upon the companies during recruitment process. The Minister, who formally inaugurated job mela at Avanti Institute of Engineering and Technology, Cherukupalli of Vizianagaram district, on Monday, advised students to have thorough preparation before facing examinations and interviews. Visakhapatnam Joint Collector R. Govinda Rao said that Andhra Pradesh Skill Development Corporation had been helping youngsters to have training in various courses apart from academic studies. Avanti College director A. Chandrasekhar said that nearly 1,000 candidates out of 1,875 applicants got postings in 13 companies in the job mela conducted. AIET principal S.N.V. Ganesh, AP Skill Development Corporation Officer T. Chamundeswara Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hone-communication-skills-students-told/article33165217.ece
24 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Make sanitisers affordable’||Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Monday said the sanitisers and sanitiser dispensers should be available at affordable prices since they have now become part of the essential commodities for each and every family. The Collector was presented a sanitiser dispensing machine by the students of Satya Institute of Technology and Management (SITAM) who told him that they were trying to minimise its cost. The Collector congratulated the team while asking them to continue their study while assuring them support from district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-sanitisers-affordable/article33165871.ece
24 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||17 new cases reported in Vizianagaram||The daily tally saw its lowest on Monday as only 17 COVID cases were reported in Vizianagaram district, providing much needed relief to the district administration. ‘Following protocols must’ So far, 40,585 positive cases have been reported in the district and 203 persons died of infection. Collector M.Hari Jawaharlal and District Medical and Health Officer S.V.Ramana Kumari asked people to not fool themselves into thinking that the situation has come back to normal and reiterated that the protocols of maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and using sanitisers were still necessary. They said the tests were being conducted randomly in several parts of the district. They said the school managements had been directed to be extra cautious to prevent spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/17-new-cases-reported-in-vizianagaram/article33165872.ece
24 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poor eagerly awaiting distribution of house sites, says Jupudi||Former Member of Legislative Council Jupudi Prabhakara Rao has said that distribution of house sites to nearly 26 lakh families on December 25 will be a historic event and make all the Chief Ministers in country to replicate it. Poor families who are unable to buy a piece of land or pay sky-rocketing rents have been eagerly awaiting the auspicious day, according to the former MLC. Mr. Prabhakara Rao, who visited Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts to gauge the public mood with regard to land distribution for the downtrodden sections said on Monday that YSR Congress Party would consolidate its vote bank ahead of local body elections in the State. “The selected beneficiaries are requesting the government for speedy construction of houses in their identified sites from January, 2021 itself. I will convey the people’s mood to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy after going back to Vijayawada in a couple of days. I think it will be easy for the the government to fulfil their wish since Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has an idea about Indiramma housing scheme which was implemented successfully during the regime of his father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy,” said Mr. Prabhakara Rao. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s flagship programmes such as Ammavodi, modernisation of all schools under Nadu-Nedu, Jagananna Vidya Divena and proposal for English medium education created a positive atmosphere for the party in the rural areas. Saving rental income and school fee amount will help the poor spend the amount on nutritious food. Direct Benefit Transfer schemes such as YSR Cheyuta helped poor people at right time when their income sources were affected during the lockdown period,” opined Mr. Jupudi Prabhakara Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poor-eagerly-awaiting-distribution-of-house-sites-says-jupudi/article33165219.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||600 children given for adoption in last seven years, say officials||Around 600 children from the State have been given for adoption in India and abroad in the last seven years, Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department Director Krithika Shukla has said. The department, which is celebrating the International Month of Adoptions during November, are trying to clear the pending applications seeking adoption of children, Ms. Shukla told The Hindu . “The demand for adoption of children is high in Andhra Pradesh. Arond 150 children, who are legally ready for adoption, are in Sishu Gruhas and in Child Care Institutions (CCIs) in the State,” said an officer who is looking after the adoptions. Ms. Shukla said about 600 children had been given for adoption since 2014. Some children were adopted by parents in France, the U.S., Singapore, Sweden and Italy through Authorised Foreign Adoption Agency (AFAA), after detailed verifications, she said. “Since 2014, 236 male and 364 female children were adopted by childless couples legally. We are trying to give more children for adoptions. The move intends to give the children a family,” said Ms. Shukla. Referring to the pending applications, the Director said about 1,676 couples were in the waiting list in the State. The highest number of applications (338) were pending in Visakhapatnam, followed by 195 in Krishna, 183 in Nellore, 166 in West Godavari, 157 in Anantapur and 147 in East Godavari district, Ms. Shukla said.  “The District Child Protection Units (DCPUs), under the supervision of WD&CW District Project Directors are monitoring the adoption process strictly in the State. We request the couples to apply for adoption by following the procedures, not to go for illegal adoptions or sale of babies, which is a crime,” explained Ms. Shukla. Krishna District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Ch. Vijay Kumar said under the United Nations Conventions of the Rights of the Children (UNCRC), having a family is the basic right of every child. Besides, Right to Survival, Development, Protection and Participation are the rights of a child. Abandoned, orphan and relinquished children will be given for adoption after they are declared legally free for adoption, he said. Uyyala Project “Mothers who do not want children can surrender them by contacting the WD&CW, Child Development Project Officers and the Anganwadi workers,” Mr. Vijay Kumar said and urged the mothers not to abandon the babies and put them in the cradles arranged by the government at selected public places as part of the Uyyala Project. West Godavari DCPO Ch. Suryachakra Veni said those who want children can apply throughwww.cara.nic.in, and they should upload the family photo, proofs of residence, age, income, marriage and medical certificates within 20 days. “Children will be given to eligible couples after conducting home study. After giving adoption, we will follow the well-being of the children,” Mr. Veni said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/600-children-given-for-adoption-in-last-seven-years-say-officials/article33165224.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||On makeover track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-makeover-track/article33165874.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Green carpet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/green-carpet/article33165904.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting for buyers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiting-for-buyers/article33165999.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Risky’ ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-ritual/article33165891.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR showers sops to woo GHMC voters||Chief Minister and TRS supremo K. Chandrasekhar Rao has showered sops both on the people living in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the State, seeking their support for the party in the GHMC elections. The bouquet of sops announced as part of the ruling party’s election manifesto ahead of December 1 polling includes free water supply to all households including those living in apartments for water usage of up to 20,000 litres a month from December. The decision would benefit nearly 97% of water connection holders out of nearly 10 lakh domestic water supply connections. Releasing the TRS manifesto at the party’s headquarters here on Monday, the Chief Minister said the government was hopeful that it would reduce wastage of water and the saving would itself meet most of expenditure on water supply. Asking the people to utilise water with self discipline, he said the benefit would be extended to other urban local bodies based on its success in GHMC. Another relief announced by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao was waiver of power bills from December to all hair dressing salons, about 70,000 in city and elsewhere in the State, laundries and dhobi ghats. He stated that the government had announced some relief to salons in the past but it was not implemented properly due to the Electricity Regulator Commission’s objections. Now the government would reimburse the entire amount for the scheme to the Discoms. He also announced waiver of minimum demand energy charges to commercial and industrial power consumers for the COVID lockdown period from March to September. For cinema halls, the relief would be extended further — as long as they remained closed or till they are opened for screening of films. The entire relief would be reimbursed to Discoms. In addition to the waiver of motor vehicle tax for autorickshaws, the Chief Minister has announced exemption of quarterly MV tax for the first two quarters of 2020-21 to all transport vehicles since they were not in a position to bear it due to COVID impact on their business. Reacting to this, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said that the Chief Minister has proved to be a friend of the poor by responding positively to the request of waiving off MV tax component to the tune of Rs. 267 crore. The waiver, which covers two financial quarters — March to September — would benefit 8,37,811 transport vehicles, which include owners of of taxis, maxicabs and regular cabs. Doling out sops to the film and television industries which employ about 60,000 workers and junior artistes, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said ration and health cards would be issued all of them as their livelihood was impacted badly by the pandemic. He further announced reimbursement of 9% GST to small films made on a budget up to Rs. 10 crore. Apart from linking the twin reservoirs Himayathsagar and Osmansagar with Godavari water, Mr Rao said Musi river front would be developed as a recreation facility by preventing flow of sewage water into to with the help of 59 sewerage treatment plants. Besides, stormwater drainage system would also be scaled up to handle rain up to 30 cm to 40 cm a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-showers-sops-to-woo-ghmc-voters/article33165772.ece
24 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress roadshows target TRS-BJP-MIM combine||Highlighting their contribution to the city, Congress leaders made an appeal to the people to defeat the TRS, which they alleged is surviving on falsehood and trying to mislead people yet again in the GHMC elections. In a series of roadshows held on Monday in support of the party candidates, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and working president A. Revanth Reddy reminded people that all the development that the city had seen over the last few decades was due to Congress efforts. Mr. Uttam Reddy, who addressed roadside meetings in Bouddha Nagar, Tarnaka and Mettuguda divisions said that major development works like construction of Outer Ring Road, international airport, PVNR Express Highway and Metro Rail were taken up by the Congress governments. He said if Hyderabad has enough drinking water now, it was due to the Krishna and Godavari projects launched by the Congress governments. Similarly, Hyderabad has emerged as hub of pharmacy industry in the world and destination of IT industry - thus creating jobs for lakhs of youngsters. Public sector undertakings like BHEL, DRDL, HAL and HMT were established by the Congress while the Information Technology Invest Region (ITIR) was sanctioned to Hyderabad when Congress was ruling the country. TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy, former corporator Adaam Uma Devi and Congress candidate Prabha accompanied him. Meanwhile, Malkajgiri MP was in his elements as he targeted Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao and the BJP for ‘failing’ the city on all fronts. Campaigning in Kapra, Cherlapally, Mallapur and other divisions in Malakjgiri constituency, he said the 100-day plan of KTR had not been implemented even after 1,000 days. Mr. Reddy also took a jibe at the BJP saying it was trying to fool people raising communal issues while being friendly with the MIM party. Mr. Kishan Reddy despite being a Minister did not bring any funds to the city and with a gameplan all the three parties - TRS, BJP and MIM want to target the Congress, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-roadshows-target-trs-bjp-and-mim/article33165795.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FIR should be filed against Centre for ignoring TS: KTR||A first information report (FIR) should be filed against the NDA — ‘No Data Available’ — BJP-led government at the Centre for ignoring the needs of Telangana and not releasing funds even after a plea was made to provide Rs. 1,300 crore as immediate relief following the recent floods in Hyderabad by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, charged Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development, IT & Industries K.T. Rama Rao on Monday. “The BJP leaders had released a chargesheet against us. But, what has the Centre done to Telangana and Hyderabad in the last six years? Can the BJP name a single building or project which is the Centre’s contribution? Did anyone benefit from the Rs. 20 lakh Atmanirbhar package,” he questioned. Participating in the annual meeting of the Telangana Builders Federation (TBF), Mr. Rama Rao used strong words to criticise the Centre’s economic policies and charged that the economy has been nose diving from the last eight quarters much before the coronavirus impact. “Its bankrupt policies starting from demonetisation has led to the GDP growth falling to a historic low by 31%, much lower than even Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. How much of black money has been unearthed after removal of Rs. 1000 and Rs. 500 notes? We have had Rs. 2000 notes within no time,” he remarked. In fact, the Centre’s contribution to both Telugu States, including Andhra Pradesh has been nil. “We all know what happened in Amaravathi where Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao wanted to announce Rs. 100 crore but had to stop himself from announcing when he learnt that the Prime Minister was not going to give any economic package for the capital development,” he claimed. The Minister also accused the Centre of providing funds to Karnataka and Gujarat as floods relief denying the same to Telangana. Joining issue with senior BJP leader and Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on the construction of 2-bedroom housing, Mr. Rama Rao claimed one lakh houses were under construction in 111 locations at a total cost of Rs. 18,000 crore within the capital region. “They are complete 95% but the delay is because of COVID-19 lockdown and subsequent labour shortage issues. There is no State government, including BJP ruled ones, which has taken up such a massive housing programme for the poor without charging a single paisa,” he said. The Minister found it strange that the Centre has given awards for Kollur 2-bedroom housing construction project and also for the Mission Bhagiratha programme with the Jal Shakti Ministry even hailing it, but the BJP leaders here accuse the TRS government of indulging in corruption. “I will repeat the charge that the TS has contributed Rs. 2.72 lakh crore in taxes but got just Rs. 1.40 lakh crore. Our funds are being used to build roads in Lucknow and Ahmedabad. This is a fact and it does not mean we are advocating separatism. What we got in return in form of funds devolution is our constitutional right,” he said and claimed BJP only knows to “spew poison” between Hindus and Muslims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fir-should-be-filed-against-centre-for-ignoring-ts-ktr/article33165364.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP plaint to SEC against 'partisan' officials||The BJP has charged the ruling TRS government of “misusing” official machinery to gain an upper hand in the GHMC polls and requested the State Election Commission (SEC) “to take cognizance of such erring officials and replace them immediately to ensure free and fair elections.” MLC and city president N. Ramchander Rao on Monday wrote to the SEC charging that “officials engaged in the present elections are acting in a partisan manner to help the ruling party and its candidates”. To buttress his claims, he said the election officials had refused to accept the B-forms submitted by the party candidates and insisted them to submit A-forms too, even though B-forms are signed by the party president. “We took a lot of effort to convince the returning officials by showing the rule position. In some cases where the party wanted to replace the earlier candidate in whose favour the B-form was issued, they refused to accept the same,” he said. For instance, the RO of Rajendra Nagar (Ward No.60) insisted on a separate letter from the party president to take cognizance of change of candidate, “even though the B-Form issued in favour of the new candidate itself contains such arrangement of replacement.” Similarly most RO’s were willing to give or guide the BJP candidates about any information sought with regard to any permissions relating to campaigning, even though they are duty bound to share such information, he said.   The police were going a step ahead and “driving away our candidates or their respective agents when they approach them for permission to hold padayatras, street corner meetings, open party offices,” he charged. Needless to say the entire machinery is acting in an “arbitrary” manner obviously to help the ruling TRS party candidates, hence the SEC should intervene, pleaded Mr. Rao in his communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-plaint-against-partisan-officials/article33165788.ece
24 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Ensure a strong Opposition in GHMC’||The city would suffer if the ruling party gets brute majority, said Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy, urging people to ensure strong opposition in the GHMC elections. “If you want to give power to the ruling party, ensure at least a good number of seats to us. If you want to give us a chance, ensure a few seats to the ruling party as well to keep us in check,” he said at ‘Meet the Press’ organised by the Press Club Hyderabad. Recalling the politics of the earlier era, he said N.T. Rama Rao and Marri Chennna Reddy and later Y.S. Rajashekar Reddy and N. Chandrababu Naidu had strict check on their ruling with strong Opposition leaders. Now the Opposition voice is totally suppressed and people should realise that only a strong Opposition can make the government rule better. ‘Lies in TRS manifesto’ Taking a dig at Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s claims that there were no curfews nor agitation for water under TRS rule, he said that last communal riots and drinking water agitations in Hyderabad were seen in late 90s when TRS was not even formed. “It is laughable that now he makes claims of TRS putting an end to those issues.” Referring to Telugu movie Amma Nanna Oka Tamil Ammayi , he sarcastically changed the title to ‘TRS, BJP oka MIM’, saying the three parties are all working together to target Congress that fights for rights of all sections of people. He also targeted the AIMIM saying it had the resources and interest to fight elections in Maharashtra, Bihar and West Bengal but has left 100 seats to the TRS in the city. “Why is the MIM not fighting in all the seats despite being a city-based party,” he said and asked people to understand the alliance between TRS and MIM. The BJP, on other hand, benefits from AIMIM in other States, Mr Revanth Reddy added. Describing the claims of Mr. Rama Rao that Hyderabad was way ahead in development, he asked him to introspect who launched Metro Rail, MMTS, Krishna and Godavari water projects in the city, the international airport, Outer Ring Road, IT sector growth and the flyovers. “They were all built during the previous Congress regime. In fact, TRS was the reason for delaying the metro rail project. thus, burdening people with higher ticket rates,” he said. The Congress MP said the only ‘developmental’ projects under TRS rule were the construction of Pragati Bhavan and demolition of Secretariat. “All that this government spent was Rs. 6,000 crores and all other claims are false. Where are the one lakh double-bedrooms promised during the 2016 elections,” he asked and challenged Mr. Rama Rao to publish the list of beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ensure-a-strong-opposition-in-ghmc/article33165365.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chronic issues plaguing Hyderabad beg for attention||GHMC elections have been pitched to a different level this time round, what with the poll promises not descending from the name change rhetoric or that about TS-bPASS. Already several sops have been announced by the government such as flood relief, and property tax concession with an unflinching eye on poll victory. However, all these promises or relief do not cross the path of actual issues faced by the residents, as those remain more or less unchanged for several years. Severe flooding merely a month ago has once again reminded the longstanding need for renovating the stormwater drainage system and sewage network, promises towards which are scant in the poll rhetoric. Project as minor as new bus shelters has remained short of achievement for the last three years since its launch, while last mile connectivity for the metro rail is still a cause of vexation. Housing for the poor remains a glaring underachievement, with constant deferment of deadlines. 2BHK scheme “While the government claims to be building one lakh double bedroom housing units, mere 10,090 of them are within the GHMC limits. The remaining are outside the city. This scheme could end up just like the JNNURM, of which 26% dwelling units remain unoccupied till now,” says Sanjeev Kumar from the Human Rights Forum. Shelter for the homeless, too, has a lot of scope for improvement, as there are only 14 shelters catering to close to 70 lakh population. Mr Kumar also throws focus on several issues pertaining to civic amenities, including the unimplemented sewerage master plan, and the problem of inundation. “None of the political parties are talking about the solution to the flooding situation. There is no action on the proposal submitted by JNTU experts for flood water drainage,” he says, while asserting that only two schemes by the TRS government — Basti Dawakhanas and the Annapurna scheme offering meals at Rs. 5 — have been successful in the city. The idea of city development has changed from provision of basic amenities to appearances, giving priority to projects such as junction beautification and SRDP. “Public toilets remain clogged, water ATMs are a complete failure, parking is given the least thought, and traffic signals are ill-maintained. Grievance redressal is limited to issuing slips,” Mr Kumar says. One more important issue flagged by him is the futility of ward committees and area committees. Though of vital importance for local issues, no meetings of these committees have been held during the past five years. Secretary of the Forum for Good Governance M.Padmanabha Reddy emphasises the need to bring down the discourse from Assembly elections to the local polls: “City requirements are different. We have 30 lakh people living in the city’s 1,600 slums, and basic amenities for them should assume top priority. New suburbs keep getting added to the city and they need civic amenities. Political parties should start treating these elections for what they are — civic polls.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chronic-issues-plaguing-hyderabad-begging-for-attention/article33165782.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Order on Secunderguda village lands stayed||Telangana High Court on Monday stayed the order of a single judge in the case relating to rights of Secunderguda Paigah lands at Gandipet of Ranga Reddy district. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed the interim direction, after hearing appeal petitions filed by the State government and legal heirs of Paigah estate. The petitioners challenged the single judge verdict. Senior lawyer D. Prakash Reddy, appearing for Paigah estate legal heirs, contended that the judgement delivered by the single judge was beyond the scope of the writ petition. Special counsel Harender Pershad, representing State government, said the single judge’s verdict declaring that the land was not with the court of wards was not acceptable for the government. Earlier, the single judge pronounced order in a writ petition instructing the Revenue authorities to issue e-pattadar passbooks to agriculturists Burra Venugopal Goud and others stating that they have occupancy rights over the disputed lands. They were possessing pattadar passbooks for 38 acres of land in Secunderguda village. The judge observed in the judgement that the village was not a Paigah village. Appeal to be heard After hearing contentions of the petitioners and the farmers claiming rights over the land, the division bench headed by the CJ said the appeal required to be heard to arrive at a final conclusion. Lawyer Anand Kumar, appearing for the farmers, appealed to the bench not to give any interim relief to the petitioners. He argued that the government had no case in the matter. The appeal petition was posted to December 28 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-stays-single-judge-order-on-paigah-lands/article33165801.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR promises stormwater drains, sewage network||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development and TRS star campaigner K.T. Rama Rao said the “systematic neglect” of stormwater drains and sewage network for the twin cities will be corrected and modernisation works will be undertaken in earnest soon to “protect” the capital. “It is a fact that we did not prioritise stormwater drains or sewage network but these require Rs. 15,000-Rs. 20,000 crore so we have been taking them in up stages. These works brook no delay any more in light of the recent floods and an integrated development plan for perfect stormwater and sewage systems will be unveiled for the surgery,” he said on Monday. Builders meeting Participating in the annual meeting of the Telangana Builders Federation (TBF) meeting, the Minister accepted criticism directed at the TRS government for neglect of the two issues from the Opposition in light of the GHMC polls but claimed “we do not have an Aladdin lamp to take up every project as we gave importance to irrigation and other works”. Drinking water supply to the city and the suburbs will also be improved by completing the Keshavnagar reservoir outside the Outer Ring Road (ORR) and by taking up ‘inter-grid’ pipeline network connecting Krishna and Godavari river water supplies as planned by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he said, adding, “It requires thousands of crores of rupees so we are taking them up in phases with 28 km completed. The new GHMC Act, which is likely to be unveiled in two months, will empower officials to demolish encroachments on water bodies or drains without any notice,” said Mr. Rama Rao. The government had appointed Shah Consultants which had submitted a report on the urban flooding and 10 catchment areas have been identified along with bottlenecks to be removed. “The strategic stormwater drain and sewage development plans will take into consideration the reports of Kirloskar, Voyants and JNTU to implement the action plan,” he claimed. The government has also taken up construction of 137 link roads to reduce the pressure on the main roads and several underpasses and flyovers have been built or are being built. Long-term contracts A systematic change in road maintenance has been initiated giving long-term contracts to ensure the private contractor continuously keeps the roads in top shape with 290 km under the scheme and 400 km under way. Mr. Rama Rao said there could be teething issues with the Dharani portal and the TS-bPASS as they are in the early stages but these could be sorted out as he was ready for discussions to sort out any problems arising from these policies which are meant to bring transparency and accountability into the system. TBF president C. Prabhakar Rao, adviser J. Venkat Reddy and general secretary T. Narasimha Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-promises-stormwater-drains-sewage-network/article33165787.ece
24 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two from Jharkhand nabbed for cyber crime||Two persons from Jharkhand, who were assisting inter-State fraudsters by providing their bank accounts on commission basis, were arrested by the Hyderabad Cyber crime police. The accused are Manoj Kumar, 30, from Govindpur in Dhanbad, and Md. Kalam Khan, 45, of Bhatta Mohalla in Dhanbad, of Jharkhand. Police said that the gang was indulging in calling the bank customers whoever contacts the toll free number of the bank by posing as calling from customer care and obtained bank details by sending links, OTPs. Further, they fraudulently obtained loans on the names of customers and transferred the loan amount to various bank accounts and cheated them. Police seized two mobile phones, three debit cards, three bank account passbooks, and a PAN card, used in the offence from their possession. On July 27, a woman from Chikkadpally lodged a complaint stating that she did not receive a message regarding transfer of amount through G-Pay, hence she contacted the toll free number of Axis Bank for lodging complaint, but the call could not be connected. “In the process, she received a ‘call from Axis Bank customer care’ and the caller in order to solve her problem, sent links to her and convinced her to enter her internet banking details, OTP number and fraudulently obtained loan of Rs. 5 lakh and transferred the loan amount to various bank accounts,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. Based on her complaint, a case was registered, and during the course of investigation, a team was sent to Jharkhand and the accused were apprehended. They were brought to Hyderabad on a prisoner transit warrant and were remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-cyber-criminals-nabbed/article33165791.ece
24 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSRS, Sarvail golden jubilee fete||The golden jubilee celebrations of Telangana State Residential School, Sarvail were inaugurated by the alumni on the school premises in Yadadri district on Monday. The event was a low-key affair in view of the COVID-19 guidelines and the celebrations will be held for a year. Former principals V.V.S.N. Rao, Venkat Narsaiah, Acharya and teachers Venkataiah, Annapurna and the present principal, Ananth Reddy lighted the lamp to formally inaugurate the celebrations. The Alumni Association vice-president Mallesham and joint secretary Sanda Vijaya Raju, Sampath Kumar Acharya were among those present. The teachers recalled how the first government residential school came into existence on November 23, 1971 with the efforts of then Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh P.V. Narasimha Rao and Maddi Narayana Reddy, who donated land for the school. The school started to encourage rural talent and had become a symbol of quality education and later the inspiration for setting up Navodaya Vidyalayas across the country by P.V. Narasimha Rao when he was the Union HRD Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrs-sarvail-golden-jubilee-celebrations/article33165804.ece
24 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Couple attempts to end life near Pragathi Bhavan||A farmer couple from Kolthur village in Shamirpet mandal attempted to end their life in front of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s official residence, Pragathi Bhavan, on Monday alleging harassment by Shamirpet inspector S. Santosham. ‘Land-grabber’ The couple - V Bikshapathi, 52, and his wife, Buchamma, 40, alleged that Mr. Santosham was forcing them to give away their agricultural land in Kothur village to a land-grabber. They reached Pragathi Bhavan and doused themselves with kerosene and tried to immolate. Bid foiled Their attempt was foiled by the security personnel and they were shifted to Punjagutta police station.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suicide-bid-near-cmo/article33165793.ece
24 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bengaluru South MP triggers Twitter storm||Bangalore South Member of Parliament Tejasvi Surya triggered a Twitter storm on Monday during his visit to the city where he addressed a ‘Change Hyderabad’ campaign. The BJP leader posted details about his meeting in the city by changing its name. For a few hours in the afternoon, an unprintable word in Telugu trended as a hashtag added to Tejasvi Surya’s name. This newspaper is not printing the word whose implied meaning is go away. It quickly degenerated into a battle of IT cells with liberal use of expletives. The MP was in the city to campaign for BJP candidates contesting the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. A linguistic parallel had played out in Kerala during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s in 2016 with #PoMoneModi. While the phrase in Malayalam was a play on a movie dialogue, some non-Telugu users had to use urban dictionary to get the meaning of the Telugu cuss word.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bengaluru-south-mp-triggers-twitter-storm/article33165780.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Please come out and vote, appeals KTR||Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao requested people of the twin cities to come out and vote for the GHMC elections on December 1. “Whether you are convinced with our appeal seeking votes for our work in the past six years or not, please exercise your franchise. Please think and vote. There is no point in supporting us sitting in your homes or crying yourself hoarse on social media. Without people’s participation in elections, there is no meaning of democracy,” he said at the annual meeting of the Telangana Builders Federation on Monday. ‘Unacceptable’ The “40-45% polling percentage in twin cities” is unacceptable considering people in villages come out to vote in large numbers taking the poll percentage to 80%, he said, adding that Telangana and Hyderabad had prospered due to peace and stability in the past few years, quashing doubts in the minds of people about the ability of TRS to provide such governance. Communal harmony “There was a lot of uncertainty and fear of trouble breaking out but the KCR government has proved its administrative capability in running a successful government with long term vision. There has been six years of communal harmony,” he pointed out. “KCR had shown that agitation for a separate State is different from administering a State where everyone’s livelihood is protected irrespective of his or her background. We have solved the issues of power cut and drinking water to a large extent,” Mr Rama Rao claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/please-come-out-and-vote-appeals-ktr/article33165784.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC, HMR told to give ad space to all parties||The State Election Commission (SEC) has directed the authorities of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) to provide level playing field to all political parties in the fray in GHMC elections in the matter of leasing advertising space on their properties. Following a series of complaints lodged by Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) against the display of advertisements on welfare and development schemes of the TRS government on the properties of the two bodies, the SEC has sought a report from them. Commissioner of GHMC D.S. Lokesh Kumar and Managing Director of HMR N.V.S. Reddy furnished their responses over the advertising space on their properties on Monday. The GHMC report explained to the SEC authorities that the bus shelters and public toilets along with amenities are constructed by private agencies in design, finance, build, maintain and transfer (DBMT) basis through tenders. Accordingly, the agencies would have advertisement rights for a certain period, would pay annual licence fee to the GHMC and recover investment made through advertisements and the process has been in practice since 2008. Similarly, the HMR authorities submitted to the SEC that they were a unique public private partnership project governed by a concession agreement. As per the concession agreement, the advertisement rights on Metro pillars and other structures of HMR properties belong to private sector concessionaire for a period of 35 years. Based on the explanation submitted by the two bodies, the SEC authorities had directed them to the advertising agencies having leasing rights to provide equal opportunities to all political parties and contestants in view of GHMC elections, in case they approach the agencies for advertisement space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-ad-space-to-all-parties-election-commission-instructs-ghmc-hmr/article33165774.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. gives permission to open movie theatres||A day after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao discussed concerns of film industry on account of pandemic with its leaders, the State government on Monday issued an order permitting reopening of cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes with 50 per cent seating capacity with immediate effect. The managements should, however, ensure all persons, audience, staff and vendors used masks at all times, hand sanitizers were available at entry and exit points, physical distancing and crowd management was followed and sanitisation of entire premises, particularly common areas, was done after every screening. The order also mentioned that show timings were staggered to ensure intervals of different shows did not occur simultaneously. Cinema halls have been shut down since the Covid-induced lockdown and unlike other businesses is yet to return to normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-gives-permission-to-open-movie-theatres/article33165802.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Of 24,139 samples tested, 602 COVID cases detected||Telangana recorded 602 COVID-19 cases on Sunday as only 24,139 tests were conducted. Comparatively less number of tests are conducted on Sundays and holidays. Usually, around 40,000 to 45,000 tests are conducted in a day. The State Health department officials earlier said that in other States too, less tests are conducted on Sundays and holidays. Of the 24,139 people tested on Sunday, results of 281 were awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients died. The new 602 cases include 129 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 62 from Rangareddy, 60 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 51 from Karimnagar. The lowest of one case each was recorded in Narayanpet, Nirmal and Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, and two each in Yadadri Bhongir and Jangaon. From March 2 to November 22, a total of 51,58,474 samples were put to test and 2,64,128 were detected with coronavirus. According to the media bulletin issued by the State Health department, out of the total cases, 11,227 were active cases, 2,51,468 have recovered, and 1,433 people have died. While the recovery rate in India is 93.7%, it is 95.2% in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/of-24139-samples-tested-602-covid-cases-detected/article33165800.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TIF hails measures for industry in TRS manifesto||The Telangana Industrialists Federation (TIF) has hailed measures proposed for industry by TRS in the party manifesto for the December 1 elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. In a statement, TIF president K.Sudhir Reddy and secretary M.Gopal Rao said industrial units, especially micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), were impacted severely by the crisis triggered by the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. In this backdrop, the Federation had appealed to the State government for relief in the minimum electricity charges for LT and HT power connections. “We are pleased to note this demand is being conceded by the Chief Minister and hope this positive step will benefit budding entrepreneurs and MSME industrialists,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tif-hails-measures-for-industry-in-trs-manifesto/article33165775.ece
24 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cell phone snatchers held||Three youngsters, including two minors, involved in mobile phone snatching were held by Asif Nagar police here on Monday. On November 13 the victim, J Tukaram from BHEL, got down from his friend’s car near Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital and was walking towards Mehidiptnam. While he was trying to book a cab from Pillar No. 37, Rethibowli, a bike-borne miscreant, snatched his phone and sped away. Based on his complaint, Asif Nagar police registered a case and after analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras in the area, they nabbed Mohd Najeeb Khan, 22, from Natraj Nagar in Asifnagar, and the two minors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cell-phone-snatchers-held/article33165792.ece
24 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Save LIC: employees demand the BJP||The South Central Zonal Council (SCZC) of the All India LIC Employees Federation has demanded the government to stop disinvestment in the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC). P Mahesh, president, and V. Raghunathan, general secretary of the SCZC, also demanded the government that the LIC be saved and the funds of the corporation should stay with it. Any move to get the LIC listed in the stock markets should be done away with, they said while extending their support to the nationwide strike on November 26 on the issue. They said LIC belongs to the policyholders and the employees who have built it and government cannot utilise its funds elsewhere. Mr. Raghunthan wanted the old pension policy of pre-1995 be implemented immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/save-lic-employees-demand-the-bjp/article33165796.ece
24 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Case against TNGO society for grabbing govt. land||The Revenue Department has decided to file criminal cases against some key members of the managing committee of the town-based TNGO’s House Building Society over alleged encroachment of 8.39 acres of government land in Khammam urban and rural mandals, department sources said. Acting on specific complaints filed by some employees, the district administration recently ordered a detailed inquiry by a four-member panel of senior officials into the allegations of irregularities in allotment of plots by the managing committee several years ago. The office-bearers of the society, however, strongly refuted the charges and maintained that house sites were allotted to the eligible members in the land allotted for the purpose without any deviation. Meanwhile, the four-member inquiry panel submitted its report based on a joint field-based survey to the higher-ups. When contacted, Khammam in-charge Revenue Divisional Officer Suryanarayana told The Hindu that the committee detected encroachment of 8.39 acres of government land including 4.13 acres in Khammam urban and 4.26 acres in Khammam rural mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/case-against-tngo-society-for-grabbing-govt-land/article33165936.ece
24 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Prawnculture scheme launch today||Secretary of Animal Husbandry & Fisheries Department, Anita Rajendra, will release prawn juveniles into the Dindi Project in the district, to formally launch the scheme – ‘Prawn Juveniles on 100% grant’ on Tuesday. About 3.63 lakh prawn juveniles would be released marking the launch, District Fisheries Office said. As part of the scheme, phase-wise release will also happen at other reservoirs and large tanks. According to officials, about 3 lakh juveniles will be released into the Ankampalli reservoir, the maximum 4.74 lakh into Musi reservoir, and 2.25 lakh and 1.05 lakh juveniles into Pendlipakala reservoir and Gangannapalem-Anjaneyulu tank, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prawnculture-scheme-launch-today/article33165798.ece
24 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||TRS aims to win all 3 Sangareddy divisions||After suffering drubbing at the hands of BJP in the Dubbak by-elections earlier this month, the TRS has been working hard to win the three divisions of GHMC’s 22nd circle in Sangareddy district limits. Bharati Nagar (111th division), Ramachandrapuram (112th division) and Patancheru (113th division) are part of 22nd circle. Bharathi Nagar was reserved for women (general) while the other two divisions were allotted to BC (general). There are a total of 1,01,401 voters in the three divisions with 41,716 voters at Patancheru, followed by 31,737 at Bharathi Nagar and 27,948 at Ramachandrapuram. The elections will be held on December 1 and the votes will be counted on December 4. As expected, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao was entrusted with the responsibility of the three divisions and has been organising meetings with colony residents, welfare associations and party workers almost on a daily basis. During the meetings, he has been promising to address the problems in colonies once the elections get over. The Minister also targeted the BJP as part of his campaign as there is expected that educated and employed youth might favour that party. “BJP has only done injustice to Telangana. The Centre has not extended any assistance when we suffered due to rain and floods. The Delhi party can never address the problems of gullies. Only we can address these problems as we have a better understanding of it. The Information Technology Investment Region was sanctioned by the previous UPA government during the formation of Telangana State and now the BJP has cancelled it. Is there any need to vote for the party which is neglecting us and questioning existence of Telangana,” asked Mr Harish Rao during an election campaign. “While one Union Minister said that the TRS government did well in controlling coronavirus, another minister says we have failed. Can we vote for the party that is changing its own stance day in and day out?” he added. Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy, MLAs G. Mahipal Reddy, Ch. Kranthi Kiran and M. Bhupal Reddy have been assisting the Minister in the election campaign, going house to house and seeking votes for TRS. Residents upset However, the TRS leaders have been facing tough questions from the people at several places over various issues being left unaddressed. “We are residing on government land by constructing houses for the past four decades or so. But the government has failed to regularise them even after our application. Why should we vote for that party,” questioned residents of a colony in Bharathi Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-aims-to-win-all-3-sangareddy-divisions/article33165932.ece
24 November 2020||SANGAREDDY:,TELANGANA||Collector visits paddy procurement centres||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao directed the officials to provide all facilities at paddy procurement centres and see that paddy does not soak if there is rain. He visited paddy procurement centre at Sadashivapet and examined the facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collector-visits-paddy-procurement-centres/article33165806.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees 121 deaths, 4,454 fresh infections in 24 hours||With lesser number of tests, Delhi witnessed only 4,454 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,34,317, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Only 37,307 tests were done in the past 24 hours, which is very less compared to over 60,000 daily tests conducted on many days last week. The number of tests has been usually low on bulletins on Mondays, as it represents tests done on Sunday. Also, 121 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 8,512. Of the total cases, 4,88,476 people have recovered and there are 37,329 active cases. ‘Double attack’ Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that there was heavy pollution due to stubble burning along with the pandemic and it was a “double attack” and that could have led to the higher number of deaths. “The pollution due to stubble burning was problematic. This effect will remain for two to three weeks. People had COVID and there was smoke from stubble. The effect will reduce in two to three weeks. The pollution from stubble burning has reduced in the past two to three days, cases will come down and the number of deaths will also come down in one to two weeks,” the Minister said. “The reason for the (higher number of) deaths, it feels, is because there was pollution from stubble burning and there was corona also, so it was a double attack... Slowly, slowly positivity is coming down and cases are also coming down,” Mr. Jain added. On the closing of two markets in West Delhi, he also said the shutting down of markets was “too strict” and action should be taken against individuals who violate rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-sees-121-deaths-4454-fresh-infections-in-24-hours/article33165758.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||404 trees being transplanted for new Parliament||A total of 404 trees are being transplanted for the new Parliament and the Delhi government has given permission for the same, as per official documents. The Union Environment Ministry, while approving the project, had said that only 233 trees would be transplanted. “Project proponent has also informed the Expert Appraisal Committee that there are 333 trees at Plot No. 118. Out of these, 100 trees to be retained and 233 trees to be transplanted and no trees will be cut. In addition, other vegetation will also require to be cleared to develop the new Parliament building,” the Ministry had said in the environmental clearance for the project on June 17. Following an inspection, the Delhi government’s Environment Department issued a notification on September 16 giving permission for 404 trees to be transplanted. Also, as compensatory plantation for the transplanted trees, 4,040 saplings will have to be planted, as per the notification.  “The transplantation has started and the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has to inform the Delhi government after it is completed. As per the government’s transplantation policy, 80% of the transplanted trees have to survive after a year. There will be an inspection to ascertain it,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . “The trees are five to over 50 years old and they are of different sizes,” the official added. Uprooted trees from the site are being moved out in trucks for replantation. Will they survive? Experts differ in their opinion on the survival of the trees being transplanted during the winter season. C.R. Babu, professor emeritus at Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems of Delhi University, said: “I am not in favour of transplantation, particularly of old trees. In my experience, transplantation is not successful in India. Transplantation survival rate will be much lesser during winter as root and shoot formation is less and very slow during the cold season.” Vijay Dhasmana, curator of Aravali Biodiversity Park in Gurugram, however, had a different opinion: “This is not the worst time for transplantation, if you provide soil moisture. But it should be ideally done during January end and March.” He added that it is easier to transplant young trees, and that very old and big trees “may die”. Kanchi Kohli, senior researcher at Centre for Policy Research, said that it is not right that the government is transplanting trees as several issues about the project are still pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/404-trees-being-transplanted-for-new-parliament/article33165760.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea for another lockdown||The Delhi High Court on Monday declined to entertain a petition to immediately place the Capital under lockdown in view of the rising COVID-19 cases and air pollution levels, saying it was a policy decision. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan remarked that the petition was filed without doing any homework. The Bench asked the petitioner, Kaushal Kant Mishra, whether he had studied the reports on ineffectiveness of imposing a lockdown. Plea withdrawn The Bench asked Dr. Mishra whether he will withdraw the petition or should it be dismissed with costs. To this, Dr. Mishra’s lawyer agreed to withdraw the plea and sought liberty to move a representation before the appropriate authorities. The High Court, however, declined to grant any such liberty and said “petition is dismissed as withdrawn”. During the brief hearing, Delhi government additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan, said that there is specific direction from the Central government to all States and Union Territories that no lockdown be imposed without its permission. The counsel said petition ought to have made the Central government a party in the matter as without its concurrence the Delhi government cannot impose a lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-rejects-plea-seeking-another-full-lockdown/article33165537.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||BJP, Congress criticise AAP govt. over handling of virus outbreak||The BJP and Congress on Monday accused the Delhi government of being “useless” at confronting the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and questioned as to why it had not improved its functioning in this regard despite being reprimanded several times by the judiciary. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the Supreme Court has once again reprimanded the Delhi government for mismanagement of health facilities in dealing with the virus and sought information about the steps taken to prevent its spread. “The Delhi government has become so recalcitrant and fascinated by power that even the Supreme Court’s directive does not matter to them,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “The Delhi government was reprimanded by Supreme Court as well as the High Court five times for negligence in battling the pandemic and pollution, but still there is no improvement in its way of functioning,” he also alleged. Mr. Gupta said it was the moral responsibility of the Delhi government to work together with political parties, social service organisations, RWAs, traders associations. However, it has only indulged in showing off.  Hollow promises Meanwhile, the Delhi Congress said that it has now led to an emergency-like situation due to the dangerous spike in the number of deaths and infection counts in Delhi. DPCC president Ch Anil Kumar blamed the Kejriwal government of indulging only in hollow promises and lip service, without strengthening infrastructure at the ground level. “Between November 1 and November 22, the number of deaths have risen with one out of five COVID-19 deaths in the country happening in Delhi. It is shocking to learn that per lakh deaths in Delhi due to the virus is four times more than the national average, and the Capital has approximately four times more COVID-19 cases per million than the national average when testing is 70% lower than what is actually required,” Mr. Kumar alleged. He added that Delhi is seeing another surge in COVID-19 cases because the government was caught napping, even as most of India’s virus numbers are going down. “People of Delhi are paying a heavy price for the Delhi government’s inaction, irresponsibility and inefficiency,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-congress-criticise-aap-govt-over-handling-of-virus-outbreak/article33165539.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. revokes order to shut two markets||A day after the government ordered closure of two markets, authorities on Monday revoked the order. The district administration on Sunday had ordered the shutting down of two prominent local markets for not adhering to COVID-19 norms in west Delhi. According to the order, the Punjabi Basti Market and the Janta Market in Nangloi were directed to close till November 30 for violating COVID-19 guidelines and social distancing norms till November 30. An order to this effect was issued by Dharmendra Kumar, additional DM, for the West district. In another order, however, the previous order directing the closure was withdrawn. The subsequent order was issued late on Sunday night following which the local police de-sealed shops located in the market, which had been sealed hours earlier. Lack of permission Delhi government sources claimed the reason for the withdrawal of the order was lack of the Centre’s permission to be able to affect such shut downs for non-adherence to COVID-19 norms. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, last week, had announced that the Delhi government had written to the Centre to seek powers to affect shut downs in city markets if they were found flouting COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-revokes-order-to-shut-two-prominent-markets/article33165546.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over Rs. 800 cr. fund lying unutilised: plea||Following a plea alleging non-utilisation of more than Rs. 800 crore towards Environment Relief Fund meant for victims of accidents in the process of handling hazardous substances, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) called it a “travesty of justice” that the fund was lying unutilised even after 29 years of enactment of the legislation. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change to look into the issue and take necessary action. The Bench in its order said: “We find it to be a travesty of justice that even after 29 years of the enactment of a laudable welfare legislation and in spite of deposit of a huge amount meant for the needy victims, the amount remains unutilised to the detriment of the victims, for whose benefit the law was enacted.” According to relevant sections of the PLI [Public Liability Insurance] Act (1991): “The source of the fund is the insurance premium to be paid by the owner handling any hazardous substance and liability to give relief is created under Section 3 on death or injury to any person or an accident involving hazardous substance.” The tribunal noted that an amount of Rs. 881 crore was deposited with the United Insurance Company till March 2020 and that there was “no information whether any amount had been utilised.” Stating that there was an urgent need to bridge the existing gap and enforcement of the law, the Bench added: “The MoEF being nodal Ministry may look into this aspect and take necessary action.” The directions came when the tribunal was hearing a plea moved by Gyan Prakash, a former Central government employee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-rs-800-crore-fund-lying-unutilised-plea/article33165548.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Two govt. office blocks on K.G. Marg, Africa Avenue to be ready by March’||Two new government office complexes on Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue are scheduled to be ready by March to shift offices from the Central Vista to make way for a new residence and office for the Prime Minister, office of the Special Protection Group director and Vice-President’s residence, officials of the Central Public Works Department said on Monday. CPWD Director-General Vinit Kumar Jayaswal said construction at the two sites started in August and pre-engineered building technology had been deployed, reducing construction time from 24 months to eight months. He said the projects were environment-friendly as the steel structures were being built in other locations and assembled at the sites, making it “dust-free”. Defence agencies Together, the two sites will be able to accommodate 15,000 employees of Defence agencies, who will be re-located from the hutments around North Block and South Block, an official said. The plots that will be cleared have been earmarked for the Prime Minister’s Office, PM’s residence, SPG Director’s office and Vice-President’s residence as a part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. The buildings at K.G. Marg and Africa Avenue will cost Rs. 532 crore, an official said. Mr. Jayaswal said the initial cost was higher than that for constructing a concrete building. However, the pre-engineered buildings have the advantage of durability, reduced construction time and lower environmental impact. He added that the buildings would have a life-span of 100 years. No trees were cut or transplanted for the projects, which require less water for construction and once completed, the buildings would have 30% of the energy consumption of a conventional building, the official said. Construction on the Parliament project is set to start in December and the 10 office buildings are at a “planning stage”, Mr. Jayaswal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-govt-office-blocks-on-kg-marg-africa-avenue-to-be-ready-by-march/article33165762.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Plea for paid leave during menstruation||The Delhi High Court on Monday told the Union and Delhi governments to take a decision on a petition seeking grant of paid leave to women employees during menstruation by treating it as a representation. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the issues raised in the petition by the Delhi Labour Union should be decided as per law applicable to such matters as soon as possible and practicable. Four-day leave The union sought grant of paid leave for four days a month to all classes of women employees, including daily wage, contractual and outsourced workers and to pay overtime allowance to menstruating women employees if they opt to work during that period. The plea filed through advocate Rajiv Agawral said by not providing separate toilet facilities or breaks to maintain hygiene, the authorities were depriving the employees of their human dignity. It said there was very little consideration or even recognition of the emotional, physical, hormonal and physiological trauma that these employees underwent during their menstrual cycle. “Besides facing actual psychological trauma because of sudden hormonal fluctuation, the release of a large amount of extremely inflammatory lipids called prostaglandins constrict the blood vessels in the uterus and make the muscle layer contract, causing painful cramps”, the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-seeks-paid-leave-during-menstruation/article33165549.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Massive corruption in tax collection in North body’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday said that the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation does not maintain any account related to property tax and there is no way to detect “loot” in the property tax collection. “According to the BJP-ruled municipal data this year, the North Corporation was supposed to receive Rs. 2,838 crore from property tax. But the corporation collected only Rs. 1,703 crore. The biggest betrayal by the BJP-ruled North Corporation is that they do not maintain any proper documentation regarding the collection of property tax. There is no way to find out how much corruption or financial disputes they have,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj. The AAP leader said that in 2002, the Supreme Court had directed the civic body that a “double entry” rule should be implemented for tax collection. It has been 18 years since the order, but the North body has not yet adopted any such process, he said. “The AAP demands that the BJP leaders of Delhi should come clean about such incidents and tell the people of Delhi the reality behind such massive corruption. The BJP should disclose whether or not the ‘corrupt’ officials have been dismissed or suspended. It should tell why shouldn’t we consider that this whole corruption is happening due to the corrupt nexus between the corporates and the BJP leaders,” Mr. Bharadwaj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/massive-corruption-in-tax-collection-in-north-body/article33165540.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Father, son killed by group of men||A 50-year-old man and his son was killed after they were allegedly attacked by a group of men over personal enmity in Nand Nagri on Monday, the police said. The deceased, Zulfikar Qureshi, was a party worker, Delhi BJP Media Cell head Navin Kumar said. Local leaders claimed Qureshi was also an RTI activist and had been opposing illegal scrap dealers. But the police said that father-son duo were named in a few FIRs and the son had recently came out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/father-son-killed-by-group-of-men/article33165542.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Special cut-off list for UG applicants||Delhi University on Monday released a special cut-off list for admission to vacant seats in merit-based undergraduate courses. Several colleges have kept the cut-offs in various courses above 95%. Lady Shri Ram College for Women, which had asked for a perfect score for psychology honours in the first cut-off list, has now set the cut-off at 99%. At Miranda House, the cut-off for both economics and English honours have been set at 97.75%, while at Gargi College the cut-off for the same is 96.75% and 96.25%, respectively. History honours aspirants will require 96% for Gargi College and 97.25% for Kirori Mal College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/special-cut-off-list-for-ug-applicants/article33165761.ece
24 November 2020||Bhopal/ Indore,||M.P. police register FIR against 2 Netflix officials||An FIR was registered in Madhya Pradesh on Monday against two executives of OTT platform Netflix for allegedly hurting religious sentiments through its web series A Suitable Boy which showed kissing scenes purportedly on the campus of a temple, an official said. The FIR has named Monika Shergill, Vice President, Content (Netflix) and Ambika Khurana, Director, Public Policies (Netflix), Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra said. Meanwhile, Khargone Collector Anugraha P. said the controversial scenes do not appear to have been filmed inside a temple in Maheshwar town in the district. Earlier in the day, Ms. Shergill and Ms. Khurana were booked by Rewa police on a complaint filed by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha national secretary Gaurav Tiwari who demanded an apology from Netflix and the makers of the series, and removal of “objectionable scenes”, which he said were also “encouraging love jihad”. “I had asked officials to examine the series A Suitable Boy being streamed on Netflix to check if the scenes were filmed inside a temple and if it hurt religious sentiments. The examination prima facie found that these scenes are hurting the sentiments of a particular religion,” Mr. Mishra said in a video statement. “On the basis of a complaint, an FIR is being registered under section 295 (A) (malicious acts to outrage and insulting the religious feelings and beliefs) of the IPC,” he added. Rewa Superintendent of Police Rakesh Kumar Singh said the FIR has been registered and further investigation is under way. On Saturday, Mr. Tiwari had submitted a memorandum to the Rewa SP demanding an apology from Netflix and makers of the series, and removal of “objectionable scenes”. “Scenes (filmed) inside a temple of Lord Maheshwar (a historic town located on the banks of Narmada in Madhya Pradesh) have hurt the sentiments of Hindus. This is also encouraging ‘love jihad’,” Mr. Tiwari had said. He had named Ms. Shergill and Ms. Khurana in his complaint application. ‘No formal complaint’ “We have not received any formal complaint so far regarding the controversy surrounding the Netflix series. But taking cognisance of media reports, I sent a Sub-Divisional Magistrate and tehsildar to the spot at Maheshwar. We have inspected the fort complex where the web series was shot. There are also temples in the huge fort complex on the banks of the Narmada river at Maheshwar. But according to the SDM report, at first glance, it seems the controversial scenes were not filmed inside the temple. Probably these scenes were shot somewhere else in the fort complex,” the Collector said. She said a committee will be constituted to probe the matter in detail if the government orders so. She said the district administration had allowed the shooting of A Suitable Boy in Maheshwar during December last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mp-police-register-fir-against-2-netflix-officials/article33165554.ece
24 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Agri reforms need of the hour, but farmers should be consulted’||Participating in a webinar held by Indian Institute of Management, Rohtak, on the future of farming and the impact of the three recent farm legislations, experts from the field of agriculture, economists and legislators opined that the reforms in agriculture sector were the need of the hour and farmers would realise its benefits in next few years, but stressed that farmers being the major stakeholders should be consulted and their concerns pertaining to MSP be alleviated. The panel discussion on “Future of Farming in India: Reflecting on Farm Bills 2020” saw the participation of Rajya Sabha MP and former Union Minister Subramanian Swamy, NITI Aayog member Ramesh Chand, Punjab CM Principal Chief Secretary Suresh Kumar, Haryana Agriculture University V-C Samar Singh and agricultural economist Barry Goodwin. Dr. Swamy said that we need to empower the farmers and provide them with the freedom to choose buyers. He added that farm legislations would result in favourable outcomes, but the rules should take into account some specific concerns of States. Mr. Kumar said legislations bring in transparency and increase competition. Prof. Chand said the implementation of the Bills was a culmination of the deteriorating conditions of the Indian agricultural sector. Prof. Goodwin brought in interesting insights on the farming in the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/agri-reforms-need-of-the-hour-but-farmers-should-be-consulted/article33165555.ece
24 November 2020||Mumbai,||No crowd at Chaityabhoomi on December 6||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to people to not crowd Chaityabhoomi in Mumbai on Mahaparinirvan Diwas, the death anniversary of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar on December 6. Mr. Thackeray held a meeting with the Mahaparinirvan Diwas coordination committee and senior government officials on Monday The committee has already appealed to Ambedkarites to not travel to Mumbai on December 6 and instead pay their respects from home. The Chief Minister said, “Respects will be paid to the memory of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar without any fault. There will be no compromise. But Mumbai stares at the possibility of second wave of coronavirus outbreak. Therefore I appeal to people to not crowd Chaityabhoomi.” The State government will make arrangements for day-long online broadcast of the ceremony to pay tributes, and also a floral shower from a helicopter. Mr Thackeray said that throughout his life, Dr Ambedkar fought against injustice. “It is time to show our maturity through our actions. It will not be proper to endanger our life while paying tributes to him. We have been celebrating all our festivals with austerity. This is an occasion of seriousness and I appeal all to pay their tributes from wherever they are instead of coming to Mumbai,” he said. Nagsen Kamble, secretary of the coordination committee, said that an appeal has already been issued to Ambedkarites to not to travel to Mumbai. Mr. Thackeray also referred to the annual wari to Pandharpur which was held without crowds as also the death anniversary of his father and Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray which too was observed in presence of select individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-crowd-at-chaityabhoomi-on-december-6/article33165450.ece
24 November 2020||mumbai,||Assault case: Arnab’s pre-arrest bail plea hearing on Dec 1||A city sessions court will hear on December 1 the pre-arrest bail pleas filed by Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and his wife in a criminal case registered against them by the Mumbai police for allegedly assaulting a woman police officer. The N.M. Joshi Marg police in central Mumbai had lodged an FIR against the couple and their son for allegedly assaulting the woman officer and not letting the public servant perform duty when a police team went to their house to arrest Mr. Goswami on November 4 in an abetment of suicide case. Their lawyer Shyam Kalyankar said they were waiting for a copy of the order passed by the Supreme Court granting interim bail to Mr. Goswami in the 2018 abetment of suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik in which the 47-year-old TV journalist was arrested.  They have been booked under IPC sections 353 (assault to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and under the Damage to Public Property Act in this case. Meanwhile, order on the revision application filed by the Alibag police seeking Mr. Goswami’s custody in the abetment to suicide case was deferred till December 5 as the judge concerned of the Alibag sessions court in adjoining Raigad district was not available on Monday for hearing the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assault-case-arnabs-pre-arrest-bail-plea-hearing-on-dec-1/article33165455.ece
24 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||BJP corporator booked for holding crowded birthday party||A case has been registered against a BJP corporator in Kharghar for celebrating his birthday with a gathering of more than 25 people at a party at his office. Kharghar BJP corporator Nilesh Baviskar was booked by the Kharghar police late on Sunday night for violating government rules regarding COVID-19, after he organised his birthday party on Sunday night. According to the police, Mr. Baviskar’s birthday was on Saturday, but he had organised a birthday party at his office in Sector-18 on Sunday night. “We received a complaint about crowd gathering at his office following which we visited his office, verified it and a case was registered,” senior police inspector Shatrughn Mali from Kharghar police station said. The party was attended by Mr. Baviskar’s relatives and friends, police said. “As per government regulations, gathering of large crowd is not allowed. We have charged him for disobedience of law,” Mr. Mali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-corporator-booked-for-holding-crowded-birthday-party/article33165453.ece
24 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Protests in Navi Mumbai||The Bharatiya Janata Partystaged agitations against inflated power bills at 12 places in Navi Mumbai on Monday and burnt copies of the bills outside the office of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd. (MSEDCL) at Vashi. “ People don’t have intentions of not paying bills, but paying such excess amount is just not possible for them. If MSEDCL discontinues supply over non-payment of bill, we will stand by the consumer. This situation has occurred due to the pandemic, and the government needs to consider that,” Airoli BJP MLA Ganesh Naik said. The Maharashtra Navanirman Sena has also planned a protest on November 26 at Konkan Bhavan in Belapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/protests-in-navi-mumbai/article33165454.ece
24 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra adds over 4,000 cases; 3,700 recoveries reported||Maharashtra reported just 4,153 new COVID-19 cases on Monday as opposed to just 3,729 recoveries. The total case tally has risen to 17,84,361 with the number of active cases climbing to 81,902. The cumulative recoveries stand at 16,51,064 with the State’s recovery standing at 92.74%. However, the number of deaths was comparatively lower at 30, taking the total fatalities to 46,653. “Of a total 1,02,81,543 laboratory samples tested thus far, 17,84,361 (case positivity rate of 17.35%) have returned positive with over 67,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had declined incrementally to 2.61%. Pune district reported over 500 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,46,961 while just two deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,291. As per district administration figures, the district’s active cases crossed the 10,000-mark, rising to 10,042 while its recovery rate incrementally dipped to 94.58%. Mumbai city reported 800 cases to take its total case tally to 2,76,514 of whom 12,707 are active. With 14 fatalities, the city’s death toll rise to 10,689. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 350 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,11,280 of whom just 3,082 are currently active. No deaths were reported on Monday. In contrast to Mumbai city and Pune, cases and fatalities in the three ‘sugar belt’ districts in western Maharashtra remained well under control: Satara reported three deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,608. As many as 84 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 51,235 of whom 2,470 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported just 43 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 48,262 of whom 1,132 are active. Kolhapur recorded its lowest figures of just nine cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 48,382. Its active case tally stands at 348. The total death toll remained constant at 1,668. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 300 cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 102,698 of whom 2,342 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,681. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported just over 50 cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 54,608 of whom only 1,060 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,380. Dr. Awate informed that currently, a total 5,17,711 persons across the State were in home quarantine and 6,524 were in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-adds-over-4000-cases-3700-recoveries-reported/article33165452.ece
24 November 2020||Pune,||Next swearing-in will take place at the proper time not early morning: Fadnavis||A year after his ‘morning coup’ with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar stunned Maharashtra, Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Monday pointedly remarked that his next swearing-in ceremony would take place at the proper time and not early morning. Speaking in Aurangabad, Mr. Fadnavis took pot-shots at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government of the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress. Ridiculing his estranged erstwhile ally’s [Mr. Thackeray’s] comments that the MVA coalition would go on functioning for another 20 years, the BJP leader dismissed them as “pipe dreams.” “He [Mr. Thackeray] may continue living in a fantasy world, but the Chief Minister knows fully well that the people of the State have not given him or his party a mandate. This MVA government is an illegitimate and a dishonest one. While I do not know how long it will last, it will not be appropriate to comment on its downfall now,” he said. In a suggestive statement, Mr. Fadnavis said he would give Maharashtra another government the day the ruling MVA government fell. “However, this time, the oath-taking ceremony will not take place in the morning but at the proper time,” he said.  Ajit’s ‘rebellion’ Last year, soon after the conclusion of the Maharashtra Assembly elections, Mr. Ajit Pawar had startled the State with his intra-party ‘rebellion’ when he staged a coup on the morning of November 23 and was sworn in as Deputy Chief Minister, with Mr. Fadnavis as Chief Minister. After NCP supremo Sharad Pawar’s iron hand had prevailed and the party failed to split despite his nephew’s (Mr. Ajit Pawar’s) temporary defection, the latter had resigned as Deputy Chief Minister in less than 80 hours. In the last few days after the Deepavali festivities, a number of senior Maharashtra BJP leaders, including Pravin Darekar, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, and Narayan Rane have hinted at ‘regime change’ in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/next-swearing-in-will-take-place-at-the-proper-time-not-early-morning-fadnavis/article33165459.ece
24 November 2020||Pune,||BJP stages protests over inflated power bills||The opposition BJP on Monday staged a Statewide agitation against allegedly inflated power bills and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi’s failure to provide relief to consumers. In several districts across Maharashtra, BJP activists led by local leaders made a bonfire of electricity bills and raised slogans against the MVA government’s alleged ‘betrayal’ of consumers with hollow promises. In Mumbai’s Kandivali area, BJP workers clashed with the police. BJP MLA from Kandivali East Atul Bhatkhalkar, who was leading the protest, and other party workers were later taken into custody. “The MVA government has shown itself to be utterly insensitive. It has betrayed the people’s trust. Unless they waive off power bills of ordinary people whose livelihoods have been destroyed by the COVID-19 induced lockdown, we [BJP] will be intensifying the agitation,” said Mr. Bhatkalkar. In Pune, BJP activists under the leadership of the city unit chief Jagdish Mulik staged a protest near the Maharashtra State Electricity Development Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) office at Somwar Peth. “State Energy Minister Nitin Raut had promised consumers free electricity up to 50 units. But then, he conveniently backtracked on his promises. Our party is staging protests in 2,000 places in Maharashtra. If the State government does not prick its ears even after this, we will be protesting even more aggressively in the future,” Mr. Mulik said. In Nagpur, protests were staged under the leadership of former State Energy Minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, while senior BJP leader Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil led demonstrations in Loni in Ahmednagar district. Mr. Vikhe-Patil, who defected from the Congress last year, dubbed the tripartite ruling MVA a “chaotic, corrupt government”. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Dr. Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, who led a protest in Thane, said the parties in the MVA had gone back on the very promises they had made in their respective manifestos. “Unfortunately, the MVA’s pet occupation seems to be only pointing fingers at the Centre,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-stages-protests-over-inflated-power-bills/article33165461.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Sanitisation drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sanitisation-drive/article33165457.ece
24 November 2020||Washington,||Biden picks Blinken as Secretary of State||Indicative of his intention to reverse America’s retrenchment from multilateralism under the Trump administration, President-elect Joe Biden announced the nomination of Deputy Secretary of State and longtime foreign policy adviser Antony Blinken to the position of Secretary of State. Mr. Blinken has a track record of being an alliance builder and proponent of traditional foreign policy and is seen as someone suited to execute Mr. Biden’s packed foreign policy agenda, much of which is geared to reversing the Trump administration’s decisions. Mr. Biden has also appointed former Secretary of State John Kerry as Special Presidential Envoy for Climate. A high profile appointment such as this signals Mr. Biden’s prioritisation of climate action — Mr. Kerry will sit on the Biden National Security Council. Mr. Biden has said that he intends to take American back into the Paris Climate Accord on day one of his administration. The President-elect has also said he will rejoin the World Health Organisation and the Iran nuclear deal or the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). He will have a short period of time to revive talks with Russia on the New Start Treaty, a nuclear arms control agreement that expires in February. Mr. Blinken, who started his foreign service career during the Bill Clinton years, had led the staff of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee when Mr. Biden was the chair of the body. He was the National Security Adviser (NSA) for Mr. Biden, when he was Vice President and then deputy NSA for President Barack Obama. “Democracy is in retreat around the world, and unfortunately it’s also in retreat at home because of the President taking a two-by-four [a piece of wood] to its institutions, its values and its people every day,” Mr. Blinken had told the Associated Press in September. The Biden-Harris transition team also announced the appointment of Alejandro Mayorkas to head the Department of Homeland Security as its secretary, the first Latino to hold the position (Mr. Mayorkas is an immigrant). This is significant given the migration and humanitarian crisis at the U.S.-Mexico border. Former Deputy Director of the CIA and Deputy National Security Adviser Avril Haines has been nominated to the post of Director of National Intelligence — the first woman in the position. UN Ambassador The Biden team also announced Jake Sullivan’s appointment as NSA and Linda Thomas Greenfield nomination as UN Ambassador. Mr. Biden’s appointments are establishment names — a reversal of President Donald Trump’s philosophy and practice of, predominantly, appointing individuals from outside Washington, often from industry or the financial world, in top positions. Mr. Sullivan, a 43-year-old graduate of Yale Law School and a Rhodes Scholar, will be the youngest NSA since the Eisenhower administration and has most recently served as adviser to the Biden campaign on domestic policy issues, including Mr. Biden’s ‘Build Back Better’ plan for economic revival. Focus on diversity A former Obama White House official, Mr. Sullivan was a foreign policy adviser on the Hilary Clinton campaign having worked for the former Secretary of State during her term in office. He was a key player in facilitating the Iran nuclear deal. “The nuclear deal agreed to in 2015 was meant to be the beginning, not the end, of diplomacy with Iran,” Mr. Sullivan wrote in a 2019 New York Times op-ed titled ‘It’s time to Talk to Iran,’ which he co-authored. Ms. Greenfield has had a 35-year career in foreign policy, including as Ambassador to Liberia and then Assistant Secretary for African Affairs during the Obama administration. After her departure from the State Department, days after the Trump administration took over, Ms. Greenfield worked with Albright Stonebridge, an advisory firm of former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. Ms. Greenfield, who is African American, also heads a team that will oversee the revival of the State Department, with a focus on diversity, under the Biden administration. Mr. Biden’s transition team is yet to receive formal recognition and funding because Mr. Trump has not conceded the elections. Approach to India Mr. Blinken has voiced support for Mr. Biden’s approach to India, such as in his support for Mr. Biden’s vision from the early years of this century, when he had reportedly said that in 2020 he would want to see India and the U.S. as the two closest countries in the world. “Well, we’re not quite there but it’s a terrific vision and one that I know he [Mr. Biden] will act to realise as President of the United States,” Mr. Blinken said at an Independence Day virtual celebration this year. In the context of the U.S. and India working together during the Paris Climate negotiations, Mr. Blinken said: “There’s probably no common global challenge we can solve without India. We have to be able to do this together.” Mr. Blinken had also criticised Mr. Trump’s transactional approach, especially towards trade “rather than partnership on the full scope of our [India and the U.S.’s] common interests.” At the same event, Mr. Blinken had said there was a common challenge of “increasingly assertive China... including towards India at the Line of Actual Control.” He talked about other forms of Chinese aggression, citing challenges in the economic domain and repression of the Uighur minority. He said Mr. Trump had allowed China to become stronger strategically by “leaving a vacuum in the world for China to fill” and “debasing” America’s own democracy. It is likely that a Biden administration will have on its India agenda talks on the government’s legislative changes in Kashmir (dilution of Article 370) as well as its laws related to Indian citizenship. “...We obviously have challenges now and real concerns, for example, about some of the actions that the government has taken particularly in cracking down on freedom of movement and freedom of speech in Kashmir, some of the laws on citizenship but you’re always better engaging with a partner and a vitally important one like India, when you can speak frankly and directly...,” Mr. Blinken had said in July this year during an interview at the Hudson Institute. Fight against terrorism Mr. Blinken had also said, at the Independence Day event, India’s role extended beyond being a key player in upholding a rules based order in the Indo-Pacific. “I think that role needs to extend even beyond the region, as vast as it is, to the world at large. In a Biden administration, we would be an advocate for India to play a leading role in international institutions and that includes helping India get a seat on a reformed UN Security Council.” He had also signalled support for India in its fight against terrorism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-tap-blinken-as-secretary-of-state/article33165126.ece
24 November 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka is hopeful but sceptical about a Biden presidency||Sri Lanka keenly watched the recently concluded U.S. elections, but how a Biden presidency might impact the island nation’s political and economic future remains to be seen, amid a heightening geopolitical contest in the region. In line with the prevalent diplomatic norm, Sri Lanka’s leaders President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa wished Joe Biden on Twitter, although some on social media were quick to point to the relative delay in their outreach, compared to many of their counterparts. However, diplomatic ties — in this case between two countries sharing an asymmetric power dynamic — often unravel behind the social media stage where leaders exchange courtesies bound by character limits. And that story, of Washington-Colombo relations under a Biden administration, is yet to unfold. Bilateral trade The U.S. engages with Sri Lanka in multiple spheres from politics, trade and economics, to defence and strategic cooperation. It is Sri Lanka’s single largest export market — fetching nearly $3 billion annually — and a big investor in Sri Lankan sovereign bonds. Strategically, the U.S. pursues bilateral military cooperation to “promote a more safe and prosperous” Indo-Pacific region, and is increasingly vocal in resisting China, who U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called a “predator” during his visit to Colombo last month. In Sri Lanka’s post-war decade, the U.S. — known to have helped the Rajapaksa regime defeat the LTTE in 2009 — was a prominent advocate of justice and accountability for alleged war crimes, although its emphasis on human rights faded under President Donald Trump, more so after the U.S. quit the UN Human Rights Council. While it may still be early to project the exact course of ties between the countries in this new context, experts in Sri Lanka anticipate some significant shifts. To start with, a Biden presidency will see an enhanced enthusiasm in multilateralism, wherein the U.S. is very likely to rejoin global organisations it left in the past, according to George Cooke, deputy director of the Colombo-based Bandaranaike Centre for International Studies. “He [Biden] would want to see the American presidency re-assuming its leadership role in the free world, and would use multilateral platforms in addition to strategic bilateral diplomacy to achieve that goal. Of all those organisations that he would want to rejoin, the most concerning for Sri Lanka would be issues arising in Geneva in the years ahead,” he told The Hindu . Human rights issues Following President Rajapaksa’s election in November 2019, Colombo notified the UN of its decision to pull out of the 2015 resolution on ‘Promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights in Sri Lanka’. Led by the U.S. and then co-sponsored by Sri Lanka, the resolution is scheduled to be taken up in Geneva in March next year. “Further, the U.S. is keen to have deeper ties in Asia, as is evident through the Quad. Sri Lanka needs to explore new interactions at the highest levels in Washington, not just at the White House but on Capitol Hill as well, and leverage that interest in Asia for mutually beneficial gains,” Mr. Cooke observed. In his view, Sri Lanka needs to go into the Millennium Challenge Corporation Agreement — a $480 million grant negotiated by the former government in Colombo — “afresh and very well prepared”, as America, irrespective of who occupies the White House, is keen to see it signed. On the democracy front, a Biden Presidency offers more promise than Mr. Trump’s did, according to Human Rights activist Nalini Ratnarajah, who is from Batticaloa district in the island’s Eastern Province. “His manifesto spoke of a global summit for democracy, of resisting authoritarianism, which is promising,” she said, while sceptical of what that might change for those seeking justice in Sri Lanka. “Let’s not forget that Joe Biden and Kamala Harris were earlier part of an establishment that had no problem backing wars in Yemen, Syria or Afghanistan. How can you seek peace and justice in Sri Lanka, while intensifying wars elsewhere?” she asked, adding that the Biden administration must confront difficult questions if it wants to appear credible. “Our people must also realise that just because someone is a woman or has Tamil roots, they will not necessarily support Tamil demands for justice here, or pursue progressive feminist policies. They will all be committed to America’s economic and strategic interests first and foremost,” Ms. Ratnarajah said, adding there was much to be done domestically, in parallel to pursuing international intervention. “If we have to secure democracy here, the Tamils who have suffered grave injustices at the end of the war, must work with marginalised Sinhalese and Muslim people targeted by state oppression. Only when we have strengthened solidarity within the country, can any international pressure matter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-is-hopeful-but-sceptical-about-a-biden-presidency/article33165125.ece
24 November 2020||Beijing,||China prepares probe to bring back lunar rocks||China is preparing to launch an unmanned spacecraft on Tuesday to bring back lunar rocks, the first attempt by any nation to retrieve samples from the moon in four decades. Beijing is pouring billions into its military-run space programme, with hopes of having a crewed space station by 2022 and of eventually sending humans to the moon. The Chang’e-5 probe, named after the mythical Chinese moon goddess, aims to shovel up lunar rocks and soil to help scientists learn about the moon’s origins, formation and volcanic activity on its surface. The mission is set to take off from the Wenchang Space Center on the southern island province of Hainan, according to the official Xinhua news agency. The China National Space Administration (CNSA) said on its WeChat social media account that the launch was planned for between 4 a.m. and 5 a.m. on Tuesday (local time). The original mission, planned for 2017, was delayed due to an engine failure in China’s Long March 5 launch rocket. If successful, China will be only the third country to have retrieved samples from the moon, following the U.S. and the Soviet Union in the 1960s and 1970s. The Chinese probe will collect 2 kg of surface material from a previously unexplored area known as Oceanus Procellarum — or “Ocean of Storms” — which consist of a vast lava plain, according to the science journal Nature .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-prepares-probe-to-bring-back-lunar-rocks/article33165128.ece
24 November 2020||Jerusalem,||PM met MBS, report Israeli media; Saudi Arabia denies it||Israeli media reports and a government source said on Monday Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had met for landmark talks in Saudi Arabia with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, but Riyadh denied that the meeting took place. The reports fuelled speculation that the Jewish state may be getting closer to normalising ties with the biggest West Asian power after its recent historic U.S.-brokered deals with the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. Israeli public broadcaster Kan and other media said Mr. Netanyahu and Mossad spy agency chief Yosef Meir Cohen had met Saudi de facto ruler Prince Mohammed, also known as MBS, together with U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in the futuristic Red Sea city of NEOM on Sunday. An Israeli government source who requested anonymity confirmed the reports to AFP. Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan then strongly denied the report that suggested Saudi Arabia was moving away from its decades-old stance of refusing dialogue with the Jewish state until the Palestinian conflict is resolved. Press reports “I have seen press reports about a purported meeting between HRH the Crown Prince and Israeli officials during the recent visit by @SecPompeo,” Prince Faisal tweeted. “No such meeting occurred. The only officials present were American and Saudi.” Mr. Pompeo has confirmed he was in NEOM as part of a West Asia tour and met with Prince Mohammed. The U.S. State Department declined to confirm a trilateral meeting. Mr. Netanyahu, asked about the Saudi trip during a public meeting on Monday of his Likud party, said: “I have never commented on these things and I do not intend to start now.” Abraham Accords Israel’s normalisation deals with UAE and Bahrain, known as the Abraham Accords, were brokered under U.S. President Donald Trump, who leaves office in less than two months. Sudan has also agreed in principle to normalise ties with Israel. There has been speculation Washington may push for other Arab States to join the accords before President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in. While Israel has hailed the accords as historic diplomatic agreements, the Palestinians have condemned them and urged Arab states to hold firm until Israel ends its occupation of Palestinian territory and agrees to the creation of a Palestinian state. Saudi Arabia — a close U.S. ally and oil-rich buyer of military goods — has publicly insisted it will stick to the decades-old Arab League position of not having ties with Israel until it reaches a peace deal with the Palestinians. But some experts have said Mr. Biden’s upcoming inauguration may have created urgency in Riyadh, which has dealt discreetly with Israel over a joint desire to contain common foe Iran. Flight details Prominent Israeli diplomatic correspondent Barak Ravid of Walla News and Axios reported that Netanyahu and Cohen flew on a plane belonging to Israeli businessman Udi Angel. Mr. Ravid cited flight tracker data showing Mr. Angel’s plane leaving Israel at 8:00 pm on Sunday, heading to NEOM and returning to Israel five hours later. Prior to the Abraham Accords, Israel only had peace treaties with two Arab nations, Egypt and Jordan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-media-report-pm-met-mbs-saudi-arabia-denies/article33165130.ece
24 November 2020||Kabul,||Taliban rigging drones to drop bombs, says Afghan spy chief||The Taliban have deployed small drones to drop bombs on government forces in some recent attacks, Afghanistan’s spy chief said on Monday, illustrating a new fighting method used by the insurgents. Ahmad Zia Shiraj, who heads the National Directorate of Security (NDS), said Taliban fighters were using hobby drones and rigging them with explosives. “The drones they are using are sold in the market. They are basically camera drones,” Mr. Shiraj said in an address to Parliament, adding the NDS wants to stop the import of the popular devices. In late October, the Taliban reportedly used a drone to bomb the compound of the governor of Kunduz province. Mr. Shiraj did not confirm the report, but he noted that the Taliban have used drones in Kunduz and Paktia provinces. While the technique is new to the Taliban, Islamic State (IS) jihadists operating in Iraq and Syria started using toy planes and hobby drones in 2016 to carry explosives. IS maintain a small but deadly presence in Afghanistan and have resisted years-long efforts by the U.S. and Afghan forces to wipe them out. “We have destroyed their leadership circle but their second layer are young are still active,” Mr. Shiraj said. IS claimed three deadly attacks in recent weeks in Kabul that killed scores of people, including a rocket attack on Saturday. The Taliban and Washington are holding negotiations in Doha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-rigging-drones-to-drop-bombs-says-afghan-spy-chief/article33165133.ece
24 November 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. schools shut as virus surges back||A little over two months after students across Pakistan returned to classes, the authorities on Monday decided to close all educational institutions again from November 26 to January 10 to contain the COVID-19 pandemic that has claimed nearly 7,700 lives and infected over 3.7 lakh people in the country. The decision was taken at a meeting of Pakistan’s Education Ministers. Pakistan’s coronavirus tally surged to 376,929 on Monday, with 2,756 fresh infections being reported in the last 24 hours . “All universities, colleges and schools will be switched to online teaching mode,” Federal Education Minister Shafqat Mahmood said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-schools-shut-as-virus-surges-back/article33165134.ece
24 November 2020||London,||London, Nov 23, 2020 (AFP) -||Shamima Begum, who joined the Islamic State in Syria, would pose “a clear and present threat” to national security if she was allowed to return to Britain to appeal a decision to revoke her citizenship, the government told the Supreme Court on Monday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-nov-23-2020-afp/article33165123.ece
24 November 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, Nov 23, 2020 (AFP) -||Seven people in Russia's Far East republic of Yakutia have died and two were in a coma on Monday after consuming diluted hand sanitiser. Investigators found an unlabelled cannister, which contained 69% methanol, an industrial non-drinking type of alcohol.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-nov-23-2020-afp/article33165131.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Some of the COVID-19 mortality was avoidable||Eight months into the COVID-19 epidemic, there is an understandable longing for a return to normalcy in our everyday lives. With the slowing of the growth of infection we want to go about our business and social life in a way that we are used to. However, there is one area in which we cannot afford to return to the old normal and that is the attention paid, actually the lack of it, to health in public policy. We are by now in a position to at least tentatively quantify how much its neglect has cost us in the past eight months. Public expenditure on health Repeated reference to the relatively low death rate in India compared to parts of the Americas has meant overlooking the wide variation in the death rate across the States of India. In our work we have tried to see whether it is possible to make sense of this pattern. As there is variation in the per capita income of States, we commenced by looking for a relationship between income levels and deaths. We found that far from income contributing to the prevention of death from COVID-19, States with a higher per capita income often had higher death rates. It suggests that the wealth of a State has not acted as a shield against death for a section of its population. So what then can explain the varying death rate across India? Data suggest that it is the level of public expenditure on health. There is high variation among India’s States in the public expenditure on health as a share of the domestic product, and the death rate is negatively related to it. This even having allowed for the possible impact of the age profile of the population and its density. In the interest of communication, we have suppressed all technical details relating to methodology and measurement. The study is available from us on request. A small additional detail in our findings may be mentioned. While there is a strong relationship between the death rate and public health expenditure, there is much less between the death rate and medical infrastructure in the public sector, be it hospitals or hospital beds per person. The clue to this most likely lies in the observation made by the well-known surgeon, Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty that: “it is doctors who treat patients, not hospital beds” (NDTV, October 2, 2020). Funding is important Actually, during an epidemic, much needs to be done beyond treating patients in intensive care units at the final stage of the disease. There is detection, contact tracing and isolation needed even before treatment. Now, an effective combination of medical expertise, protocols and management practices becomes central to the effectiveness of the response to an epidemic. Health professionals at the World Health Organization have observed that sufficient funding is what enables this to occur within the short span afforded by a health emergency. The data that is by now available on the progress of COVID-19 across India allows us to at least take a view on whether some deaths may have been prevented even at the income level that we have. If we apply the death rate in the State with the median level of public health expenditure to the national population we would get an estimate of what would have been the number of deaths were public expenditure on health across the country the same as that of the median Indian State. The difference between actual deaths and this figure gives us an estimate of how many deaths could have been saved had the laggard States spent more of their income on public health. Growth over health When this computation is done, we find that approximately 72% of the 1.25 lakh deaths that had occurred till November 7 could have been saved. This estimate should be treated with caution. It is possible that the State with the median health expenditure has some unique characteristics that reduce the death rate from COVID-19. It is also possible that its death rate is underestimated. As there is no certainty on these issues as of now, we treat our estimate of lives that could have been saved as indicative of the potential of a well-funded public health system rather than being definitive by itself. A secondary finding of our study is that the State-wise pattern of public expenditure on health is inversely related to the per capita income of the States. Simply put, the health spend of the richer States in relation to their domestic product is lower than that of the poorer States. So the neglect of health in public policy can be termed a choice made by these States. They prioritised economic growth over the health of their populations. The example of the northeast We tested our hypothesis on the role of public health expenditure in preventing death from COVID-19 over diverse fields. We first took it to north-eastern India, which has registered much lower death rates than the rest of the country. This pattern has led to speculation on the innate characteristics of the population of this region and claims of its lower exposure to the virus. On the second of these, actually the percentage of the population infected in the northeastern States is not much lower than that in the rest of the country. On the first, no reference to population genetics is needed to explain the northeastern experience. The States of the northeast are among the highest spenders on public health in the country. Only the State of Jammu of Kashmir, prior to its dismemberment, was in the same league. Next, we tested our finding across the eight countries of South Asia. Here, there is a particularly marked negative relationship between public expenditure on health and the death rate from COVID-19. And, generally, the richer countries spend proportionately more on public health. Apparently, the inverse relationship between national income and public health expenditure is a pathology peculiar to India’s States. Finally, whatever may be our findings on the role of public health expenditure in preventing death from COVID-19, it would be naive to imagine that health security can be achieved by throwing money at the problem. The governance challenge Even once the COVID-19 virus has become less deadly, we are likely to continue to suffer from air pollution, a medically recognised threat to life. It is significant that again it is the richest part of the country that is most threatened by it. But Delhi’s battle with poor air quality cannot be overcome through more money with its government. It is closely related to the governance challenge at the heart of Indian democracy. Air pollution in Delhi is caused by a combination of stubble burning in the neighbouring States and rampant construction activity, motor vehicles and garbage burning within its own territory, all of which can be mitigated through public policy interventions. With respect to the first, it has actually been suggested that public funds be used to pay farmers to stop burning their stubble. This would not just be a reversal of the commonly accepted principle in environmental economics that ‘the polluter pays’ but untenable from the ethical standpoint. In most of the cases mentioned above, it is a relatively better-off section of the population that is impairing the lives of the rest by their pursuit of personal gain. Economic policy that prioritises growth, even by default, can lead to environmental damage, and a political process without ethical awareness cannot confront it at its source. Pulapre Balakrishnan is Professor of Economics, Ashoka University and Sreenath K Namboodhiry is Academic Associate, Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/some-of-the-covid-19-mortality-was-avoidable/article33165110.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||A conspiracy against inter-faith love||In India, intermarriages between people of different regions, castes or religions have to a large extent been prevented by casteism, religious conservatism, and fear of parental authority. In a country as large and diverse as this, intermarriages are still a rarity. There are few inter-caste marriages and even fewer inter-religious ones. Surveys large and small confirm that the vast majority of Indians (between 95% and 99% depending on the State) have arranged marriages, which are, by nature, intra-caste and intra-religious. Between 70% and 80% of Indians across all age groups and religions disapprove of inter-caste or inter-religious marriage. Those of us and our forebears who married across caste groups or across religious communities are a very small minority of around 5% and about 2%, respectively. Yet, for decades, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), through its affiliates, has kept up an attack on the 2%, trying to prevent or break up marriages between Hindus and people of other faiths, primarily Muslims. Despite all its very recent protestations to the contrary, the Sangh Parivar is known to hold that Muslims (and Christians), whose holy sites are outside India, are not truly “Bharatiya”. Groups owing allegiance to the Parivar scour court notices for marriages under the Special Marriage Act and use persuasion, threats, intimidation and even violence to try and stop marriages from taking place. When Muslim women marry Hindu men (even abroad), they try to have them “convert” to Hinduism. No evidence of ‘love jihad’ But it is only quite recently that they conjured up a conspiracy theory in support of their campaign. Starting in coastal Karnataka and northern Kerala in the mid-2000s, Sangh vigilantes claimed that Hindu-Muslim romances were a well-thought-out conspiracy to seduce Hindu women in order to convert them to Islam and produce Muslim children. It was among these vigilantes that the term ‘love jihad’ was bandied about. A Karnataka Criminal Investigation Department (CID) investigation into complaints of ‘love jihad’ in 2009 concluded that there was no ‘love jihad’, only love and marriage between consenting adults. But the conspiracy theory, and the term ‘love jihad’, were exported to north India in the run-up to the 2014 general election. Over the next few years, as the Bharatiya Janata Party gained political ground, the term gained currency, adding another dimension to the Sangh Parivar’s programme of communal polarisation. A National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe was ordered following continuing claims in Kerala in 2018. In Uttar Pradesh, whose current Chief Minister issued a public death threat to men he claimed were involved in ‘love jihad’, the police investigated 14 complaints. The NIA reached the same conclusion as the Karnataka CID did in 2009: there was no conspiracy to convert Hindu women, nothing called ‘love jihad’, all the women concerned had married and/or changed religions as independent thinking adults. The U.P. police have found that the majority of the cases probed were consensual. And in the cases identified as ‘suspicious’ by the police, neither is there evidence of forcible conversion nor of the fact that the women did not make their own choices. But keeping the conspiracy theory alive seems to be an important part of the RSS-BJP’s communal political programme. And so, under the guise of anti-conversion laws, a few BJP State governments have now announced their intention to make ‘love jihad’, a conspiracy theory, a crime punishable by imprisonment. The conspiracy theory has evolved along the way. Its central premise is that no Hindu woman will fall in love with a man she knows to be a Muslim; Muslims disguise themselves as Hindus to get their way with obedient Hindu women and having ravished them, force them to convert. Exercising choice Characterising Hindu women as dim-witted and easily led is socially more acceptable than the idea that a woman can love outside artificial social boundaries and exercise choice. This is borne out by the many examples from across the country of parents using provisions of criminal law on rape and kidnapping to try and break up their daughter’s relationship or marriage, entered into by choice. There are also examples from across the country of families that have conspired to murder their daughter or her husband or both, because their falling in love is an affront to family authority and to the social order determined by caste and religion. The insidious linking of inter-faith relationships with ‘forcible conversion’, however, gives this campaign a powerful toxicity. The Supreme Court affirmed in the case of Hadiya (formerly Akhila) and Shafin Jahan that no one had a right to interfere in the marriage of consenting adults. What the BJP State governments are proposing is a law that overturns this premise, by making the validity of a marriage subject to investigation on the basis of third-party complaints. It makes every Muslim marrying a Hindu suspect. It characterises Muslims as conspirators in a project of proselytisation and colonisation of Hindu wombs. And it provides legal cover for Sangh organisations to carry on their decades-old campaign of harassment, and worse, against Hindu-Muslim marriages. To be sure, the RSS and its affiliates have been able to pursue their flagrantly anti-constitutional and unlawful methods in trying to prevent inter-religious marriages because their agenda feeds the casteism and religious anxiety of the majority of Indians. This is why, all these years, they have had the easy support of court officials, the police, and in too many cases also the families of young people who have dared to love. The changes in law proposed by a few BJP State governments, if they go through, will create a decidedly hostile legal environment for Hindus and Muslims to marry. What is already difficult, because of family, community and Sangh Parivar pressures, will become impossibly hard. Nazi Germany’s Nuremburg laws prohibited sexual relations and marriages between Jews and non-Jews. Violation of the law led to imprisonment and later, incarceration in a concentration camp. Segregationist U.S. and apartheid South Africa had laws prohibiting inter-racial marriages and sexual relations. In South Africa, the law was enforced through surveillance and police raids. In both countries, violations were punishable by imprisonment. In India, the Sangh Parivar can achieve the same ends without a law explicitly banning such marriages, so long as those who are unable to see beyond caste and religion conspire in its plan. Anjali Mody is a journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-conspiracy-against-inter-faith-love/article33165117.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Banking health and the ‘K Curve’ dynamics||As the financial ecosystem navigated one more pothole last week, with depositors in Lakshmi Vilas Bank Limited (LVB) getting bailed out, the implications of the Reserve Bank of India’s sleight of hand have got all stakeholders thinking about the way forward. Throw in the non-banking financial companies, or NBFCs, into this cocktail and you sense a lot of pieces are likely to move in this jigsaw puzzle. While different stakeholders may have their own opinions on the way forward for the financial sector, markets, to a large extent, incorporate those differing views and reflect it in the price performance of individual banks. Such price action of banks can give us very useful insights on how the financial system dynamics are likely to change in the coming years. Focusing on the trends in valuation metrics since the ILF&S crisis can give us some important pointers on how the system is likely to take shape. What is the market prognosis right now? A key metric Any sector expert would tell you that the key metric for financial companies would be the ‘Price to Book Value’ ratio (P/BV). The P/BV holds the mirror on the two critical attributes the market values most: adequacy of current capital and runway available to the entity for profitable growth. A P/BVB ratio above 1 indicates that the market believes that the company can grow and generate Return on Equity (RoE) above the hurdle rate that investors expect. The faster it can grow or the greater the spread of the ROE above the hurdle rate, the greater the P/B multiple (above 1). A P/BV below 1, on the other hand, indicates that the market either does not believe the bank has recognised all its bad loans or has the business model to deliver returns above the hurdle rate. This may be because the bank does not have a good deposit franchise, has bad cost discipline or a broken lending model. Private banks’ dispersion Now let us see what the market is telling us through prevailing P/BVs (need to look at a bank’s P/BV over a period). You have banks that have a P/BV above 4 while some others languish at much below 1, even at 0.25. With NBFCs, the P/BV range is even wider, with some NBFCs being valued in excess of 7. The growth trajectories of these entities with dispersed P/BV will be varied, resulting in a classic K Curve playing out. The K Curve depicts the inequality existing between different financial entities in terms of their attributes that determine their future growth and profitability. Widening of the arms of the ‘K’ would imply that the inequality is increasing, while narrowing of the span of the ‘K’ would mean the opposite. Looking at private sector banks, one can clearly see a couple of banks which have always had their P/BV above 3 on a consistent basis. Capital is available in plenty for these banks and the market is betting that these banks will grow much above system average and generate attractive RoE. This would imply that these banks will have disproportionate incremental market share on both assets and liabilities.  Next comes the set of banks which have had P/BV of above 1.5 for most periods of time. The market insight on these banks is that they are long-term bets, have access to sufficient capital but have to demonstrate a business model that works across cycles. As comfort levels increase on the business model, the P/BV should climb as runway for growth is available for these banks. Both the above set of banks (‘Alpha banks’) would form one arm of the K, having adequate access to capital and the intrinsic ability to grow market share. The only constraint for these banks would be their ability to grow their liability franchise as changes in market share on deposits are much slower than changes on the asset side. The other private sector banks have a P/BV of around 1 or much below 1. For some of them which have demonstrated an ability to raise capital even through COVID-19 times, it is a business model issue and whether they have strengths to grow profitably in a sustained manner. The new generation banks amongst these have to demonstrate consistent growth and stability on the liability side to earn their stripes for a higher P/BV again. Quite a few of the old generation private sector banks have an issue with the credibility of their business model and their ability to generate above hurdle RoE through the cycle. While they may have a reasonably stable liability franchise, the market perceives issues with their lending practices and thereby, asset quality. That is the reason their P/BV is at very low levels. They need to transform themselves by upgrading technology, add skilled manpower and improve management quality and governance. Road map for public banks Coming to public sector unit (PSU) banks, their current governance model depresses valuations. Their P/BV would better reflect their intrinsic strengths when the banks are run in a professional manner with an ability to decide their own destiny. The largest bank in the country is surely part of the Alpha banks as its ability to attract capital and grow profitably is well accepted. The other PSU banks are viewed by the market broadly as a homogenous set with similar business models and skill sets. Along with the government move to consolidate PSU banks into few large banks, a new vision needs to be drawn out for these banks to ensure that they have differing value propositions to offer to the economy and market. There needs to be a clear level playing field amongst all banks and the government should move to paying transparent and fair compensation for services rendered to various State-sponsored programmes to all players. PSU banks should be free to adopt human resource practices to on-board lateral talent to fill in skill set gaps and adapt to the new digital world. This, coupled with better governance, is the recipe for higher P/BV for PSU banks. More Alpha banks needed So what happens from here on? The consensus opinion would be that the Alpha banks widen the gap with respect to the rest, thereby widening the K Curve even more and squeezing out the weak banks. If one looks at the financial performance of banks over the last few years, this trend is palpably seen, lending more credence to the widening K curve hypothesis. However, there is clearly more room for banks to migrate into the Alpha banks set. Vision, perseverance and consistent execution will make that happen. For the wheels of the economy to grind faster and higher, we need more than the current handful of Alpha banks to propel it and it is in all stakeholders’ interest to do their bit to make that happen. The multi baggers lie in spotting the bank that can straddle the K. The system can ill-afford another LVB. For NBFCs, it is a more scary thought. Would both arms of the ‘K’ remain is the moot question for them. Or, would the more valued NBFCs be the ones that become part of the Alpha banks in the long term? Srinivasan Varadarajan is a veteran banker and market expert||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/banking-health-and-the-k-curve-dynamics/article33165112.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for an Asian Century||In an irreversibly more equal world, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) has immediate geopolitical and economic implications, with the West adapting to Asian rules and marking the end of the colonial phase of global history. Will we see the world returning to the centrality of Asian civilisations sharing prosperity, with the U.S. adjusting to a triumvirate? Or will the Asian giants be irreconcilable rivals with the U.S. rules-based order maintaining peace and prosperity? India’s challenge is in securing an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ in the emerging digital order, navigating the U.S.-China technology and supply chain clash. Asian-led world order The mega trade deal was led by ASEAN, not by China, and includes Japan and Australia, military allies of the U.S., all opting for the Asian Century as they do not see China as a threat the way the U.S. does. ‘ASEAN centrality’ rejects the current frame of the West setting the agenda. RCEP’s principles and objectives allow individual countries to choose the scope and product categories for bilateral tariff schedules, and exclude divisive issues like labour and environment. The new frame goes beyond transfer of goods and services, focuses on integration and facilitating supply chains for sharing prosperity, requiring a very different calculus for assessment. RCEP’s new rules on electronic commerce could offset losses in declining trade in goods. ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ will leverage endogenous technological strength, data and population. Both China and India are breaking the monopoly of the West in wireless telecommunications, AI and other emerging technologies. India has also, in the UN, questioned Western domination calling for a “reformed multilateralism”. The dilemma for the West is that sharing power will mark the end of its primacy in global affairs. The dilemma for the U.S. is more acute. With China having developed the capacity to bridge the technological gap, the U.S. weaponised interdependence by banning export of semiconductor chips and forcing sale of innovative Chinese technology. China’s response is a ‘dual circulation’ strategy for self-reliance and military-technological prowess to surpass the U.S. The global governance role of the U.S. is already reduced. The U.S. Congressional Research Service report dated October 30 identifies four key elements of this role: global leadership; defence and promotion of the liberal international order; defence and promotion of freedom, democracy, and human rights; and prevention of the emergence of regional hegemons in Eurasia. The U.S. now exercises power with others, not over them. Despite its military ‘pivot’ to Asia, the U.S. needs India in the Quad, to counterbalance the spread of China’s influence through land-based trade links. India, like others in the Quad, has not targeted China and also has deeper security ties with Russia. With the ASEAN ‘code of conduct’ in the South China Sea, both the security and prosperity pillars of the U.S.-led Indo-Pacific construct will be adversely impacted. Atmanirbhar Bharat No country has become a global power relying on others. India needs a new strategic doctrine and mindset. Strategic analysts ignore the severity of colonial exploitation that made the most developed country, India, among the less developed when they compare it with China. Military strategists’ excessive reliance on Western doctrines and equipment ignores why the 4th Infantry Division, described “as one of the greatest fighting formations in military history”, collapsed . We have drawn the wrong lessons on both the intentions and capability of China (the Henderson-Brooks Bhagat Report remains classified, but its conclusions are available). With the Rafale aircraft purchase, India has recognised that there will be no technology transfer for capital equipment. Military Theatre Commands should be tasked with border defence giving the offensive role to cyber, missile and special forces based on endogenous capacity, effectively linking economic and military strength. The overriding priority should be infrastructure including electricity and fibre optic connectivity; self-reliance in semiconductors, electric batteries and solar panels; and skill development. Leveraging proven digital prowess to complement the infrastructure of China’s Belt and Road Initiative will win friends as countries value multi-polarity. The RCEP already includes India’s priorities such as rules of origin, services and e-commerce. The time-bound upgradation of national capacity through ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ should enable agreements with individual ASEAN countries. RCEP members have expressed their “strong will” to re-engage India, essentially to balance China. There are compelling geopolitical and economic reasons for shaping the building blocks of the Asia-led order, which is not yet China-led, to secure an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, and place in the emerging triumvirate. Mukul Sanwal is a former UN diplomat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/time-for-an-asian-century/article33165120.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Weaker germs, stronger cures||The advent of antibiotics ignited the hope of elimination of infectious diseases in humans and animals. However, this did not happen because of two reasons: the ingenuity and survival instinct of germs and the irrational use of antibiotics in humans and animals. Most of the germs have acquired the capacity to resist the action of affordable antibiotics. This phenomenon is known as antimicrobial resistance (AMR). The inability of antibiotics to treat patients and animals is wreaking havoc on human health, nutrition safety and economies. The long-term impact of AMR is almost comparable to that of the COVID-19 pandemic. AMR is estimated to cause 10 million deaths annually by 2050, unless concerted actions are initiated now. It will result in 7.5 % reduction in livestock production and negatively impact the global GDP by 3.5%. Tackling the AMR challenge There are two major possible solutions to combat the AMR menace: discovery of new drugs, before the emergence of resistance in germs; and prudent use of available antibiotics. The first is an expensive and unpredictable process. Since 1984, no new class of antibiotics has been developed. The estimated cost for developing a new antibiotic exceeds $1 billion. With rapid development of resistance, the life of new antibiotics becomes limited and the return on investment on new molecules gets diminished. This discourages the pharmaceutical industry to invest in these initiatives. The world is left with only one option: to use the available antibiotics carefully to ensure their efficacy for as long as possible. The World Health Organization Global Action Plan on AMR (2015) provides a road map for tackling this challenge. This plan has been endorsed by the UN General Assembly. Almost 80 countries have developed their respective national action plans in alignment with this Plan. The rational use of antibiotics in humans, animals, and agriculture warrants coordinated action in all sectors. These multi-sectoral, multidisciplinary and multi-institutional actions constitute the ‘One Health’ approach. This has gained currency across the world as an efficient and cost-effective response to AMR and several other challenges, especially endemic zoonoses (diseases transmitted between animals and humans) and pandemics. It is reinforced by the fact that all the epidemics in the current millennium (SARS, MERS, bird flu and COVID-19) have originated from animals because of unwanted excursion of humans into animal domains. The COVID-19 pandemic has emphasised the urgency of implementing One Health. India’s National Action Plan on AMR is an excellent example of the One Health approach and can be used as a guiding document to develop a workable road map for the country to respond to other similar public health challenges. One platform for experts One Health should not be construed as a standalone or new programme that has to be built de novo. This endeavour utilises existing expertise and infrastructure in various sectors with a focus on inter-sectoral coordination, collaboration, and communication. The purpose of One Health is to provide a formal platform for experts to plan and work together towards shared objectives. Implementation of One Health warrants a strong and continuous national narrative on zoonoses. It advocates a multi-sectoral response to public health problems, particularly pandemics, as also to address issues related to AMR. The approach supports focussed actions on the human-animal-environment interface for the prevention, detection and response to the public health events that influence global health and food security. AMR is one of the biggest challenges to human and animal health. There is a need to optimally utilise emerging technologies to improve human health and development. One Health has been acknowledged as the optimum approach to counter the impact of AMR and future pandemics and must be adopted expeditiously. Tomio Shichiri is FAO Representative in India and Dr. Rajesh Bhatia is Technical Advisor, FAO India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/weaker-germs-stronger-cures/article33165118.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Overbroad, overboard||Kerala has sought to make amends by keeping in abeyance its obnoxious proposal to abridge free speech by conferring unbridled powers on the police to arrest any one expressing or disseminating any matter deemed threatening, abusive, humiliating or defamatory to a person or a class of persons in any manner. But Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should take heed of criticism and drop the measure altogether. It is worrying that such a draconian and ill-conceived ordinance was even promulgated. It is incredible that a State government crafted a law with elements declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, ignoring a major apex court verdict on the law of defamation, and which is repugnant to the provisions of the IPC, a central law, in two ways, besides going against one provision in the Cr.P.C. His defence that the amendment only targeted defamatory social media posts and would not curb reportage, political satire or expression of opinion is quite hollow, when seen in the light of the absence of any such narrow definition of the offence introduced by Section 118A in the Kerala Police Act. In Shreya Singhal vs. Union of India (2015), the top court struck down Section 66A of the IT Act. The section had criminalised the sending of any message through a computer resource that was grossly offensive, menacing, or caused annoyance, inconvenience, danger, insult, injury and intimidation. The Court found the offence was ‘overbroad’, that is, it was defined so widely that both innocent and offensive messaging could be brought under its ambit. The failure to define the offence narrowly fell foul of the constitutional protection for free speech and expression. The same judgment, for the same reason, also struck down Section 118(d) of the Kerala Police Act, which made causing annoyance in an indecent manner through verbal comments or on telephone an offence. The new offence is also vaguely defined, and is made cognisable, whereas criminal defamation under the IPC is non-cognisable. Moreover, while upholding the validity of criminal defamation, the Court made it clear that no police officer can register an FIR for the offence; it can only be prosecuted as a private complaint, for Sec.199 Cr.P.C. says no court shall take cognisance of defamation unless the aggrieved party files a complaint. Further, Section 118A lays down a three-year prison term; it is two years under the IPC. By making defamatory utterances cognisable and raising the prison term, the Kerala ordinance effectively amends the IPC and Cr.P.C., a move for which the Centre’s assent is mandatory, as it is in conflict with central laws. The ordinance itself required prior presidential assent. It is regrettable that the State sought to arm itself with extraordinary powers to deal with a problem that can be dealt with through other provisions relating to stalking, harassment, criminal intimidation and verbal abuse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/overbroad-overboard/article33165104.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Matchmaking||The ruling AIADMK’s declaration on continuing its ties with the BJP for the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections was no surprise. With the Congress and the Left aligned with the DMK, the AIADMK needs all the electoral partners it can get. The Jayalalithaa strategy of taking advantage of a three-way split in votes is no longer possible. But by dispensing with conventional negotiations and internal consultations, and making the announcement after a single meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, the party leadership has given the impression of being politically vulnerable to pressures from the party ruling at the Centre. Indeed, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami seemed keen to avoid any such impression. Just a day before the announcement, he told senior leaders that the party was not under any pressure from the BJP and need not feel obliged to anyone. The party mouthpiece had sharply criticised the BJP’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’, a religious-political roadshow being conducted without necessary permission. Though Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam has described the ties as the “continuation of a victorious alliance”, the alliance made no impact in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. The BJP’s 3.71% vote share mirrored the performances of some newer players. Since 2006, most BJP candidates have forfeited deposits in successive Assembly elections, with only a marginal increase in the vote share — 2.02% to 2.84%. Hence, it is only logical for some in the AIADMK to deem the national party an electoral liability. However, the AIADMK seems to be banking on the BJP’s heft as the dominant party at the Centre and hoping that the wide appeal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will extend to Tamil Nadu. The DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance, after its impressive gains in the Lok Sabha and rural local body elections, appears intact. The Congress and other allies are unlikely to ditch it. Naturally, the AIADMK would want to retain the ambitious PMK and DMDK and perhaps turn to the BJP for intervention, should the need arise. While the possibility of actor Rajinikanth floating a party appears remote, if the BJP eventually gets him to back the ruling alliance, it would be a bonus for the AIADMK, and could offset anti-incumbency. The help the BJP could extend, if V.K. Sasikala, the jailed aide of Jayalalithaa, chooses a political role upon her release in January 2021, might have been another factor. In addition to these, central assistance to deal with COVID-19’s economic implications would be crucial before polls are notified. While all these could help in the short term, the party may have to play its cards carefully during seat sharing or else risk being overrun by the BJP in the long term. The AIADMK cannot afford to be seen as anything but the dominant partner in the alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/matchmaking/article33165105.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Boycott of schools||Pandit Malaviya, who is still very weak, addressed the students of the Hindu University this afternoon. He said that he had no mind to do so till Mr. Gandhi’s arrival, but some irresponsible persons amongst the students had floated a rumour that he had turned a whole hearted supporter of the non-co-operation movement and had wired to the Chancellor to come here and manage the affairs personally. This was false and he stuck to his previous opinion as firmly as ever. The next and more important reason was that about two hundred students had signed a resolution demanding the authorities to refuse the Government grant and remove other controls and had threatened to withdraw connection in case of non-fulfilment of the demand. The Panditji regretted the students had gone so far before ascertaining the real facts and consulting their professors and other members of the staff and lent support to the suggestions of persons most of whom were unconnected with the university and educational affairs. He said that they could not dissolve the Hindu University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/boycott-of-schools/article33165113.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Lok Sabha’s rare gesture to astronauts||For the last two or three days, Delhi has been experiencing a refreshing change from the murky politics of the Congress split — and the gloom and despondency of the present political scene — to the high excitement of man’s conquest of the moon eloquently brought back to memory by the American and Soviet space heroes who have come to attend the Federation Aeronautique Internationale conference. The President and the Prime Minister have honoured them on behalf of the people of India as pioneers and path-finders who have opened up new horizons in the exploration of the universe and in the process given a new dimension to the concept of brotherhood of man. The Lok Sabha to-day [November 23, New Delhi] gave a standing ovation — a rare gesture by a sovereign Parliament — to the two American astronauts, Neil Armstrong, the first man who set foot on the moon, and Charles Conrad, who led the second moon-landing mission, before the House paid homage to the memory of Noble Laureate, Dr. C.V. Raman. The two top-ranking Soviet cosmonauts, Boris Volinov and Yevgeny Khurnov, will be similarly honoured when they pay a visit to Parliament before leaving Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lok-sabhas-rare-gesture-to-astronauts/article33165114.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Single window approval for FDI by Mar.||A new, unified single window clearance system for foreign direct investment (FDI) proposals would be in place by March 31, a top government official said on Monday, stressing that this would not only make approvals transparent but expeditious. “An effective, unified, single window will be made available so that access to regulators, policymakers and facilitators are all available at one point from wherever you are and you will be able to access it digitally,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told multinational companies at a meeting hosted by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Guruprasad Mohapatra, secretary in the department of promotion of industry and internal trade under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, said that the single window clearance system being developed will be ‘very effective’ and enable the potential investor to interact with all the Ministries whose approvals are required, at the Centre as well as in the States. “We are expecting to put it in place by March-end. That will help investors a lot in not just getting information about the status of approvals, but in getting faster approvals,” he said. Mr. Mohapatra also said the Centre’s industrial information system for potential investors now includes details of land availability in as many as 14 States. Ms. Sitharaman said the government had seen fresh interest from large sovereign wealth funds looking to invest in the country and conceded the need to address many compliance issues that worry investors at large. “The National Infrastructure Investment Fund has been actively engaging with them through the lockdown to see how best we can facilitate them with the benefits of the tax concessions given and the pipeline of infrastructure projects. These funds now want to tie up with many of these projects and I understand the last one month, we have had at least two new sovereign funds coming and asking ‘Can we also benefit from the tax concessions’,” the Minister said. ‘Reforms to continue’ Stressing that the Centre would continue the momentum of reforms undertaken during the pandemic, the Minister said several more active reform-related steps were being taken up and feedback from global investors would be factored in. “From a multinational company’s perspective, if you were to look at the Indian economy and where the emphasis is going to be in the coming Budget and in policymaking, I will start by saying the PM has himself been engaging with the global investor community and talking about how he views India in this changing environment. They are speaking about what they see and expect from India in the policy space,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/single-window-approval-for-fdi-by-mar/article33165084.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Helmet industry not as severely hit as auto sector’||The helmet-manufacturing industry in India has been relatively insulated from the impact of COVID-19 even as the pandemic severely impacted the auto sector in the country, said Sidhartha Bhushan Khurana, MD, Studds Accessories. In an interview, Mr. Khurana said the company anticipated a 10% growth during the current year, surpassing revenue of about Rs. 450 crore it recorded in 2019-20, ‘which was a clear indication of the growth of the Indian helmet industry and the minimal impact of COVID-19.’ As per a 2018 Frost & Sullivan report, market share of Studds stood at about 27%, Mr. Khurana said, adding this had grown to about 30% now. The company aimed to capture 40% in the next three years. “The pandemic has had a drastic effect on the Indian automotive industry, which was already in a state of prolonged slowdown for some time,” he added. “This effect, however, was not so severe for the Indian helmet industry as we continue to see growth for the company [this] fiscal,” he said. ‘Policy boost’ “We believe the government’s new policy banning non-ISI certified helmets will give organised players a big boost by driving demand. If the enforcement is done well, a huge market will open up for us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/helmet-industry-not-as-severely-hit-as-auto-sector/article33165091.ece
24 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Adani Solar to add 2-GW cell and module capacity at Mundra||Adani Solar (Mundra Solar PV Ltd.), the solar PV manufacturing and EPC arm of Adani Group, is evaluating a 2 GW cell and module expansion at its manufacturing facility in Mundra, Gujarat. This is to strengthen its position as India’s largest and most technologically advanced player with a total capacity of 3.5 GW of high efficiency cells and modules, an Adani Group spokesperson said. The capacity is expected to come on line by 2021. At present, Adani Solar is India’s largest integrated solar cell and module manufacturer with a capacity of 1.5 GW. The proposed capacity addition is in anticipation of domestic demand of 10-12 GW in 2021. Currently, Indian firms have 3 GW of cell and about 9-10 GW of module manufacturing capacity. Today, a bulk of the solar modules used in projects are imported from China. “This large-capacity, single-location plant will also provide us remarkable supply chain benefits, further enhancing our competitiveness and cost efficiency and help us achieve price parity with Chinese manufacturers,” the spokesperson said. “We have also partnered with various pump manufacturers to enable us to serve the KUSUM scheme enabling electrification of India’s agricultural pumps,” he added. Without quantifying the planned investment, the spokesperson said, “Adani Group has committed that 70% of its energy-related capex will be spent on renewables and we will be establishing the world’s largest portfolio of renewable power over the coming years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-solar-to-add-2-gw-cell-and-module-capacity-at-mundra/article33165086.ece
24 November 2020||new delhi,||Reforms to usher in a new era of growth: Kant||NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Monday said that ‘unprecedented’ reforms undertaken on both governance and economic fronts by the government will usher in a new era of growth and prosperity. Mr. Kant also stressed the need to increase expenditure on research and development and strengthen intellectual property rights (IPR) laws. “The economic and governance reforms undertaken by the government have been quite unprecedented and they will usher in a new era of growth and prosperity,” he said.  Ranking States “We are making States compete on ease-of-doing business parameters. We are ranking States and naming and shaming them,” he said while addressing a virtual event organised by industry body CII. Listing out reforms undertaken by the government in recent times, Mr. Kant said as the world battles contraction in economic growth, India has initiated reforms in key sectors including agriculture, labour and mining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reforms-to-usher-in-a-new-era-of-growth-kant/article33165093.ece
24 November 2020||Mumbai,||Localised lockdowns to slow recovery: Nomura||Lockdowns in Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh can slow the economic recovery, and the outlook on business resumption remains concerning, a Japanese brokerage said on Monday. Nomura, which has built a business resumption index to gauge the recovery after the pandemic, said that the index moved up by a notch for the week ended November 22, but continues to be below pre-pandemic levels. However, it is the localised lockdowns in various States due to an increase in COVID-19 infections which seemed to worry the analysts. The lockdowns could “slow the sequential pace of recovery in the next 2-3 months, following the sharp rebound thus far”, the brokerage warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/localised-lockdowns-to-slow-recovery-nomura/article33165095.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||S&P ‘sceptical’ of banks’ corporate ownership||S&P Global Ratings on Monday expressed scepticism over allowing corporate ownership in banks given India’s weak corporate governance amid large corporate defaults over the past few years. Last week, an RBI panel had proposed that large corporates may be permitted to promote banks, as well as raising the cap on promoters’ stake in private sector banks to 26%, from 15% at present. “We are, however, sceptical of allowing corporate ownership in banks given India’s weak corporate governance amid large corporate defaults over the past few years,” S&P said in a statement. In addition, the RBI would face challenges in supervising non-financial sector entities, and supervisory resources could be further strained at a time when the health of India’s financial sector was weak, it added.  “Corporate ownership of banks raises the risk of intergroup lending, diversion of funds, and reputational exposure. Also, the risk of contagion from corporate defaults to the financial sector increases significantly,” the ratings agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sp-sceptical-of-banks-corporate-ownership/article33165097.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||U.K.’s ZNZ Pharma 2 buys 74% in Celon||London-based biopharma platform ZNZ Pharma 2, backed by an impact investment consortium comprising U.K.’s CDC Group and others, has bought 74% stake in Celon Laboratories, a specialty generics firm focussing on critical care and oncology. The platform plans to invest in Celon’s development of a new oral and injectable products manufacturing facility here. The proposed facility will be for both critical care and oncology products and cater to a wider set of markets. It is expected to receive an investment of Rs. 200 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uks-znz-pharma-2-buys-74-in-celon/article33165082.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Current account surplus likely’||India may record a current account surplus in FY21, Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian said, terming it a sign of ‘under-heating’ in the economy. “The COVID crisis is different from typical emerging market crises (where the economy is overheated, imports exceed exports as demand outstrips domestic supply and inflation shoots up),” he said. “In Q1, we had a $19.8 billion surplus and even if we do not see that kind of performance in subsequent quarters, we would still likely have a current account surplus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/current-account-surplus-likely/article33165098.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Smartphone exports could cross $1.5 bn’||India is expected to export smartphones worth $1.5 billion (over Rs. 11,113 crore) this year to various countries, including the UAE, the U.S. and Russia, according to a report by research firm techARC. techARC, in its India Mobile Phone Exports Market Scan Report, pegged total exports of smartphones to cross $1.5 billion by value in 2020, with smartphones accounting for over 98% of the total mobile phones exported. “India has been exporting mobiles to destinations like UAE and neighbouring SAARC countries for quite some time. However, the ‘Make in India’ initiative has made India a truly global exporter of mobile phones,” techARC founder Faisal Kawoosa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/smartphone-exports-could-cross-15-bn/article33165100.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Solar power tariff dips to all-time low of Rs 2/unit||Solar power tariff on Monday dropped to an all-time low of Rs. 2 per unit in an auction conducted by the Solar Energy Corporation of India, according to a source. Under the auction, Saudi Arabian firm Aljoemaih Energy and Water Co. and Sembcorp Energy India arm Green Infra Wind Energy Ltd. emerged as the lowest bidders by quoting a tariff of Rs. 2 per unit for 200 MW and 400 MW capacities.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/solar-power-tariff-dips-to-all-time-low-of-rs-2unit/article33165686.ece
24 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Vivimed Labs gets approval for 6 products||Drugmaker Vivimed Labs has received approval from Uzbekistan for three ophthalmic products and an equal number of oral liquid suspension products that are made at the company’s facilities in Hyderabad. These approvals “mark yet another significant milestone for increasing exports of Vivimed’s own brands to multiple countries,” CEO Ramesh Krishnamurthy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vivimed-labs-gets-approval-for-6-products/article33165081.ece
24 November 2020||Mumbai,||Reliance unit supports local artisans||In a push to locally-made artisanal products, Reliance Retail Ltd. said it had showcased more than 40,000 artisan-crafted products to its customers in the festive season. “Reliance Retail’s success in bringing such a huge repertoire of traditional handcrafted products to its modern retail formats is also an indication of existence of demand for such products,” the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-unit-supports-local-artisans/article33165088.ece
24 November 2020||Mumbai,||“Data on Favipiravir demonstrates significant improvement in time to clinical cure”||A randomised controlled Phase 3 clinical study by Glenmark Pharmaceuticals found oral antiviral medication Favipiravir, which prevents the replication of the virus lifecycle, led to a significant improvement in clinical cure in patients with mild to moderate COVID-19, as per Glenmark. The results were published online in The International Journal of Infectious Diseases (IJID).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/data-on-favipiravir-demonstrates-significant-improvement-in-time-to-clinical-cure/article33165089.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||IT spending in India to grow 6% in 2021 to USD 81.9 billion: Gartner||IT spending in India is projected to rise 6% to $81.9 billion in 2021 compared with this year on the back of growth across segments such as enterprise software and IT services, research firm Gartner said. IT spending in 2020 is expected to decline 8.4% to $79.3 billion, from 2019. The enterprise software segment will achieve the highest growth of 13.6%, it added.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/it-spending-in-india-to-grow-6-in-2021-to-usd-819-billion-gartner/article33165099.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Santana seals it for Hyderabad||Aridane Santana’s spot-kick earned Hyderabad FC a 1-0 victory over Odisha FC in its ISL opener at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Monday. Clean sheet, finally Hyderabad, which finished at the bottom last season, played a refreshing brand of football under new coach Manolo Marquez. It kept a clean sheet for the first time in 19 games. Skipper Santana, playing against his former club, was in the thick of things. The Spaniard came close in the fifth minute but missed an open header. In the 26th minute, he floated another header wide. The Odisha defence, led by former Newcastle player Steven Taylor, looked clueless for most part and struggled to contain Hyderabad’s fluent attacking play. The turning point came in the 34th minute when Taylor handled Halicharan Narzary’s shot in the box and conceded a penalty. Santana, who scored nine goals in the previous season, slotted home with ease to open his account this campaign. Manuel Onwu had a chance to equalise late in the first half but wasted the opportunity with a meek attempt while Odisha custodian Arshdeep Singh made two crucial saves to ensure that his side didn’t fall behind further. Bold move Odisha coach Stuart Baxter made a bold move early in the second half, replacing ace winger Marcelinho with 19-year-old Laishram Premjit Singh. But the substitution failed to create an impact as Odisha contined to struggle for rhythm. Hyderabad seemed to have put the tie to bed when Joao Victor struck a fine header in the 63rd minute, but it was ruled off-side. Liston Colaco, coming in for Mohamed Yasir, was a revelation as he had the Odisha defence dancing to his tune. The 22-year-old made many darting runs, attracted fouls and kept the opposition defenders on their toes. Adil Khan, named Hyderabad’s captain for this season, made a late appearance as his side picked up three points.  The result:   Odisha FC 0 lost to Hyderabad FC 1 (Santana 35-pen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santana-seals-it-for-hyderabad/article33165201.ece
24 November 2020||LONDON,||Reds join Spurs on top||Liverpool shrugged off an injury crisis to move level on points with Tottenham at the top of the English Premier League with a 3-0 win over Leicester on Sunday. The champion was without the injured Virgil van Dijk, Joe Gomez, Trent Alexander-Arnold, Jordan Henderson, Thiago Alcantara, Xherdan Shaqiri and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, while top-scorer Mohamed Salah was absent due to a positive COVID-19 test. Yet, Jurgen Klopp’s men were still imperious in easing past a Leicester side that had started the weekend on top of the table. The Foxes did not do themselves any favours when Jonny Evans turned James Milner’s corner into his own net to reward Liverpool’s bright start. Jota’s record Diogo Jota then became the first ever Liverpool player to score in his first four home league games with a downward header from Andy Robertson’s cross. Only a combination of goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel and the woodwork kept Liverpool from a repeat of the 4-0 thrashing it dished out to Leicester when the sides last met in December. But Robert Firmino then rounded off a fine night for the champion with a towering header from another Milner corner six minutes from time. Liverpool has now set a new club record of 64 unbeaten league games at Anfield. Brace by Ibrahimovic In Serie A, Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored twice to bring his tally to 10 league goals this season before limping off with a muscle strain as AC Milan stayed on top with a 3-1 win at 10-man Napoli. Milan move back two points ahead of Sassuolo — 2-0 winner earlier at Hellas Verona — with Roma third after Henrikh Mkhitaryan netted a brace in a dominant 3-0 win over Parma. The Swede has scored in all six games he has played this season, having missed two after contracting Coronavirus. Sociedad stays on top Real Sociedad moved three points clear at the top of the LaLiga on Sunday after Alexander Isak’s goal proved the difference in a 1-0 win over Cadiz.  The results: Premier League: Liverpool 3 (Evans 21-og, Jota 41, Firmino 86) bt Leicester 0 .   LaLiga: Granada 1 (Duarte 63) lost to Real Valladolid 3 (Plano 45+2, Marcos Andre 53, Jota 90); Alaves 2 (Ximo Navarro 2, Lucas 16-pen) drew with Valencia 2 (Vallejo 72, Guillamon 77); Cadiz 0 lost to Real Sociedad 1 (Isak 66); Granada 1 (Duarte 63) lost to Real Valladolid 3 (Plano 45+2, Marcos Andre 53, Jota 90); Eibar 0 Getafe 0.   Bundesliga: Cologne 1 (Skhiri 36) lost to Union Berlin 2 (Awoniyi 27, Kruse 72).   Serie A: Udinese 1 (de Paul 34) bt Genoa 0; Napoli 1 (Mertens 63) lost to AC Milan 3 (Ibrahimovic 20, 54, Hauge 90+5); Fiorentina 0 lost to Benevento 1 (Improta 52).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reds-join-spurs-on-top/article33165230.ece
24 November 2020||SONEPAT,||Suhana wins treble; double for Jeet||In what turned out to be a major organisational and logistical success, the Haryana Table Tennis Association became the first to stage its State championship in a bio-secure environment at the Delhi Public School complex here. No glitch The five-day championship attracted nearly 400 players from all over the State and went off without any glitch after the event followed protocols issued by the Union Government and the Sports Authority of India (SAI). Since the National campers had taken a Diwali-break, the sanitised venue was ready to host the championship. Major challenge According to Table Tennis Federation of India secretary-general M.P. Singh, “This was a major challenge and the smooth conduct of the meet serves as a footprint for other States to follow. “We conducted around a 1000 COVID tests in these five days. “There were only three positive cases and they were sent back for treatment by following the laid-down protocols.” Rising talent Suhana Saini was the star of the meet, winning the youth, junior and sub-junior girls’ titles besides being runner-up to reigning National champion Sutirtha Mukherjee in the women’s title-clash. As expected, Jeet Chandra won the men’s and youth titles.  The results (finals):   Men: Jeet Chandra bt Sourav Saha 9-11, 11-8, 11-9, 11-8, 11-9.   Women: Sutirtha Mukherjee bt Suhana Saini 11-6, 11-7, 11-8, 8-11, 9-11, 11-9.   Youth: Boys: Jeet Chandra bt Wesley Do Rosario 11-6, 11-7, 11-8, 11-9.   Girls: Suhana Saini bt Anjali Rohilla 11-7, 11-8, 9-11, 11-8, 11-8.   Juniors: Boys: Ashu bt Rishabh Mayank 11-6, 7-11, 11-8, 12-10, 10-12, 16-14.   Girls: Suhana Saini bt Poornima Rohilla 11-9, 11-8, 12-14, 11-6.   Sub-juniors: Boys: Rishabh Mayank bt Shivansh Adlakha 11-9, 13-11, 11-13, 11-9.   Girls: Suhana Saini bt Saanvi Dargan 11-6, 11-7, 9-11, 11-6.   Cadet: Boys: Vatsal Duklan bt Jai Rawat 11-8, 11-9, 11-8.   Girls: Diva Ahuja bt Manal 11-9, 8-11, 11-9, 10-12, 12-10.   Around 400 participants from all over the State Nearly 1000 COVID tests conducted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suhana-wins-treble-double-for-jeet/article33165535.ece
24 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sport teaches life’s lessons: Neha||“The biggest lesson sport teaches you is how to lose,” said Neha Aggarwal Sharma after inaugurating a table tennis facility at the Mansarovar Heights Phase I in Manovikas Nagar (Secunderabad) here on Sunday. The 2008 Beijing Olympics paddler said sport teaches lessons which classrooms can’t. “Sport also makes you learn how to manage success and to come back from defeat. Conquering the table tennis world gave me the kind of strength no school or college could have,” said Neha. “Sports is a great leveller that keeps me grounded. When girls take up sports, it makes them confident, smart, team leaders... it imparts life and soft skills at a very young age that no IIT or IIM can,” said the Columbia University post-graduate in Sports Management. Dedicated to Sultan After a two-minute silence was observed in memory of S.M. Sultan, senior vice-president, Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI), Neha unveiled two plaques dedicated to him. The tables were donated by residents of the gated community at Manovikas Nagar, the Andhra Cricket Group and V. Bhaskar Ram, President, Andhra Pradesh Table Tennis Association. Incidentally, the last two donors were moved by Neha’s motivational video that had urged the 260-odd apartment complex’s residents to take part in a tournament, mostly for children cut off from sports because of COVID 19. Neha’s husband Shubham Sharma, 2007 Youth Commonwealth Games table tennis silver medallist, Rachana Anandaraman, a Khelo India Games table tennis quarterfinalist, and Maduri Venugopal, Gujarathi Seva Mandal Table Tennis Academy coach of more than two decades, were among those present during the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sport-teaches-lifes-lessons-neha/article33165764.ece
24 November 2020||Chennai,||TNCA’s CAC to deal with ‘conflict of interest’ issue||The Cricket Administrative Committee (CAC) of the TNCA, that has been tasked with picking the new State senior selection panel, has requested for more data from the State Association. TNCA secretary RS. Ramasaamy told The Hindu on Monday, “We have given to the CAC whatever they have asked for. The selectors are likely to be named tomorrow.” Serious view The totally revamped CAC, headed by former Tamil Nadu captain S. Suresh and comprising U.R. Radhakrishnan and Sudha Shah, it is learnt, is serious about the ‘conflict of interest’ issue. In this context, M. Senthilnathan’s tenure as the chairman of the senior State selection panel has come to an end. Since Senthilnathan is also the head coach at the MRF Pace Foundation, he has been asked to step aside to avoid any conflict. Senthilnathan said, “I have no regrets. Tamil Nadu reached the finals of the Vijay Hazare tournament and the Syed Mushtaq Ali competition when I headed the committee.” He added, “I got a call in the morning [on Monday] telling me that I was not eligible because of my role in the MRF. I hope this conflict of interest clause is imposed consistently across the board so that no questions are asked tomorrow.” Paid job The role of the State selectors will be a paid job from this season. So, the issue of ‘conflict of interest’ becomes crucial. All those holding a coaching role in another organisation, doing commentary or coaching sides in competitions such as TNPL are ‘conflicted.’ The CAC has a job on its hands.  The selectors are likely to be named tomorrow — RS. Ramasaamy,TNCA secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tncas-cac-to-deal-with-conflict-of-interest-issue/article33165241.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,||High Court raps Madras Race Club for holding a “kangaroo congregation” against MAM Trust||The Madras High Court on Monday came down heavily on the stewards of the Madras Race Club (MRC) for holding a “kangaroo congregation” to prevent horses owned by Dr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust, represented by its managing trustee A.C. Muthiah, from participating in the races. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on MRC and ordered that the money should be paid forthwith to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) for treatment of COVID-19 patients. “Let the club at least participate in the noble cause of extending their hand to provide relief to patients undergoing treatment,” he said. The judge recalled that the club had, in December last, prevented horses owned by the trust from participating in races during 2020-21. Favourable orders Immediately, the latter moved the HC and obtained favourable orders from Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on January 10. Then, the judge had permitted the trust horses to participate. That order was not taken on appeal and therefore attained finality. Subsequently, when the trust purchased four more horses and wanted them also to be allowed for racing, it was informed that the stewards of the club had, in a meeting held on March 7, decided not to proceed further in the matter since the issue was sub judice .  However, after the trust moved the HC again with the present applications seeking permission for its new horses to participate, the club took a stand that it had amended the definition of the term ‘owner’ during the stewards’ meeting held on March 7 and horses owned by trusts could not be allowed to participate. ‘False information’ Irked by such a stand, Justice Karthikeyan said the club had provided false information to the trust after having convened a “kangaroo congregation to circumvent the letter and spirit of the order of my learned brother (Justice Ramamoorthy).” Condemning the ‘audacity’ of the club, the judge held that mala fide was writ large in its actions. “The first defendant (MRC) appears to be an organisation which thrives in conducting their matters in an uniquely condemnable manner since in the public communication dated March 9 (sent to the trust), they had exhibited a respectful attitude towards court proceedings but behind the doors, they had passed a resolution with scant regard or respect for the court order dated January 10, 2020. “This attitude cannot be permitted and has to be prevented and prohibited by me,” the judge said and directed the club to register new horses acquired by the trust and permit them to enter the club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/high-court-raps-madras-race-club-for-holding-a-kangaroo-congregation-against-mam-trust/article33165711.ece
24 November 2020||Sydney,||Siraj draws strength from Kohli’s words||Away from family while grieving the loss of his father, India pacer Mohammed Siraj says skipper Virat Kohli’s advice to “be strong” has helped him stay afloat as he gears up for a gruelling series against Australia. Experience Kohli is no stranger to overcoming personal tragedy while carrying on with professional duties. In 2007, Kohli, then a teenager, lost his father in the middle of a Ranji Trophy match but he came back next day to score 97 for Delhi, showing his mental fortitude. Siraj’s father Mohammed Ghouse, 53, died due to a lung ailment in Hyderabad last week and though BCCI offered him the option of returning home, Siraj decided to stay on national duty. “Virat bhai said Miyaan tension maat le (don’t be tense) and be strong. Your dad wanted you to play for India. So, do that and don’t stress,” Siraj told bcci.tv on the sidelines of India’s training session here. “The skipper told me, ‘If you can be strong in this situation, it will only help you’. Those were positive words from the Indian captain and it felt nice,” he said. “It’s a huge loss for me as my father was the biggest support. He wanted me to shine for my country. All I want now is to fulfil his dreams,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siraj-draws-strength-from-kohli/article33165203.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vidith Gujrathi lets Firouzja off the hook||Vidit Gujrathi tossed away a winning position against Alireza Firouzja in the opening round as he ended the first day with three draws and two losses in the $100,000 Skilling Open online chess tournament on Sunday. Gujrathi (1.5 points) also drew with second seed Ding Liren and Jan-Krzysztof Duda but lost to Levon Aronian and tournament-leader Anish Giri (4). The opening round saw Magnus Carlsen (3.5) reach a winning position against Ian Nepomniachtchi but resigned immediately after a dramatic ‘mouse-slip’ that saw him lose his queen. But the World champion bounced back with wins in the last three rounds to share the second spot with surprise-packet David Anton. Giri, with three victories and two draws, stayed ahead after his fifth-round win over Vidit, who slipped to the joint 14th spot. Ten more rounds are scheduled over the next two days. The top eight performers will move into the quarterfinals.  The results:   Fifth round: Vidit Gujrathi (1.5) lost to Anish Giri (Ned, 4); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 3.5) bt Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 2.5); Teimour Radjabov (Aze, 1.5) lost to David Anton (Esp, 3.5); Wesley So (USA, 3) drew with Ding Liren (Chn, 2.5); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus, 3) drew with Levon Aronian (Arm, 3); Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 3) drew with Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 2); Quang Liem Le (Vie, 2) bt Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 1); Peter Svidler (Rus, 2) drew with Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 2).   Fourth round: Ding drew with Vidit; Giri bt Quang; Anton lost to Carlsen; Firouzja drew with Nepomniachtchi; Aronian drew with Svidler; Duda lost to So; Vachier lost to Radjabov; Karjakin lost to Nakamura.   Third round: Vidit drew with Duda; Nakamura drew with Giri; Carlsen bt Radjabov; So bt Aronian; Svidler drew with Firouzja; Quang drew with Ding; Karjakin drew with Vachier; Nepomniachtchi lost to Anton.   Second round: Aronian bt Vidit; Giri bt Karjakin; Vachier drew with Carlsen; Anton bt Svidler; Firouzja bt So; Duda drew with Quang; Ding drew with Nakamura; Radjabov lost to Nepomniachtchi. First round: Vidit drew with Firouzja; Nepomniachtchi bt Carlsen; Giri drew with Vachier; Karjakin drew with Ding; Nakamura drew with Duda; Quang lost to Aronian; So drew with Anton; Svidler drew with Rajdabov.   Standings (after five rounds): 1. Giri, 2-3. Carlsen, Anton, 4-7. So, Nepomniachtchi, Aronian, Nakamura, 8-9. Firouzja, Ding, 10-13. Quang, Vachier, Svidler, Duda, 14-15. Radjabov, Vidit, 16. Karjakin .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gujrathi-lets-firouzja-off-the-hook/article33165226.ece
24 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Bengal T20 Challenge from today||The inaugural Bengal T20 Challenge, starting at the Eden Gardens here on Tuesday amid bio-bubble protocol for the six participating teams, has brought joy and relief to the State’s cricket fraternity. Mohun Bagan will take on Calcutta Customs Club at 4 p.m., while Town Club will meet Kalighat Club at 8 p.m. on the opening day. Round-robin format Each team will meet an opponent twice in a round-robin format before the top four make it to the semifinals on Dec. 8, followed by the final the next day. The much-anticipated meeting of arch-rivals East Bengal and Mohun Bagan will take place at 4 p.m. on Nov. 28 and Dec. 6. Following an unprecedented period of eight months devoid of any cricketing action, several top Bengal players — including Manoj Tiwary, Shreevats Goswami, Shahbaz Ahmed, Anustup Majumdar, Arnab Nandi, Mukesh Kumar, Akash Deep and Pradipta Pramanik — will be seen in action, along with some exciting young talent. However, a few players, including prominent names Abhimanyu Easwaran and Abhishek Raman, are likely to miss the whole tournament due to COVID-19 infections. They have been replaced by stand-bys. Nevertheless, a fine mix of youth and experience in each side may produce some keen contests. “We have been waiting patiently for the resumption of cricket. It’s good to start with such an exciting tournament,” said Majumdar. The tournament, which is being held ahead of any BCCI domestic event in the country and the 2021 Indian Premier League (IPL) mega auction, will give the cricketers a good platform to make their mark. “We will carry the confidence from here to the (National) domestic season,” said Shahbaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengal-t20-challenge-from-today/article33165534.ece
24 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Suriya pips Nirmal to title||Tamil Nadu’s young racers swept the podium in the senior category of the Meco-FMSCI National karting championship (X30 classes) during the weekend. Coimbatore’s Suriya Varatan, who began the fifth and final round with 138 points, had to be satisfied with the third spot, but that was good enough to give him a tally of 161 points and the title. Chennai’s Nirmal Umashankar gave it his all but had to settle for second (142) after managing 31 points and a second place finish in the last round. Coimbatore’s Bala Prasath bagged the third spot with 101. Bengaluru’s Rishon Rajeev was the surprise winner of the final weekend, notching up three victories and a second-place finish. Ruling the roost In the junior category, Ruhaan Alva produced another stellar show. Ruhaan and citymate Rohaan Madesh won two races each and also finished second in two others to garner 37 points each. Ruhan, who had sealed the title in the previous round, finished with 184 points. Rohaan ended up with 143. Rohaan’s brother Ishaan Madesh clinched the cadet crown. He took the top spot in all four races in the last round to pip Pune’s Sai Shiva Makesh who put up a good fight right through. Bengaluru’s Anshul Sai finished third in the championship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suriya-pips-nirmal-to-title/article33165240.ece
24 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,||C.K. Bhaskaran passes away||C.K. Bhaskaran, one of the brightest stars in Kerala cricket’s early days, is no more. The former pace bowler, who also played a key role in helping Madras draw with Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy final in 1967-68, died at Houston at the age of 79. Bhaskaran played for an Indian team led by M.A.K. Pataudi against Ceylon at Ahmedabad in a four-day match in 1964-65. After a First Class career that lasted 12 years, he practised as a doctor in the United States. He took 106 wickets from 42 First Class matches at an average of 29.05. He averaged only 11.60 with bat, but played a crucial innings in the final of the Ranji Trophy. Coming in at No. 10, he made 76 not out to top-score for Madras at the Brabourne Stadium, Mumbai. He also took two wickets in the drawn match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ck-bhaskaran-passes-away/article33165464.ece
24 November 2020||Sydney,||‘At 34, my days are numbered’||Australia’s David Warner, on Monday, said his “days are numbered” in international cricket. “I’ve recently turned 34, so your days are numbered when you’re in the 30s. “There’s obviously a risk element, but there’s obviously a cricket smarts element to it as well,” he said. Warner has become a calculated risk-taker and is focused on maintaining a high strike-rate. “It’s about making sure that I am batting as much as I can and at a good strike-rate as well,” he said. “I think last year was probably the most disciplined I’ve batted in Test cricket as well. “A lot of this discipline has come from fatherhood,” revealed Warner, crediting his children for the gradually acquired patience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/at-34-my-days-are-numbered/article33165195.ece
24 November 2020||SYDNEY,||Shubman Gill living a childhood dream||Flamboyant young batsman Shubman Gill is looking forward to the challenge of taking on the Australian bowlers but has not set any personal goals for the upcoming assignments where a good outing could help him cement his place in the Indian team. Gill, who has so played two ODIs, is part of the limited-overs as well as the Test squad for the Australia tour beginning on Friday. First trip “I am really looking forward to Australia because this is my first trip. As a kid growing up, I always watched the matches between India and Australia. I am really excited,” Gill said in a video posted by his IPL franchise Kolkata Knight Riders on Twitter. Fruitful IPL The 21-year-old batsman accumulated 440 runs in 14 matches in the recently-concluded IPL. “The fact that a lot of my friends are travelling with the team, so it will be fun and exciting. But, obviously, when the practice session starts then it’s a whole different situation. “I have not really set any personal goals, but I am really looking forward to the tour,” he added.  Seen as a player with a bright future, Gill was named the replacement for an injured Rohit Sharma for the Test series in New Zealand in the beginning of this year. The Indian and Australian squads, who will play three ODIs, three T20 internationals and four Tests during, are currently quarantining in Sydney, the venue of the first ODI.  The fact that a lot of my friends were travelling with the team made it fun and exciting. But when practice started, it was a different situation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gill-excited-at-playing-against-australia/article33165198.ece
24 November 2020||Sydney,||Warner not to respond to India’s taunts||Australia opener David Warner vowed on Monday to keep his temper in check during the upcoming series against India, predicting Virat Kohli's men will try to wind him up with verbal taunts. The 34-year-old expected some barbs to be thrown his way during the upcoming India tour, which begins with a ODI here on Friday, but said he would let his bat do the talking. “The last time we toured in India they really engaged us like that,” he told a conference call. “We’re learning over time, especially myself, that if you look not to engage in that you’re almost reversing the effect by ignoring it, trying to take it in, and using your bat.” Positive attitude Warner said he planned to use any taunts as motivation, while refusing to retaliate in kind and maintaining a positive attitude. “You don’t know the effect (losing your temper) will have on your teammates, so you have to be a bit more humble and be more respectful to the opposition.” “You have to be patient, not get too aggressive, not get angry when the kids aren’t listening,” he said. “So I’m getting tested on and off the field.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warner-not-to-respond-to-indias-taunts/article33165695.ece
24 November 2020||BARCELONA,||Messi and de Jong to be rested against Kiev||Barcelona coach Ronald Koeman said on Monday that Lionel Messi and Frenkie de Jong will not feature against Dynamo Kiev in the Champions League this midweek, instead being given a rest. Barca travels to Ukraine on top of Group G with a perfect nine points after three games, three points ahead of second-placed Juventus, but is a lowly 12th in LaLiga after losing 1-0 to Atletico Madrid on Saturday. “We’ve decided not to take Leo or Frenkie because our situation in the Champions League is quite comfortable,” said Koeman. Playing every match Messi, 33, has played every Barca match so far this season and also played the full 90 minutes for Argentina four times over October and November. Midfielder de Jong, who is 10 years Messi’s junior, has also played every match for the Catalan giants as well as five international fixtures for the Netherlands in the same period. Protect the players “The players need a break and we think it’s time for them to rest ... Both have played almost every minute and come from playing with their national teams,” Koeman added. “Sometimes, you have to protect your players because the calendar is incredible.” Injuries to several key players including Ansu Fati, Sergio Busquets and Gerard Pique have forced Koeman to rotate. Antoine Griezmann and promising teen Pedri are expected to lead the attack while Clement Lenglet will lead the defence in the absence of both Pique, who picked up a knee injury on Saturday, and Samuel Umtiti.  The players need a break and we think it’s time for them to rest — RONALD Koeman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-and-de-jong-to-be-rested-against-kiev/article33165227.ece
24 November 2020||CHENNAI,||VFI ordered to pay Baseline Ventures Rs. 4 crore||The Volleyball Federation of India (VFI) has been ordered to pay Rs. 4 crore as compensation and Rs. 5 lakh as legal fees to Baseline Ventures (India) Pvt. Ltd. after it was adjudged that the sports body had wrongfully terminated the company’s contract for conducting the Pro Volleyball League (PVL). The VFI had hired Baseline Ventures to run the professional league for ten years but ended the association after the inaugural season in 2019. The 50-page order of sole arbitrator Justice K. Kannan (Retd.), appointed by the Madras High Court, also instructs the VFI to pay Baseline Ventures 12% interest on the compensation awarded, calculated from the date of commencement of arbitral proceedings to the date of payment. This works out to approximately Rs. 45 lakh in interest payment as of today. Further, Justice Kannan dismissed the VFI’s counter claim of Rs. 14.93 crores against Baseline Ventures. However, the firm will hand over the Intellectual Property Rights of the Pro Volleyball League to the VFI. To file an appeal Ramavtar Singh Jakhar, the VFI secretary at the time the case was filed, said he would file an appeal against the order at the Madras High Court “at an opportune time as there are quite a few contradictions in [it].” Baseline vice-president Joy Bhattacharjya, who helmed the league during its first season, said: “This judgement is a total vindication of the fact that the VFI had absolutely no grounds to terminate the contract after a successful season.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vfi-ordered-to-pay-baseline-ventures-rs-4-crore/article33165243.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Advaita bhava||Scriptures speak of the atma as the essence of eternal consciousness and of its blissful quality that has no connection to the sorrows, upheavals and changes that characterise creation. The atma alone continues to exist even after all else gets dissolved. But, when caught in samsara the jiva engages in action and owing to this gets involved in experiencing the effects and consequences of each and every action. It thus undergoes joy, sorrow and changes of infinite nature and quality. But careful and systematic analysis of the situation, by which one is able to sift the immortal atma swaroopa that is distinct from all else that is actually only an appearance, is what Advaita bhava is all about, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. The fundamental truth is that though the jiva functions with the body, mind complex, the atma is unaffected and is only a witnessing consciousness, the sakshi chaitanya. The atma does not act; it is the indriyas that perform the actions of seeing, etc and the mind the act of thinking, etc. Sakshi has no beginning and no end. It is effulgent by nature. It is aware of all that happens in the jiva, even the way the jiva gains jnana or loses it. But the jiva has the atma bhava and jnana owing to the association with the body mind and intellect. All that is perceived and experienced in creation needs proof such as pratyaksha, anumana. etc to explain its existence. But atma is self effulgent and self revealing and needs no proof for its existence. The rope that appears as a snake explains this situation clearly. When the snake is perceived, there is much fear and confusion; but when owing to factors such as light, etc, the snake is shown to be non-existent and there is only the rope the fear is no longer there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/advaita-bhava/article33165191.ece
24 November 2020||Chennai:,||Saleem advances||S.A. Saleem of SSA defeated Fahd Habibullah (SP) 4-2 in the third round of the Ajay Rastogi memorial-all-india open snooker tournament on Monday.  Other results: Sajiv Mathew (TC) bt Aadesh Kothari (QBG) 4-2; Hariharan Rajamani (TNBSA) bt Sikkander (QBC) 4-2; Abhishek Kankanala (Tel) bt Kamal (Cue Zone) 4-1; Prabhu (SSA) bt Arjun (QBC) 4-1; Dhru Singh (TEL) bt Mohd. Hassan (TNBSA) 4-0; I. V. Rajiv (Tel) bt Vijendra Rao (Snook In) 4-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saleem-advances/article33165712.ece
24 November 2020||ORLANDO,||Prajnesh loses in final||Prajnesh Gunneswaran lost to Brandon Nakashima 6-3, 6-4 in the final of the Orlando Open Challenger tennis tournament here on Sunday. However, it was a productive end to the season for the 31-year-old, having made the final of the Cary Challenger the week before. Prajnesh, as a result, is set to leapfrog Sumit Nagal (ranked 136) to finish as India’s No.1 singles player this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-loses-in-final/article33165194.ece
24 November 2020||LEEDS,||Arsenal and Leeds in goalless draw||Arsenal held on for a 0-0 draw against Leeds United after Nicolas Pepe was sent off for head-butting Ezgjan Alioski in the Premier League on Sunday. The Gunners have won only one of their last five Premier League games and sit in the 11th spot, while Leeds is 14th. Rodrigo, Patrick Bamford and Raphina hit the woodwork for Marcelo Bielsa’s men, who had 25 attempts on goal without success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arsenal-and-leeds-in-goalless-draw/article33165196.ece
24 November 2020||SYDNEY,||Graeme Smith optimistic of good crowds||South Africa’s Director of Cricket Graeme Smith expects to see crowds returning to the ground next year when Australia tours the country for a Test series for the first time since the 2018 infamous ball-tampering episode. “We’re kind of looking at the Australian series, hopefully if all goes well with COVID, to have some crowds back in the stadiums. There’ll be way more excitement around that than anything else,” the former skipper told Sydney Morning Herald . Even though CSA is yet to finalise the full schedule of the tour scheduled for February-March next year, Smith said the Newlands, where the ‘sandpapergate’ scandal took place, will definitely host a match. Check behaviour Allaying fears about poor crowd behaviour during the series, Smith said: “You can control it to the best of your ability. There’s not a place in the world where there hasn’t been a fan chirping or having a crack. “That’s part of playing sport at the highest level in opposition countries. We’ll try our best to marshal it. I think South African fans will be grateful to have a quality team like Australia playing. It’s been one of those crazy periods where things we’ve gotten used to have been taken away from us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/graeme-smith-optimistic-of-good-crowds/article33165228.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Hemanth stars for Chamrajpet CC||Hemanth Kumar (119 n.o., 79b, 10x4, 6x6) powered Chamrajpet CC past Friends CC in the Y.S. Ramaswamy memorial tournament here.  The scores:   Indiranagar Cricketers 162/9 in 50 overs (Madhvesh 43, K.S. Aditya 5/18) lost to Merchants CC (1) 163/2 in 31.2 overs (Yashas 55 n.o., N.G. Aditya 77).   National Cricketers 152 in 42.5 overs (Adithya Ramesh 26, Pavan Yadav 39, Harish 3/30, Naveen Sharma 4/12) bt Star Cricketers XI 116 in 36.2 overs (Kaivalya 4/28, Raja Shankar 3/22).   Friends CC 179/6 in 50 overs (Dhanush 31, Shrawan 74 n.o.) lost to Chamrajpet CC 181/2 in 23.4 overs (Hemanth Kumar 119 n.o.).      Rohith Shankar and Trupti Purohit emerged the boys’ and girls’ champions in the sub-junior category of the Karnataka State-ranking table tennis tournament at Malleswaram Association.  The results (finals):   Boys: Cadet: Seshaanth Ramasamyy bt Teshub Dinesh 9-11, 11-4, 11-9, 9-11, 12-10.   Sub-junior: Rohith Shankar bt Hrishikesh Shetluur 11-8, 11-7, 11-4.   Girls: Cadet: Saanvi Vishal bt Vrishali Kini 11-5, 11-5, 7-11, 11-7.   Sub-junior: Trupti Purohit bt Deshna Vanshika 14-12, 12-10, 12-10 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hemanth-stars-for-chamrajpet-cc/article33165696.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Cricketers, Shraddhanand College in semifinals||Virender Dahiya scored a quickfire 54-ball 102 as Swami Shraddhanand College defeated Rann Star by eight wickets to enter the semifinals of the Ganaur Premier League. It will take on UPCA for spot in the final on Tuesday. The other match saw Delhi Cricketers recover from a shaky start, courtesy unbeaten knocks from Nitish Rana (81) and Lalit Yadav (66), to defeat Bal Bhawan Academy by six wickets and book a last-four spot.  The scores: RSC 184/8 in 20 overs (Puneet Bisht 51, Vaibhav Kandpal 35, Abhishek Goswami 34, Lakshay Thareja 3/19) lost to SSC 186/2 in 15.4 overs (Virender Dahiya 102, Parvesh Dahiya 48).   BBA 162/7 in 20 overs (Yash Dhull 54, Kunal Chandela 35, Arvind Kumar 34, Shivank Vashishth 3/27, Subodh Bhati 2/36) lost to Delhi Cricketers 167/4 in 19.1 overs (Nitish Rana 81 n.o., Lalit Yadav 66 n.o., Pankaj Jaiswal 2/19, Rahul Gehlot 2/22).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-cricketers-shraddhanand-college-in-semifinals/article33165747.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 07:49 IST,||Sudoku - November 24, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-24-2020/article33166085.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||A guiding voice in your pocket||“The most important connection you can make with something — or someone — is by naming it,” says Surya Ramachandran over phone from Hyderabad. Having worked amid the wilderness of Central India’s protected reserves for about seven years, Surya, and fellow naturalist guide David Raju, had the freedom to explore the deeps and do things tourists could not, like walking and canoeing. During their explorations, they managed to photograph myriad creatures, including many outside their field of expertise that they could not even identify. At least, not until they began working on their latest book. When the duo started putting together its repository of images and information for the upcoming Photographic Field Guide: Wildlife of South India , they had notable experts vet the information on mammals, marine mammals, bats, birds, amphibians, reptiles, turtles and tortoises, and butterflies and dragonflies. That is when they found out that, among all the images they had taken, there were shots of 30 different species of Caecilians. “We had photographed them, but could not identify them,” says Surya, “There is a lot that tourists and naturalists get to see, but only when you can put a name to it, will you remember it.” The book lists 1,916 different species found in six states of southern India, and Goa, across six different taxa. “Mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles, butterflies and dragonflies,” lists out Surya, adding, “These are the same segments we used for our earlier book as well, which was a guide to the wildlife of central India.” But while the central Indian guide had a total of 850 species, the South India volume will have more than double that number. Surya chalks it down to the sheer, organic biodiversity of the region, stating, “The coastline alone is one of the longest of any continuous landmass in the world.” He adds: “There is no repository of the biodiversity in this region, though there are papers and articles about individual species.” That does not mean there is a dearth of documentation. The duo roped in the works of about 125 wildlife photographers who have been tracking specific species on the field for years, in addition to their own. Though Surya’s work has been based in Ladakh, he makes an annual sojourn with David “every monsoon, to explore South India, mainly because we are interested in dragonflies, butterflies and frogs”. He adds, “The idea is that while people thumb through the book for tigers and elephants, they might land on a page about frogs as well, and know how many different kinds live around them.” To contain 1,916 species within 350 pages of a six-inches-by-nine-inches book is no mean feat, but the duo managed to whittle its information down to the bare essentials. After all, says Surya, “The most important thing for a field guide is that you should be able to walk with it in the field. You don’t want a huge, library reference-like book.” Besides the photographers and experts, the duo also roped in the services of a cartographer to generate custom maps of “topography, rainfall, habitats, and the general boundaries of what we call South India.” The book also includes maps of each State showing different hotspots. This, says Surya, was a necessary exercise: “The only other map people have for wildlife is in the Oxford Atlas, which is outdated.” The mapping, besides being recent, also needed to be region and State specific, and Surya points out two reasons for this. “Despite being small states, Goa and Kerala have a lot of protected areas, whereas bigger states like Andhra and Telangana have fewer. We wanted people to know each landscape quite well,” he says. Filling in the blanks His second reason is a bit more intriguing. Often, the facts on paper did not match the facts on the ground. Says Surya, “We had to figure out and check every detail in each map. There was a chance that some sanctuaries may not be sanctuaries any more. Some bird sanctuaries, for instance, have been completely reclaimed and are nothing more than a signboard by the road. We had to check the lists on Forest Department websites of each State, locate each of the spots on the map, create our own Google maps and send it for reference and corrections.” Despite this work, the duo wants to highlight that it cannot take sole credit. “We just compiled the information; we did not create the information. A lot of the hard work is down to researchers and scientists doing their bit. We are just doing what guides do,” he signs off. Photographic Field Guide: Wildlife of South India can be pre-ordered in instamojo.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-guiding-voice-in-your-pocket/article33165426.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Action and emotion go together’||A divorced father and his daughter board a train from Seoul to Busan. They share a cold relationship, but rediscover their love for each other when the train journey is plagued by a zombie outbreak. As absurd as it may sound, the South Korean zombie adventure,Train to Busan,which was both an allegory and a satire, had a rippling effect in the international circuit. It introduced an exciting filmmaker in Yeon Sang-ho, when it premièred at Cannes Film Festival in 2016. A success at the box office,Train to Busanis one of Korean cinema’s biggest hits. Yeon Sang-ho was on a location recce forTrain to Busanwhen the germ for a sequel first crossed his mind. During the course of the shooting, he came across a few old and dilapidated factories that prompted him to revisit his own film, “These spaces made me imagine a lot of different things, among which is a motif forPeninsula. I was discussing some of these ideas with the producers and it was suggested that we make a proper sequel,” says Sang-ho. Set in a post-apocalyptic world,Peninsulabegins with whereTrain to Busanended: It follows the pursuit of a handful of soldiers who are set to retrieve truckloads of money from a place that is now inhabited by zombies. The film released in South Korea earlier this year, to a lukewarm response from critics and audiences alike, thanks in part to the current COVID-19 situation. Ahead of its India release, we speak with Yeon Sang-ho about his penchant for creating a fantasy worlds and his love for communicating human emotion. Excerpts from an email interview: Train to Busanwas a resounding success, more so when it landed on streaming platforms. You must have had a lot of pressure when you announced a sequel. Were you at all affected by the shadow of the predecessor while creating the world ofPeninsula? I still think the global response toTrain to Busanis a miracle. However, my approach toPeninsulawas completely different from when I made its predecessor. Because for me,Peninsulais a standalone film on its own. That is why I didn’t feel the pressure. In fact, I was more excited to create a new story. Peninsulais your third live action film, apart fromTrain to BusanandPsychokinesis. What explains your interest in zombie thrillers or films that are part-adventure and part-futuristic?  The thing that attracts me the most is the fact you can show reality through metaphor. This allows immense creative freedom.This process is extremely enjoyable to me. The success ofTrain to Busanis how respectful it was of human emotions, particularly of the equation between the father and daughter (played by Gong Yoo and Kim Su-an). As a filmmaker, how difficult is it to convey emotion, especially in an adventure film?  I think action and emotion always go together. Flashy action choreography truly shines when it reflects the character’s desperation. Because of that, I focus a lot on emotion. The same mechanism is a key component ofPeninsula.  The reviews have been mixed forPeninsula, which was the case with its predecessor. Did you expect this? Would there be another offering from theTrain to Busanworld?   Given the clash betweenPeninsulabeing the sequel and my own creative vision of making a film different fromTrain to Busan, I suspected there would be mixed responses. But I still believePeninsulaallowed the world ofTrain to Busanto expand. I don’t know if I would make another film set in theTrain to Busanuniverse, but if so, it will be yet another totally different movie. Train to Busanhas become a great entry point for South Korean cinema. Apart from it being an original film, it has also been dubbed into regional languages which have also done reasonably well, especially in India. What, according to you, explains the film’s universal acceptance? I think all creative work should have both universality and uniqueness.Train to Busansimply contains a universal element that hasn’t been widely discovered yet. It combines family drama with zombies and action. My opinion is that this mix is what made people consider it both original and universal. You could argue that the current COVID-19 scenario is like a scene straight out of one of your zombie movies; the only difference is, we have a deadly virus instead of zombies. Would you be tempted to make a film based on COVID-19, reflecting the collective emotion of the human race?  I releasedPeninsuladuring the pandemic, and have been shooting my next project. The process of film production has changed dramatically, and I am trying to adjust to that. I have no plans on making a film about COVID-19. Zee Studiosand Kross Pictures will releasePeninsulain India on November 27.  My watchlist Clint Eastwood’s Changeling(English)  Otomo Katsuhiro’s Akira(Japanese series)  Kiyoshi’s Kurosawa’s Cure(Japanese)   Bong Joon-ho’sMemories of Murder, (South Korean)  Kon Satoshi’sTokyo Godfathers(Japanese)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/action-and-emotion-go-together/article33165421.ece
24 November 2020||November 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Mamukoya, the superhero||At a meeting of superheroes in the US, Super Mamu was asked to retire. With a heavy heart, he packed his bags and flew back to his hometown Kozhikode. Mamu, however, consoled himself: he could still watch over his own people. This is the premise of Super Mamu Flying , a Malayalam superhero series that has gone into production. If you haven’t guessed by now, Mamu is Mamukoya, one of Malayalam cinema’s celebrated comedians. Kozhikode-based BMG Media House has started work on the series, which is expected to hit the screens in 2021. A video of its making, featuring Mamukoya, was recently trending on Instagram. “Mamukoya is an experienced artiste who is perfect for a desi superhero. With his pronounced Kozhikode dialect, he would rock it,” says media director at BMG Media House and creator of the series, Mohammed Thalhath. “Everyone unanimously agreed on Mamukoya, who has become a sort of a cult figure in popular culture,” he adds. “He is someone whom every Malayali can relate to, including children.” Mamukoya’s film characters have fuelled an entire repository of memes, especially the ‘Thug Life’ meme. “People love him,” Mohammed adds. The company had also brought out an animated series — Gafoor Ka Dosth — featuring Mamukoya in 2015 .  While the form and content of Super Mamu Flying is still under discussion, the teasers are promising. Fans are already laughing as Super Mamu finds his super powers constantly put to the test back home. Instead of saving the world, he finds himself being summoned for seemingly ordinary tasks such as felling coconuts and fitting gas cylinders. And, Mamu takes them on with dignity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mamukoya-the-superhero/article33165428.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Jain blames stubble burning for high COVID-19 death rate||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday attributed the high COVID-19 death rate in the city to the pollution caused by stubble burning and expected a downtrend in it in the next two-three weeks. The Capital witnessed 4,454 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,34,317, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Also, 121 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 8,512. Of the total cases, 4,88,476 people have recovered and there are 37,329 active cases. Delhi recorded 6,746 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday and a positivity rate of 12.29%, while 121 more fatalities pushed the city’s death toll due to the disease to 8,391, authorities said. This was the fifth time in 11 days that the daily number of deaths crossed the 100-mark in the national capital. The authorities reported 111 deaths on Saturday, 118 on Friday, 131 on November 18, the highest till date, and 104 on November 12. Delhi has reported a death rate of 1.58% among COVID-19 patients as compared to the national fatality rate of 1.48%. Mr. Jain told reporters here that the pollution due to stubble burning created a big problem in Delhi. It caused problems in breathing and those who had COVID-19 inhaled the smoke, which aggravated the seriousness, he said. Its effect on the city’s COVID-19 death rate will go away in the next two-three weeks since pollution due to stubble burning has lessened in the last few days, he said. “There was heavy pollution due to stubble burning amid the pandemic and it came as a double attack. Since the pollution due to stubble-burning is less now, the downtrend in deaths will be there in a few weeks,” Mr. Jain said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jain-blames-stubble-burning-for-high-covid-19-death-rate/article33165544.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Air quality panel must act on stubble burning’||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram deteriorated slightly to the upper end of the “poor” category on Monday and Noida’s worsened to “very poor”, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air quality of Delhi is predicted to deteriorate to the “very poor” category on Tuesday. “The Air Quality Index (AQI) is likely to deteriorate towards the high end of ‘very poor’ by tomorrow [Tuesday] and likely stay at the high end of ‘very poor’on November 25. The AQI may reach ‘severe’ in a few locations for short period. This scenario is valid if prevailing low fire counts remain but if counts increased then it may further deteriorate,” said government-run monitoring agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Air pollution of the “very poor” category can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure”, said the government. The air quality is expected to marginally improve by Thursday. The AQI of Delhi was 295 on Monday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The air quality slightly deteriorated on Monday as the surface winds were calm, which do not aid in dispersion of pollutants. Also, the boundary layer winds were moderate and north-westerly in direction, which helps in bringing pollution from stubble burning in neighbouring States to the city. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was estimated to be only 6% on Monday. Also, the number of fire counts in neighbouring states dropped to 149, as per SAFAR. In a related development, the Chairperson of the Environment Committee of Delhi Assembly and AAP MLA Atishi on Monday met members of the Commission on Air Quality Management and requested to resolve the stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana with a bio decomposer technology used in Delhi. She also demanded the Commission to take action against Punjab and Haryana governments on burning stubble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/air-quality-panel-must-act-on-stubble-burning/article33165448.ece
24 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||SIT in Kanpur does not find conspiracy in ‘love jihad’ cases||A Special Investigation Team probing cases of alleged “love jihad” in Kanpur has found criminality in 11 out of the 14 instances but found no evidence of foreign funding or organised conspiracy, a senior police officer said on Monday. Legally unrecognised, “love jihad” is a political term used by right-wing groups and political parties including the BJP as a slur against relationships involving a Muslim man and a Hindu woman to allege a conspiracy. The SIT was formed in Kanpur after 14 cases emerged in which the parents of the girls had alleged that Muslim boys deceived their daughters and “trapped them in love” relationships, said Inspector General (Kanpur) Mohit Agarwal. “The SIT probe did not find any solid proof that the accused worked in an organised manner as part of a conspiracy,” said Mr. Agarwal, also dismissing angle of alleged funding. He, however, said that the accused changed their names and in many cases established relationships with minor girls. In 11 out of the 14 cases, some form of crime was found and 11 persons were sent to jail, Mr. Agarwal told reporters. In three cases, the girls were found to be adults who fell in love or were with Muslim boys through their free will, added the officer. No action would be taken in such cases, he said. In three cases, the boys hid their real names and tried to influence the girls with false names and later the girls found out that the boys belonged to other religions, said Mr. Agarwal. “We have added sections of fraud in such cases,” said Mr. Agarwal. Proposed law The SIT probe comes at a time when Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath recently said his government would bring an “effective law” against “love jihad”. Legal experts, however, have questioned the scope of the government move saying a law restricting marriages between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman would not stand in law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sit-in-kanpur-does-not-find-conspiracy-in-love-jihad-cases/article33165435.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU likely to release BA results in a week||Delhi University is likely to announce the results of 13,000 BA (Programme) students, who took their open book examination a few months back, within a week. Dean of Examinations D.S. Rawat said: “There were a few delays in the assessment of the papers due to issues with the OBE portal. In some instances, students had emailed the answer scripts, which were in a drive and it became difficult to access those files. Sorting out the issues and getting the papers corrected has led to some delay. However, only four to five undergraduate courses are now left for declaration of results out of which BA (Programme) is the biggest chunk.” The university officials said provisional certificates are being issued to those who require the results for admissions to other universities. “There are many students who have approached the examination branch stating that they need their marksheets either for applying to jobs or to other universities. We are fast-tracking the process for them and in some instances, examiners have been asked to assess the respective papers immediately after checking the roll numbers,” he said, adding that around 450 such provisional mark sheets had been issued for both undergraduate and postgraduate students. The university that began the admission process for post-graduate courses last week had announced that the portal will be open for only those courses where the undergraduate results had already been declared by DU. “The admission process for the other courses will begin as and when the undergraduate results are declared,” officials had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-likely-to-release-ba-results-in-a-week/article33165447.ece
24 November 2020||JAIPUR,||62% turnout in Rajasthan panchayat polls||About 62% of the 72.38 lakh voters cast their votes in the first phase of elections to panchayat bodies in 21 districts of Rajasthan on Monday. The polling was held for electing 1,310 members of 65 Panchayat Samitis and the respective Zila Parishads. The polling started at 7:30 a.m. amid strict security arrangements with adherence to the COVID-19 public health guidelines at 10,131 polling booths and ended at 5 p.m. Nearly 25,000 electronic voting machines were used in the first phase, while more than 50,000 government employees were deployed for conducting the polls. The polling was conducted peacefully in all the districts, except some stray incidents of altercation between the supporters of different candidates reported from a few places. Some unruly youths threw firecrackers at two polling stations in Bandanwara village of Ajmer district’s Bhinay tehsil. Elections were held in the first phase in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur districts. According to the State Election Commission, the polling will be held on November 27 for the second phase, December 1 for third and December 5 for the fourth and final phase. The counting of votes for all the four phases will be held on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/62-turnout-in-rajasthan-panchayat-polls/article33165438.ece
24 November 2020||Gurugram,||Panipat SP, two other policemen booked||Panipat Superintendent of Police Manisha Choudhary has been booked for alleged abetment to suicide, along with two other policemen, of a former municipal councillor. The councillor had jumped into a canal last Thursday due to alleged police harassment and his body was fished out on Sunday. Then Tehsil Camp Police Post in charge Baljit Malik and Assistant Sub-Inspector Mahabir Singh are the other two policemen named in the First Information Report(FIR). According to the FIR, registered at the Model Town Police Station on Monday, Baljit and Mahabir pushed around the councillor on November 14 evening when he objected to them allegedly barging into his neighbour’s house and making videos.  ‘Policemen were drunk’ The two policemen were in an inebriated state and not accompanied by a woman police officer, said the FIR. “I gave a written complaint to the Station House Officer concerned against the two policemen, but no action was taken. A case was registered against me and my father on 11 charges the next day. All this was done at the behest of SP Manisha Choudhary. We were treated like terrorists. For five days, the police kept pressure on us. My father was mentally harassed and he eventually jumped into the Binjhol canal on November 19 morning. His friend Rajesh Sharma also jumped behind him to save him,” said the councillor’s daughter, the complainant in the case. The complaint was given to the police on November 19 but the FIR was lodged a day after the body of the councillor was recovered. The body of Rajesh Sharma was fished out earlier. Highway blocked The family and supporters of the deceased blocked traffic on the NH-44 on Sunday, accusing the police of abetting his suicide, after the body was recovered. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij last week formed a three-member committee headed by ADGP Sandeep Khirwar to probe allegations of harassment by police.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/panipat-sp-two-other-policemen-booked/article33165436.ece
24 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||No respite from chill as mercury dips to 6.3°C||The minimum temperature in Delhi fell further to settle at 6.3 degrees Celsius on Monday, which was five degrees colder than normal for the season. The maximum temperature during the day settled at 26.3 degrees Celsius on a partly cloudy day. This year’s November has seen below-average minimum temperatures on all but one day, when the minimum temperature rose due to Western Disturbance, which brought rain and provided some relief from the cold nights. The MeT department has attributed the cold wave conditions to the lack of cloud cover and the impact of cold winds blowing from the Himalayas, which has received fresh snowfall. The forecast for the city predicts there will be partly cloudy skies on November 24 with mist/shallow fog in the morning. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 25 and 7 degrees Celsius respectively. The extended forecast shows there will be partly cloudy sky with the possibility of very light rain/drizzle on November 26 morning. It may increase the temperature slightly. On Sunday, the city had recorded a minimum of 6.9 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 24.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest day-time temperature this month. The all-time record for the lowest minimum temperature in November is 3.9 degrees Celsius recorded on November 28, 1938.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-respite-from-chill-as-mercury-dips-to-63c/article33165445.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for selling mortgaged plot||A 55-year-old businessman was arrested for allegedly selling mortgaged property in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh area, the police said on Monday. The accused has been identified as Jai Bhagwan Singhal, a resident of East Punjabi Bagh, they said. A case was registered on the complaint of Alok Kumar, an authorised representative of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd, against Jai Bhagwan Singhal and others, the police said. The complainant alleged that Singhal and his family members availed loan against Plot No. 20, Road No. 23, East Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi of Rs. 4.95 crore and created equitable mortgage of the property by submitting original title documents of the property, a senior police officer said. “After availing the loan, Singhal sold the second floor to one V. Sunita Rao for a sale consideration of Rs. 1,25,50,000. Similarly, the third floor with stilt and terrace sold to one Anju Saluja for a sale consideration of Rs. 1,06,00,000 without any permission from DHFL,” Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P. Mishra said. They also filed wrong information with the sub-registrar office that the property was free from all sorts of encumbrances and mortgage, the officer said. Singhal was arrested and remanded in one-day police custody, Mr. Mishra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-selling-mortgaged-plot/article33165538.ece
24 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Digital concert series supports folk artistes during pandemic||A digital COVID-19 relief concert series, titled “Padharo Mhare Des”, has been launched here to support folk artistes, deprived of regular livelihood for several months, in the remote areas of Rajasthan. The fund-raising series will present some renowned performers and promote virtual tourism during the pandemic. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who inaugurated the series on Sunday, said the initiative would play a crucial role in the growth of art forms in the State and extend support to the artistes solely dependent on their performances for livelihood. The series has been planned and organised by Jaipur-based Arpan Foundation. The series will feature about 70 folk artistes from the interiors of Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Barmer districts in western Rajasthan, highlighting the rich heritage of traditional music and dance forms of the Thar desert. The teams of entertainment professionals have reached out to far-off regions and recorded performances of artistes at their native places. Arpan Foundation’s founder and singer Manesha Agarwal said the renowned artistes to participate in the series would include Dapu Khan Mirasi of the ‘Mumal’ fame from Jaisalmer, singing sensation of Kalbeliyas Sugni Devi from Jodhpur, Thanu Khan and Tarif Khan of Chala Mama Project and Mehesha Ram and his group of Meghwals from Jaisalmer. Mohun Veena recital Indian Institute of Health Management Research’s founder trustee Ashok Agarwal has supported the virtual concerts, whose premiere episode presented a rendition of “Padharo Mhare Des” by Grammy Award winner Vishwa Mohan Bhatt on his iconic Mohan Veena. This was followed by the folk music performances and dance by the Langas and Kalbeliyas from Jodhpur and Manganiyars from Barmer.  Database drive The initiative follows a drive launched by the State government to prepare a database of artistes practising in different spheres of crafts and techniques with the help of crowdsourcing. The database includes basic details along with genre of art forms, such as performing arts, visual arts, literary arts, dying arts, wandering arts, folk arts and tribal arts. Ms. Agarwal said the folk artistes who formed an integral part of the State’s cultural fabric had been badly hit during the pandemic, with tourism, cultural performances, events and celebrations having been scaled down. Arpan Foundation has extended monetary support to the artistes who were recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/digital-concert-series-supports-folk-artistes-during-pandemic/article33165440.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Court to take up supplementary chargesheet against Umar, Sharjeel||A Delhi court will hear on Tuesday the issue of taking cognizance of the supplementary chargesheet filed against former JNU students Umar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam in a riots case. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said the court will also decide on Tuesday whether to pass an order to supply a copy of the supplementary chargesheet to the accused in the wake of a recent order of the High Court staying trial in the matter. The High Court had earlier this month stayed the trial of 15 accused, including Khalid, Imam, and Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The court’s decision came on plea of the police challenging a trial court’s order directing the agency to provide hard copies of the chargesheet to the 15 accused. The police argued for providing a soft copy as related documents, including statement of witnesses, ran into over 20,000 pages. ‘Can provide soft copies’ Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, said he was willing to supply soft copies of the supplementary chargesheet to the accused but the orders have to come from the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-to-take-up-supplementary-chargesheet-against-umar-sharjeel/article33165441.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Plea challenges felling of 315 trees for revamp project||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre and city government to respond to a petition challenging an order by the Forest Department for felling and transplantation of 315 trees for redevelopment of Ayur Vigyan Nagar here. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the Environment Ministry, Delhi government’s Deputy Conservator of Forests (South) and the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) to respond to the plea by next date of hearing on 21 December. ‘Ignoring air pollution’ Abhishek Dutt, a municipal councillor here, has argued that the Forest Department has allowed large-scale destruction of the vegetation and tree cover of the Capital for the purposes of government redevelopment “wholly ignoring the air pollution and serious environmental concerns that affect the health of the citizens”. The plea said planting of saplings in a different location would be absolutely no substitute for the trees that are being cut today. “Even planting 10 saplings for each tree which is felled is not enough considering the large size, ecological impact of larger trees and poor survival rate of saplings,” it said. Advocate Varun K. Chopra, representing Mr. Dutt, said “rights of citizen to breathe clean air is being abrogated by removal of 315 green lungs in Delhi”. The petition said the permission to cut the trees was “arbitrary” as it was granted without any Environmental Impact Assessment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-challenges-felling-of-315-trees-for-revamp-project/article33165443.ece
24 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Hathras rape accused in Gandhinagar for lie test||The Central Bureau Of Investigation (CBI) team probing the murder and alleged gang rape of a Dalit girl in Hathras took the four accused to Gandhinagar for brain mapping and polygraph test on Saturday. Pramod Kumar Singh, Jailer of the Aligarh district prison, where the four accused have been lodged, confirmed they have been taken to Gandhinagar Forensic Science Laboratory after permission was granted by CBI court. He said one head warden had been sent with them. Official sources said it would take around a week for the tests to be completed and during the time the accused will be lodged in Gandhinagar jail.  Victim named accused Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu, and an alleged minor were arrested before the victim died in Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 29. The accused were named by the victim in her statement for assault and rape. Following a recommendation by the Uttar Pradesh government, the case was handed over to the CBI. The agency registered a case and began its investigation on October 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hathras-rape-accused-in-gandhinagar-for-lie-test/article33165437.ece
24 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha Bill to penalise people for ‘illegal’ strike||The Odisha government proposed to impose penalty on individuals who would spend money in furtherance or in support of ‘illegal’ strike and make such offences punishable with imprisonment. A Bill titled ‘The Odisha Essential Services (Maintenance) Amendment Bill, 2020’ which sought amendment to Odisha Essential Services (Maintenance) Act, 1988 was passed by the State Assembly on Monday.  Imprisonment, fine “As per a new provision, it was proposed to impose penalty against an individual who expends or supplies any money in furtherance of or in support of strike which is illegal under this Act making such offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to Rs. 5000 or both,” Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik stated introducing the Bill. In the present Act, there is no provision for disciplinary action against an employee who participates in strike which is illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-bill-to-penalise-people-for-illegal-strike/article33165439.ece
24 November 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for wife’s murder||A 30-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his wife at their rented house in north west Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, the police said on Monday. The accused, Ramakant, worked as a labourer. The couple often fought over petty issues. Fed up of interference from his in-laws in their married life, he allegedly strangled his wife, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-wifes-murder/article33165541.ece
