28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers stay camped on Delhi border||Tens of thousands of farmers were still camped on the Delhi-Haryana border on Friday night, on their way to the national capital for a protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws. After a morning of tense clashes with the police, who used tear gas and water cannons in an effort to disperse the crowd, the barricades were opened in the early afternoon, and farmers invited to enter the city limits and be escorted to a designated protest site in Burari. By evening, however, most farmer groups had decided to stay put at the various border crossings overnight, and take a decision by Saturday morning on whether to head to the Burari grounds or demand a more visible and high-profile protest location. The farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have mobilised under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha banner for this ‘Dilli Chalo’ agitation. They are demanding a repeal of three agricultural marketing reform laws, which they fear will affect the system of government procurement of crops at minimum support prices. They also want the Electricity Bill, 2020, which could remove free power for farmers, to be withdrawn. On Friday, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated that the farm laws would create opportunities for farmers, and pleaded with them to end their agitation in the light of the winter chill and the COVID-19 pandemic, and instead accept the invitation for talks on December 3. The day started with hundreds of farmers from Punjab and Haryana engaged in a fierce face-off with the Delhi police at the Tikri crossing. Deployed in large numbers, the police had three layers of security in place. Huge cement blocks formed the first line of defence, followed by barricades with barbed wires, and parked trucks, trailers and small commercial vehicles forming the final security layer. The border turned into a virtual war zone with police personnel lobbing tear gas shells and aiming water cannons at farmers trying to cross over. After an hour of tense confrontation, however, the farmers stepped back to return to their vehicles to wait for more convoys to join them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-stay-camped-on-delhi-border/article33197524.ece
28 November 2020||KOCHI,||Visitors trickling into tourist locales in Kochi||The lifting of curbs on visiting backwater and beach locales has resulted in people frequenting them to unwind, mostly with families. This is evident in locales such as Fort Kochi and beaches in Vypeen and to a lesser extent in Mattancherry. Traders not happy Still, traders are not very happy with the footfall since few people stop by to purchase goods, as was the norm during previous years during the conventional tourist season from October to February. “Most visitors skip shopping and even eating out, and this has affected our business. Already, most Kashmiri traders have left for their home town, unable to afford the rent on shops and houses,” said traders in Mattancherry. However, there is a phenomenal increase in enquiries from people within Kerala and outside to visit Matsyafed’s aqua-tourism farms at Njarackal and Malippuram in Vypeen, and at Palaikari in Chembu on the Poothotta-Vaikom route, official sources said. Not as before But the number of visitors has not touched the 500 mark that used to be the daily average at each of these locales during weekends. The per person tariff ranges from Rs. 350 to Rs. 450, inclusive of fish curry lunch. “We have a ‘'Dwayam’ package covering Njarackal and Malippuram, which is high in demand. New packages in which the locales would be connected will take effect in December, the peak tourist season,” they said. “In the Samskruthi package, visitors can check out our farms and heritage locales in Muziris, all in a day’s tour. Most visitors now are from within the State, possibly since we insist on a COVID-19 negative certificate from foreigners. Guests can book online through our website, while online payment facility is available in the aqua farms”. The Ernakulam District Tourism Promotion Council too has spruced up its locales in different parts of the district to welcome visitors. All COVID-19 protocols are adhered to, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/visitors-trickling-into-tourist-locales-in-kochi/article33197649.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala Bank’s governing body takes charge||A new governing council headed by CPI(M) State committee member Gopi Kottamurikkal assumed charge of Kerala Bank on Thursday, after the Left Democratic Front registered a landslide victory in the elections to the governing body. Opening a new phase in the 105-year-old history of the Kerala State Cooperative Bank, which has been converted into Kerala Bank, the elected members assumed office in the presence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, and Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran at its headquarters at Co-Bank Towers here. Kerala Bank will open up new opportunities for the people, Mr. Vijayan said, and urged the Malappuram district cooperative bank, which has not merged with Kerala Bank, to join the initiative. The elections to the governing body were held for the first time since the Kerala Bank came into existence on November 29, 2019 by merging 13 district cooperative banks with the Kerala State Cooperative Bank. The voters comprised representatives of 1,557 primary agriculture credit cooperative societies and 51 urban banks in the State. Representatives M.K. Kannan, who won from Thrissur, took over as vice president. The representatives of the districts are S. Shajahan (Thiruvananthapuram), G. Lalu (Kollam), M. Sathyapalan (Alappuzha), K. J. Philip (Kottayam), K.V. Sasi (Idukki), A. Prabhakaran (Palakkad), P. Gagarin (Wayanad), Sabu Abraham (Kasaragod), and K.G. Valsalakumari (Kannur). E. Ramesh Babu (SC) from Kozhikode, S. Nirmala Devi (reserved for women) from Pathanamthitta, and Pushpadas from Ernakulam were elected unopposed. Twelve out of the 14 elected members of the governing council are CPI(M) members. CPI and Kerala Congress (M) have one member each, G. Lalu (Kollam) and K.J. Philip (Kottayam). The president, vice president, Mr. Lalu, Mr. Philip, Mr. Shajahan and Mrs. Valsalakumari have been nominated from the governing council to the Board of Management. V. Raveendran, former AGM, RBI, K.N. Harilal, Member, Planning Board, P. A. Ummer, former State Cooperative Bank president, Mani Vitayathil and Jiju P. Alex , Professor, Kerala Agricultural University have also been nominated to the Board of Management. Rs. 1,05,000-cr. business In the first year, Kerala Bank achieved a business of Rs. 1,05,000 crore. The operating profit till October 31, 2020 is Rs. 270 crore. The bank has disbursed loans for Rs. 40,265 crore and has deposit of Rs. 62,450 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-banks-governing-body-takes-charge/article33197652.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M) not averse to ED questioning Raveendran||The CPI(M) is reportedly not averse to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioning C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. By some accounts, the CPI(M) State secretariat which met here on Friday felt Mr. Raveendran should appear before the ED without delay and any further procrastination was not optimal, politically and legally. There were also unconfirmed reports that the ED had identified some properties in Kannur allegedly linked to Mr. Raveendran. The ED had summoned the political appointee to question him in connection with suspected "kickbacks in the various infrastructure contracts" being implemented by the State government.  Under treatment Mr. Raveendran was scheduled to appear before the ED's office in Kochi on Friday. However, he was under treatment for post-COVID-19 complications and the doctors had reportedly prescribed rest and physiotherapy sessions. Earlier, the ED had arrested Mr. Vijayan's former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar as part of its probe into the money laundering aspect of the UAE gold smuggling case. Its summons to Mr. Raveendran have triggered intense speculation that the agency's investigation was getting close to the Chief Minister's Office. The government and the CPI(M) have portrayed the ED’s move as a constitutional overreach. Mr Vijayan had stated the agency had no business seeking government records related to mega projects. The CPI(M) had said the ED was not a check and balances body like the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cpim-not-averse-to-ed-questioning-raveendran/article33198128.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protect the right of ordinary people to bail, SC tells judges||The Supreme Court on Friday gave a clarion call to judges to protect personal liberty and the right of ordinary people to bail, saying “liberty is not a gift for the few”. Common citizens without the means or resources to move the High Courts or the Supreme Court were languishing in jails as undertrials, the Supreme Court reminded. “Deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many,” a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra declared in a 55-page order pronounced on Friday. On the top court’s recent decision to grant bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case, the judgment said that prima facie, the FIR against Mr. Goswami did not establish the charges against him. “It is through the instrumentality of bail that our criminal justice system’s primordial interest in preserving the presumption of innocence finds its most eloquent expression,” Justice Chandrachud, who wrote the judgment, observed. The State should not be allowed to use criminal law as a ruse to harass citizens, he said. Courts were the “first line of defence” against the deprivation of citizens’ personal liberty. But reality, Justice Chandrachud pointed out, showed that undertrials remained behind bars while their bail applications were lobbed from one rung of courts to another.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protect-the-right-of-ordinary-people-to-bail-sc-tells-judges/article33197513.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||GDP contracts 7.5% in second quarter||India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contracted 7.5% in the second quarter of 2020-21, following the record 23.9% decline recorded in the first quarter, as per estimates released by the National Statistical Office on Friday. The country has now entered a technical recession with two successive quarters of negative growth. However, the economy’s performance between July and September when lockdown restrictions were eased is better than most rating agencies and analysts anticipated. While most estimated a contraction of around 10%, the Reserve Bank of India projected a 8.6% decline in the second quarter. Sharp recovery Agriculture, which was the only sector to record growth between April and June this year, grew at the same pace of 3.4% in the second quarter, while manufacturing gross value-added (GVA) staged a sharp recovery to record 0.6% growth between July and September after collapsing 39.3% in the first quarter. Electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services also recorded 4.4% growth in the second quarter, recovering from a 7% contraction in Q1. But it remained a bleak quarter for several sectors, including mining, services such as retail trade and hotels, construction and financial services. “We should be cautiously optimistic as the economic impact is primarily due to the pandemic and the sustainability of the recovery depends critically on the spread of the pandemic. The government remains ready to come up with calibrated responses,” said Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian, stressing that there could be neither too much exuberance nor excessive pessimism at this point. ‘V-shaped recovery’ Citing the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, Mr. Subramanian said the ‘V-shaped recovery’ should continue but it is difficult to be sure about positive growth returning in the remaining two quarters of this year. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier suggested that the economy could record near zero growth in 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gdp-contracts-75-in-second-quarter/article33197515.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State Cabinet okays resurvey of lands||The Cabinet meeting held on Friday gave the nod for a comprehensive resurvey of lands at a cost of Rs. 927 crore. The meeting was chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. It also cleared the decks for formation of Uttarandhra Irrigation Projects Development Corporation Limited and Palnadu Area Drought Mitigation Projects Corporation Limited (PADMPCL) and AP State Development Corporation with an outlay of Rs. 25,000 crore. The PADMPCL comprises among other things the extension of Guntur channel and Vedadri lift irrigation scheme. Briefing the media about the Cabinet decisions, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said the land resurvey was aimed at streamlining the land records management system and digitising the records to eliminate any scope for manipulation. The resurvey would be done from December 21 with the help of drones and rovers and base stations across the State. The Cabinet approved the construction of nearly 28.30 lakh houses for weaker sections in YSR Jagananna Colonies in three years, commencing on December 25 with 16 lakh houses in 8,494 layouts at a total cost of Rs. 28,800 crore (Rs. 1.80 lakh per unit), to be completed by June 2022. Title deeds Besides, the Cabinet resolved for distributing house title deeds in 11,000 villages to 30.60 lakh beneficiaries under Navaratnalu - Pedalandariki Illu scheme in December. The Cabinet also decided to implement free insurance scheme for farmers with effect from 2019 kharif season, make payment of crop insurance for 2019-20 kharif on December 15 and launch on December 2 the Amul Project for dairy sector development for which AP Cooperative Dairy Development Corporation has recently tied up with Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation. The Cabinet decided to increase the DA for pensioners by 3.144% with effect from July 2018 and to make the payments from January 2021 and to effect another 3.144% DA hike with effect from January 2019 and pay the same from July 2021 and an extra 5.24% with effect from July 2019 and make payments from January 2022. The Cabinet decided to make similar DA increase for the employees and pay them as per the same timeline as above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-cabinet-clears-resurvey-of-lands/article33197455.ece
28 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Five COVID-19 patients die in Rajkot ICU fire||Five COVID-19 patients were killed and six others injured in a fire in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a hospital in Rajkot around 1 a.m. on Friday. The fire at Uday Shivanand Hospital, a designated COVID-19 facility in the Mavdi area, was apparently caused by a short-circuit. In August, eight COVID-19 patients were killed in a fire on the top floor of a four-storey private hospital in Ahmedabad. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani expressed grief over the incident and announced ex gratia compensation to the next of kin of the deceased. He also ordered a probe by a senior Indian Administrative Service officer into the incident. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths. The administration was ensuring all possible assistance to those affected, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-covid-19-patients-die-in-rajkot-icu-fire/article33197828.ece
28 November 2020||COIMBATORE,||Domestic air cargo movement picks up||Movement of domestic air cargo from Coimbatore International airport is at almost 96 % of pre-COVID levels, said an official source at the airport. With the airport getting more than half a dozen flights a day, movement of cargo to destinations catered to by these flights has gone up. The cargo comprises automobile components, perishables, and healthcare products. Exports are at about 100 tonnes a month and these are mainly perishable goods. This is because there is only one international flight connecting Coimbatore now. Exports have not been seen a growth especially since the Navarathri and Deepavali festivals. However, goods imported by air are high. If direct international flight connectivity increases from Coimbatore, there will be more exports. A substantial volume of export goods are now moved to Kochi or Bengaluru through bonded trucks, the source said. According to Coimbatore Custom House and Steamer Agents Association president P. Subramaniam, not many flights are operated out of Coimbatore to overseas destinations and rates are high for air cargo. Flight movement from here dropped after the lockdown restrictions came into force. Though the restrictions are relaxed, flight movement is yet to pick up. “We do not know when connecting flights get cancelled. There is no assurance on flight availability even to domestic destinations from here. And the rates quoted are neither standard nor feasible. Only goods that need to be lifted immediately go by air,” he said. At least two or three more flights should be operated from here to other countries and the prices should be competitive, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/domestic-air-cargo-movement-picks-up/article33197608.ece
28 November 2020||NELlORE/ONGOLE,||Water bodies in spate as rains continue in Nellore, Prakasam districts||Water bodies, including the Penna, were in spate as heavy rain battered south coastal Andhra Pradesh for the second day on Friday under the influence of Nivar, which left a trail of destruction in Nellore and Prakasam districts. The Penna riverbank embankment breached on the Kovur suburbs as irrigation authorities let out up to four lakh cusecs from the near-full Somasila reservoir into the sea. About 2,000 people were moved to relief camps in Anantasagaram mandal alone at the behest of State Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy. Vehicular traffic was disrupted at several places, including on the arterial Chennai-Kolkata highway as rivulets were in spate.  Two washed away Two persons of Rajampet were killed when the car in which they were travelling fell into the swirling river water between Gurramkonda and Chinnamandem in Kadapa distrct. In another rain-related incident, a car proceeding from Kancheepuram in Tamil Nadu to Mantralayam in Kurnool district plunged into the Vontimitta tank abutting the Tirupati-Kadapa highway on Friday. Five villages were totally under water in Rajampet mandal with the sudden inflow of water. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will undertake an aerial survey of the Cyclone Nivar-affected areas on Saturday.  Immediate relief The Cabinet meeting resolved to pay an immediate assistance of Rs. 500 per head to those taking shelter in relief camps. It was resolved that assessment of damage to crops should be completed by December 15 and compensation paid in 15 days thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-bodies-in-spate-as-rain-continues-to-lash-nellore-prakasam-districts/article33197520.ece
28 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Five COVID-19 patients die in Rajkot ICU fire||Five COVID-19 patients were killed and six others injured in a fire in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a hospital in Rajkot around 1 a.m. on Friday. The fire at Uday Shivanand Hospital at Mavdi was apparently caused by a short-circuit. Rupani orders probe Chief Minister Vijay Rupani expressed grief over the incident and announced ex gratia compensation to the next of kin of the deceased. He also ordered a probe by a senior Indian Administrative Service officer into the incident. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths. The administration was ensuring all possible assistance to those affected, said PM Modi. “Extremely pained by the loss of lives due to a hospital fire in Rajkot. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones in this unfortunate tragedy. Praying for a quick recovery of the injured. The administration is ensuring all possible assistance to those affected,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted.  This is the second such tragedy in Gujarat. In August, eight COVID-19 patients were killed in a fire at a private hospital in Ahmedabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-covid-19-patients-die-in-rajkot-icu-fire/article33198079.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai Metro phase II to be completed in 6 years||Learning from experience and armed with a detailed design, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) plans to complete the phase II project within six years. Phase II will span 118.9 km from the northern end to the southern end of the city with three corridors — Madhavaram to SIPCOT, Madhavaram to Sholinganallur and Light House to Poonamallee. Any Metro project needs a detailed design component which acts like a guide for a contractor, listing finer details on how a station, tunnel or viaduct should be built. According to CMRL officials, the detailed design component and land acquisition are the main causes for delays. Design completed However, in the case of phase II, nearly 90% of the detailed design has been already completed. A good portion of the land has been acquired and the process of acquiring the remaining portions is under way, officials said. “In phase I, the contractor had to design and build the stations, which caused delay. In addition, land acquisition was not easy in some locations. So, we decided to start with the detailed design ahead of construction and gave contracts to certain firms. They have finished most of the work now and the remaining designs will be ready soon. We will hand them over to the contractors so they can immediately start construction,” an official said. Other challenges The phase II project could face other challenges which would need solid planning and execution, another official said. In the Madhavaram-SIPCOT stretch, underground stations have to be built in congested areas, like Purasawalkam, Perambur and Royapettah, without affecting nearby buildings. “Traffic planning has to be meticulous so that commuters do not waste fuel and lose time. The shifting of utility lines has to be done in coordination with the other departments. If any of them are not done properly, it will wreak havoc, hamper the implementation greatly and make life difficult for commuters. They should ensure contractors stick to deadlines,” the official said. CMRL has floated tenders for civil work and plans to give out contracts soon, with construction aimed to start next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-phase-ii-project-to-be-completed-in-six-years/article33198038.ece
28 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Prime Minister to visit Covaxin manufacturing facility today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to visit the vaccine manufacturing facility of Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) which is engaged in the manufacturing of vaccine forCOVID-19, during a brief visit to Hyderabad on November 28. Doing away with the regular protocol, the Prime Minister’s Office is learnt to have asked the government to ensure that only a section of officials are allowed to receive Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he arrives at the Hakimpet airforce station on Saturday. Accordingly, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his Cabinet colleagues would not receive the Prime Minister as per the protocol. Officials to receive Modi Instead, the Air Officer Commanding of the Airforce Station, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, Hyderabad Collector Swetha Mohanty and Cyberabad Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar are likely to receive Mr. Modi on his arrival. The development had however led to a sense of disappointment in the government as the Chief Minister was reportedly geared up to receive Mr. Modi. The PMO’s instructions were so strict that Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy too was asked not to visit the airport. BJP sources told The Hindu that as the poll code was in force only officials were allowed to receive the dignitary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prime-minister-to-visit-covaxin-manufacturing-facility-today/article33198085.ece
28 November 2020||MANGALURU,||No Ghar Vaapsi, says woman who converted to Islam||While withdrawing her ultimatum for a resolution to her problem with her husband by Friday, 36-year-old Asiyahha Ibrahim Khaleel Kattekar has said that she is willing to wait for a few more days to reunite with her husband Ibrahim Khaleel Kattekar in Sullia. In her post on Facebook on Friday, Ms. Kattekar said that following her press meet on Wednesday, several representatives from Muslim and Hindu communities have come forward to help her and requested her to withdraw her ultimatum. “Respecting their sentiments, I have withdrawn it. I am hopeful of an early resolution,” she said. Ms. Kattekar said that she is not leaving Islam and doing a “Ghar Vaapsi” as sought for by Vishwa Hindu Parishad Dakshina Kannada secretary Sharan Pumpwell and a few other Hindu religious heads. “There is no question of leaving Islam,” she said and reiterated that she wants to reunite with her husband whom she loved. “His family should accept me and allow me to live in their house. I cannot continue to live in a lodge,” she said. No other woman who has converted to Islam, she said, should suffer like her. “My well-wishers have understood my condition and are working to resolve the issue,” she said. Ms. Kattekar, a native of Kannur and a resident of Bengaluru, divorced her husband and married Ibrahim Kattekar after converting to Islam in 2017. After her family left her out of property share in January this year, Ibrahim Kattekar lived with his wife for brief periods at different places and returned to Sullia. For the last five months, Ms.Kattekar has been living in Sullia wanting to reunite with him. On Thursday, Asiyahha visited Sullia Police Station along with Mr. Pumpwell. When she came to the masjid near her husband’s house on Friday, a large number of policemen was present to stop her from taking any untoward step. She later went to Sullia Police Station and filed a complaint against Ibrahim Kattekar’s brother accusing him of misbehaving with her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-ghar-vaapsi-says-woman-who-converted-to-islam/article33198159.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||High Court Bench seeks status of Bill||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought a response from the State government on the amendment to the Bill on recruitment of ‘Persons Studied in Tamil Medium’ in government jobs. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi directed the State to inform the court next week on its status and whether it was pending Governor’s assent. The court also sought to know as to how many such persons were recruited. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate G. Sakthi Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-court-bench-seeks-status-of-bill/article33198148.ece
28 November 2020||Mumbai,||BJP has replaced civility with perversity: Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray on Friday asked how there could be an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the future when the latter had replaced “civility with perversity”. In an interview marking the first anniversary of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, Mr. Thackeray said, “Our response is going to be cultured. And let me be very clear. History has shown us that whenever there is a conflict between these two sides, the cultured side has always won.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-has-replaced-civility-with-perversity-uddhav/article33197522.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Fresh low pressure area is likely in December||After Cyclone Nivar, the Bay of Bengal is likely to churn out a fresh low pressure area around Sunday and increase the chances of rain over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry between December 1 and 3. This time, rainfall activity may largely be concentrated in south Tamil Nadu, the India Meteorological Department said. The low pressure area, which is likely to form over the southeast Bay of Bengal, may become a depression by Monday. It may gain in strength and move towards the Tamil Nadu coast, causing widespread rain over the State. On the prospects of another cyclonic storm, S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said, “We are monitoring the weather system, which may intensify further. As of now, weather models indicate that rainfall intensity will be more in the southern parts of the State. Places in northern Tamil Nadu, too, will get rain.” Nivar weakened Cyclone Nivar weakened into a low pressure area over the south coastal Andhra Pradesh and the central parts of the Bay of Bengal. This brought widespread rain in many places of the interior districts till Friday morning. Sholingur in Ranipet district recorded the day’s highest amount of 23 cm. The cyclone brought down the deficit in the State’s overall seasonal rainfall by nearly 10%. As on Friday, Tamil Nadu received 29.4 cm of rain, which is 15% of its average for the northeast monsoon. Several northwestern districts have now recorded normal or excess rain over the past two days, Mr. Balachandran said. In the next two days, some parts of the State may experience light to moderate rain. Strong winds from the remnants of Cyclone Nivar, which made landfall in the early hours of Thursday, brought a chill over Chennai on Friday morning that lasted well into the day. Minimum temperature in the city dropped to 20.8 degrees Celsius at Nungambakkam and 19.3 degrees Celsius at Meenambakkam, against their normal of 23 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-low-pressure-area-is-likely-in-december/article33197541.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protect right of ordinary people to bail, SC tells judges||The Supreme Court on Friday gave a clarion call to judges to protect personal liberty and the right of ordinary people to bail, saying “liberty is not a gift for the few”. Common citizens without the means or resources to move the High Courts or the Supreme Court were languishing in jails as undertrials, it said. “Deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many,” a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra said in an order on Friday. “It is through the instrumentality of bail that our criminal justice system’s primordial interest in preserving the presumption of innocence finds its most eloquent expression,” Justice Chandrachud, who wrote the judgment, observed. The State should not be allowed to use criminal law to harass citizens, he said. On the court’s decision to grant bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case, the judgment said prima facie, the FIR against Mr. Goswami did not establish the charges against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protect-right-of-ordinary-people-to-bail-sc-tells-judges/article33197827.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre blames Kejriwal govt. for COVID-19 surge in Delhi||The Centre on Friday squarely blamed the Arvind Kejriwal government for the “massive increase” in COVID-19 infection and the escalating strain on medical infrastructure in Delhi’s hospitals, during a hearing in the Supreme Court. The top court agreed that “States should rise above politics and rise to the occasion”. A 170-page affidavit filed by the Ministry of Home Affairs contained a scathing testimony against the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government for not taking “effective preventive steps to contain the infection” in Delhi. “The Delhi government was aware that the confluence of winter, festival season and pollution were likely to witness a surge in cases. This foreknowledge ought to have led to strict enforcement and IEC [information, education and communication]  measures being instituted well in time. However, this was not done,” the Centre informed a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan. The Centre named Delhi as one of the 10 States that account for almost 77% of the active caseload in the country. The court said masks and social distancing were the only preventive measures in the absence of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-blames-kejriwal-govt-for-covid-19-surge-in-delhi/article33197825.ece
28 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Five COVID-19 patients die in Rajkot ICU fire||Five COVID-19 patients were killed and six others injured in a fire in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a hospital in Rajkot around 1 a.m. on Friday. The fire at Uday Shivanand Hospital, a COVID-19 facility in Mavdi area, was apparently caused by a short-circuit. In August, eight COVID-19 patients were killed in a fire on the top floor of a four-storey private hospital in Ahmedabad. “Extremely pained by the loss of lives due to a hospital fire in Rajkot. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones in this unfortunate tragedy. Praying for a quick recovery of the injured. The administration is ensuring all possible assistance to those affected,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted. SC slams govt. The incident attracted the attention of the Supreme Court. It took suo motu cognisance of it and slammed the State administration, saying recurrence of such fire accidents needed a thorough introspection. “These incidents are repeated and we notice that no complete steps being taken by States nor is there any mechanism to abrogate the situation,” it observed during a hearing. Gujarat has been frequently witnessing fires in factories and commercial buildings with high casualties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-covid-19-patients-die-in-rajkot-icu-fire/article33197516.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||More Punjab farmers plan to reach Delhi||Hundreds of Punjab’s farmers started gathering at Amritsar’s ‘Golden Gate’ on Friday with a resolve to reach New Delhi to strengthen the agitation. They said their battle had just begun and the Union government should not be under the impression that it would be over soon.page 15||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-punjab-farmers-plan-to-reach-delhi/article33197525.ece
28 November 2020||Guntur,||HC directive on guest house plan in Vizag||The AP High Court on Friday directed the State government to file a counter affidavit explaining the rationale behind construction of a guest house in the high-security zone atop Kapuluppada in Visakhapatnam, and asked it not to axe any more trees there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-directive-on-guest-house-plan-in-vizag/article33198300.ece
28 November 2020||SRINAGAR,||‘Have been put under house arrest again’||Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti alleged on Friday that she and her daughter had been placed under house arrest and stopped from meeting the family of incarcerated youth leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra in south Kashmir. Police said Ms. Mufti was not under house arrest. “She was requested to postpone her visit to Pulwama purely for security reasons,” a police spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/have-been-put-under-house-arrest-again/article33197826.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||SWR plans three pairs of trains to KIA||Bengaluru South Western Railways is exploring the feasibility of operating three pairs trains to and from Kempegowda International Airport for the benefit of passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/swr-plans-three-pairs-of-trains-to-kia/article33198016.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||DTC nod for procuring 1,250 low-floor buses||The Delhi Transport Corpora-tion Board on Friday approved a proposal to procure 1,250 BS-VI compliant CNG low-floor buses. After induction, DTC’s total fleet size will reach an all time high of 7,851. The board meeting was chaired by Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dtc-nod-for-procuring-1250-low-floor-buses/article33198081.ece
28 November 2020||Mumbai,||Bombay HC quashes BMC notice to Kangana||The Bombay High Court on Friday quashed and set aside an order by the BMC to demolish actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow, and held that she is entitled for compensation. The court said, “We have come to a clear conclusion that the notice and the action of demolition following it, are actuated by malafides, causing a substantial injury to the Petitioner, we would be perfectly justified to order compensation against responsible authorities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bombay-hc-quashes-bmc-notice-to-kangana/article33198179.ece
28 November 2020||MYSURU,||Amendments: Farmers stage protest||Members of Karnataka State Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association and other groups protested here on Friday condemning amendments to various farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amendments-farmers-stage-protest/article33197776.ece
28 November 2020||MYSURU,||War of words continues between DC, MLA||H.P. Manjunath, MLA, whose remarks against DC Rohini Sindhuri elicited a sharp response from the latter, on Friday sought to describe her as a “dictator”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/war-of-words-continues-between-dc-mla/article33197777.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka defers decision on inclusion of Lingayats in OBC||The State Cabinet on Friday deferred the decision on recommending to the Centre inclusion of Veerashaiva-Lingayat community in the Union list of Other Backward Classes (OBC), apparently under pressure from the Centre as well as some Ministers. Ahead of the Cabinet meeting, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced that the decision on including the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community in the Central OBC list would be taken after discussions with the central leaders of the party. “The decision on Veerashaiva-Lingayat will be taken after visiting Delhi. Today, we will not make a decision . Even my Cabinet colleagues expressed a similar view. This is an important decision that will need further discussion,” the Chief Minister told presspersons before the Cabinet met. It is learnt that Union Home Minister Amit Shah told the Chief Minister that the proposal on recommending the OBC status for the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community needed discussions within the party before the Cabinet took a decision. Earlier, it was earlier on the Cabinet agenda. Briefing presspersons, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said the State Cabinet had to formally recommend its decision on inclusion of the community to the National Commission for Backward Classes for inclusion in the OBC list. Currently, the entire Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, politically dominant in the State, are included in the Karnataka’s OBC list under Category 3B with a 5% reservation based on income. The State government had proposed to recommend inclusion of the entire community in the Central OBC list to get benefits in Central government jobs and educational institutions. Currently, only 16 sub-sects of Veerashaiva-Lingayats were considered in the Central list of the OBCs, “which is wrong,” the Minister said. Other communities too “There are sub-castes in the Veerashaiva-Lingayats as well as in other major communities that have been left out, such as Kunchitigas among Vokkaligas. We appealed to the Chief Minister that we should move a comprehensive proposal to recommend the OBC status for all such communities that have been left out,” said Mr. Madhuswamy. The Veerashaiva-Lingayats constitute an estimated 16% of the State’s population and is a major vote bank for the ruling BJP. The Veerashaiva Mahasabha has been demanding the inclusion of the entire community in the Central list of the OBC since 1994. The mahasabha had asked the State government to take forward its demand in 1999. A few days ago, the government had established the Maratha Development Corporation, following it up with the Karnataka Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation and allocated Rs. 500 crore for it.  BOX  Anthropological study The Cabinet would decide on recommending inclusion of various communities under the Centre’s OBC list after obtaining reports from anthropologists about the nature of backwardness of the communities. “Anthropologists will be asked to study how people are backward, the percentage of people residing in villages, involved in farming, labour work, artisans etc,” Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-defers-decision-on-inclusion-of-lingayats-in-obc/article33197449.ece
28 November 2020||Amritsar/Harike,||Punjab farmers in no mood to relent||Braving the morning winter chill, hundreds of Punjab’s farmers on Friday started gathering at Amrtisar’s ‘Golden Gate’ with a resolve to reach New Delhi to strengthen the agitation against Centre’s new agriculture laws. Agitated over the Centre’s “indifferent” attitude towards their demand of revoking the laws, and the Haryana government’s restrictions imposed on entry from Punjab, farmers here are in no mood to relent as they believe that their ongoing agitation is not just for themselves but for future generations. The farmers say their battle has just begun and the government at the Centre should be under no false impression that it will be over soon. Clad in a a typical Punjabi kurta-pyjama set with a green turban adorning his head, 67-year-old Sukhwinder Singh is anguished over the BJP-led Centre not listening to farmers’ concerns. “Our fellow farmers have reached Delhi and we are on the way. The Haryana government is trying to stop us with force. Let them try whatever they can, we are even ready to face bullets. We will reach Delhi no matter what happens,” he says. Sexagenarian Balkar Singh of Manga Sarai village says, “Until our voice is heard we will continue to lay siege to Delhi. It’s a fight not just for ourselves but for future generations. If I don’t put a fight today, I won’t be able to face my kids and their kids. We will ensure that our ‘dharna’ continues without fail. For this 20-25 people from one village will go in batches to spend around 20 days in Delhi. Once they come back, another set of farmers will go.” Undeterred by the restrictions imposed by the Haryana government on entering the State, scores of farmers from the Majha region of the State have started to move towards Delhi on tractor-trolleys, cars and two-wheelers and are expecting to enter Haryana by Saturday morning even as Haryana police have deployed heavy security and barricaded the key highways. The enthusiasm to participate in the protest is alike among the elders and the youth, who are prepared to fight ‘a long battle’ against the Centre. Navtej Singh, a 15-year-old school student, says he is going with his father to Delhi as he strongly believes that the new laws are against the farming community. “I’ll stay in Delhi as long as it’s required.. When my school opens I’ll come back but will go again if needed. I am with my family and farmers in their battle. If I don’t fight for our cause today, then who will?” he asks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-farmers-in-no-mood-to-relent/article33197470.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Rs. 4,300 crore collected as compound interest returned’||The Supreme Court recorded in a judgment on Friday that lending institutions have returned over Rs. 4,300 crore in compound interest collected from small borrowers during the moratorium period. The ex-gratia payments have been made into 13.12 crore bank accounts across the country as of November 13, 2020, the court noted the submission made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the government. The payments were made in compliance of a government payback scheme introduced on October 23 to waive the difference in the compound interest and simple interest charged between March 1 and August 31 (moratorium period) for eight categories of loans worth up to Rs. 2 crore. “Shri Mehta submits that in pursuance of circular dated October 23, 2020, the State Bank of India has informed that as on November 13, as per provisional, unaudited information received so far from various lending institutions, such lending institutions have released ex-gratia amount of an aggregate exceeding Rs. 4,300 crore in over 13.12 crore accounts of borrowers covered under the scheme,” a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan noted in a 24-page judgment. The order disposed of a petition filed by individual borrower Gajendra Sharma, who expressed his satisfaction with the government’s payback scheme. Mr. Sharma had argued that the charging of compound interest during the moratorium period was against the principle of natural justice. “The government on one hand ceased the working of the individuals and on other hand asking to pay the loan interest during moratorium,” he had complained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-4300-crore-collected-as-compound-interest-returned/article33197489.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Cabinet rejig: Ravi’s office opening turns into an event for lobbying||Several Ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators, camping in Delhi to attend the opening ceremony of the office of partynational general secretary C.T. Ravi, made it a point to meet several central leaders and lobby hard for a stake in the upcoming Cabinet expansion/ reshuffle. The office opening ceremony was attended by B.L. Santhosh, BJP national general secretary (organisation), and the event is said to have turned into animpromptu political consultation meet. A delegation of State BJP leaders, led by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and Revenue Minister R. Ashok, met Arun Singh, the new in charge of party affairs for Karnataka, and discussed several issues, including Cabinet expansion, sources said. Mr. Singh is expected to make his maiden visit as general secretary in charge on December 5 and 6, when he will hold wide- ranging consultations on the issue, sources in the party said. Cabinet expansion/reshuffle exercise will likely happen only after Mr. Singh’s visit to the State and probably after the winter session of the legislature, scheduled from December 7 to 15, sources said. Meanwhile, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, said to be lobbying hard to secure ministerial berths for defectors, said discussions were “positive”. This came even as N. Nagaraju (MTB), one of the defectors, expressed his displeasure at the delay in Cabinet expansion. Mr. Jarkiholi also said a Ministry for C.P. Yogeshwar, who “worked hard to bring this government”, was discussed. Mr. Yogeshwar was also present at the meet, sources said. “The party high command knows my work to bring this government and hope they will recognise me,” he said. There has been severe opposition to inducting him into the Ministry from old-timers in the BJP. Amid speculation that some Ministers will be dropped to make way for new faces, Ministers such as Shashikala Jolle and Kota Srinivas Poojary, who are said to be among the probables to be dropped, have been lobbying hard to retain their berths, sources said. Mr. Poojary was also in Delhi on Friday. Meanwhile, Mr. Savadi and Mr. Ashok met a slew of central leaders, including Rajnath Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-rejig-ravis-office-opening-turns-into-an-event-for-lobbying/article33197630.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||NIA claims progress in Rana extradition plan||There was some “progress” in the extradition proceedings of Tahawwur Rana, key accused in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, a senior NIA official said on Friday, even though a U.S court postponed the extradition hearing to February 12, 2021. The hearings were earlier stated to begin January 8. On September 28, the federal prosecutors of the U.S. filed a fresh “extradition memorandum” in the district court of California regarding Rana’s extradition for “conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists” and other sections such as “conspiracy to kill, kidnap, maim or injure persons or damage property in a foreign country” and “damaging a building by using explosives.” The 56-page plea filed by Attorney Nicola T. Hanna said the extradition proceedings were “sui generis (unique)” in nature. The plea filed by India says Rana is wanted for “conspiracy to wage war” and “cheating.” The Pakistani-Canadian citizen has challenged the extradition and filed a plea in the U.S court on November 25, court records show. Rana, who is currently lodged in a jail in the U.S., was arrested in 2009 for providing material support to Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) that planned and executed the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, which claimed 166 lives, including six Americans. He is serving a 14-year imprisonment after he was convicted for providing material support to the LeT in 2013 and since he has been imprisoned since 2009, the jail term would also include the period he had served in prison. Rana, a Chicago based businessman, helped David Coleman Headley, the prime suspect in the Mumbai attacks, to open an immigration firm in Mumbai that was used as a cover to conduct reconnaissance on possible targets that were attacked on November 26, 2008. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which was raised after the 26/11 attacks, has registered a case of forgery, criminal conspiracy, murder and various sections under the anti- terror UAPA in the case. As the ‘double jeopardy’ clause in the U.S. law prohibits punishment for the same crime twice, India had tweaked its request to seek Rana’s custody on the ground that he was actively involved in planning an attack on the National Defence College in Delhi and Chabad Houses (Jewish religious centres) in several Indian cities in 2009. In June last, the U.S authorities informed their Indian counterparts about the provisional arrest of Rana. He was released from prison in the U.S on June 10 after he was granted bail on compassionate grounds on testing positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-claims-progress-in-rana-extradition-plan/article33197479.ece
28 November 2020||Mumbai,||‘What the BJP claims to be practising is not Hindutva but deceit’||On November 28, 2019, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra after a dramatic turn of events. As he completes a year in office,Mr. Thackeray speaks on the subject of his inexperience, the BJP’s constant attacks, attempts to destabilise his government, and whether he will complete his term of five years. Edited excerpts from the interview:  The tripartite MVA government completes one year in office today. From an unlikely alliance with the Congress and the NCP to entering legislature for the first time, how did this year go? Today, we complete one year in this government which was formed unexpectedly. Nobody had imagined its formation, and once formed, there were doubts as to whether it would run. Moreover, many had reservations about me since I had no experience of running an administration. Thanks to my colleagues — Sharad Pawar- ji , Sonia Gandhi- ji — we did run it. People overwhelmingly welcomed this experiment. Irrespective of the pandemic, it was as a collective effort that this government performed its duties. You mentioned you lacked administrative experience. How difficult was it to run the alliance government? I may not have been in the chair [of Chief Minister] before, but I did know what power means and how it functions. The only difference for me is that I now sit in this chair, and instead of asking or demanding from someone, I take the decisions. I always believe in team work. This will continue in future as well. It was alleged that I buckle under pressure from my two allies. They are my colleagues in the government. Listening to them does not amount to coming under pressure. I also heard the criticism that a coterie of IAS officials has surrounded me. What are they for, if they don’t surround me? We need to take their [civil servants’] cooperation in running the government and the administration [bureaucracy] has supported me from Day 1. You are subjected to continuous attacks from the opposition BJP, both in your capacity as CM and as the Shiv Sena chief. Your Minister son Aaditya Thackeray, and wife Rashmi, have also come under attack. How do you respond? We never played the politics of perverseness; never launched personal attacks against the families, sons and wives of Opposition members; never attempted to destroy their lives. I targeted [PM Narendra] Modi and [Union Home Minister] Shah on policy and not on personal issues. This is not my Hindutva. My Hindutva is cultured. The party which allows such perverseness should never talk about Hindutva. I follow the Hindutva of my father and grandfather. What they [the BJP] claim to be practising is not Hindutva but deceit... Does that mean you have permanently cut-off ties with the BJP? You are asking me about what will happen after four years. I always wonder how we [the Shiv Sena] remained allies for 25 years with someone [the BJP] who shows such perverseness. How can there be an alliance if their civility is replaced by perversity? Will the MVA remain united in the upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls? Yes. We will be fighting the polls as an alliance. We successfully formed the alliance after the poll in 2019. We stand together today. The BJP has already begun preparations to dethrone the Shiv Sena in the BMC. What about your preparations? It seems the BJP desperately needs to win Mumbai to stand on its feet once again. After all, the greed to win Mumbai will continue to remain, no matter how many States you win ... They tried last time as well. This time, it will be three of us [the MVA partners]. Mumbai stands with the Shiv Sena, will remain so.  BJP MLAs have been openly claiming that the government will fall in the next two months. Is your government in danger? The BJP has no option but to say this, to keep its flock together. This hope will keep BJP MLAs going. There is no other reason. COVID-19 covered almost 70% of your first year in office. Did you have any plans which could not materialise because of it? The Assembly budget session had to be curtailed due to the pandemic. We had to rush for relief work immediately, followed by the entire focus shifting to enhancing health facilities. It is clear that [we] will have to focus more on building health infrastructure, improve the present condition of hospitals, ensure supply of medicines, and appoint experts. This will definitely reflect in the next budget, but we have also started implementing many of these projects...  (Read the full interview at bit.ly/UddhavInterview)    I wonder how we [the Shiv Sena] remained allies for 25 years with someone [the BJP] who shows such perverseness||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/what-the-bjp-claims-to-be-practising-is-not-hindutva-but-deceit/article33197482.ece
28 November 2020||SRINAGAR,||Have been put under house arrest again, says Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti alleged on Friday that she and her daughter had been placed under house arrest and stopped from meeting the family of incarcerated youth leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra in south Kashmir. Police said Ms. Mufti was not under house arrest. “She was requested to postpone her visit to Pulwama purely for security reasons,” a police spokesman said. Ms. Mufti said she had been illegally detained yet again. “In the last two days, the J&K administration has refused to allow me to visit Parra’s family in Pulwama. Even my daughter Iltija has been placed under house arrest. The BJP Ministers and their puppets are allowed to move around in every corner of Kashmir, but security is a problem only in my case,” Ms. Mufti said. She claimed she was even stopped from addressing reporters on Friday. Iltija Mufti also shared a video of her being prevented by the security forces from stepping outside her residence in Srinagar. “Why are you stopping me? Is there any order?” Ms. Iltija is heard asking the security forces manning the gate of her house in the video. The move comes just a day ahead of the first phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in J&K. “We are one day away from DDC polling and it’s evident that the administration here is using fear and intimidation in tandem to muffle any form of opposition,” the former Chief Minister said. Meanwhile, PDP youth leader Parra was produced before the National Investigation Agency court in Jammu on Friday and was remanded in custody for 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/have-been-put-under-house-arrest-again-says-mehbooba/article33197477.ece
28 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram Assembly Speaker disqualifies Lalduhoma||India’s first Member of Parliament to have been disqualified from the Lok Sabha has now been disqualified as an MLA in Mizoram. Mizoram Assembly Speaker Lalrinliana Sailo on Friday debarred Lalduhoma, a retired IPS officer who was in charge of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s security, from the 40-member House. The disqualification was on the ground that Mr. Lalduhoma had declared himself as a representative of the Zoram People’s Movement (ZPM) despite being elected as an independent candidate from the Serchhip constituency. “He lost the character of an independent legislator because of the declaration,” Mr. Sailo said. The disqualification made Mr. Lalduhoma, 71, earn the dubious distinction of meeting the same fate in the Parliament and an Assembly. In 1988, the former police officer became the first MP to have been disqualified under the Anti-Defection Law for giving up membership of the Congress (I). He was elected to the Lok Sabha uncontested in 1984 as the Congress candidate but fell out with the party leadership. He formed the Mizo National Union, which later merged with the regional Mizoram People’s Convention. He later joined the Mizo National Front but broke away to form the Zoram Nationalist Party (ZNP). Prior to the 2018 Assembly polls, the ZNP and five other regional parties formed the ZPM. The ZPM won seven Assembly seats to become the principal Opposition party. With Mr. Lalduhoma’s disqualification, the ZPM now has six MLAs. Petition by MNF In September, 12 legislators of the ruling MNF had petitioned the Speaker demanding Mr. Lalduhoma’s disqualification for allegedly violating the Constitution. The MLAs alleged that Mr. Lalduhoma, elected as an independent, had breached Para 2(2) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution by defecting to the ZPM. They also said he had indulged in ZPM activities by attending the party office and inducting new members into the party at functions across Mizoram, which “clearly manifested that he defected to the ZPM”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-assembly-speaker-disqualifies-lalduhoma/article33197494.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Perarivalan’s parole extended by a week||The Supreme Court on Friday extended the parole of Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict A.G. Perarivalan by a week. A Bench, led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, recorded that the Supreme Court would not entertain any further application for extension of parole. On November 23, the court had similarly extended the parole of Perarivalan by a week. Perarivalan, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan and advocate Prabu Ramasubramanium, however, filed a fresh application seeking an extension of his parole by 90 days. The application said Perarivalan was seriously ill and required medical attention. Tamil Nadu Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan, however, objected to the application. He submitted that the Madras High Court had already disposed of an application for extension of parole on November 6. The High Court, on November 6, had allowed Perarivalan two weeks’ extension but had directed him to not seek any further time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/perarivalans-parole-extended-by-a-week/article33197447.ece
28 November 2020||MANGALURU,||‘Sea sparkle’ has affected marine food chain: CMFRI||The bloom of Noctiluca Scintillans , commonly known as “sea sparkle” that the Karnataka coast has been witnessing since about a month, has displaced microscopic algae called diatoms, which form the basis of the marine food chain. This has deprived food for the planktivorous fish, scientists from the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Mangaluru, have said. The bioluminescent Noctiluca Scintillans also brightened the sea water during night. CMFRI’s Principal Scientist and Mangaluru Centre Head Prathibha Rohit told The Hindu the toxic blooms of N. Scintillans were linked to massive fish and marine invertebrate kills. Though the species does not produce a toxin, it was found to accumulate toxic levels of ammonia, which is then excreted into the surrounding waters, possibly acting as the killing agent in blooms. The ammonia makes N. Scintillans unpalatable for most creatures. Only jellyfish and salps were known to prey on it. N. Scintillans grazes on other micro-organisms such as larvae, fish eggs, and diatoms. But the unicellular phytoplankton that live inside it can photosynthesise, turning sunlight into energy. They help their host cell survive even when food was scarce. Thus, N. Scintillans acts as both a plant and an animal, Dr. Rohit said. She said field studies by the CMFRI in the Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast since a decade showed widespread blooms of the green dinoflagellate, N. Scintillans . Blooms were witnessed on September 8 this year while in September 2018 too such bioluminescence was witnessed along the Someshwara beach in Dakshina Kannada and Mattu in Udupi. This year, however, the intensity and vastness of the bloom close to the shore was observed by many. Plankton bloom Dr. Rohit said plankton bloom was reported when the density of plankton would be more than 1,00,000 cells per m3. Bioluminescence was the production and emission of light by a living organism and occurs due to a chemical reaction, involving a light-emitting molecule and an enzyme, called luciferin and luciferase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sea-sparkle-has-affected-marine-food-chain-cmfri/article33197453.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s positivity over 10%, with no rise in testing||Kerala on Friday reported testing 39,108 samples, despite claims by the State government that testing would be raised to at least 70,000 per day. New cases reported on Friday stood at 3,966, with a test positivity rate of 10.14%. The Health department added 23 deaths from COVID-19 on Friday. Five deaths were reported from Thrissur, four each from Kottayam and Malappuram, three from Alappuzha, two each from Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam and one from Kozhikode. Telangana added 761 cases on Thursday. With four more deaths, the number of fatalities in the State rose to 1,448. Among new cases, 136 were from Greater Hyderabad area, 69 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 55 from Rangareddy district. Andhra Pradesh reported 733 new infections and six deaths on Friday. Samples tested in the State totalled 99,13,068, and in the past day, 57,752 were tested with a positivity rate of 1.27% Karnataka on Friday reported 1,526 new cases and 12 deaths. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.34%. Bengaluru Urban district reported 808 cases, and six deaths. Also, 1,13,591 tests were conducted, including 97,246 RT-PCR tests. A total of 1,442 persons tested positive on Friday for COVID-19, including six passengers who returned from other States, taking the tally to 7,77,616 persons infected so far. The number of active cases in Tamil Nadu was 11,109. At the same time 1,494 persons were discharged, bringing the number of those discharged post-treatment to 7,54,826 persons. Fatalities recorded in a day stood at 12.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keralas-positivity-over-10-with-no-rise-in-testing/article33197464.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Science Ministry recruitment notice highlights bigamy clause||A notification by the Department of Science and Technology, prescribing the recruitment method and selection criteria for appointing a ‘Mission Director’ for one of its programmes highlights a disqualification clause on marital grounds very prominently and even before listing out the actual eligibility criteria.The said clause highlights governmental disapproval of bigamy.  The clause is not unusual in itself and is part of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules that applies to all government employees since 1964. However, it’s never explicitly mentioned in government recruitment notices or notifications. “For it to be prominently highlighted looks like moral policing,” a serving bureaucrat of over two decades told The Hindu on condition of anonymity, “There are several such clauses which are implicit, like being a citizen of India [to apply for a post] or not having criminal cases but I’ve never seen it explicitly cited in any government recruitment notice.” Other rules include strictures against government servants from consuming “intoxicating drink or drug” in public places or using their influence to secure jobs for relatives in companies or firms. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST, did not explain why this clause was highlighted, but said officers from the department told him it was a “standard clause followed by all departments of government”. The post in question is that of Mission Director, National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/science-ministry-recruitment-notice-highlights-bigamy-clause/article33197485.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||No quota for admission in super specialty medical courses: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the counselling for super-specialty medical courses in Tamil Nadu and Kerala to be held for the academic year 2020-2021 without providing reservations for in-service doctors. “As the admission process is at the final stages, we cannot permit reservation for in-service doctors for this year,” a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswar Rao ordered. The Bench, however, did not express any opinion on the validity of a Tamil Nadu government order of November 7, which allowed 50% in-service quota in super-speciality medical courses at government colleges in the State. Some NEET-qualified doctors had challenged the government order when the Madras High Court chose not to intervene. The Tamil Nadu government, represented by senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, had explained that there were 369 super specialty medical seats in the State. However, 70% of the doctors who qualified left the State, he said, “At least, in-service doctors would serve in Tamil Nadu till their retirement.” Senior advocate P. Wilson argued that the law in the matter had been settled time and again. The judgment did not delve on the question of law, saying it would hear it in detail in February 2021. Meanwhile, it said the admission process, which was in its final stages, would proceed this year without in-service reservation. “The process for admissions to super specialty medical courses started on August 3. It was made clear to all the competing candidates that there shall be no reservation. The government order reserving 50% seats for in-service doctors would be detrimental to the interests of the meritorious doctors…” the Supreme Court observed in the case of Tamil Nadu. On Kerala, the court said the State government was unable to implement the Kerala Medical Officers Admission to Postgraduate Courses under Service Quota Act of 2008, which provides for 40% reservation for in-service doctors in super-specialty courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-quota-for-admission-in-super-specialty-medical-courses-sc/article33197445.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Dry swab RT-PCR COVID-19 test gets ICMR nod||CSIR (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research)-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) finally got the permission of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to commercially use the “game changing technology” of dry swab RNA-extraction free testing method for COVID-19 on Friday. Developed by the in-house research team, it will help public health authorities to scale up the testing at a fraction of the current cost of conventional RT-PCR tests and also give results more quickly. The ICMR issued an advisory permitting “the use of CSIR-CCMB dry swab method, considering its lesser cost and quick turn-around time after evaluating and finding an overall concordance of 96.9%”. The CCMB has sought the ICMR’s nod after finding the trial runs successful here in association with the Telangana State health authorities in July. In the conventional testing method, nasopharygeal — nose or oropharyngeal — throat swab samples are collected by sample collection centres from suspected coronavirus patients. These are transported to testing centres, sometimes even hundreds of kilometres away. The samples are generally placed in a liquid called Viral Transport Medium (VTM) and to avoid leakage, the samples are packed heavily, which adds to sample processing times. Researchers found that the ‘VTM’ can be avoided. The dry swab technique also does not require the RNA extraction process, and can be directly used for RT-PCR testing with sensitivity and specificity similar to the current gold standard. CSIR Director General Shekhar C. Mande said the dry-swab direct RT-PCR method is easy to implement with no requirement of new kits and existing manpower can perform this with no additional training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dry-swab-rt-pcr-covid-19-test-gets-icmr-nod/article33197483.ece
28 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Sparkling stone sparks frenzy in Nagaland||A farmer’s accidental discovery of a sparkling stone has triggered a ‘diamond’ rush in Nagaland’s Mon district. A resident of the district’s Wanching village found the stone while farming on November 25. More stones found Word spread that he had discovered a diamond and people from neighbouring areas started pouring into the village. “People started digging all over as four-five more such stones were found. Although coal is found in the area, the chances of these stones being diamond are remote since the stones were found too close to the surface,” said the district’s Deputy Commissioner Thavaseelan K. He added that a team from the State’s Geology and Mining Department would visit the site next week to conduct an investigation. Tongyei Angh, chairman of Wanching village, said the crystal-like stones, found in the partly private and partly community-owned land, were unlikely to be diamonds. “The farmer who found the stone sparked off an excitement among the villagers when he told the tale of his discovery. That it may not be a diamond became apparent when used a hammer and it broke into pieces easily,” said Mr. Angh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sparkling-stone-sparks-frenzy-in-nagaland/article33197487.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Court declines plea on board appointments||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday declined to entertain a PIL petition, which had challenged the appointment of chairpersons to various boards and corporations with salary and allowances equal to the Ministers on the ground that these appointments amounts to violation of restrictions imposed in the Constitution on the number of Ministers in a State. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S.Vishwajith Shetty passed the order while disposing of the petition filed by K.B. Vijayakumar, a city-based advocate. Pointing out that the Article 164-1A of the Constitution states that total number of Ministers in a State should exceed 15% of the total number of members of its Legislative Assembly, the petitioner had contended that granting the status of the Ministers to the chairpersons of boards and corporations by giving all the benefits given to the Ministers would amount to indirect way of crossing the limit of number of Ministers prescribed in the Constitution. However, the Bench said that the petitioner has not placed any material to show that the chairpersons of the boards and corporations would perform the tasks of a Minister while observing that chairpersons of the boards and corporations cannot become Ministers merely due to extending of the benefits equivalent to that of the Ministers. Meanwhile, the Bench made it clear that it has not gone into the question of the legality of grant of salary and allowance equal to that of a Minister to chairpersons of the boards and corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-declines-plea-on-board-appointments/article33197631.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Congress Working Committee pays tribute to Patel, Gogoi||“Ahmed Patel had no personal interest and the interest of the party was his only interest,” the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Friday said in a resolution and talked about going forward with a sense of unity and discipline. The highest decision-making body of the Congress, along with the office-bearers of frontal organisations, held a virtual meeting to condole the death of Patel and former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi. In a separate condolence resolution for Gogoi, the CWC lauded his role in Assam. It noted that the departed leader in recent months had campaigned vigorously to ensure the Congress’ return to power in Assam and urged party leaders in the State to fulfil Gogoi’s desire. In the backdrop of recent statements by senior leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal on “Congress structures collapsing and the party not being a viable alternative”, the CWC seems to have sent a subtle message by stressing on “a sense of unity and discipline” in the resolution for Patel. Though the meeting was a closed one, the resolutions were made public. Party insiders said former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and former Union Minister Mukul Wasnik read out the resolutions at the meeting. The CWC resolution also recalled Patel’s ability “to reconcile competing aspirations and forge unity and comradeship”. A senior leader said Ms. Gandhi, in a sombre mood, talked about the contributions of both leaders and stated that “no one can ever replace Ahmed Patel ji ”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-working-committee-pays-tribute-to-ahmed-patel/article33197466.ece
28 November 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal Transport Minister Suvendu Adhikari quits Cabinet||West Bengal Transport Minister Suvendu Adhikari, who also holds the Irrigation portfolio, resigned from the Cabinet on Friday. He has sent his resignation to both Chief Minister Mamata banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. “Today at 1.05 p.m. a resignation letter of Mr. Suvendu Adhikari from office as Minister has been forwarded to me. The issue will be addressed from constitutional perspective,” Mr. Dhankhar tweeted, sharing a screenshot of the resignation letter on social media. Mr. Adhikari has urged for “immediate acceptance” of his resignation. “ I thank you for giving me opportunity to serve the people of the State, which I did all through with commitment, dedication and sincerity,” the letter said. Sources close to Mr. Adhikari, said he has also given up the security provided by the government. On Thursday, the prominent Trinamool Congress leader had resigned from the post of chairperson of the Hooghly River Bridge Commission (HRBC). The 49-year-old-leader, who has a support base of his own and had played a crucial part in the forcible land acquisition at Nandigram, has been charting a different course for himself for the past several months. In the past couple of months, he has held several rallies in his individual capacity without the symbols and flags of the TMC. Despite quitting as Minister, Mr. Adhikari remains an MLA and has not resigned from the party. Party sources said the CM had not yet accepted Mr. Adhikari’s resignation. Doors open, says BJP Meanwhile, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “Our doors are open for him. Senior leaders like Mukul Roy are working with us.” He said this was the “beginning of end of the Trinamool Congress”. In another important development Mihir Goswami, a sitting Trinamool Congress MLA from Cooch Behar Dakshin Assembly joined the BJP in Delhi in the presence of a host of party leaders. Mr. Goswami has been vocal against the Trinamool Congress leadership for the past several weeks and had criticised the party for seeking the services of political strategist Prashant Kishore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-transport-minister-suvendu-adhikari-quits-cabinet/article33197475.ece
28 November 2020||Kolkata,||Not delaying opening Majerhat road overbridge: Railways||The Eastern Railway on Friday said there has been no delay on the part of Railways for opening Majerhat road over bridge (ROB). “Eastern Railway is always keen to complete its job in coordination with all the agencies associated with construction of Majerhat ROB including PWD, Govt of WB and has taken all steps for early completion of the work,” a press statement from Eastern Railway said. The statement comes a day after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee blamed Railways for delay in granting necessary permission for opening of Majerhat ROB. On Thursday BJP supporters led by party national general secretary Kaliash Vijayvargiya protested near the newly constructed Majerhat ROB demanding that the bridge be opened for public. “For nine months when rail didn’t give permission, you BJP party, were you sleeping? For nine months we’ve had repeated meetings with them, requesting for clearance.” Ms Banerjee has said after the protests turned violent and some BJP supporters were taken into custody. Majerhat ROB collapsed in September 2018 killing two people apparently due to maintenance failure. The collapse of the bridge resulted in connectivity issues to large parts of the south western part of the metropolis to rest of the city. For nearly two years people have been forced to use alternative routes as the Majerhat ROB on the main arterial road has remained under construction. ER said the State government has also been informed in writing that all statutory formalities regarding the ROB have been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-delaying-opening-majerhat-road-overbridge-railways/article33197687.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre blames Delhi govt. for rise in COVID-19 cases||The Union government squarely blamed the Arvind Kejriwal government of Delhi in the Supreme Court on Friday for the “massive increase” in COVID-19 cases and the escalating strain on medical infrastructure in hospitals. The court agreed during the hearing that “States should rise above politics and rise to the occasion”.  “The Government of NCT of Delhi (GNCTD) was aware that the confluence of winter, festival season and pollution were likely to witness a surge in cases. This foreknowledge ought to have led to strict enforcement and IEC measures being instituted well in time. However, this was not done,” the Centre informed a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan. ‘MHA survey’ “While there were regular advertisements on achievements of Delhi Government, including on dengue prevention and control, no ads on COVID appropriate behaviour were to be seen,” said the 170-page affidavit, filed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).   The Centre said an MHA survey held in November of 114 private hospitals in Delhi found that the observance of discharge policy and prescribed Clinical Management Protocol was “very lax”, thus leading to a large number of patients not being given the proper treatment. Even patients who were under home isolation were not properly traced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-blames-delhi-govt-for-rise-in-covid-19-cases/article33197491.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC reserves order on MLA Veeraiah’s petition||Justice Shameem Akther of Telangana High Court on Friday reserved orders on a petition filed by TDP MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah challenging Anti Corruption Bureau court order dismissing his plea for discharging him from cash-for-vote case. Supreme Court senior counsel Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the legislator, told the court that there were no witnesses to confirm his client’s complicity in the case. Mr. Veeraiah was also not present at the spot when other accused in the case were arrested. Presenting his arguments before the judge, the lawyer said the text messages through Short Message Service (SMS) upon which the ACB had relied had no connection with the case. Contenting that there was no specific against the MLA in the case, the lawyer appealed to the court to set aside the ACB court’s order dismissing his discharge petition. The MLA was made one of the accused in the cash-for-vote scam in which A. Revanth Reddy, who was Telugu Desam Party MLA then and presently Congress MP from Malkajgiri, was arrested. Mr. Reddy was held, along with others, in 2015 for allegedly offering Rs. 50 lakh to nominated MLA Stephenson to vote for TDP candidate in MLC election. Mr. Veeraiah was also later accused of involvement in the case by the ACB authorities who probed the case. The Telugu Desam Party MLA filed a discharge petition before the ACB court which dismissed it. ACB Special Public Prosecutor V. Ravi Kiran Rao argued that there was a case prima facie against the MLA. He told the court that the MLA filed the discharge petition three years after the investigators filed the charge-sheet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-reserves-order-on-mla-veeraiahs-petition/article33197838.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||GDP contracts 7.5% in second quarter||“The government remains ready to come up with calibrated responses,” said Mr. Subramanian, stressing that there could be neither too much exuberance nor excessive pessimism at this point. Citing the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, Mr. Subramanian said the ‘V-shaped recovery’ should continue but it is difficult to be sure about positive growth returning in the remaining two quarters of this year. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier suggested that the economy could record near zero growth in 2020-21. “The economic indicators and the industrial output numbers indicate that the recovery is happening very well. But because the effect is primarily from the pandemic, we should keep that in mind especially with the winter months ahead,” Mr. Subramanian told The Hindu . “The recovery is clearly very encouraging but this is still a period of uncertainty, and is reflected in the fact that the actuals are more encouraging than the estimates of several commentators,” he said. Rating agency Crisil attributed the better-than-expected growth to pent-up demand, support from agriculture and select export sectors, cost savings for corporates and a ‘learning to live’ attitude. The construction sector, which had contracted 50.3% in the first quarter at the peak of the lockdown against COVID-19, saw some improvement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gdp-contracts-75-in-second-quarter/article33197458.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Five COVID-19 patients die in hospital ICU fire||Chief Minister Vijay Rupani expressed grief over the incident and announced ex gratia compensation to the next of kin of the deceased. He also ordered a probe by a senior IAS officer into the incident. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths. The administration was ensuring all possible assistance to those affected, he said. “Extremely pained by the loss of lives due to a hospital fire in Rajkot. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones in this unfortunate tragedy. Praying for a quick recovery of the injured. The administration is ensuring all possible assistance to those affected,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted. The Friday fire incident attracted the attention of the Supreme Court. It took suo motu cognisance of it and slammed the State administration, saying that recurrence of such fire accidents needed a thorough introspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-covid-19-patients-die-in-hospital-icu-fire/article33197459.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers stay camped on Delhi border||The day started with hundreds of farmers from Punjab and Haryana engaged in a fierce face-off with the Delhi police at the Tikri crossing. Deployed in large numbers, the police had three layers of security in place. Huge cement blocks formed the first line of defence, followed by barricades with barbed wires, and parked trucks, trailers and small commercial vehicles forming the final security layer. The border turned into a virtual war zone with police personnel lobbing tear gas shells and aiming water cannons at farmers trying to cross over. After an hour of tense confrontation, however, the farmers stepped back to return to their vehicles to wait for more convoys to join them. At the Singhu border crossing, farmers pelted stones and broke barricades, while the police used multiple rounds of teargas against them. In the meanwhile, the Delhi Police, which comes under the Union Home Ministry, requested the Delhi State government for permission to convert nine city stadiums into temporary jails to restrain protesting farmers. The Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government refused permission early in the afternoon. “To protest peacefully is a constitutional right” and the “Central government should accept farmers’ demands immediately”, said the order issued by Delhi Home Minister Satyender Jain. Soon after, negotiations were held between the Delhi Police, the Delhi government, and farmer leaders at the border point, with some Punjab farmer unions joining in via telephone as they were still travelling on the Haryana highways. By 2.30 p.m., they had reached a compromise, with Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal saying the protesters would be escorted to the Nirankari ground in Burari on the condition that the protest remained peaceful. A faction of young farmers argued that it was better to stay parked on the highway than be shunted off to the Burari grounds. Others wanted to wait for the larger convoys to arrive before making a decision.  (With inputs from Saurabh Trivedi and Nikhil M. Babu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-stay-camped-on-delhi-border/article33197460.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Protect right of ordinary people to bail, says SC||On the top court’s recent decision to grant bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case, the judgment said that prima facie, the FIR against Mr. Goswami did not establish the charges against him.“It is through the instrumentality of bail that our criminal justice system’s primordial interest in preserving the presumption of innocence finds its most eloquent expression,” Justice Chandrachud, who wrote the judgment, observed. The State should not be allowed to use criminal law as a ruse to harass citizens, he said.  Courts were the “first line of defence” against the deprivation of citizens’ personal liberty. But reality, Justice Chandrachud pointed out, showed that undertrials remained behind bars while their bail applications were lobbed from one rung of courts to another. To buttress this point, Justice Chandrachud highlighted that 91,568 bail pleas were pending in High Courts, while 1.96 lakh bail applications continued to wait for a hearing in the district courts. The judgment focused on the importance of the district judiciary. Justice Chandrachud said the district judiciary was only “subordinate” in hierarchy. It was less to none when it came to saving the lives of citizens or doing justice for them. The district judiciary “must be alive to the situation as it prevails on the ground – in the jails and police stations where human dignity has no protector”. The verdict gave detailed reasons for the top court’s decision to grant bail to Republic TV editor-in-chef Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case on November 11. The judgment said a “prima facie evaluation” of the FIR against Mr. Goswami did not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment of suicide against him. It declared that the “doors of the Supreme Court cannot be closed to a citizen who is able to establish prima facie that the instrumentality of the State is being weaponised for using the force of criminal law”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protect-right-of-ordinary-people-to-bail-says-sc/article33197461.ece
28 November 2020||Jammu,||Two soldiers killed in Pak. firing in Rajouri||Two soldiers were killed in fresh ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Pir Panjal valley’s Rajouri district on Friday. “The Pakistan Army resorted to an unprovoked ceasefire violation on the LoC in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri on Friday. Two soldiers were injured in the firing and they died of their injuries later,” Jammu-based Army spokesman Lt. Col. Devender Anand said. The Army responded immediately to the enemy fire, he added. The deceased jawans were identified as naik Prem Bahadur Khatri and rifleman Sukhbir Singh. “They were brave, highly motivated and sincere soldiers. The nation will always remain indebted to them for their supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” the Army said. The latest ceasefire violations came just a day after a Junior Commissioned Officer was killed in Pakistan’s firing in Poonch. The Army on Friday paid tributes to deceased sepoy Rattan Singh of 163 Infantry Battalion (Territorial Army) and sepoy Deshmukh Yash of 101 Infantry Battalion (Territorial Army), who were killed in a militant attack on the Srinagar-Baramulla highway on Thursday. Lt. Gen. B.S. Raju, Chinar Corps Commander, paid homage to the soldiers.  “The mortal remains of the bravehearts were taken for last rites to their native places,” an Army spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-soldiers-killed-in-pak-firing-in-rajouri/article33197473.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘10 States account for 77% of active COVID-19 cases’||Ten States are responsible for almost 77% of active COVID-19 cases in the country, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Friday. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan wondered aloud whether any concrete steps were being taken by the Centre and the States to arrest the alarming rate of infection. “Things are going from bad to worse,” the Bench observed. The Centre said the 77% of active cases include Maharashtra (18.9%), Kerala (14.7%), Delhi (8.5%), West Bengal (5.7%), Karnataka (5.6%), Uttar Pradesh (5.4%), Rajasthan (5.5%), Chhattisgarh (5.0%), Haryana (4.7%). “Currently, only two States have more than 50,000 cases and they contribute to almost 33% of the overall active cases,” the Centre said in an affidavit. The Bench said that with no vaccine in sight, the States should ensure wearing of masks and observing physical distancing. ‘30 vaccine candidates’ But the Centre said nearly 30 vaccine candidates were “under development”. Five candidates were in clinical trial stage, of which two were in phase III trials and three in phase II trials. The recovery rate had gone up to 93.76%, with almost 8.6 million recoveries. The average cases per day reduced by 50% in the past eight weeks. “Our case fatality rate remains low at 1.46%, when compared to a global average of 2.36%,” the government stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-states-account-for-77-of-active-covid-19-cases/article33198012.ece
28 November 2020||Bhopal,||Now, dial M.P. Information Commission helpline for RTI||The Madhya Pradesh Information Commission has set up a grievance redressal forum in a bid to bring greater transparency to its functioning and spread awareness on the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005, arguably the country’s first such initiative. Applicants would be able to know about the status of their appeals and cases through the forum, said Rahul Singh, Information Commissioner for the Rewa Division who set it up on Constitution day on Thursday. “They can call or WhatsApp a helpline requesting to know the status,” he said. A team of handlers will relay back the information requested for on the helpline, operational round-the-clock, within 24 hours. Information such as registration details, the next date of hearing, proceedings of previous hearings and copies of orders or directions can be sought by applicants both in Hindi and English. Further, the helpline will admit queries regarding applications under the Act, including requests for guidance on drafting applications or the appeal process, sections of the Act and functions of different bodies set up under it. “The forum will bolster our efforts in expanding the Commission outreach to people, initiate a discourse on the RTI and help in boosting applications,” said Mr. Singh. In addition to the live streaming of hearings, he added, the forum would enable equitable access to the Commission. Applicants and prospective applicants can call up the forum on 94250-14008 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on working days or drop messages any time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-dial-mp-information-commission-helpline-for-rti/article33197829.ece
28 November 2020||Kozhikode,||ED carries out searches in Vadakara||Officials of the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) on Friday made inquiries at three showrooms — of home appliances, electronics, and textiles — at Vadakara town in Kozhikode in connection with a probe into the smuggling of gold through the diplomatic channel at the Thiruvananthapuram airport. Sources said the inquires were to ascertain the funding source of these enterprises. The incident comes on the heels of the ED summoning C.M. Raveendran, Additional Private Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, over a money laundering case. The ED had directed Mr. Raveendran to appear before it for questioning on Friday. But his interrogation is likely to be delayed after he complained of post-COVID complications. He is a native of Orkkateri, near Vadakara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-carries-out-searches-in-vadakara/article33198130.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Yediurappa’s aide admitted to hospital||N.R. Santosh, political secretary to Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and also his grand nephew, has been admitted to the M.S. Ramaiah Hospital here. He was found unconscious at his residence late on Friday and is suspected to have taken sleeping pills, sources in the Chief Minister’s office said.  In Intensive Care Unit Mr. Yediyurappa rushed to the hospital and enquired about his health. Mr. Santosh is being treated in the Intensive Care Unit, sources said. “I will enquire as to why he took such a step. I will speak with him and the family once he is better,” the Chief Minister told reporters.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on phone number 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yediurappas-aide-admitted-to-hospital/article33198011.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Vietnam hold bilateral discussions||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Vietnamese counterpart General Ngo Xuan Lich on Friday discussed collaboration in defence industry capability building, training and cooperation in United Nations peacekeeping operations during bilateral talks via video-conferencing. “In a further step towards deeper bilateral cooperation, both sides signed an implementing arrangement for cooperation in the field of hydrography between National Hydrographic Office, India and Vietnam Hydrographic Office in the presence of the two Ministers,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement. The arrangement will assist in production of navigational charts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-vietnam-hold-bilateral-discussions/article33197467.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Take back ‘black’ laws, says Rahul||The Union government should agree to the farmers’ demands and take back the “black” laws, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said on Friday. “The Prime Minister should remember that whenever arrogance takes on truth, it gets defeated... The Modi government will have to agree to the demands of the farmers and take back the black laws” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-back-black-laws-says-rahul/article33197468.ece
28 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda urges Haryana to help farmers||Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on Friday appealed to the people of the State to help farmers who were on their way to Delhi with food and accommodation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hooda-tells-centre-not-to-be-stubborn/article33197471.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC takes cognisance of Rajkot fire||The Supreme Court on Friday took suo motu cognisance of the circumstances that led to a fire at a private hospital in Rajkot, Gujarat, which killed five COVID-19 patients and left six others injured. “This is shocking ... This is not the first incident. We will take suo motu cognisance of the incident. Some measures need to be taken to prevent fires in hospitals,” Justice M.R. Shah, who is part of a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The court directed the Centre to place on record steps to prevent fires in hospitals. The Gujarat government has been asked to submit a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-takes-cognisance-of-rajkot-fire/article33197490.ece
28 November 2020||Mumbai,||HC quashes BMC notice to Kangana||The Bombay High Court on Friday quashed and set aside an order by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to demolish actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow, and held that she is entitled for compensation due to mala fide action in law by the civic body. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and R.I. Chagla said, “We have come to a clear conclusion that the notice (demolition) and the action of demolition following it, are actuated by malafides, involve a clear malice in law, causing a substantial injury to the Petitioner, we would be perfectly justified, to order compensation against responsible authorities.” In its 166-page judgment, the court noted, “BMC which is an organ of the State, has done something ‘without lawful excuse’; it has proceeded to act ‘wrongfully and willfully without reasonable or probable cause’; its act can only be described as a deliberate act in disregard of the rights of a citizen; the true object of the act clearly appears to be to reach an end different from the one for which the power was entrusted to it. The exercise of power can be summed up as bad in law and lacking in bonafides. It is nothing but malice in law.” The court added, “What really aggravates the wrongfulness and lends further credence to the case of malice in law, is the manner in which the whole action was carried out as we have described above.” The judgment reads, “The materials relied upon by BMC do not at all indicate that any works was being carried out at the bungalow at the time of issuance of the notice (demolition). Mere presence of some workmen or some construction debris is no evidence that the works referred to in the impugned notice were ongoing works.” On the tweets On the tweets by Ms. Ranaut, the high court said, “She should be better advised to exercise restraint when ‘as a public spirited person’, she ‘airs her views regarding issues of public importance on social media platforms…’”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-quashes-bmc-notice-to-kangana/article33197498.ece
28 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Rain in many parts of Bhadradri||Many parts of Aswaraopeta and Dammapeta mandals bordering Andhra Pradesh and other areas e in the tribal-dominated district received light to moderate rainfall under the impact of the cyclone Nivar on Friday. The unseasonal rain left paddy growers anxious about its impact on the paddy yield at the harvesting stage. The two border mandals — Aswaraopeta and Dammapeta — received 30 mm and 29 mm rainfall respectively in the last 24 hours, till 8.30 am on Friday, sources said. Several other parts of the district including the coal belt region of Kothagudem received light drizzle since Thursday night. Under the impact of the cyclone, several mandals including Yerrupalem and Madhira in Khammam district witnessed steady drizzle in the 24-hour span. Meanwhile, Bhadradri-Kothagudem Collector M V Reddy reviewed the status of paddy stocked in procurement centres and distribution of tarpaulin sheets among other measures to prevent damage to paddy. He instructed the officials to make arrangements for shifting of the rain soaked paddy stocks, if any, at the procurement centres to parboiled mills. He also asked the officials to assess the extent of damage to paddy caused by unseasonal rains for sending proposals to the government for sanction of compensation to the rain affected farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rain-in-many-parts-of-bhadradri/article33197839.ece
28 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Accused in killing of Dalit Pradhan shot dead, say U.P. police||Over three months after a Dalit Pradhan was shot dead in Azamgarh district, which triggered vandalism by locals, the Uttar Pradesh police said on Thursday that they shot dead an accused in the case in an alleged exchange of fire. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), Prashant Kumar, said the accused, Suryansh Dubey, was shot dead in a “police encounter” by a team led by the Deputy Inspector General and SP, Azamgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accused-in-killing-of-dalit-pradhan-shot-dead-say-up-police/article33197480.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Form national commission to monitor tribunals: SC||The Supreme Court ordered the Centre on Friday to constitute a National Tribunals Commission to act as an independent body to supervise the appointments in and functioning of Tribunals. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said it was high time tribunals were pried loose from the grapple-hold of the Executive. They need to attain independence both in appointments and judicial functioning, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/form-national-commission-to-monitor-tribunals-sc/article33197492.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHi,||BJP nominates Sushil Kumar Modi for RS bypolls||The BJP on Friday nominated Sushil Kumar Modi, former deputy chief minister of Bihar, as its nominee for the Rajya Sabha bypoll necessitated by the death of former minister and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Ram Vilas Paswan. Polls are scheduled for December 27 for that seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-nominates-sushil-kumar-modi-for-rs-bypolls/article33197496.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Navy MiG-29K crashes into Arabian Sea, one pilot missing||A twin-seater MiG-29K fighter jet of the Navy on Thursday crashed into the Arabian Sea off Goa. One pilot has been rescued, while a search is on for the other. “A MiG-29K trainer aircraft operating at sea ditched at about 1700 hrs on November 26. One pilot has been recovered and search by air and surface units is in progress for the second pilot,” the Navy said in a statement on Friday. An inquiry has been ordered into the crash, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-mig-29k-crashes-into-arabian-sea-one-pilot-missing/article33197497.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M plans to run e-bus on its campus||The Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) has tied up with Hitachi ABB Power Grids In India and Ashok Leyland to run an e-bus as a pilot programme on its campus. The vehicle will have Hitachi ABB Power Grid’s flash-charging technology, and the institute will provide the infrastructure required to operate the system, manufactured by Ashok Leyland. N. Venu, managing director, Hitachi ABB Power Grids, said: “With sound policy levers in place, this partnership — engaging some of the finest industry and academic minds in India — creates a truly sustainable framework for e-mobility.” N. Saravanan, chief technology officer of Ashok Leyland, said the alliance would help the company stay at the forefront of embedding innovative and indigenous technologies to nurture the smart e-mobility ecosystem. IIT-M director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the increased deployment of e-buses would be key to meeting the demand for sustainable transport solutions. “We hope to study and understand how the right technology can enable an efficient transport system without damaging the environment,” he said. The Union government has proposed to scale up EV (electric vehicle) adoption to 30% by 2030. The flash-charging technology is expected to meet the challenge of making the operation of e-buses viable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-plans-to-run-e-bus-on-its-campus/article33198229.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Moving people to camps reduced loss of life’||Minister for Disaster Management R.B. Udhayakumar donned the role of a war-room manager, staying overnight at the control room, when the State braced for Cyclone Nivar. In an interview on Friday, he spoke about how the government machinery cushioned the impact of the cyclone, in terms of loss of life and property. Ensuring that 2.32 lakh persons moved to relief camps reduced the loss of lives, he says. Excerpts:  How did the government prepare to face Cyclone Nivar? We undertook a three-stage scientific approach — pre-disaster, during the disaster and post-disaster. In the pre-disaster phase, we identified 4,133 vulnerable localities, classifying them into four categories — where water inundation would be above 5 ft, up to 5 ft, 2 ft and 1 ft. We undertook vulnerability mapping for every revenue district. We had our first responders ready. Besides, we readied 4,000 taluk-levels teams, which were constantly in touch with the local community. Next, we decided to stop all modes of transport — buses, trains and flights — and had good coordination with the National Disaster Response Force, the SDRF and the armed forces. Ministers and police officers visited several villages to ensure safety. We had over 5,000 relief camps, including 121 permanent multi-purpose halls, where over two lakh people were housed. Through the Navy, we alerted fishermen who had gone for deep-sea fishing. So these steps restricted the loss of life to three? We can say that there was almost no loss of life. If you see the three incidents [the toll has gone up to four now], one involved a 90-year old woman who died after an old wall collapsed. In Tiruvallur too, a similar wall collapsed. In the third incident in Chennai, which you would have seen on television, a tree fell on a man. This was why the Chief Minister warned people against going out unnecessarily, until six hours after the cyclone makes landfall. He had also warned people not to go near old and vulnerable buildings. But can the government claim the entire credit for minimal damage since the impact of the cyclone too was not so severe during landfall? The IMD said wind speed due to the cyclone would be about 145 kmph, and we prepared for it. The Chief Minister gave instructions to prepare well in advance. There were three stages to the cyclone, and in the first stage it was not weak. Only after 80% of the second stage, did the cyclone weaken. There was heavy rainfall for two days before the day it made landfall. We prepared for all eventualities, and naturally, the credit goes to the Chief Minister. Was there any major challenge? Usually, people living in low-lying areas hesitate to come [to relief camps]. They will hesitate to leave behind their cattle and other things. People usually come only after there is inundation. Convincing them to come to relief camps, for their own safety, is a challenge. And we were able to do it. Over 2.32 lakh people came to the camps, whereas during Cyclone Gaja, the number was only about 1 lakh. The loss of human lives was less only because people came to the relief camps. How will you rate the cooperation from the people, officials and the Opposition parties? There was 100% cooperation from the general public. All officials from various Departments were quite dedicated and worked hard, round-the-clock. As for Opposition parties, it will be better if they do not say anything as it will only confuse the people. What is your takeaway from the four cyclones you handled since December 2016? We have been learning from every cyclone. Every cyclone has its own feature, such as wind speed. Depending on that, we have been taking precautions.  Convincing people to come to relief camps, for their own safety, is a challenge. And we were able to do it. Over 2.32 lakh people came to the camps, whereas during Cyclone Gaja, the number was only about 1 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moving-people-to-camps-reduced-loss-of-life/article33197577.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. stands first in organ donation||Tamil Nadu has been adjudged the best in organ donation in the country for the sixth consecutive year. The 11th Indian Organ Donation Day was celebrated on Friday and the virtual event was organised by the Union Health Ministry in New Delhi. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey participated in it. Tamil Nadu Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar participated in the event from Pudukottai, and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan from the Directorate of Medical Services in Chennai. At a press conference later, Dr. Vijayabaskar said the State had been at the forefront in all areas of healthcare — be it reducing maternal mortality or infant mortality or controlling the spread of COVID-19. “We dedicate the award to the families of the organ donors, who in the most difficult time of their lives, came forward to donate the organs of their loved ones. The donors form the backbone of this programme,” Dr. Vijayabaskar said. From 1,392 donors, 8,245 organs have been harvested and distributed so far, to those who needed them, on the basis of seniority, he said. So far, this year, 107 liver and 186 renal transplants have been done in the State. Tamil Nadu has achieved the rare distinction of performing lung transplants on six persons who recovered from COVID-19, he said. Tamil Nadu was also at the forefront of plasma donation, Dr. Vijayabaskar said. “We have developed the infrastructure. We dedicate the award to the stakeholders,” he said. The State had also performed the first bilateral cadaveric hand transplant in the country, and the person, hailing from Dindigul, was doing well, he said. The entire process of registration for organ donation has been made online. People can now register themselves and take a print-out of the donor card, he said. The State will launch an air ambulance soon, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-ranks-on-the-top-in-organ-donation-yet-again/article33197590.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘State needs Rs. 563.5 crore for Mamallapuram development’||The State government on Friday informed the Madras High Court that it has sent a proposal to the Union Ministry of Tourism seeking Rs. 563.50 crore for the overall development of Mamallapuram township and that the quantum includes Rs. 232 crore to be provided to iconic tourism sites under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme (SDS) funded fully by the Centre. The submission was made in a status report filed before a Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh who were seized of a suo motu public interest litigation petition. The case was taken up by the court last year, at the instance of Justice N. Kirubakaran, for beautification of the township known for its ancient monuments and archaeological sites. Special Government Pleader J. Pothiraj submitted the status report filed on behalf of the Tourism as well as Municipal Administration Secretaries along with the minutes of a joint committee meeting held in the Secretariat on November 11 for assessing quantum of finances required to ensure proper upkeep and maintenance of Mamallapuram township. Secretaries of the Finance, Tourism and Municipal Administration Departments had attended the meet in which the Director of Town Panchayats informed that the annual income of Mamallapuram township, from various sources including collection of toll, was Rs. 7.22 crore. The income was sufficient to manage day to day expenditure. The State government had spent Rs. 4.82 crore during Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to Mamallapuram last year apart from another Rs. 4.45 crore sanctioned for taking up various development works during 2018-19 and 2019-20. The Director also stated that 102 sanitary workers had been engaged to keep the township clean. Further, 17 reverse osmosis plants, eight overhead tanks, 13 wells, 99 borewells and 22 handpumps had been established for water supply. The State government had also sanctioned Rs. 3.48 crore for 2020-21 for the development works in Mamallapuram. Apart from this, another Rs. 8 crore would be sanctioned for improvement and renovation of damaged roads. G.O. issued A government order had been issued on November 13 sanctioning Rs. 1,000 crore for restoration of damaged roads across the State and the requirement for Mamallapuram would be accommodated under it, the court was told. It was also informed that the government had permitted revision of toll rates collected from motor vehicles entering or passing through the township. As per the revised rates, the town panchayat had been permitted to collect Rs. 15 from two-wheelers, Rs. 75 from cars, Rs. 100 from tourist vans and Rs. 125 from tourist buses. The revision would yield approximately Rs. 1.7 crore annually and would be useful for proper upkeep of the township, the government claimed. Stating that it was yet to come out of the financial crunch caused by the breakout of COVID-19, the State government said, it was still willing to contribute its share of money if the Centre releases necessary funds under different schemes. On her part, Central Government Standing Counsel Sunita Kumari said the Centre had allocated Rs. 5,109 crore under SDS. Unhappy with such “bureaucratic replies,” the judges directed the Centre to come up with a specific figure that had been allotted for beautification of Mamallapuram. They also insisted that Advocate General Vijay Narayan and Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan should represent the State and Centre respectively during the next hearing of the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-needs-rs-5635-cr-from-centre-for-mamallapuram-beautification/article33198066.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM announces Rs. 10 lakh aid for victims’ kin||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday announced financial assistance of Rs. 10 lakh each to the families of the four persons who died during Cyclone Nivar. In a statement, he said despite several precautionary measures, four persons died due to the cyclone and heavy rain. The aid of Rs. 10 lakh each includes Rs. 4 lakh from the State Disaster Response Fund and Rs. 6 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Huts destroyed Over 300 huts were destroyed completely and another 1,439 partially during the cyclone. Additionally, 38 tiled houses were damaged completely and 161 partially. “Appropriate compensation will be given to those whose houses were damaged,” Mr. Palaniswami said. As for the loss of cattle, the compensation will be Rs. 30,000 for a cow, Rs. 25,000 for an ox, Rs. 16,000 for a calf and Rs. 3,000 for a goat. Sixty-one cows, five buffaloes, 65 calves, and 114 goats died during the cyclone. Over 2,000 trees fell in 18 districts — Ariyalur, Chengalpattu, Chennai, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Ranipet, Sivaganga, Thanjavur, Tirupattur, Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvarur, Vellore and Villupuram — affected by the cyclone. “The fallen trees were removed on a war-footing and traffic has been restored on those roads,” the Chief Minister said. Over 100 electric transformers and about 2,900 electric poles were damaged due to Nivar, and efforts were on to replace them. Based on calculations of crop loss, compensation will be provided to farmers from the disaster response fund, he said, adding that he had instructed officials to ensure that farmers who have insured their crops get their claims. ‘Extend cooperation’ “My government has been working on a war-footing to restore everything that was damaged due to the cyclone. I appeal to the people to extend their cooperation to the efforts,” Mr. Palaniswami added. Mr. Palaniswami also said he had instructed officials to chalk out plans to permanently resolve water inundation issues in Velachery, Mudichur, Varadarajapuram and Tambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-rs-10-lakh-aid-for-victims-kin/article33197572.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Things look rosy for real estate sector, say experts||Around 84% of the people who booked houses before the pandemic have stayed put, and did not go for cancellations, irrespective of job loss or salary cuts, Sanjay Chugh, city head and senior vice-president, Residential of Anarock Property Consultants, said. Not just that, the option to work from home (WFH) has pushed people to think of buying larger homes and having their own space, he added, while addressing the fourth episode of “Conversations” on the topic “Has real estate entered the recovery phase?” “Conversations”, being organised as part of The Hindu Group’s ongoing campaign, “Tamil Nadu Smiling”, aims to bring together the people of Tamil Nadu — its traders, retail organisations and government authorities, among others, to find ways to emerge from the effects of COVID-19. Mr. Chugh pointed out that Chennai saw a surge in the demand for plotted developments during the pandemic. “Some 900 developed plots were launched in the city over last 4-5 months,” he said. Padam Dugar, president of CREDAI, Chennai, and managing director of Dugar Housing, said developers were working to ensure that projects are delivered on time to consumers who have made bookings prior to COVID-19. He highlighted how builders brought back their workers through flights and special buses. Navin Ranka, director of SPR Constructions, said that after COVID-19, the average decision-making time for buying properties had dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/things-look-rosy-for-real-estate-sector-say-experts/article33197579.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fatalities due to virus infection drop to 12 in T.N.||As many as 1,442 persons, including six returnees from other States, tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, taking the State’s tally to 7,77,616. The number of active cases stood at 11,109. Six of the returnees who tested positive were from West Bengal and one from Bihar. A total of 1,494 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of discharged persons to 7,54,826. Twelve deaths were recorded on Friday. So far, 11,681 persons have died of the infection. In Chennai, 392 fresh cases were identified and 485 persons discharged after treatment. The district reported two deaths. As on date, 3,924 persons are still under treatment. So far, 2,14,191 persons have been infected and 2,06,429 have been discharged after treatment. Till date, the district has recorded 3,838 fatalities. In Coimbatore, 145 more persons contracted the infection, even as 82 persons were discharged from various facilities. The district recorded two deaths. Five districts recorded under 10 cases. Kallakurichi, Pudukottai, Theni and Tiruvannamalai each recorded nine cases, while Perambalur recorded one more, adding to its earlier tally of two cases. Ariyalur and Ramanathapuram districts recorded 10 cases each. Active cases remained fewer than 100 in 12 districts. All deceased persons had co-morbidities. While six of them died in government medical college hospitals, five persons were admitted to private hospitals. On Friday, 61,112 persons and 61,610 samples were tested for COVID-19. A total of 1,15,75,004 persons have been tested so far. One more private laboratory, in Dharmapuri, was approved as a COVID-19 testing facility. With this, the State now has 220 testing facilities — 67 in the government sector and 153 private laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fatalities-due-to-virus-infection-drop-to-12-in-tn/article33197584.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 could be reason for increase in patients with eyesight loss, say doctors||Ophthalmologists have been seeing more patients with complaints of eyesight loss this year, and doctors suspect COVID-19 may have a role to play. Doctors are relying on literature from other countries to confirm their diagnosis and suspicions. The retina is a thin layer of tissue at the back of the inside of the eye which receives light from the lens and sends it as neural signals to the brain through the optic nerve. When blood supply to the eye is hindered, the retina cannot function. Drooping of eyelids Mohan Rajan of Rajan Eye Care Hospital said he was seeing patients with loss of vision or double vision. “Occlusions of the retinal blood vessels, following COVID-19 infection, have been reported. This is akin to a heart attack to a cardiologist and a stroke to a neurologist,” he said. “Arteries and veins of the retina are exposed to the same pathological processes, and this affects ocular circulation as well. Patients have also reported a sudden onset of double vision and drooping of eyelids following COVID-19, due to paralysis of the nerves of the eye,” he said. Priya Sivakumar, neuro-ophthalmologist, Aravind Eye Care Hospital, Puducherry, said there had been an increase in the number of patients coming with loss of vision. Since initially testing for COVID-19 was not easily accessible, these patients were treated with steriods. “We could not test the patients for COVID-19 but suspected it as a cause because of the change in trend between last year and the current. Last year, we treated 20 patients in whom both eyes were affected.This year, from March to October, we have seen around 40 patients,” she said. In her experience, the patients recovered when treated early. Tendency to form clots Rajiv Raman, senior retina consultant, department of vitreo-retina, Sankara Nethralaya, said people recovering from COVID-19 had a tendency to form clots, which were treated using blood thinners. Occlusion (clot) in the blood vessel can occur in arteries and veins. If it occurs in an artery in the eye, the first six hours are the golden hours within which vision can be restored in some cases. In case of a vein occlusion, vision can be improved, to an extent, with treatment, but it might not return to normal, he said. Dr. Rajiv said the hospital had not analysed its data. “But in general, we are seeing more retinal vascular occlusions now. The occlusions could also be due to cardiovascular disease, diabetes or hypertension. Sankara Nethralaya, being a tertiary care centre, has been seeing many vivid recovered patients from across the country now,” he added. There seems to be more incidence of retinal vascular occlusions. There is emerging literature evidence supporting this fact.  Patients have also reported a sudden onset of double vision and drooping of the eyelids following COVID-19, due to paralysis of the nerves of the eye Mohan Rajan Chairman, Rajan Eye Care Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-could-be-reason-for-increase-in-patients-with-eyesight-loss-say-doctors/article33198034.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Creating a brighter future for the children of north Chennai||North Chennai is known for its sportsmen, but a 48-year-old resident is on a mission to encourage the growth of literary giants in the locality, kindling a passion for Tamil language, in particular, among students in schools run by the Greater Chennai Corporation, and cultivating a reading habit among youngsters, in general. E.D. Elango, who is in the business of printing office stationery, is passionate about Tamil language and literature. “I have seen several talented children in Corporation schools, especially blessed with oratorial and writing skills. But they lack facilities and, hence, I thought of starting small,” said Mr. Elango He started Vada Chennai Tamil Sangam five years ago to promote the language. “Whenever someone expresses interest in becoming a member, we don’t take money as membership fee. Instead, we ask them to donate books worth Rs. 1,000 to Corporation Schools, on their birthday or any special occassion,” he added. Now, advocates and social activists, too, are part of the sangam, that hosted a literary event in north Chennai last year and distributed books to 350 schoolchildren. “Even I donate books to schools, and office-bearers of the Sangam, too, do the same. Till date, we have given away books to over 15 Corporation schools and many government libraries and reading centres run by youngsters across the city,” he said. He pointed out that children, these days, read Tamil in textbooks, merely with the intention of scoring marks. “Reading will improve their knowledge,” he said. G. Prithiviraj, advocate, Madras High Court, and secretary of the Sangam, said, “Inspired by Mr. Elango, I have also donated books. Many parents struggle to make ends meet but try to ensure that their children get education and send them to Corporation schools. They will not be in a position to buy them books, and, the school library is their only refuge. That is why it should be well equipped,” he said. P.K. Ilamaran, president, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association, and teacher at the Chennai High School, Kodungaiyur, said Mr. Elango had donated 100 books to his school. “North Chennai has produced several dignitaries. Every division should have a library to help children learn about subjects other than those taught at school. Ideally, every park should have a library or a reading centre,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/creating-a-brighter-future-for-the-children-of-north-chennai/article33197575.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private power producers write to Union Minister against Tangedco||The Association of Power Producers has written to Union Minister of State for Power R.K. Singh, alleging that Tangedco is forcing independent power producers to accept huge discounts on late payment surcharge dues and pending fixed charges. In its letter, the Association said it was informed by its members who supply power to Tangedco that the State utility was trying to arm-twist them into accepting huge discounts of 50% on late payment surcharge dues and a 20% discount on pending fixed charges. Some of the companies which supply power to Tangedco include Jindal Power Limited, KSK Mahanadi, Adhunik and DB Power. To ease the financial stress in the power system amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union Ministry of Power had advised the generating companies and the transmission companies to charge a late payment surcharge at a rate not exceeding 12% a year (simple interest) for all payments made under the Liquidity Infusion Scheme of the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and REC Ltd. under Atmanirbhar Bharat. The Ministry noted that late payment surcharges in many cases ranged up to 18% a year, and it was quite high despite the fact that interest rates in the country had softened over the last few years. Ministry’s stipulations The Association said Tangedco’s demand came despite all the independent power producers concerned having agreed in writing to abide by the Ministry’s stipulations on the late payment surcharges for funds disbursed under the Liquidity Infusion Scheme for distribution companies. It also alleged that since the producers refused to provide discounts, Tangedco recommended payment of dues under the Liquidity Infusion Scheme only to the Central generating stations and a few small renewable energy generators. It said a similar issue in Uttar Pradesh was sorted out with the intervention of the Union Ministry of Power. It sought the Ministry’s urgent intervention in Tamil Nadu to ensure that no additional discounts were sought besides the Ministry’s stipulations. ( With inputs   from R. Srikanth )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-power-producers-move-union-minister-against-tangedco/article33197587.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waterbodies restored by Corpn. damaged due to Cyclone Nivar||New infrastructure developed by the Greater Chennai Corporation to restore waterbodies has collapsed at a few locations owing to Cyclone Nivar. The Corporation has started assessing damage to its infrastructure after residents reported civic issues in the vicinity of the waterbodies. They requested civic officials to restore the infrastructure to prevent flooding in the neighbourhood. For instance, residents near the Patravakkam tank in Ambattur Estate North Phase reported that it had been damaged. ‘Risk is high’ “Our houses will be affected if there is another spell of rain. We request the Corporation to restore the area immediately. Children who go near the tank may get buried in mud. The risk is high,” a resident said. Corporation officials said the damaged waterbodies would be restored and that officials of the Smart City Project had been asked to assess the condition of the waterbodies’ infrastructure. The civic body has identified 210 waterbodies for restoration. At least 33 waterbodies were restored recently and inaugurated for residents in the localities. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash asked residents to inform civic officials about waterbodies that were yet to be restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waterbodies-restored-by-corpn-damaged-due-to-cyclone-nivar/article33198042.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for killing mother in Koyambedu||The Koyambedu police on Friday arrested a 38-year-old man for allegedly murdering his mother in Nerkundram. The police said the victim Adhiyammal, 65, was a resident of Perumal Koil Street in Nerkundram. Her elder son Mahesh Kumar, an office assistant in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, was estranged from his wife and was living with his two children in the ground floor of the house. Adhiyammal was living in a thatched portion. According to the police, he frequently quarrelled with her for money. On Thursday, he attacked her using an iron rod after an argument. On Friday, neighbours informed the police after they found the body. After investigation, the police arrested Mahesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-killing-mother-in-koyambedu/article33198039.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police crack burglary case in a few hours||The police have arrested three accused in a burglary case within a few hours and recovered the stolen jewellery from them. The police said on November 24, R. Parthasarathy, 65, left his home on 15th Avenue, Ashok Nagar, due to the cyclone. Returning on Friday, he saw his house had been broken into and 30 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 1.25 lakh in cash had been stolen. A special team of police personnel, led by Assistant Commissioner S. Anandaraman, after analysing various clues, arrested three people. They were identified as S. Rajesh, 18, R. Prakash, 20, and Vicky alias Vignesh, 21, of M.G.R. Nagar. They recovered the jewellery and cash from them within a few hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-crack-burglary-case-in-a-few-hours/article33198050.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK files contempt of court plea against govt. officials||The DMK has filed a contempt of court petition in the Madras High Court against a host of Central and State government officials for allegedly disobeying court orders on extending the benefit of reservation to Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the medical and dental seats contributed to the All India Quota (AIQ) by State government-run medical and dental colleges every year. In the contempt petition filed through senior counsel P. Wilson, the party said the first Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy had on July 27 held that there was no constitutional or legal impediment to provide reservation to OBCs in the AIQ seats. The judges also directed the Centre to constitute a committee to fix the percentage and the other terms for OBC reservation from the next academic year. Though the court had specifically ordered that the Director General of Health Services and the State Health Secretary be a part of the committee, both these officials had been left out, the party said. It also arrayed Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam as one of the contemnors for having reportedly nominated a member of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation to the committee instead of nominating the Health Secretary, as directed by the court.  Modifications made The party also complained that the terms of reference of the committee had been modified and that they were not in consonance with court orders. It alleged that the officials had intentionally disobeyed court orders to drag on the issue and not provide reservation to the OBCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-files-contempt-of-court-plea-against-govt-officials/article33198057.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shocking that engineers’ salaries reduced: Alagiri||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Friday asked the State government to stop its attempts to reduce the salaries of engineers in various departments by about Rs. 15,000 every month. In a statement, Mr. Alagiri said it was shocking that the State government had reduced the salaries of engineers. “These engineers have been responsible for implementing more than Rs. 50,000 crore worth of projects. Reducing their salaries cannot be accepted,” the TNCC president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shocking-that-engineers-salaries-reduced-alagiri/article33198061.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Massive schemes needed in Chennai’||Chennai requires costly schemes to prevent water stagnation in some areas, including 58 locations where residents have complained about inundation on Thursday, Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash has said. “We may need costly schemes to prevent stagnation. A high-powered pumping project, estimated at Rs. 70 crore, has been proposed. It involves accelerated pumping of stormwater with 500-hp to 1,000 hp pumps,” he said. Pointing to civic issues reported by residents at K.K. Nagar, Pulianthope, Puzhuthivakkam, Madipakkam and Velachery, Mr. Prakash said the challenges posed by water stagnation in these areas were brought about by natural phenomenon and geography. “The sea level usually rises by 1.5 m to 2 m during a cyclone. It is a challenge to drain stormwater during a tidal effect in a city with a flat terrain. The Greater Chennai Corporation has resolved issues in 40 locations,” said Mr. Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/massive-schemes-needed-in-chennai/article33198231.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC comes to the rescue of LVB shareholders||The Madras High Court on Friday restrained DBS Bank India Limited from taking any action prejudicial to the interests of shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) without the leave of the court. Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh also directed DBS to furnish an undertaking before the court that it would provide cash compensation to LVB shareholders if the court orders so in future. The judges also directed DBS to create a separate reserve fund in its own books of accounts to the extent of face value of the shares of LVB and maintain the same subject to further court orders. The interim orders were passed on an urgent writ petition moved by AUM Capital Market Private Limited, a retail investor holding 13 lakh shares in LVB, of West Bengal. The petitioner had challenged the merger of LVB with DBS. Senior Counsel Arvind P. Datar and P.S. Raman, representing the petitioner, questioned the need for Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to have moved the proposal for the merger and the Centre's approval to it at break neck speed. They said LVB was having robust health and it's book value as well as market value in the stock exchange was fairly good. Only in January 2018, LVB had undertaken rights issue of shares at the rate of Rs. 122 per share as against the face value of Rs. 10 per share and a sum of Rs. 781 crore was received by the bank from the existing shareholders. Suddenly, RBI and Centre invoked their powers under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act for the merger and framed a scheme which reduced the book value of the shares of LVB to zero, the senior counsel complained. Agreeing that they have made out a case for admission of the writ petition, the Division Bench directed the Centre and RBI to file their counter affidavits within three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-restrains-dbs-bank-from-acting-against-interests-of-lvb-shareholders/article33198049.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC restrains govt. from disturbing temple land||The Madras High Court on Friday restrained the State government from changing the physical features of the Ardhanareswarar temple land on which the Collectorate for the newly-formed Kallakurichi district is to be constructed. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha passed the interim order on a public interest litigation petition filed by Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam against alienating the temple land for constructing the Collectorate. The petitioner claimed that sufficient amount of government land was available right next to the temple property. Yet, the State had chosen to construct the Collectorate on the temple land. He also claimed that the foundation stone was laid hurriedly. However, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department (HR & CE) counsel told the court that the Department had decided not to alienate the temple land to the government. Instead, it would be given on lease for fixed number of years, he said, and sought time to submit the relevant documents in the court. When the judges wanted to know whether the lease would be given for 99 years, the counsel said the specifics would be known only after he obtains proper instructions from the Department. Accepting his plea, the judges adjourned the case to December 9. On his part, State government pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan told the court that the government had not made any alterations to the temple land so far, and that an approach road as well as a shed had been constructed only on adjacent lands. However, the petitioner disputed the claim and contended that the construction had begun on the temple land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-restrains-govt-from-disturbing-temple-land/article33198060.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sluice gates of Poondi reservoir opened||The sluice gates of the Poondi reservoir, a major waterbody contributing to the city’s water supply, was opened on Friday evening in anticipation of inflows from the upper reaches of Kosasthalaiyar river. This is the second reservoir storing drinking water for the city that opened its floodgates after nearly five years. After lifting the shutters of the Chembarambakkam reservoir on Wednesday, the Water Resources Department (WRD) released about 1,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) at 5.30 p.m. as the flow into the Poondi reservoir rose steadily. Besides floodwater from its catchments in Kosasthalaiyar river and the Kesavaram anicut, the reservoir is receiving flows from the Ammapalli dam in Andhra Pradesh through Nagari river. An official of the WRD said, “We are continuing to receive 450 cusecs of Krishna water in the Poondi reservoir. Another 9,800 cusecs of rainwater is flowing in. The storage is 2,580 million cubic feet. But the remaining 500 mcft may build up quickly. So, we released water to maintain the level at 34 feet.” The discharge may be stepped up to 5,000 cusecs, depending on the increase in inflow. The WRD is also diverting a small amount of Krishna water to the Kannankottai Thervoy Kandigai reservoir, which was inaugurated earlier this month. About 340 cusecs was diverted to the Cholavaram reservoir through a check-dam at Tamaraipakkam, downstream of the Poondi reservoir. “We want to maintain some space in the reservoirs for the next spell of rain in December. So, we are releasing water in a controlled manner,” the official said. A flood warning was issued to those living along the banks of the Kosasthalaiyar, including those in villages such as Thirukandalam and Sothupakkam. For the third day, the shutters of the Chembarambakkam reservoir were opened to let out 1,000 cusecs into the Adyar. Officials noted that the discharge would be stopped when the inflow from the waterbodies upstream reduces. The Kancheepuram district administration issued flood alerts to 36 villages along the Palar, which was expected to carry 40,000 cusecs. WRD officials noted that the river was wide enough to carry nearly 1 lakh cusecs in the tail end, and the alerts were issued as a precautionary measure. Surplus water was also being released from Madurantakam lake, which has a capacity of 694 mcft, and Thenneri, which has a capacity of 1,106 mcft. These waterbodies filled up during the heavy rain this week. Surplus water reached the Palar through Neenjal Maduvu, a floodwater regulator, and residents were asked not to visit the regulator. Alerts were being issued to prevent residents from treating the waterways as tourist spots, leading to accidents, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflows-expected-sluice-gates-of-poondi-reservoir-opened/article33198041.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Masks donated to RGGGH||Marine Bio Company Limited, a South Korean firm, donated high-end protective masks to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) as part of its corporate social responsibility initiative. E. Theranirajan, Dean, RGGGH, received the protective gear from the firm’s officials, who undertook the initiative with the support of the Korean Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA). According to a press release, the Air Queen antibacterial nanofiber mask consists of three layers, three panels, and a fold that filters virus and bacteria efficiently. Heo Yun-Young, CEO of Marine Bio Co. Ltd., South Korea, said the initiative was carried out to safeguard the health of medical personnel, who work tirelessly during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masks-donated-to-rgggh/article33198048.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ban online ‘usurious’ loan companies: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Friday demanded a ban on online mobile applications that give easy loans at high rates to young people. Youngsters targetted In a statement, he said these loan companies were contacting youngsters and giving them loans, without any document, through mobile phone applications. “They are taking the names, numbers and addresses of all their relatives, co-workers and friends. Loans to the tune of Rs. 5,000-Rs. 50,000 are being given without any collateral or document. However, Rs. 1,500 is being deducted from a small loan of Rs. 5,000,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said a youth from Adambakkam, Chennai, was subjected to immense pressure by these companies as he was unable to pay off his loans. “He then took his own life. Another youth had taken loans from another company to pay off his loans and at one point, unable to bear the stress, he took his own life. Yet another youth ran up lakhs of rupees in debt. And the representative of the company contacted the company where he worked, leading to his dismissal. Now, he has no job and no means of repaying his loans,” he said. While usurious loans are banned in India, these online loan providers charge up to 30% in interest and are defaming the borrowers. “It is condemnable that no action is being taken. Online usurious loans should be banned. If not, the number of people killing themselves would increase,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-wants-ban-on-online-usurious-loan-companies/article33198058.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six-year-old boy drowns in Avadi||A six-year-old boy drowned in a pit in Avadi on Thursday. The victim has been identified as Mohanraj, son of Kamalakannan, a lorry driver, who lives at Arch Anthony Nagar in Kollumedu, near Avadi. The police said Mohanraj was playing on the street and stepped into a house, which was under construction. A pit had been dug in the premises for the construction of a septic tank and rainwater had collected in it. The boy accidentally fell in without anyone noticing. Sangeetha, the mother of the child, who was searching for him, found him struggling inside the pit. Mohanraj was taken to the Government Hospital, Avadi, where the doctors declared him brought dead. The Avadi Tank Factory police registered a case under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code for unnatural death. Investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-year-old-boy-drowns-in-avadi/article33198037.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Award for Rela Hospital||Rela Hospital has been honoured for having the best performing live liver transplant team in Tamil Nadu in 2019-20. The Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu presented the award. At a function held on Friday on the occasion of the 11th Indian Organ Donation Day, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan presented the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-for-rela-hospital/article33198051.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T. Rajendar alleges irregularities in TFPC poll||Actor-producer T. Rajendar, who lost the recently concluded Tamil Film Producers Council elections, said on Friday that 250 “illegal votes” were counted in the election. According to him, of the 1,303-member voter list, he could speak to only 800. The other voters could not be reached on phone and had fake addresses, he alleged. “We have sought the voters’ list, along with addresses and phone numbers. We want to know how many votes were polled every hour and the register in which the voters with valid voters’ card had signed before voting,” he said. At 3.20 p.m., around 720 votes were polled but by 4 p.m., 1,050 votes were recorded, he said, casting doubts on the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/t-rajendar-alleges-irregularities-in-tfpc-poll/article33198064.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges CM to provide aid to farmers||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should take necessary steps to ensure that those affected by the floods in Chennai and its outskirts are provided immediate relief by pumping out water from such areas, DMK president M.K. Stalin said on Friday. Mr. Stalin also urged the Chief Minister to provide compensation to farmers who have lost their crops. He insisted that the State government provide compensation to families of the three persons who lost their lives during the cyclone.  ‘Water yet to recede’ Mr. Stalin said while water was yet to recede, the Chief Minister and the Ministers were giving interviews, claiming that their preparedness had been effective. “This is their achievement during Cyclone Nivar,” he said. Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) general secretary Vaiko said since farmers were unable to take crop insurance due to COVID-19, the government should provide compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-cm-to-provide-aid-to-farmers/article33197580.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. tops in ‘State of the States’ study||For the third time in a row, Tamil Nadu, under the AIADMK government, has emerged as the “Best Performing Big State (Overall)” in the “ India Today -MDRA State of the States study 2020”. Himachal Pradesh and Punjab came second and third respectively. In the ‘COVID-19 Management’ category, among the big states, Tamil Nadu came second after Assam. The study assessed the performance of the States based on 13 critical parameters. The magazine said Tamil Nadu had an unflagging commitment to industrial development, which had helped it draw a wide range of investors. “An effective bureaucracy has enabled the State to implement the policy seamlessly, despite political convulsions,” the study stated. The State fared well on human development indices, too. Infant mortality has declined substantially, and malnutrition in the State, too, is among the lowest in the country, and is below the national average for all income groups. The awards will be presented on December 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-tops-in-state-of-the-states-study/article33197581.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central teams being sent to T.N.,says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday and discussed the situation in the wake of the cyclone and heavy rainfall in parts of the State.  “Central teams are being sent to Tamil Nadu to assist in rescue and relief work,” the PMO said in a tweet. Mr. Modi also expressed his condolences on the loss of lives and prayed for a quick recovery of the injured. Ex-gratia “An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each would be given to the next of kin of the persons deceased and Rs. 50,000 each to the injured, from the PMNRF,” another tweet by the PMO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-teams-being-sent-to-tn-says-pm/article33197585.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM thanks SC for declaring holidays for Pongal||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday welcomed the Supreme Court declaring holidays on January 14 and 15 for Pongal. “I thank the Supreme Court on behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu for declaring holidays for Pongal, which would help everyone realise the rich Tamil culture and tradition,” he said in a statement. On the occasion, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami also recalled and endorsed the demand of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa's to make Tamil an official language in the courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-thanks-sc-for-declaring-holidays-for-pongal/article33197586.ece
28 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MLA questions need for using barricades with barbed wire in front of Collectorate||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA N. Karthik has questioned the need for using barricades with barbed wire in front of the Coimbatore Collectorate. In a statement, issued here on Friday, he asked what was the need for the Coimbatore City Police to use such a barricade in front of the Collectorate where hundreds of people visited every day. He said it was inhuman to use them against people who protested in front of the Collectorate for their rights. Mr. Karthik further said the police should remember that the government was for the people and not for intimidating them. He added that the DMK would defeat the designs of the ruling AIADMK government to crush people’s protest by using such barricades. After the protest, sources said, the police had removed the barbed wire barricades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-questions-need-for-using-barricades-with-barbed-wire-in-front-of-collectorate/article33198071.ece
28 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mirra Group to expand across south India||Coimbatore-based Mother Mirra Group, which has coffee plantations in Coorg, plans to expand its retail presence across south Indian market by the end of next March. Sundar Subramaniam, managing director of Mother Mirra Group, told The Hindu on Friday that Mirras Coffee products were currently available in retail markets in Chennai and Coimbatore. “The coffee is from a single estate and is processed completely in-house, which makes it a premium product,” he said. The group ventured into online business early this year and sold cardamom and pepper from its estate, apart from coffee. It also sold honey, cold-pressed oil, tea, and dry fruits and planned to launch coconut milk and virgin coconut oil. Mr. Subramaniam said the company saw higher traction for online sales since the lockdown came into effect. With a slump in institutional sales because of the COVID-19 restrictions, the company wanted to focus on retail sales - online and offline. “We are planning to expand across south India - Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka. We are looking for stockists and distributors. We want to have a pan India presence and online sales is also increasing rapidly,” he said. The company also planned to launch coffee-selling kiosks, mainly in institutions. “We want to have about 100 kiosks next financial year and these will include stalls at airports too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mirra-group-to-expand-across-south-india/article33197607.ece
28 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Organ Donation Day observed||Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital (KMCH) in collaboration with the Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu (TRANSTAN) organised an event on Thursday to mark the Indian Organ Donation Day. As part of the event, the hospital had displayed the photographs of organ donors in a stall. A signature campaign with a pledge for organ donation along with arrangements for spot online registrations for TRANSTAN was also held, a release said. KMCH executive director Arun N. Palaniswami felicitated people who had registered for organ donation and thanked the families of the organ donors who had consented for the donations made at the hospital. He urged more people to come forward and donate their organs, according to the release. The TRANSTAN had given the ‘best performing hospital for organ donation’, ‘best renal transplant unit’ and ‘best transplant coordinators’ awards for KMCH this year, the release said. The National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation, which is set up under the Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, observed the 11th Indian Organ Donation Day on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organ-donation-day-observed/article33198072.ece
28 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth stabbed to death by gang in Peelamedu||A youth was stabbed to death by a four-member gang at SIHS Colony in Peelamedu in the early hours of Friday. According to police, T. Vignesh (24) and his friend Sujithran (30) visited a TASMAC shop in SIHS Colony on Thursday evening, where the gang threatened them with a knife demanding their mobile phones. While Sujithran handed over his phone, Vignesh allegedly refused to do so and one of the gang members stabbed him in the neck past midnight on Friday. He was rushed to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. Based on Sujithran’s complaint, the Peelamedu police registered a case under Sections 302 (Murder) and 392 (Robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. A senior officer from the Coimbatore City Police said that four special teams were formed on Friday to nab the accused. The available CCTV footages were under examination to ascertain the identity of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-stabbed-to-death-by-gang-in-peelamedu/article33198073.ece
28 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges State govt. to allocate seats for medical aspirants||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday urged the State government to allocate seats in medical and dental colleges for the NEET-qualified medical aspirants who were eligible for the 7.5% horizontal quota but were wait-listed as they could not afford the fees in private colleges. In a post on social media, he cited a report by The Hindu on how a government school student from Pollachi M. Yuvanraj, who was one of the 21 students in the district eligible for the 7.5% quota, took up a job in a private catering service to support his family as he felt that his family will not be able to afford the course fees for private medical colleges. Mr. Stalin said that three more students in Tiruvannamalai district also face a similar situation. “As announced earlier, the DMK is prepared to bear the expenses for these students if the government allots a seat,” Mr. Stalin said. ‘No calls from officials’  Mr. Yuvanraj told The Hindu on Friday that although he received many calls offering financial assistance, no government official has contacted him regarding his situation. “I now wish that I had chosen a college during the counselling,” he said as many are apparently willing to bear the course fees. The 18-year-old aspirant from Suleeswaranpatti in Pollachi expressed hope that the government will take steps to ensure him a medical seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-state-govt-to-allocate-seats-for-medical-aspirants/article33197588.ece
28 November 2020||COimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Classrooms inaugurated||NGO Round Table India inaugurated two new classrooms worth Rs. 16 lakh at the panchayat middle school in Thimmampalayam, Karamadai, on Thursday. Members of Coimbatore North Round Table 20, Coimbatore North Ladies Circle 11 and Coimbatore Acme Round Table 133 participated, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/classrooms-inaugurated/article33198074.ece
28 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New passport officer takes charge||K. Palravindran took charge as the new Passport Officer at the Regional Passport Office, Coimbatore on Thursday. A release on Friday said that the former Passport Officer (Coimbatore) G. Sivakumar relinquished his charge on Thursday and Mr. Palravindran took charge in the afternoon. Located on Avinashi Road, the Regional Passport Office caters to six districts namely Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Salem, Erode and Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-passport-officer-takes-charge/article33197610.ece
28 November 2020||Cumbum,TAMIL NADU||Farmers agitated over Kerala’s proposal to build a dam||Condemning Kerala government for its proposal to build a dam near Mullaperiyar reservoir, Five-District Farmers’ Association has planned to take out a relay rally covering five districts from December 16. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, the forum’s president, S. R. Thevar, said that though several expert committees had conducted independent investigations and submitted their recommendations and findings with the Supreme Court that Mullaperiyar dam was safe, the Kerala government was determined to create rift between the two States. When there was no need to construct a new dam, the government’s proposal to build a new one at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore and the preliminary works to conduct a survey had caused apprehension among farmers ofi five districts in Tamil Nadu who relied on Periyar dam water for irrigation, Mr. Thevar said. There were reports that the Kerala government had obtained approval from the Centre and the National Green Tribunal for building the dam. It was all the more disturbing, he said and urged the Tamil Nadu government to immediately take up the issue with the Centre. The association plans to take out the rally from the Big Tank in Ramanathapuram district to Pennicuick Memorial in Theni district through Sivaganga, Madurai and Dindigul districts. Various farmers’ associations had shown interest in joining the rally, Mr. Thevar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-agitated-over-keralas-proposal-to-build-a-dam/article33197591.ece
28 November 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Couple killed in cylinder explosion||An elderly couple was killed in a cooking gas cylinder explosion in their home in Paapireddypatty on Thursday. The victims, Venkatasalam (77) and Ramayi (70) of Varadakavundanur, were cooking when the cylinder exploded. They died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-killed-in-cylinder-explosion/article33197614.ece
28 November 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Fire services team rescues four puppies from rubble||It is not often that a fire and rescue services team gets to rescue stray puppies amid a cyclonic rainstorm. On Thursday, the team pulled out four puppies that were buried under a rubble left by a mudslide at a construction site in Nanjundeshwara Nagar here. On hearing the puppies yelping and noticing the mother trying to rescue them, Madhu and Deepa Rani, residents of R.K. Road Housing Board in Nanjundeshwara Nagar, alerted the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA). Sanjay Tanesh, executive secretary, SPCA, said their rescue team member Ejaz along with Mr. Madhu tried to rescue the puppies, but heavy rain made it difficult for them. They could rescue only one puppy. So they called the fire and rescue team in Hosur for help. The team’s rescue operation began at 11.40 a.m. and lasted till 1.50 p.m. Srinivasan, one of the members of the team, said, “The concern was that we could not sight the puppies, except hear them. They were buried and we could not risk digging. So we dug around the sound and slowly removed the soil.” It was an arduous effort under the beating rain, he said. Finally, the puppies were pulled out one after the other to safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-services-team-rescues-four-puppies-from-rubble/article33197613.ece
28 November 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Woman injured in elephant attack||A 45-year-old woman was injured in an elephant attack in Kelamangalam on Friday. The victim, Saraswathi of Nagamangalam, was attacked by a lone tusker when she was going to milk her livestock. She has been admitted to Krishnagiri government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-injured-in-elephant-attack/article33197615.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Prospects dim for earthen lamp makers this season||Earthen lamp (akal vilakku) makers of Bethaniapuram have reported a 50% drop in sales ahead of Karthigai Deepam festival. The artisans mainly attribute this to restriction on lighting lamps in temples. V. Jothi, who has been making earthen lamps for the past 20 years, says there was hardly any sales of earthen lamps during the initial months of the lockdown period as entry of devotees inside temples was banned. “Though devotees are allowed inside temples now, the sales continues to be dull since they are not allowed to light lamps,” she says. Only a limited number of shopkeepers bought earthen lamps from the artisans for Karthigai Deepam festival, says A. Mookammaal, another artisan. “Most shopkeepers have a huge stock of earthen lamps and we hope to sell them ahead of Karthigai Deepam festival,” she says. G. Shanthi, who sells earthen lamps near Arapalayam bus stand, says sales has plummeted as the COVID-19 pandemic has reduced the buying capacity of people. The production of earthen lamps is also low this year owing to difficulty in obtaining permission to take mud from tanks during the lockdown period, says R. Veeran, an artisan. The rains in the past one month has also hampered production of earthen lamps, he says. “With meagre profits from making earthen lamps, many artisans are planning to shift to some other occupation to sustain their livelihood. We need financial assistance to offset the loss,” Mr. Veeran says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prospects-dim-for-earthen-lamp-makers/article33197594.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai records 20 new cases||Madurai district recorded 20 new cases on Friday increasing the district’s case tally to 19,637. A total of 18 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 224. No death was recorded. Virudhunagar district on Friday registered 15 new positive cases and saw the discharge of two patients. This is taken the total number of positive cases to 15,856 and the number of discharged patients to 15,551. The number of active cases is 79 and the death toll remained at 226. Theni district saw nine cases taking the tally to 16,566. There were 14 discharges from hospitals. Dindigul district had 28 fresh cases after which the tally stood at 10,229. Hospitals discharged 17 patients after treatment. A 85-year-old patient, who was admitted in GRH Madurai, died and the death toll rose up to 194. Sivaganga district had 12 new cases with which the tally stood at 6,280. Hospitals discharged eight people. Ramanathapuram district had nine new cases and the tally stood at 6,197. There were eight discharges from hospitals. Southern districts Adding 31 new positive cases on Friday, Kanniyakumari’s overall infection tally touched 15,646, the highest among the four southern districts. After 13 cases were discharged from hospitals, 134 active cases are undergoing treatment in Kanniyakumari now even as the district’s fatality stood at 251. Tirunelveli recorded 30 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday that moved up the infection tally to 14,797. As 18 cases were discharged from hospitals, the district had 140 active cases. After losing one more patient to the viral infection, the district’s fatality rose to 210. Thoothukudi’s infection tally stood at 15,633, the second among the southern districts, after the district reported 12 new cases on Friday. While 122 patients are undergoing treatment, seven patients were discharged on Friday. Tenkasi saw 11 new cases and there were 87 active patients even as six persons were discharged from hospitals. The district’s overall infection tally is now at 8,044.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-new-cases-in-madurai-district/article33197598.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Give relief to injured worker’||A group of members of Aadhi Tamizhar Peravai staged a demonstration in front of Madurai Corporation office here on Friday, seeking compensation for a contract conservancy worker who was injured while working. The protesters said the suffered injury on both his eyes after a disinfectant spray can accidentally exploded. Legal action must be taken against the Corporation officials concerned and the contractor under whose purview the incident occurred. K.Chellapandi, district secretary of the forum for conservancy workers of Aathi Tamizhar Peravai, said the injured worker was the sole breadwinner of the family. So the authorities must take steps to sustain his livelihood till he returns to work. The civic body must also ensure the safety of conservancy workers, including those who had been deployed on contract basis, said the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-relief-to-injured-worker/article33198151.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses advance bail plea of Pudukottai woman||Taking into account the fact that no First Information Report was registered against a woman from Pudukkottai district who apprehended arrest by the police, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday dismissed her petition seeking anticipatory bail. While the State submitted that no FIR was registered against P. Vasantha, the counsel for the petitioner sought the issue of notice under Section 41(A) CrPC (notice issued by police) in the event of registering any case against her, so that she can file an advance bail petition. Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that the idea of getting such an order is that in case an FIR is filed by the jurisdictional police, then a breathing time should be given to the accused for filing anticipatory bail petitions. Section 438 CrPC (anticipatory bail) is unambiguous. A case must be registered for the purpose of considering an anticipatory bail petition. Section 41(A) CrPC is clear that if arrest was not required, then only notice is to be issued by the police officer seeking explanation. “This court is of the considered opinion that the required amount of freedom is essential to exercise the powers by the police authorities to control the crime and maintain law and order in the interest of the public at large,” the judge said. In the event of directing the police authorities to issue notice under Section 41(A) CrPC in all cases without considering the facts and circumstances, there is a possibility of erroneous implementation of the orders by the police or the likelihood of the accused to abscond. “It is a world of electronic advancement. Criminals are acting intelligently and they are one step ahead of a technological advancement. Thus, on registration of cases, police officers must make a decision whether an arrest is necessary or not,” the judge said. Section 41(A) CrPC was inserted in order to preserve personal liberty of persons and to prevent misuse and abuse of power by police officers. Therefore, it has to be exercised only when arrest of persons was not required and certainly not in every case. It is needless to state that when no case is registered against the petitioner, the question of issuing any direction would not rise at all. The concept of granting a relief even before the registration of a case was not preferable, the judge said and dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-advance-bail-plea-of-pudukottai-woman/article33197566.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Now, a bus shelter with Wi-Fi||A solar-powered bus shelter with Wi-Fi facility has been established on North Veli Street. Madurai Central MLA P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan inaugurated it on Friday. It was constructed at a cost of Rs. 8.30 lakh through his Constituency Development fund. This is the 84th project completed through this fund. Fifty persons can simultaneously use the Wi-Fi facility. A CCTV camera, which will function round-the-clock, has been installed in the bus shelter. The lights and fans will function using solar energy. Songs will play from a speaker at the bus shelter which also has a mobile charging point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-a-bus-shelter-with-wi-fi/article33198156.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Women’s fight for rights, equality over the years recalled||Kalpana Kannabiran, professor and Director, Council for Social Development, Hyderabad, delivered Dr. Elizabeth George Memorial Endowment Lecture organised by Lady Doak College through an online platform on Thursday. A press release from the college said Ms. Kannabiran spoke on the topic, ‘Dignity and autonomy: foundations of self actualisation for women in India.’ She highlighted the narratives of women who challenged patriarchy and caste structures. She elaborated the struggle of women who fought for their rights and equality in India. She spoke on contributions of social reformer Periyar E.V. Ramasamy through self-respect movement for women empowerment. She stressed the relationship between racism and religious beliefs to explain the role of caste in women’s struggle for dignity. She said many reformers fought against child marriage, Devadasi system and other regressive practices. Ms. Kannabiran highlighted the importance of higher education institutions in transforming the young minds of students. Principal Christianna Singh talked about Elizabeth George, who was the first principal of Women’s Christian College. She later worked in various positions in Lady Doak College. There were around 100 participants from across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-fight-for-rights-equality-over-the-years-recalled/article33198154.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai MP moves HC for ‘English only’ communication between Centre and State||Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan on Friday moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure that all communications between the Centre and Tamil Nadu shall be in English alone. Mr. Venkatesan, who represents the CPI (M), was upset over a reply sent to him in Hindi by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai recently. In his public interest litigation petition, Mr. Venkatesan said that he had written to the Centre seeking a response as to why there were no examination centres in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the recruitment of CRPF Para Medical Staff. A total of nine examination centres were notified of which only two were in South India. There was no equitable distribution of examination centres. He said that to his shock he received the reply from the Union Minister in Hindi. “I hail from a non-Hindi speaking State and I do not know how to read, write or speak in Hindi. I virtually could not read and understand anything written in the communication,” he said. The MP pointed out that the communication was not recalled and no reply has been sent in English. He said that the Centre was following a practice of sending replies only in Hindi to MPs from Tamil Nadu. This defeats the Rights guaranteed under the Constitution and the Official Languages Act, 1963. As per Section 3 of the Act, English language should be used in communications between the Union and the State that has not adopted Hindi, he said.  Mr. Venkatesan sought a direction to restrain the Centre from addressing any communication between the Centre and the State in Hindi and sought an English translated copy of the Union Minister’s letter. Taking up the petition for hearing, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought a response from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-mp-moves-hc-for-english-only-communication-between-centre-and-tn/article33197611.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai MP moves HC for ‘English only’ communication||Su. Venkatesan, MP, has on Friday moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure that all communications between the Centre and Tamil Nadu shall be in English alone. Mr. Venkatesan, who represents the CPI (Marxist), was upset over a reply sent to him in Hindi by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai recently. In his public interest litigation petition, Mr. Venkatesan said he wrote to the Centre seeking a response as to why there was no examination centre in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the recruitment of CRPF Para Medical Staff. Nine centres were notified, of which only two were in south India. There was no equitable distribution of centres. Mr.Venkatesan said that, to his shock, he received the reply from the Union Minister in Hindi. “I hail from a non-Hindi speaking State and I do not know how to read, write or speak in Hindi. I virtually could not read and understand anything written in the communication,” he said. The MP said the communication was not recalled and no reply had been sent in English. The Centre was following a practice of sending replies only in Hindi to MPs from Tamil Nadu. This defeats the Rights guaranteed under the Constitution and the Official Languages Act, 1963. As per Section 3 of the Act, English language should be used in communications between the Union and the State that has not adopted Hindi, he said. Tamil Nadu has vehemently opposed the efforts to make Hindi the sole official language of India and has always wanted English too to be continued as an official language. Tamil Nadu follows a two-language policy - Tamil and English - and English is the link language between the Centre and the State, he said. Mr. Venkatesan sought a direction to restrain the Centre from addressing any communication between the Centre and the State in Hindi and sought an English-translated copy of the Union Minister’s letter. Taking up the petition for hearing, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought a response from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-moves-hc-for-english-only-communication/article33197551.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Inspector of Police caught while receiving bribe||A woman Inspector of Police, Anita, was arrested on Thursday night after she was reportedly caught red-handed while demanding and receiving Rs. 30,000 bribe from one Nallathambi for removing the names of two persons from a case. After allegedly seeking Rs. 1 lakh, she settled for Rs. 80,000 and demanded Rs. 30,000 in advance. Following a complaint from Nallathambi, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) registered a case and laid a trap for the Inspector at Chekkanoorani police station at around 9 p.m. Sleuths led by Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Sathyaseelan caught her red-handed when she received the cash in her chamber, police said. Nallathambi had requested the Inspector to remove the names of his son Mari and nephew Kamal Pandi from the list of accused in the hurt case relating to a dispute over drainage with his neighbours in 2017. A DVAC officer said that the Inspector has been arrested and her house was searched on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-held-on-graft-charge/article33197592.ece
28 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to reconsider move to let DBS Bank take over LVB||Reserve Bank of India must reconsider the move to let DBS Bank take over Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB), said H. Adi Seshan, State convenor of Swadeshi Jagran Manch, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swawamsevak Sangh. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, he said there had been 81 bank mergers since 1961. After nationalisation, 34 private sector banks were merged – 26 of these with public sector banks and eight with other private banks. There was not a single case of merging an Indian bank with a foreign entity. Why was LVB being merged with a foreign bank, Mr. Adi Seshan asked and wondered whether it was the new policy of the RBI. The fundamental policies should not be changed without debate and it was contrary to the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative of the Prime Minister. When the RBI-appointed administrator for the bank had informed that the deposits were safe and that they had adequate liquidity, the takeover by an overseas entity was baffling. The LVB had been maintaining a long-standing association and deep community links since 1926. The RBI could raise funds for the LVB and bring it back to healthy functioning as it did for a YES Bank. The RBI had resolved the matter of recapitalisation with contributions from SBI, LIC, HDFC, ICICI, Kotak and others to the tune of Rs. 12,000 crore. Moreover, it has been reported that the DBS had proposed to inject Rs. 2,500 crore in its own Indian subsidiary to increase its capital to absorb the LVB. Without paying any price for acquisition, the DBS was gaining access to the LVB’s deposits reported to be over Rs. 20,000 crore would not be acceptable, Mr. Adi Seshan said and appealed to the Centre to reconsider the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reconsider-move-to-let-dbs-bank-take-over-lvb/article33197554.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Patrol teams launched||The police have launched 14 armed two-wheeler patrols in the city on Friday to curb rowdyism and gang-related gruesome offences. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha flagged off the teams that would carry pistols in areas prone to movement of armed gangs and clashes between them. The pillion rider will carry a pistol in specific areas identified by the police. “We have given them short stretches of routes for effective patrolling,” he said. These teams would not concentrate on routine policing activities so that their focus is not taken away from the purpose specified. “That is, why we have not given them walkie-talkies. The police control room can contact them any time through mobile phones and ask them to rush to any particular spot in their area,” he said. Stating that the pistol is only for self-defence while facing armed gangsters, Mr. Sinha said the teams had been adequately advised to use arms sparingly, that is only when they deal with armed men. With this, the total number of two-wheeler patrols in the city has increased to 67. Visible policing in trouble spots will help in better maintenance of law and order, he added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-armed-two-wheeler-patrol-teams-launched/article33198153.ece
28 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 127.10 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 685 cusecs and a discharge of 1,555 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 60.76 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,518 cusecs and a discharge of 1,269 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,761 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday was (in mm): Thaniamangalam 18, Mettupatti 14.4, Chittampatti 4.6, Kallandhiri 4, Madurai city 3, Shanmuganathi dam 2.7, Uthamapalayam 2.3, Gudalur 1.8, Viraganoor 1.5, Periyar dam 1.4 and Thekkadi 0.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33197604.ece
28 November 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Power supply restored in Cuddalore, Villupuram||Power supply has been fully restored in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts, and it will be fully restored in Chennai by Friday night, Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani has said. Talking to journalists, he said the damage caused by Cyclone Nivar was minimal, thanks to the precautionary measures taken by the government of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Household connections had completely been restored by Thursday night in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts. In Chennai, 95% of the connections had been restored, he said. Mr. Thangamani said 2,458 electric poles were damaged and 108 transformers affected by lightning. He said the damage was put at Rs. 15 crore. Underground cables were being laid in areas in north Chennai, and the work would be carried out in Madippakam, Perumbakkam and Pallikaranai in future, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-restored-in-cuddalore-villupuram/article33197570.ece
28 November 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raids sub-registrar office||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided the sub-registrar office in Tiruchengode from Thursday evening. According to officials, based on a tip-off, a team of DVAC officials led by DSP Jayakumar raided the premises and seized Rs. 7.15 lakh of unaccounted cash. The vigilance officials are inquiring the staff at the office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-raids-sub-registrar-office/article33197617.ece
28 November 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Relief given to damaged thatched houses||The Perambalur district administration has distributed a sum of Rs. 1.16 lakh as compensation for those in the district whose thatched houses were partially damaged in cyclone Nivar and whose livestock had died in nature's fury. The financial assistance given under the State Disaster Management Financial Assistance Scheme. An official press release on Friday said thatched houses of 13 persons were partially damaged in the cyclone and a sum of Rs. . 4,100 was given as assistance to each one of them. Two cows and a goat were killed due to electrocution and wall collapse respectively. A total sum of Rs. 60,000 was given to the owner of the two cows that had died and Rs. 3,000 as compensation for the goat owner. The compensation amount was credited in the bank account of the respective persons, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-given-to-damaged-thatched-houses/article33197560.ece
28 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry witnesses a quick turnaround||Hours after Cyclone Nivar crossed the city, making landfall about 40 km north during the early hours of Thursday, near complete normalcy was restored in Puducherry. By Friday morning, stagnant pools in heavily waterlogged areas like Venkata Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Krishna Nagar and Indira Gandhi Square were cleared. In many of these spots, the Public Works Department (PWD) worked overnight to pump out the water. “We were able to minimise the impact of excessive rainfall primarily due to desilting works undertaken by the PWD in preparation for the northeast monsoon. This stood us in good stead when the cyclone crossed the city,” Collector Purva Garg said.  Power supply restored As a result, barring a few traditionally waterlogged spots where problems occur mostly due to obsolete engineering, canals and drains could ferry storm water off the surface and into the sea rapidly. Power supply, too, has almost been completely restored in areas that faced disruption. “Almost 90% restoration was completed by Thursday night,” Ms. Garg said. Teams from the Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) unit of the defence forces and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) quickly moved in to help the PWD and Forest personnel cut and clear fallen trees across the city. Officials said such a quick turnaround was possible as the HADR contingent of the 110 Army Corps was requisitioned early. They were able to familiarise themselves with the city’s terrain ahead of the cyclone. Almost 70% of the fallen trees have been removed. The remaining work will be completed by Saturday, a Puducherry Municipality official said. Rural Puducherry, however, saw the worst impact, as a combination of rain and wind left a trail of damage to paddy and other crops. Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Thursday that the initial estimates put agricultural loss at about Rs. 400 crore. The administration is still calculating crop loss and the damage in terms of the fishing and infrastructure sectors, before making a case for a comprehensive package of Central relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-witnesses-a-quick-turnaround/article33197568.ece
28 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Calling in NDRF, HADR early was a major advantage: Bedi||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi who held a follow-up review at the Raj Nivas, said that the documentation of best practices which helped in managing the fallout of Nivar cyclone would be made a reference document for future calamity response. The Secretary (Relief & Rehabilitation) will hold weekly review meeting every Tuesday, to monitor the implementation of drain plans conceptualised under Smart City to prevent flooding at Indira Gandhi Square, Rainbow Nagar and other identified areas. The PWD in collaboration with Port Department will work to ensure that floodwater drains smoothly into backwaters. Noting that the NDRF and HADR were crucial force multipliers in post-cyclone relief works, Ms. Bedi said calling them in early and positioning them in vulnerable areas was a major advantage. The Puducherry Disaster Management Authority will work on fine-tuning SOPs for cyclone to make them more robust from the learnings made. The SOP would also incorporate best practices of other States. The Forest Department will take the lead in coming out with scientific management of tree felling, to ensure that the Union Territory of Puducherry does not lose its green cover, Ms. Bedi said. Basic equipment required for quick relief works similar to those available with NDRF will be procured while the Local Administration Department will regulate the erection of hoardings in Puducherry to ensure safety of road users and also these hoardings meet the safety standards to overcome high speed wind. Also mooted at the review was a suggestion to upgrade the State Emergency Operations Centre with advanced communications technology and equip it with permanent and fully trained personnel. The District Collector is expected to furnish the final damage report in next couple of days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/calling-in-ndrf-hadr-early-was-an-advantage/article33198055.ece
28 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Alliance with AIADMK, BJP will continue: Rangasamy||All India N. R. Congress chief and Opposition leader N. Rangasamy on Friday said his party’s alliance with the AIADMK and the BJP will continue in the upcoming Assembly polls. Speaking to reporters after an AIADMK delegation called on him at the new party office near Kokku Park on ECR, Mr. Rangasamy said, “The alliance will continue.” The party had an alliance with the AIADMK and the BJP during the byelection and the Lok Sabha polls last year. When his reaction was sought on Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy’s charge that he had failed to discharge his duties as an Opposition leader, the AINRC chief said, “Let the CM do his work properly and lead the government in a proper manner.” The Opposition leader alleged that Mr. Narayanasamy was trying to shift the blame on Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. People were aware of the facts and development works under the Congress government, he added. “This is the worst government the Union Territory has had. People have started comparing the works of my government and that of the Congress government. The present government has failed completely and we are confident that our party, with its alliance partners, will come to power after the upcoming Assembly election,” he claimed. The Congress was only continuing with schemes and development works the N.R. Congress had started, he said, adding, “The present government completely failed to perform.” AIADMK leader in the Assembly and party secretary (East) A. Anbalagan, who led the party’s delegation, said the Congress-DMK government was a “dark” chapter in the history of the Union Territory. No development schemes had been implemented and the law and order situation had deteriorated, he said, adding “the AINRC, AIADMK, BJP combine will come to power.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alliance-with-aiadmk-and-bjp-will-continue-says-rangasamy/article33198233.ece
28 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Drive for revision of electoral rolls||A special camp as part of the summary revision of electoral rolls will be held on Saturday and Sunday in all polling stations in the Union Territory. The drive, held on the basis of instructions of the Election Commission of India, will enable electors to register names or carry out corrections in the electoral rolls. The ECI has set January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date, a press note from Shurbir Singh, Chief Electoral Officer, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revision-of-electoral-rolls/article33198234.ece
28 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Train service to Odisha in December||As approved by the Railway Board, the East Coast Railway will extend the Bhubaneswar-Puducherry festival special train services up to December 31. The services of Train No. 02898 Bhubaneswar - Puducherry weekly special train (via Chennai Egmore), leaving Bhubaneswar on Tuesdays, will be extended to run on December 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29.  On Wednesdays The services of Train No. 02897 Puducherry - Bhubaneswar weekly special (via Chennai Egmore), leaving Puducherry on Wednesdays, will be extended to run on December 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30, a press note from the Railway said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-service-to-odisha/article33198235.ece
28 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No COVID deaths for a week in U.T.||Puducherry on Friday crossed a week without any COVID-19 deaths even while it added 16 new COVID-19 cases to its tally. The new cases were confirmed from 1,609 tests. Puducherry accounted for nine of the cases, Karaikal and Yanam one each and Mahe five.With 46 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases in the Union Territory was 514. While 210 patients were in hospitals, 304 were in home isolation. In Puducherry, Jipmer had 86 patients while the IGMCRI had 79 patients. The toll stood at 609 deaths and overall caseload was 36,856 while 35,733 patients have recovered. The test positivity rate was less than 1%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 96.95%. The Health Department has to date carried out 3,95,810 tests of which 3,54,623 returned negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-deaths-for-a-week-in-puducherry/article33198236.ece
28 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Stone sculpture of Mahavira found||A stone sculpture of Mahavira, the 24th Tirthankara of Jainism, was found at Anandhur in Ramanathapuram district by V. Rajaguru, president of Ramanathapuram Archaeological Research Foundation- an association of amateur archaeologists. Mr. Rajaguru said that the stone sculpture was found near Lord Shiva temple at Anandhur. He said that in places like Periyapattinam, Melakidaram, Keezhaseethai, Keezhasakkulam, Pasumpon, Kamuthi, Tiruppulani, Pullakkadamban and Pullukudi, there were several evidences to show that Jainism was practised in the region. The sculpture measuring 3 feet in length and 1.5 feet in width, could belong to the 10th century, said Mr. Rajaguru. The sculpture shows Mahavira in a seated posture on top of a royal seat. “The face of Mahavira was damaged as the sculpture was lying in the open for many years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stone-sculpture-of-mahavira-found-in-ramanathapuram-district/article33197553.ece
28 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Horticulture Department begins developing onion seedlings||The Horticulture Department has started developing onion seedlings and other vegetable seeds at its farms here for distribution to farmers and the public. In Salem district, the department operates five farms at Mulluvadi, three farms in Karumandurai and in Sirumalai. The recent steep hike in onion prices has made the department consider developing onion seedlings at a large scale. Sathya, Deputy Director, Horticulture, said, “onion seedlings are being readied as a special scheme under the National Agriculture Development Programme after the steep hike in onion prices. The onions are developed as seedlings and given to farmers so that they can save on the nursery period.” Ms. Sathya said onion seedlings were readied on 100 hectares at the farms. They were expecting to develop 400 kg of onion seeds on one hectare that would then develop into seedlings. While given as seedlings, the farmers could save nearly 30 days. It would take 90 days for the bulb vegetable to be ready for harvest, she said. The distribution of seedlings would be in December. The Deputy Director said seeds of vegetables such as pumpkins, ash guard, sprouts, brinjal and tomato were also being readied at the farms and they would be given at subsidised rates to the farmers. Over 35 tonnes of vegetable seeds were being readied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/horticulture-department-begins-developing-onion-seedlings/article33197619.ece
28 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident in Salem||Three persons died in an accident in Mallur during the early hours of Friday. According to the police, the deceased were identified as Jagadish (27), Karthikeyan (20) and Parthasarathi (20). Jagadish was taking his friends on a two-wheeler from Thotilpatti to attend his sister’s wedding in Mallur when the vehicle collided with a government bus. Parthasarathi and Karthikeyan died on the spot. Though Jagadish was rushed to the Salem government hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. The Mallur police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-road-accident-in-salem/article33197620.ece
28 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water level touches 100 ft. again at Mettur dam||The inflow of water to Mettur Dam increased on Friday, and the water level was at 100 feet for fourth time this year. According to officials from the Public Works Department, the water level at the dam attained 100ft at 12.05 p.m. on Friday against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water in the dam was 64,582 mcft. The dam received an inflow of 8,111 cusecs of water. The discharge to Cauvery river was maintained at 500 cusecs of water and discharge through the East-West canal was maintained at 250 cusecs of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-touches-100-ft-again-at-mettur-dam/article33197616.ece
28 November 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||‘Remove encroachments from water channels’||Giving an assurance to look into the grievances of farmers, Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy said on Friday that the official machinery would redress them within a reasonable time. Farmers’ grievance meeting was held online after a long time. Officials from various departments were present and farmers were requested to participate from the nearest block level agriculture offices. During the meeting, the Collector said encroachments in water channels leading to fields would be addressed. “By next month, when we meet, there would be a solution”, he said. Farmers urged him to ensure that fertilizer stock was sufficient. Some farmers complained about dealers increasing the price. The Collector assured to take action if they give specific details. “When storage levels in Periyar dam and Vaigai dam reach the maximum levels, the district will get its share of water for irrigation and the coverage area in the district will increase,” he said. After some farmers wanted to know about the arrangement for disbursal of loans, officials said that from Monday onwards, farmers can approach the respective panchayat union offices and give particulars through applications, which would be collected till December 10. After processing them, the loans would be disbursed, they added. The Collector said that he had given directions to the revenue authorities to issue certificates such as ‘adangal’ to farmers without any delay. The VAOs have been told to help farmers seeking such certificates as they may be required to get welfare assistance from the government. When farmers complained about the need to control fall armyworm attack, officials said that they would certainly take pro-active steps and offer the best pest control management practice. The farmers were told to adapt to modern technology available in the Uzhavan App, which can be downloaded on their mobile phones. This may help them not only understand the weather forecast in advance, but also facilitate in providing vital information about the crop pattern and among others, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachments-from-water-channels/article33197606.ece
28 November 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Son murders father||The police have registered case against a man for allegedly murdering his father on Friday evening. They said K. Thangaraj, 66, of Kadayam, with four children from his first marriage, had married another woman. While apportioning his property, he registered 25 acres in the name of his second wife and 15 acres to his first wife that led to enmity between both families. Since the first wife and his sons had to reach their portion via the land given to the second wife, the enmity worsened. When Thirukkumaran, 42, son from his first wife, took paddy straw from the land belonging to his second wife on Friday, Thangaraj opposed it leading to an argument between the two. As Thangaraj stopped Thirukkumaran, the latter hacked his father killing him. The body was sent to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for a post mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/son-murders-father/article33198292.ece
28 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||IN BRIEF||Two persons died and two others sustained injuries in a road accident at Kallipuliyur near Kumbakonam on Friday. Selvam (46) and his mother, Anjammal (67) were travelling towards Kumbakonam on the Chennai-Kumbakonam road when they were fatally knocked down from behind by the car driven by Illaiyaraja (47) of Vandaiyariruppu near Thirupanandal. The driver and his wife Abhirami (40) who was also travelling in the car were admitted to the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Kumbakonam, with injuries. The Kumbakonam Taluk police have registered a case.     A Special Haj Helpdesk will function till December 10 at the Passport Main Office at Marakadai to provide guidance to applicants who are yet to receive the passport after completion of police verification. Since only those applicants who possess machine-readable passports valid up to January 11, 2022, would be permitted to apply for Haj 2021, the issues relating to the applications will be addressed by the Helpdesk, Passport Officer, Tiruchi, R. Anand, said in a press release. For more details, contact 0431 - 2707203/ 2707404, email - rpo.trichy@mea.gov.in, website - www.passportindia.gov.in or toll free number - 1800 258 1800.     The facility of booking international letters, speed post and parcels is available in all post offices. An exclusive counter is functioning at the Tiruchi Head Post Office for booking international mails. Packing facility is available at the Parcel Packaging Centre at the Tiruchi Head Office. The Department of Posts in a press release issued here on Friday requested the public to utilise this service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-brief/article33197563.ece
28 November 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want a new uzhavar sandhai at Gudalur||Urging the government to establish an ‘uzhavar sandhai’ in Gudalur, farmers said it would encourage more people to grow vegetables and local people will have access to fresh produce. The district administration organised the monthly grievance redressal meeting online that was presided over by Collector M. Pallavi Baldev. Officials from Agriculture, Forest and other departments participated. She said that she would examine the modalities and recommend to the government necessary approval for establishing the farmers’ shandy. Replying to a query on the availability of fertiliser, she said that the district had sufficient stocks in hand and any complaints of shortage or over pricing may be brought to the notice of the officials concerned. She assured prompt action against erring dealers. Against the average annual rainfall of 829.80 mm, the district had received 631.45 mm till October. In the current month (Nov) till date, they had received 200.15 mm. Hence, with regard to water position, the district appeared to be safe and comfortable, she replied. According to the data available with the Agriculture department, close to 36,000 hectares of crops including paddy, sugarcane, millets, cotton and others have been raised. The Collector insisted the farmers to take insurance cover for the crops immediately. When some of the farmers complained about a pest attack on coconut farms and sought a solution, Ms. Pallavi Baldev said that steps would be taken to control the disease. She also gave an assurance to contain the fall armyworm, which had targeted maize crops. She appealed to the farmers to cooperate with the officials and follow their tips in a systematic manner. District Forest Officer S. Gowtham, District Revenue Officer K. Ramesh, Joint Director (Agriculture) Alagu Nagendran, District Rural Development Agency Project Director P. Thilagavathi and among others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-want-a-new-uzhavar-sandhai-at-gudalur/article33197601.ece
28 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vendors elated over getting back to business in Gandhi Market||Vendors affiliated to Tiruchi Gandhi Market All Kinds of Wholesale And Retail Traders’ Association were elated over getting back to business after a lengthy gap, after the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court vacated an interim order, paving way for its functioning temporarily. Traders of all items, including vegetables, fruits, utensils gathered on Friday morning to celebrate the opening of the market. The vendors will start operating out of the Gandhi Market from 7 a.m. on Saturday, while the temporary market at G- Corner will be shut after Friday night's sales, official sources said. “The civic body has instructed us to follow COVID-19 protocol, including maintaining personal distance, providing sanitizers to workers and ensuring that the vendors and customers wear facemasks at all times,” a vendor said. Ve. Govindarajulu, President, Tiruchi Gandhi Market All Kinds of Wholesale And Retail Traders Association, said that the Madurai Bench had asked all stakeholders, including the vendors to file a response. "Our lawyers will make a note of all our inconveniences and complaints with the Kallikudi market. That will be filed before the court," he said. Claiming there are over 2,000 vendors at Gandhi market, he said only 300 shops have been allotted in the new market at Kallikudi. According to the vendors, the Kallikudi market was not constructed in consultation with their needs. "Even at the Koyambedu Market, two floors were not constructed for vendors for practical reasons. How can we load and unload our goods every day?" Mr. Govindarajulu wondered. The market, constructed 16 km away from the city on a highway poses several risks, he added. "You have to turn from the Madurai highway directly into the market. With large goods carriers ferrying in and out of the market, our lives, and the lives of travellers on the highway would be at risk," he said. Even though the Gandhi Market is decades old, there are at least 11 exit routes, in case of an emergency while the Kallikudi market only has two, Mr. Govindarajulu said. Of the 830 shops constructed in the new market complex, 351 are already occupied by Farmers Producers Groups and Farmers Producers Organisations. "What about the livelihoods of the thousands of vendors who have not been allotted shops?" he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vendors-elated-over-getting-back-to-business-in-gandhi-market/article33197557.ece
28 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Slight spike in fresh cases reported in central districts||The central districts on Friday recorded slight spike in fresh cases for COVID-19, with 125 patients testing positive. Only one death was reported in the region, in Thanjavur, according to data released by the State Health Department. A 60-year-old man from Thanjavur with a history of chronic kidney disease, hypertension and diabetes succumbed to the infection at a private hospital in Thanjavur. All districts in the central region reported below 30 fresh cases for the second consecutive day. Tiruchi reported the highest number of COVID cases on Friday with a total of 28 patients testing positive. Among them were local cases with no contact history and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Meanwhile, 11 patients were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Sunday after recovering from the viral infection. Thanjavur reported 25 fresh cases while in Nagapattinam, 23 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Meanwhile, a total of 23 patients were discharged from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital after they had recovered from COVID-19. Tiruvarur reported 16 cases while Karur recorded 13 cases. Both districts reported a significant drop over the last few days. Karur reported a spike in cases too, with residents from Thozilpettai and Viralipettai among those who tested positive. Ariyalur reported a slight spike in cases with 10 patients testing positive. While one patient hailed from Ariyalur block, two each hailed from Thirumanur and Sendurai. One each hailed from Andimadalm, T. Palur and Jayankondam blocks. Two interdistrict travellers also tested positive. Pudukottai reported a further dip in cases with nine fresh cases reported. Meawhile, Perambalur reported a single positive case on Friday. Meanwhile, 378 fresh throat swabs were lifted and sent to the testing facility to detect the COVID-19 virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slight-spike-in-fresh-cases-reported-in-central-districts/article33197558.ece
28 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Committee suggests suitable crop varieties||Scientific Advisory Committee of KVK Sirugamani, at its meeting here on Thursday, mooted proposals for enhancing productivity of farmers by way of choosing crop varieties suiting the local conditions. The annual meeting meant to focus on farm trials and frontline demonstrations and related technical programmes for the benefit of farming community was inaugurated by M. Jawaharlal, Director of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore. Director of ICAR ATARI (Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute), Hyderabad; and .J.V.Prasad and R.Baskaran, Principal Scientists participated in the programme through online mode and suggested crops varieties and technologies. The programme coordinator of KVK N.Tamilselvan detailed the action taken report of 41st Scientific Advisory Committee meeting held previously. Joint Director of Agriculture AR.Periyakaruppan; Principal scientist of National Research Banana centre V.Kumar; Irrigation Management training institute Director G.Muralidharan; line department officials; experts from Agricultural College, Horticultural College; farmer representatives; leaders of self help groups; and agribusiness stakeholders participated in the meeting. KVK newsletter and four technical folders were released by Prof. Jawaharlal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-suggests-suitable-crop-varieties/article33197549.ece
28 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi secures top position in B-School ranking||Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi has secured first place in the category of ‘Government Business Schools’ among participating institutions in the CSR-GHRDC B-School Ranking  2020 .  The survey methodology evaluated the holistic performance of the institute, considering factors like infrastructure, faculty, publication, research, consultancy, Management Development Programme and other programmes, placement, Unique Selling Proposition, social responsibility, networking and industry interface, a press release issued by IIM-Tiruchi said. The Global Human Resource Development Centre (GHRDC) has been a forerunner in the practice of rating and ranking business schools since 1998. Every year, it visits and reviews more than 250 business schools, 5,000 faculty members and 10,000 students to rank institutions. IIM-Tiruchi has proved its mettle yet again and will be featured in ‘The Competition Success Review’, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-tiruchi-secures-top-position-in-b-school-ranking/article33197564.ece
28 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Youth found hanging on temple premises||An 18-year-old youth was found hanging on a temple premises under Fort police station limits here on Friday. Police gave the name of the deceased as M. Radhakrishnan. The youth who worked as a temporary worker in Mumbai Corporation had come here along with his sisters to attend a wedding and had been staying in one of his relatives’ house near East Bouleward road. Citing family sources, police said the youth who was given to the habit of watching cell phone constantly was mentally disturbed. He left his relative's house in the early hours and allegedly ended his life inside a temple premises nearby. Acting on information, police personnel went to the spot and arranged for post mortem. It was handed over to family members after completion of the autopsy. The Fort Police have registered a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-found-hanging-on-temple-premises/article33197559.ece
28 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||Water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.01 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 10,189 cusecs and discharge nil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33197562.ece
28 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||EPFO hands over pension pay orders on retirement date||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation handed over pension pay orders to a few subscribers who will retire from service on November 30, 2020. The Union Government, in a bid to ensure uninterrupted service delivery to the subscribers of EPFO has introduced the plan, ‘Prayas’ to grant pension to the retiring EPFO subscribers on their date of retirement under this programme. So, the EPFO – Tirunelveli organised a simple event on its premises on Thursday to disburse the pension payment orders to the subscribers retiring on November 30, 2020. Subscribers Arumugathaai, Madakkan and Seenivasan, all employed with Muruga Home Industries, Dhanushkodi of Madura Coats, Thiyagarajan of Lingam Beedi, Rani Padmanabhan of Sri Jayendra Saraswathi Swamigal Golden Jubilee Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Ramakrishnan Ayyanadar of Sernthamaram Agriculture Cooperative Bank, Ganapathi and Rajalingam of Bharathi Cooperative Spinning Mills and Muthu Manickam of Loyal Textile Mills received their pension pay orders from Ganesh Kumar Jani, Regional PF Commissioner - I, EPFO, Tirunelveli. Mr. Jani appealed to the employers to extend their cooperation for the successful implementation of this plan by duly following the pre-requisites required such as KYC of the employees, online updation of profile and nomination, advance payment of the contribution due for the retiring month, forwarding of pension claim in 10-D enclosing the additional documents as deemed necessary. Assistant PF Commissioner V. Kalaichelvan, senior officers of EPFO – Tirunelveli B.V. Harikrishnan, P. Nageswari, S. Safrina, Saraswathi and others were present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-hands-over-pension-pay-orders-on-retirement-date/article33198286.ece
28 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Sell unusable cooking oil for preparing biodiesel||Hoteliers, caterers and traders owning food / snack manufacturing units who are hitherto struggling to deal with the unusable cooking oil generated in their business establishments after preparing a range of food stuff. The unusable oil, which was emptied in drains or in open spaces polluting the environment, can now be sold for preparing biodiesel. The traders can get a decent income from this new business. Hoteliers and units associated with the food industry either destroy the unusable oil or sell it to soap manufacturing units and industries using boilers where it is used a fuel. Sometimes, the unusable oil was being sold to snack manufacturers running small units. As the ‘Repurpose Used Cooking Oil’ (RUCO) programme, which has been designed by National Bio Diesel Corporation to convert the unusable oil into diesel, has yielded good results, hoteliers and food manufacturing units can sell such oil for a reasonable price. “The unusable oil that spoilt nature, water resources and environment can be converted into a fuel to boost our economy. It’s a win-win situation. As the unusable oil is converted into diesel, the oil to be discarded at any cost becomes a most sought-after product without spoiling the nature. Moreover, the oil, which is thrown away, ensures decent revenue to the trader or the hotelier,” said V. Vishnu, Collector, while launching the scheme here on Friday. As per the scheme, the RUCO agent will contact the trader, caterer or the hotelier to buy the oil, which would be purchased by checking its quality scientifically in the presence of the trader. The purchase price of the oil would be fixed after the quality is determined. If the trader and the agent agree to the selling price fixed for the used oil, the amount would be given to the trader immediately. “The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board has made it mandatory that unused oil cannot be discarded by hotels, caterers and food manufacturing units into drains and it would attract penal action. So, these industries which are hitherto struggling to destroy the unusable oil can sell it to the RUCO agents and get decent revenue. Hoteliers, caterers and the food manufacturing unit owners should make use of this opportunity,” Mr. Vishnu observed. After appointing RUCO agents in every district, a common point to store this oil would be created before it was sent to be converted into diesel, he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sell-unusable-cooking-oil-for-preparing-biodiesel/article33198289.ece
28 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||44 sovereigns of gold ornaments stolen||The police are on the lookout for burglars who have stolen gold ornaments worth Rs. 17 lakh from a house at South Kallikulam on Thursday evening. The police said J. Xavier Saroja, 68, of South Kallikulam was looking after the house of her daughter Eskalin in the same village as the latter lives in Mumbai. When Ms. Saroja went to the house on Thursday evening, she found unidentified persons had broken the main door. The men had then entered the house from where they had stolen 44 sovereigns of gold ornaments that were kept in the chest. Based on a complaint lodged by Ms. Saroja, the Valliyoor police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/44-sovereigns-of-gold-ornaments-stolen/article33198287.ece
28 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||IAF recruitment rally to be held in Puducherry||The Indian Air Force’s recruitment rally will be held in Puducherry from December 10 to 19. An official statement from District Employment Office said Indian Air Force offers opportunities for unmarried male Indian citizens from all districts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andaman and Nicobar Islands to join as airmen. The recruitment rally for the same will be held from December 10 to 19 at the Indira Gandhi Sports Complex, Puducherry. Candidates who have passed Plus Two or equivalent examination and born between 17 January 2000 and 30 December 2003 (both days inclusive) are eligible to appear in the recruitment rally. Pre-registration for the rally started at 11 a.m. on November 27, 2020 and will close at 5 p.m. on November 28, 2020 on web portal www.airmenselection. cdac.in. Interested candidates may register their names by visiting the website, the l statement from District Employment Office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iaf-recruitment-rally-to-be-held-in-puducherry/article33198158.ece
28 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Life term for murder||A court here sentenced an elderly man to life imprisonment on Friday for murdering his son following a property dispute. According to prosecution, Gurunathan, 70, of JJ Nagar under Munneerpallam police station limits had a property dispute with his son Karthikeyan alias Karthik, 55. As the enmity worsened, the old man murdered his son in 2014 and the Munneerpallam police registered case against Gurunathan, his wife and mother of the deceased Pitchammal and his younger brother Kannan and arrested the trio. Even as the trial was going on, Pitchammal and Kannan died. District Third Additional Sessions Judge Ravi Shankar awarded life imprisonment to Gurunathan on Friday. He also imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-term/article33197550.ece
28 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Special trains to be operated from Dec. 7||Reserved special trains will be operated between Nagercoil Junction and Mumbai CMST from December onwards. Train Number 06340 Nagercoil Junction – Mumbai CSMT special train will leave Nagercoil Junction at 6 a.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays to reach Mumbai CSMT at 7.15 p.m. the next day. The first service from Nagercoil Junction will be on December 7. Train Number 06339 Mumbai CSMT – Nagercoil Junction special train will leave Mumbai CSMT at 8.35 p.m. on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays to reach Nagercoil at 10.20 a.m. the third day. The first service from Mumbai CSMT will be on December 8. Composition of these trains will be AC 2-tier – 1, AC 3-tier – 4, Sleeper Class – 10 and General Second Class – 2 coaches. These trains will stop at Valliyoor, Nanguneri, Tirunelveli, Kovilpatti, Sattur, Virudhunagar, Madurai Junction, Dindigul, Karur, Salem, Tirupattur, Katpadi, Chittoor, Pakala, Madanapalle Road, Kadiri, Dharmavaram, Anantapur, Guntakal, Adoni, Mantralayam Road, Raichur, Yadgir, Wadi, Kalaburagi, Solapur, Kurduvadi, Daund, Pune, Kalyan, Thane and Dadar. Train Number 06340 Nagercoil Junction – Mumbai CSMT special train will stop at Namakkal also and Train Number 06339 Mumbai CSMT – Nagercoil Junction special train will stop at Karjat also, an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-to-be-operated-from-dec-7/article33197602.ece
28 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 127.90 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 612.50 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs of water was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 95.60 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 139 cusecs and 45 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33198291.ece
28 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Kangeyam woman produced before CWC||A 22-year-old woman, who was arrested in Kangeyam on charges of selling her three-month-old baby boy for Rs. 10,000 and was later released in bail, was produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on Friday. Sources in the Tiruppur District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) said that the CWC allowed the woman and the baby to stay together at a rehabilitation home in Anupparpalayam for the next 10 days. In the meantime, the DCPU would submit a report on whether the woman would be able to look after her child, based on which the CWC would decide, the sources said. According to the Tiruppur District Police, the 22-year-old woman sold her son to a couple on Tuesday. Kangeyam All Women Police Station arrested the three on Wednesday night. They were released on bail on Thursday by the Kangeyam Judicial Magistrate. The woman’s husband was also arrested on Thursday night and released on bail with a warning on Friday, according to police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kangeyam-woman-produced-before-cwc/article33197622.ece
28 November 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Cultivate millets as summer crop’||Advantages in taking up cultivation of millets as summer crops in delta region were explained by scientists to farmers at a meeting held at the ICAR-Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Needamangalam on Friday. The scientists motivated the farmers to take up millets cultivation during the summer, explaining that the quantum of water required for raising millets such as `kambu’, `cholam’, `kezhvaragu’, `thinai’ and `kuthiraivali’ would be much less compared to the requirement of paddy varieties. Further, millets by the virtue of their nutritious value serve as an excellent tool to combat malnutrition and was well received by the consumers, the scientists said. Releasing a booklet on millets cultivation on the occasion, C.Ponnaiyan, former Minister and Vice-Chairperson, State Policy Development Council, pointed out that though cultivation of millets was not new to Delta farmers, millets cultivation thinned out over the past five decades in view of the green revolution which aimed to enhance the paddy production. Now, with people realising the importance of adding millets in their diet in view of its nutritious value, there was an assured market for the millets and the value-added products made out of millets particularly cookies etc. in urban pockets. Further, the cost of cultivation would be much less compared to summer paddy cultivation and also it requires lesser quantum of water for irrigation. Thus, the cultivators could realize a better profit in short term given the marketing prospects of the value-added products of millets, Mr.Ponnaiyan said. Distributing farm inputs to participating farmers, the SPDC vice-chairperson called upon the cultivators to make use of the guidance and training provided to them for taking up millet cultivation at the ICAR-KVK through “Revival of cultivation and marketing of value-added products of millets” programme implemented under the State Balanced Growth Scheme. Collector, V.Santha, Director, Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute, Aduthurai, V.Ambethgar, Programme Coordinator, ICAR-KVK, Needamangalam, M.Ramasubramanian and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cultivate-millets-as-summer-crop/article33197548.ece
28 November 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Annual Credit Plan lays stress on formation of farmers producers’ organisations||The Annual Credit Plan for 2021-22 released by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development for Tiruvarur district has stressed the need for forming Farmers Producers’ Organisations in the district. In the ACP released here on Friday, Collector V.Santha said citing NABARD report that 61% of the total cultivable area in the district is cultivated by small and marginal farmers. Hence, in order to realise the objective of 2021-22 ACP for Tiruvarur district ie “collectivization of agriculture produce for enhancing farmers income”, formation of FPOs becomes imperative. At present, 23 FPOs exist in Tiruvarur district and have shown a remarkable progress in production, preservation and marketing of agriculture produce. Out of the 23 FPOs, 16 enjoy the support of the NABARD, according to an official release. The ACP for 2021-22 has projected a credit outlay of Rs. 4,960 crore as priority loans out of which Rs. 2,909 crore was earmarked for short term crop loans and Rs. 1,256 crore as long-term farm loans. A sum of Rs. 104 crore was earmarked for the education loan, Rs. 179 crore for housing activities, Rs. 30 crore for export and Rs. 8 crore for projects relating to renewable energy apart from Rs. 278 crore for micro, small and medium enterprises, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-credit-plan-lays-stress-on-formation-of-farmers-producers-organisations/article33197555.ece
28 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai reeling after Nivar||The profit earned by selling Kenthai flowers, grown on two acres of agricultural land in Sholavaram in Vellore district, was the only source of income for 37-year-old Chitra to feed her family and educate her daughter. However, Cyclone Nivar destroyed all her flowers and left her hapless. “My husband is no more and my daughter is in college. If I sow seeds for close to Rs. 5,000, I will get flowers worth Rs. 15,000. I sell them to vendors at the Vellore market and I earn a profit of Rs. 7,500. But the cyclone destroyed all the flowers,” she said. Many farmers like her in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai districts were affected by Cyclone Nivar. According to initial estimates by the Vellore district administration, close to 200 acres of land has been affected. In Tiruvannamalai district, over 2,273 hectares of land has been damaged. J. Rajkumar, who owns three acres of land in Kalpattu village in Tiruvannamalai’s Polur taluk, said he sustained heavy financial loss due to crop damage. “I had 550 plantain saplings and corn. The yield would have fetched me a profit of Rs. 2.5 lakh. But this time, I will face a loss,” he said. An estimate of the agricultural loss is being carried out in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai districts. “It will be sent to the government and the farmers will be compensated,” said an official from Vellore. However, farmers are unhappy with the compensation provided by the government. “We spend close to Rs. 100 in planting the saplings and maintaining it, and it fetches us Rs. 250 per bunch. But the government provides Rs. 5 as compensation per banana crop. This has to be increased. We have been fighting for this for a long time now,” said S. Udayakumar, Vellore district secretary, Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam. Better coordination Meanwhile, better coordination between various government departments helped prevent too much damage in the district. “We had already geared up to handle the cyclone. We identified the vulnerable areas and our first responders were alert, and relief centres were identified and prepared. We deployed additional teams when we came to know that the cyclone would pass through Vellore,” said an official from the district administration. The officials also evacuated over 1,000 residents from the banks of the Ponnai and the Koundinya. “There was not too much of an issue in Vellore city as the drains were desilted, the retaining wall was constructed and the bed level was deepened. Due to this, the carrying capacity increased. Hence, there was not much inundation in Vellore town, except in Kansalpet area and Thideer Nagar,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-in-vellore-reeling-after-cyclone/article33198063.ece
28 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||47 new virus cases seen in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,244, with a total of 47 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 18,756 persons have recovered, the active cases in the district stood at 157. The district’s death toll is 331.  Ranipet, Tirupathur In Ranipet district, 11 persons were reported positive, taking the total cases to 15,570. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,207, with 17 new cases on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, nine new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,569. Out of this, 18,184 persons have recovered and the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 110.  While a total of 18,756 persons have recovered in Vellore, the active cases stood at 157. The district’s death toll is 331||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/47-new-virus-cases-seen-in-vellore/article33198298.ece
28 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Sudden rain hits paddy crop in two villages||Farmers of Allalaperi and Vallappanpatti in Kariyapatti are a worried lot as their paddy crop, 70 days to 80 days old, have collapsed following heavy rain coupled with strong wind on Thursday. They said that at least 150 acres of standing paddy crop have been affected. While some of them claimed that they have insured their crop, some say that they were yet to pay the premium. Muthu Chinnu (30) of Vallappanpatti said he had raised paddy on nearly seven acres of land. “Apart from rain, we used lift irrigation for raising the crop,” he said. The crop that was sowed on the day of Aadi Perukku came up very well despite a portion of his well collapsing and damaging his motor pump. “I have been using two borewells, one with free power supply and another without free power for the paddy. Meanwhile, rainfall in the region brought us water for irrigation from Allalaperi tank,” he said. While Muthu Chinnu has spent around Rs. 20,000 on electricity bill for one of the borewells, another young farmer, C. Muthuramalingam (41) of Allalaperi has a power bill of around Rs. 15,000. “Had I not used the borewell despite the burden of huge power bill, I would have missed the season. But, the one-day rain has ruined all my efforts,” rued Mr. Muthuramalingam. Paddy crops on around five acres where ear heads have started to sprout collapsed. The rain that started around 7 p.m. continued till 11 p.m. Stating that farmers who had gone for early sowing on around 100 acres would have met the same ill-fate, he feared that the crop had suffered permanent damage. “In this condition, we cannot operated harvesting machinery even to realise the hay,” he said. Farmers said that they have incurred at least Rs. 17,000 to Rs. 20,000 expenditure on each acre of paddy. Joint Director of Agriculture, S. Uthandaraman, said that if the stagnant water drained within two days, the crop could be salvaged. He said that a field inspection will reveal the gravity of the damage. However, he said that the farmers had every opportunity to register themselves to insure their crops. Around 12,500 acres of paddy crops have been insured so far, he added. Virudhunagar had registered 52.50 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday. Kariyapatti rain gauge station has recorded 8.2mm, Watrap 5.60 mm and Aruppukottai 1 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudden-rain-hits-paddy-crop-in-two-villages/article33197596.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||145 cases, two deaths in Coimbatore district||Salem district reported 76 new cases and one death on Friday. According to health officials, all cases including 40 in Salem Corporation limits were indigenous. The bulletin said a 75-year-old man died in a private hospital here. Of the 36 fresh cases reported in Namakkal, five patients had returned from Chennai, Erode, Coimbatore and Bengaluru. Erode district reported 55 cases, all indigenous. The 145 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Coimbatore took the district’s overall tally to 48,279. Two men aged 68 and 59 died during treatment at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Wednesday, the media bulletin said. Of the 48,279 cases, 46,931 have recovered and 741 were active. The district has so far reported 607 deaths. On Friday, 82 patients from the district were discharged upon recovery. Tiruppur district reported one death and 60 fresh cases. A 63-year-old man from the district died at CMCH. Of the total 15,172 cases, 14,361 have recovered and 603 were active. The district has so far reported 208 deaths. Sixty-eight persons were discharged from various hospitals. In the Nilgiris, 11 people tested positive on Friday. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 7,350 and 155 people were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/76-new-cases-and-one-death-reported-in-salem-district/article33197625.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fresh low pressure area may bring rain on Dec. 1||On the prospects of another cyclonic storm, S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said, “We are monitoring the weather system, which may intensify further. As of now, weather models indicate that rainfall intensity will be more in the southern parts of the State. Places in northern Tamil Nadu, too, will get rain.” Cyclone Nivar weakened into a low pressure area over the south coastal Andhra Pradesh and the central parts of the Bay of Bengal. This brought widespread rain in many places of the interior districts till Friday morning. Sholingur in Ranipet district recorded the day’s highest amount of 23 cm. The cyclone brought down the deficit in the State’s overall seasonal rainfall by nearly 10%. As on Friday, Tamil Nadu received 29.4 cm of rain, which is 15% of its average for the northeast monsoon. Several northwestern districts have now recorded normal or excess rain over the past two days, Mr. Balachandran said. In the next two days, some parts of the State may experience light to moderate rain. Strong winds from the remnants of Cyclone Nivar, which made landfall in the early hours of Thursday, brought a chill over Chennai on Friday morning that lasted well into the day. Temperature drop Minimum temperature in the city dropped to 20.8 degrees Celsius at Nungambakkam and 19.3 degrees Celsius at Meenambakkam, against their normal of 23 degrees Celsius. Officials said low radiation that had led to a drop in day temperature and persistent clouding was another reason for wind chill, the cooling effect of wind on the land. The cyclone moved inland, and strong winds prevailed in the coastal and interior areas long after it made landfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-low-pressure-area-may-bring-rain-on-dec-1/article33198036.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Guard of honour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guard-of-honour/article33198069.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water above the bridge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-above-the-bridge/article33198296.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||28-11-2020-city-cinema||Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's CULTURAL FESTIVAL 2020, Chennai Open-Air Live Programme from 28.11.2020 to 19.12.2020 ( in association with South Zone Cultural Centre, Ministry of Culture, Government of India) at Bhavan's Rajaji Vidyashram Campus, No.6, Kilpauk Garden Road, Kilpauk, Chennai-600 010. Inauguration today at 5.15 pm. Thiru. Banwarilal Purohit, Hon'ble Governor of Tamil Nadu and Vice-President Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, World-wide Inaugurates. Guest of Honour : Thiru. K. Pandiarajan, Hon'ble Minister for Tamil Official Language, Tamil Culture and Archaeology. Sri N. Ravi, Chairman, Bhavan's Chennai Kendra presides. Dr. Nalli Kuppuswami Chetti, Vice-Chairman, Bhavan's Chennai Kendra welcomes the gathering and Sri K.N. Ramaswamy, Director, Bhavan's Chennai Kendra proposes the Vote of Thanks. At 6.00 pm : Vocal Concert by : Padma Bhushan Awardee Tmt. Sudha Ragunathan with Embar Sri S. Kannan ( violin ), Patri Sri S. Satish Kumar ( Mrudangam ) and Sri R. Raman ( Morsing ). Programme Daily at 6.00 pm . 29th Trichur Bros ( Vocal ), 30th : Dr. O.S. Arun ( Bhajan Sandhya ), 1st Dec. Dr. S. Sowmya ( vocal ), 2nd : Sri Kumaresh ( of Sri Ganesh & Sri Kumaresh) ( violin ) 3rd : Vidwan Sri N. Vijay Siva ( vocal ) 4th : Priya Sisters ( vocal ), 5th : Sri T.M. Krishna ( vocal ), 6th : Sri L. Shankar & Sri Vikku Vinayakaram with Sri Selvaganesh and Sri Swaminathan - ' Over the Stars ' - Special Programme, 7th : Harikatha by Sri U. Ve Dushyanth Sridhar with Ms. Anahita and Ms. Apoorva - ' Rama Bhaktiyum Vibhaktiyum ', 8th : Udaiyalur Dr. Kalyanaraman Bhagavathar & Party ( Namasankeerthanam ). 9th : Sri P. Unnikrishnan ( vocal ), 10th : Dr. Nithyashri Mahadevan ( vocal ), 11th : Sri Abishek Raghuram ( vocal ), 12th : Smt. Gayathri Venkataraghavan ( vocal ), 13th : Smt. Vishaka Hari ( Musical Discourse ), 14th : U. Ve Dr. Ananthapadmanabhachariar ( Discourse ), 15th : Prince Rama Varma ( vocal ), 16th : Sri Sikkil Gurucharan ( vocal ), 17th : Sri Ramakrishnan Murthy ( vocal ), 18th : Sri Rajhesh Vaidhya ( Veena ) and 19th : Dr. Pantula Rama ( vocal ). Programme supported by : Sriram Group, Ramco Cements & Ramco Industries, AVA Cholayil Health Care ( Medimix ), Larsen & Toubro, Seshasayee Paper & Boards, MGM Health Care, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Aban Scientific, Kauvery Hospitals., Nalli Silks, Sri Krishna Sweets, Sri K.V. Rangaswamy ( L&T ), Dhanvantari Nano Aushadi, Newry Properties and Indian Oil Corporation. Children below 12 years are not allowed. Admission subject to following S.O.P, ( Temperature check Hand Sanitizing, Wearing Mask and Distance Seating ). . Drive-in facility available. Limited seats on First-cum-First-Served basis. NO TICKETS. Also Watch Live ( Inauguration ) :http://krishnansons.com/bhavans -art-festival-2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-11-2020-city-cinema/article33198044.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||cinema arts events||Coimbatore Cinema Baba Complex, Ph: 2472275 Archana AURO 3D TDX KAVAL THURAI UNGAL NANBAN - 11 a.m., 2.30, 6.30 p.m. Darsana A/c NUNGAMBAKKAM - 11 a.m., 2.30p.m., 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cinema-arts-events/article33198067.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||Shrimati Indira Gandhi College: Webinar on ‘Importance of Cyber Security in IT Industry,’ talk by Shyamraj Bose, Team Lead, IBM, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article33198284.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students want to help farmers reap profits||Students who will graduate from the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore (UAS B) on Saturday are all set to make farms their laboratories with the aim of improving profits for farmers. At the 54th convocation of UAS-B on Saturday, 986 students will get their degrees: 638 will receive their Bachelor’s, 280 their Master’s, and 68 their Doctorates. As many as 18 boys have bagged 59 gold medals and certificates, while 41 girls have got 84 gold medals and certificates. Some of the toppers The Hindu spoke to said they wanted to do their bit for farmers who are the backbone of the economy. Sharath Kothari, 23, who completed B.Sc. in Agriculture from College of Agriculture, Hassan, with 11 gold medals and two gold medal certificates was the topper of the university. He hails from Honnehakkalu, Jaddigadde, Sirsi, Uttara Kannada, from an agricultural family and will be the first graduate in his family. Mr. Sharath, who did his schooling in the Kannada medium, is now pursuing M.Sc Soil Science and Agriculture Chemistry in the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. “I want to establish my own farm and help farmers make profits. During the lockdown, I got the opportunity to introduce grafting techniques in flower crops,” he said. He also tweaked the fertilizer application and compositing method in his farm. “I now get calls from other farmers in my village and I am happy to share my knowledge,” he added. Hamsa P. who completed her B.Sc. in Agricultural Marketing and Co-operation from College of Agriculture, Bengaluru, said that she was surprised when she learnt that she had bagged seven gold medals and one certificate gold medal. She is currently pursuing an M.Sc in Agricultural Extension at the same institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-want-to-help-farmers-reap-profits/article33197647.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Indira Canteen contractors not paid for several months||Contractors of Indira Canteens are finding it difficult to operate them owing to the failure of the government to pay their bills for months on end. The 198 Indira Canteens, including mobile canteens, which enjoy the patronage of thousands of citizens, are operated by Chef Talk Food and Hospitality Services Pvt. Ltd., Rewards and Adamya Chetana. Udaykumar of Rewards told The Hindu that the BBMP has not cleared their bills for more than seven months. He used to operate 88 canteens, but is now managing 50, as per the new tenders, which, sources in the civic body said, came into effect on August 1. As per the new tender, the subsidy from the government has come down by nearly Rs. 7. The government subsidy (for three meals per day) was earlier Rs. 37, but is now Rs. 30.3, he said. Citizens pay Rs. 25 for three meals a day. “Though the cost of essential commodities has increased, the subsidy has been reduced,” he said. That apart, water and power connections to the canteens are under the commercial category. “We have submitted representations to the BBMP, BWSSB and Bescom seeking change in category to domestic, to no avail,” he added. A representative of Adamya Chetana, which started operating 44 canteens under the new tender, admitted that there were some issues with water and power connections. “We have recently taken over. There many unresolved issues pertaining to unpaid power and water charges. As a result, water supply to a few canteens has been suspended,” he said. Admitting to a delay in clearing bills, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said the State government had not released money for maintenance of the canteens. “This has affected payment to contractors. We have written several times to the government about the same,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indira-canteen-contractors-not-paid-for-several-months/article33198018.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR plans 3 pairs of trains to KIA||South Western Railways (SWR) is exploring the feasibility of operating three pairs trains to and from Kempegowda International Airport for the benefit of passengers. If all goes as planned, one train will leave Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Bengaluru Railway Station at 4.45 a.m. and another at 9 p.m. The third train will leave from Yelahanka at 7 a.m. E. Vijaya, chief public relations officer of SWR, said the schedule is subject to approval from the Railway Board. “The schedule was prepared after consulting airport officials. The proposed timings will cater to peak hour traffic,” she said. For the return journey, the trains will depart from Devanahalli at 6.30 a.m., 7.45 a.m. and 10.30 p.m. “Prior to the lockdown, eight trains were operational on this line. A stoppage will be given for these trains at the newly-built halt station on the boundary of the airport campus,” she added. Tickets are likely to be priced at Rs. 30 from Majestic and Rs. 10 from Yelahanka. Journey time From KSR Bengaluru, the train will halt at major stations en route and the journey time could be as long as 1.15 hours. “It is likely to come down when the final time table gets approval. We may skip some stations en route. Halts include Cantonment, Bengaluru East, Baiyappanahalli, Channasandra and Yelahanka. The service will help people living in the CBD and eastern part of the city, such as K.R. Puram and Whitefield,” said Ms. Vijaya. Ever since the relaxation of lockdown rules, there has been a growing demand to resume suburban train services and introduce services to the airport. KIA has seen a gradual increase in passenger traffic. “As a result, road traffic has increased. The halt station [near KIA] is ready but the authorities are yet to introduce services,” said Rajkumar Duggar, convenor of Citizens for Citizens. Citizens have highlighted the need for a good access road from the highway to the halt station. “The authorities should develop Doddajala station so that local residents also get the benefit of the train services. Starting train services from multiple points in the city will help a large number of people,” Mr. Duggar added. Citizen activist Sanjeev Dyamannavar pointed out that if the service takes off, it will benefit not just air passengers but also people working at KIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-plans-3-pairs-of-trains-to-kia/article33198030.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Non-COVID-19 services will be resumed at BMCRI||Students of Bengaluru Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), who had been missing out on their practical classes ever since hospitals affiliated to BMCRI were turned into dedicated COVID-19 facilities, now have a reason to cheer. The Medical Education Department is all set to resume non-COVID-19 services at the institute from December 1. Non-COVID-19 services have been partially restarted in all other medical colleges. Hospitals affiliated to BMCRI, mainly Victoria hospital, continue to be dedicated COVID-19 facilities. When the pandemic hit Karnataka in March, the State government had identified Victoria hospital as the first dedicated COVID-19 hospital. Medical Education Director P.G. Girish told The Hindu that non-COVID-19 services would begin at the institute from December 1. “This will not only benefit non-COVID-19 patients, but also our students who have been missing out on practical classes,” he said. “Our students will risk qualifying with inadequate skills if we further delay resuming non-COVID-19 services. Now that COVID-19 cases are declining, we want to reserve only the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre for COVID-19. As medical students are evaluated based on their surgical skills and practical experience, we may have to postpone their examinations this year,” Dr. Girish said. He said an Operation Theatre (OT) log book is maintained in the three years of the PG course to record the number of surgeries students individually performed, operations they assisted and witnessed, besides noting whether they were first assistants. “This is as per National Medical Commission’s norms and have to be followed at any cost,” he added. Dedicated COVID-19 hospitals under the Health and Family Welfare Department that have partially restarted non-COVID-19 services are awaiting the nod to further expand their services. State Health Director Om Prakash R. Patil said the department will take a call in another two weeks. “We will have to be prepared for a possible second wave, but at the same time we will have to now ensure non-COVID-19 services are not hit.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/non-covid-19-services-will-be-resumed-at-bmcri/article33198024.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vijayanagara gets 6 taluks||The State Cabinet on Friday approved inclusion of six taluks in the newly formed Vijayanagara district from Ballari district. A Cabinet meeting, presided over by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, decided on inclusion of Hosapete, Hagaribommanahalli, Hoovina Hadagali, Kottur, Kudligi, and Harapanahalli in Vijayanagara district with Hosapete as its headquarters. Ballari district will have the remaining five taluks of Ballari, Siruguppa, Sandur, Kurugodu, and Kampli. The undivided district has 11 taluks and 10 Assembly constituencies. The Cabinet last week decided to bifurcate Ballari district. On land for mining Law and Parliamentary Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said it was decided in the Cabinet to constitute a Cabinet sub-committee to study if 2,058 acres of government land can be given to JSW Steel Plant at Toranagal in Ballari–Hosapete iron ore belt for mining. The former Minister H.K. Patil of the Congress and other leaders had strongly opposed selling land to the steel plant during the tenure of the coalition government headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy in 2019. Among other decisions, the Cabinet approved revised cost of Rs. 384 crore for construction of the Shivamogga airport. Earlier, the cost was Rs. 224 crore. It approved release of Rs. 39.36 crore for the Agricultural Marketing Department for construction of godowns with the aid of NABARD.  As per the Hota Committee recommendations, it was decided that candidates will be called for interviews for gazette probationary posts by the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) in the ratio of 1:15. Earlier, the KPSC used to hold interviews for 20 candidates for every post (1:20). The Minister said a Cabinet sub-committee headed by Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu would be constituted to fill backlog posts in SC and ST categories. The Cabinet approved development of 98 housing colonies by the Karnataka Housing Board in different towns of the State. The estimated cost of these colonies would be Rs. 7,275 crore. Ahead of polls With Maski constituency going for bypolls soon, the Cabinet approved a Rs. 52.54 crore canal modernisation work in Maski. Several Ministers did not attend the Cabinet meeting as they are away visiting Delhi and other cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayanagara-gets-6-taluks/article33197794.ece
28 November 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chapatis not on menu||There were proposals to include ragi mudde and chapati in the menu of Indira Canteens. However, it will be some time before they find a place on the menu. A representative of Adamya Chetana said that they were initially prepared to introduce chapatis. However, with the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, they put off their decision since chapatis have to be rolled by hand. “In our kitchen in Jodhpur, a machine is used to make flat breads. They are thicker and tougher, and are called ‘roti’. Those will not suit the south Indian palate,” the representative added. Udaykumar from Rewards, however, had other reasons. He said non-payment of pending bills and increase in cost of essential commodities were the main reasons for not including ragi mudde and chapati in the menu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chapatis-not-on-menu/article33198020.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bouncers prevent entry into BBMP office||A group of men allegedly took over guard duties at the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) gate on Friday ahead of an event. Eyewitnesses claimed the men – acting as bouncers – prevented the entry of vehicles into the premises, even as the security guards and marshals remained mute spectators. The bouncers were hired by BBMP Employees’ Union Kannada Sangha that had organised a programme to unveil the bust of thespian Dr. Rajkumar in the civic body’s head office as part of 65th Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations. Actors Shivaraj Kumar and Puneet Rajkumar were invited for the programme, along with former mayor M. Goutham Kumar. A Group D employee was reportedly assaulted by one of the bouncers, but later retracted his statement. Amruth Raj, president of the union, confirmed that the bouncers had been hired, but denied that they had assaulted an employee. “The employee has denied being assaulted. We had obtained the requisite permission from the Commissioner and Administrator for the programme,” he said. Special Commissioner (Administration) Manjunath claimed that they were not present within the civic body’s premises. Mr. Manjunath also claimed that no employee was assaulted. “I have not received any complaint from anyone. If the aggrieved employee comes forward to complain, we will look into it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bouncers-prevent-entry-into-bbmp-office/article33198021.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre of excellence to be set up||The State Cabinet on Friday decided to establish a centre for excellence in Bengaluru in association with the Software Technology Park of India (STPI). It is estimated cost is Rs. 26.77 crore. The State would contribute its share of Rs. 18.6 crore to the project. The centre of excellence will focus on efficiency augmentation under the Union government’s digital platforms, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said. The Cabinet has decided to include Laxmipura village of Somashettyhalli in Yeshwantpur hobli, Kanshiramnagar, Mallasandra, and parts of Manavarthe Kaval in Uttarahalli to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike limits. It was decided to include three officials from the Finance Department, Railways, and Urban Development Department in the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation’s committee, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-of-excellence-to-be-set-up/article33197791.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plea seeks ST status for Kurubas||A delegation of Kuruba religious and political leaders on Friday met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and urged him to declare Kurubas as Scheduled Tribe throughout the State on a par with ‘Kurumans’. In a memorandum, they drew the attention to their petition submitted to the National Commission for SCs and STs in 2000 and 2002 seeking ST status for Kurubas, and it recommended to Parliament that Kurubas be considered as ST throughout the State without geographical barrier. The file concerned is pending before the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment since January 2004 for the purpose of drafting a Bill that could be introduced in Parliament, Kuruba ST Horata Samiti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-seeks-st-status-for-kurubas/article33197792.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Janasamparka Divasa’ of police today||The first ‘Janasamparka Divasa’, a public outreach programme where citizens can walk into police stations to meet senior officers or get grievances redressed, will be held on Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. The police plan to hold the programme on the fourth Saturday of every month. Citizens can use the opportunity to enquire about the status of their complaint. The police will return recovered stolen items to their owners during the interaction. Any pending application for verification, including for passport, will be done on the spot on the production of required documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/janasamparka-divasa-of-police-today/article33198022.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Building plan details posted online||The BBMP has put details of building plans approved, commencement certificates (CCs) and occupancy certificates (OCs) on its website for the perusal of the public. According to BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, this is the first time that such details have been put in the public domain. He said that all plan approvals, CCs and OCs issued during 2019-20 and 2020-21 (till date) are now accessible on the BBMP’s website. As per data provided, as many as 10,311 building plans had been approved during 2019-20 till date, while 356 CCs and 329 OCs had been issued during the same period. Of the total building plans approved, the maximum are from Rajarajeshwarinagar zone (2,394). To view the plans approved and other details of the Town Planning Department, citizens may visithttps://bbmp.gov.in/town planning.html.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/building-plan-details-posted-online/article33198028.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anthropological study planned||The Cabinet would decide on recommending inclusion of various communities under the Centre’s OBC list after obtaining reports from anthropologists about the nature of backwardness of the communities. “Anthropologists will be asked to study how people are backward, the percentage of people residing in villages, involved in farming, labour work, artisans etc,” Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anthropological-study-planned/article33197790.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Put pressure on Centre for funds: BSY||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has appealed to MPs from the State to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to seek additional funds for projects in their constituencies. The Chief Minister on Friday reviewed progress of various Central government projects that are being implemented in the State. Sources said that Mr. Yediyurappa urged the MPs to submit petitions to the Centre seeking funds for development activities in the State. He also told MPs to put pressure on Union Ministers to get more funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/put-pressure-on-centre-for-funds-bsy/article33197646.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Appointed||Shailendra Kashinath Beldal of Bidar has been appointed as chairman of the Karnataka State Industrial and Development Corporation Ltd., said a notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointed/article33197789.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 100 cr. for police modernisation||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday promised to grant Rs. 100 crore for modernisation of the State police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-100-cr-for-police-modernisation/article33198019.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||500 kg of prohibited items collected at airport every week||Security personnel at KIA are collecting over 500 kg of prohibited items per week. Authorities claim to have witnessed an increase in the collection of tools, blades, lighters, coconuts, toy guns, packs containing ghee and spices over the last few months. “These items are confiscated by the CISF at the security screening area. Passengers are unaware of the prohibited objects, which potentially impact the frisking process, resulting in delays due to the manual examination of such baggage,” said KIA in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/500-kg-of-prohibited-items-collected-at-airport-every-week/article33198027.ece
28 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa in Shivamogga tomorrow||ChiefMinister B.S. Yediyurappa will visit Shivamogga on Sunday to take part in a programme on Sahyadri College campus. He will inaugurate a building of Sahyadri Science College, the welcome arch of Sahyadri Arts College, and an additional building of the boys’ hostel on the campus. Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Naryana, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa, Deputy Chairman of Legislative Council S.L. Dharme Gowda, Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra and other elected representatives are expected to attend the programme. The Chief Minister is scheduled to reach Shivamogga around 11 a.m. After attending the programme on the college campus, he will take part in a private programme, before leaving for Bengaluru at 5.20 p.m., according to a communiqué from the Chief Minister’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-in-shivamogga-tomorrow/article33197781.ece
28 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||In Hassan||Condemning the police action against protesters on a march to Delhi opposing some recent laws, members of farmers’ organisations took out a protest march in Hassan on Friday. Activists of CITU, CPM, Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha, Dalit Sangharsha Samiti, and Rajya Raitha Sangha participated in the protest march, which began at Hemavati Statue Circle here. They raised slogans against the Union government for its recent policies on the farm sector and also the police action against the farmers on the protest. Dharmesh, district CITU president, said the Centre had stopped the farmers’ protest rally in Delhi and the police had used force against them. “Farmers will not bow down to these tactics. We will continue with the protests against the anti-farm policies of the Centre,” he said. The protesters also tried to lay siege to the office of Postal Department near the city bus stand. As the police did not allow them to enter the office, they staged a dharna on the road, affecting the traffic. The police took the protesters into custody and released them later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-hassan/article33197782.ece
28 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Former MLC’s appeal to BJP||Former legislator B.R. Gurudev has appealed to the Bharatiya Janata Party to consider any of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat leaders from Hassan district for the chairmanship of a board or corporation. At a press conference in Hassan on Friday, Mr. Gurudev said many Veerashaiva-Lingayat leaders had worked hard to strengthen the BJP in Hassan, but had not been recognised after the party came to power. “I was an MLC from the Janata Dal (S). Extending my support to B.S. Yediyurappa, I resigned and since then I have been following him. But he has also ignored me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-mlcs-appeal-to-bjp/article33197786.ece
28 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Idol at temple being repaired||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has taken up mending of the damaged Kali idol of Mahalakshmi Temple at Doddagaddavalli near Hassan. The idol was found damaged on November 20. Two modellers from Chennai are working on the idol. It will take another 14 days before the temple is opened to devotees as the idol will take time to set in. Following the incident, senior officials of ASI, including Regional Director (South Zone) G. Maheshswari, Superintending Archaeologist Shivakant Bajpai, besides officials of Hassan district administration, visited the village. The Hassan Rural police have taken up a probe. It is not yet clear how the idol was damaged. The police, during the preliminary investigation, did not find proof suggesting the use of external force to remove the idol. However, the police did notice a lack of proper care and security at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/idol-at-temple-being-repaired/article33197787.ece
28 November 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Mixed response to Cabinet dropping Lingayat quota issue from agenda||The State government’s move to recommend Veerashaiva Lingayat community for inclusion in the Central OBC list and the last-minute decision to drop it from the Cabinet agenda on Friday received mixed reactions from Lingayat seers and leaders, with a few again raising the demand for independent religion status for Lingayatism. Head of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha at Kudalasangama Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami, who is leading a campaign for inclusion of Lingayat Panchamasali community under 2A category in the State and in the Central OBC list, hoped that the issue would be taken up in the next Cabinet meeting. Failing this, he proposes to take out a padayatra from Kudalasangama in Bagalkot district to Bengaluru from December 23. “Our main demand was inclusion of Panchamasali community under 2A category and inclusion of all backward Lingayats in the Central OBC list. The Chief Minister had promised to take it up in Friday’s Cabinet meeting,” he said. The swami said that they would go ahead with the padayatra march if there was no “positive” development before the deadline. Shivamurthy Murugha Sharanaru, head of Brihan Mutt in Chitradurga, who earlier supported the movement for an independent religion status for Lingayat, said inclusion in Central OBC list was needed for the uplift of the economically and socially backward communities within the community. In Bidar, national president of Lingayat Basava Dharma Peetha Channabasavanand Swami urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to take up the issue of independent religion status and get the recommendation of the previous government approved by the Union government. “While giving reservation to the deprived is welcome, it should not be considered as the main objective of the Lingayat movement,” he said. Basava Prabhu Swami of Mahamane, Basavakalyan, indirectly took a dig at the Chief Minister, saying all the moves were done keeping in mind the Assembly byelection to Basavakalyan. Being a Lingayat, Mr. Yediyurappa should try to provide independent religion status for it, which he said was the right way of recognising Basavanna. Amid these developments, another section of leaders and seers among the Lingayats such as former Minister Basavaraj Horatti and others are seeking 16% reservation for Lingayats in the State on the lines of similar reservation provided to Marathas in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mixed-response-to-cabinet-dropping-lingayat-quota-issue-from-agenda/article33197638.ece
28 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Hubballi Calling’ launched||Expressing dismay over the delay in making the Infosys campus in Hubballi functional, members of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), launched the ‘Hubballi Calling’ campaign on Friday and urged the Infosys CEO via a letter to start its Hubballi operations. Staging a unique protest in front of the Infosys campus near the Hubballi airport on Friday, led by AAP Dharwad district president Santosh Naragund, office-bearers including Vikas Soppin, Pratibha Divakar, Shashikumar Sullad, V.B. Maganur, Lata Angadi and others laid the red carpet and presented roses to campus security. A memorandum addressed to the CEO of Infosys Saleel Parekh was submitted to the local staff of the company in which they have urged the authorities to get the required help from Dharwad district administration and the state government for resolving administrative issues if any. Mr. Naragund said that although Infosys had developed hi-tech infrastructure utilising the 43 acres of land acquired from the farmers by the State government, it was disappointing that the infrastructure was not being utilised properly even three years after getting the campus ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-calling-launched/article33197644.ece
28 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||State govt. urged to set up panel to fix SAP||The former MLA B.R. Patil has criticised the State government for not constituting a committee for fixing State Advisory Price (SAP) and also accused sugar factories of not declaring Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) fixed by the Union government for sugarcane. Addressing presspersons here on Friday, Mr. Patil said that though the Union government has fixed a different ex-gate FRP for all sugar factories in the State, the factories have failed to notify the sugarcane farmers about it. The sugar factories have begun accepting produce, but most of them have not informed the farmers the price fixed for their produce. The committee for fixing SAP, which is presided over by the Sugar Minister, has not been constituted in the last three years; this clearly shows that the government is hand in glove with the sugar factories, Mr. Patil said. He urged the Centre to increase the percentage of ethanol blending from 20 to 50 in petroleum fuels. Mr. Patil said that the sugar mills have violated the recommendations made by the C. Rangarajan committee which suggested a revenue-sharing model for farmers, wherein sugar factories have to distribute 70 % of realisation on sugar and by-products to farmers. The farmers are entitled to a 70 % share in the value of sugar and its by-products, he said. Mr. Patil also urged the Centre to bring sugarcane crop under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. “The representatives from the district and sugarcane growers will call on Minister for Labour and Sugar Shivaram Hebbar during his visit to Kalaburagi district in the first week of December and set a deadline of a week for constituting the committee to fix SAP. We will intensify our agitation if the government failed to address the problems of sugarcane growers,” he added. Though the Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner had, in a joint meeting with sugar factory representatives and sugarcane growers last week, directed the factories to clear payments within 15 days after supply of sugarcane, none of the farmers have been paid for their sugarcane procured so far, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-urged-to-set-up-panel-to-fix-sap/article33197635.ece
28 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Specially designed devices, aids distributed to 786 persons||Kalaburagi (South) MLA Dattatreya Patil Revoor has called for an end to neglect. He sought the promotion of rights-based empowerment of physically-challenged persons. “Differently-abled people do not need mercy, but rights. If they have equal opportunities and rights, they can become self-reliant and contribute to the welfare of society,” Mr. Revoor said. He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the Samajik Adhikarita Shivir organised by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The programme was jointly organised by the district administration, Department for the Empowerment of the Differently Abled and Senior Citizens, Kalaburagi in association with Bengaluru –based Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India Ltd (ALIMCO), in the city on Friday. Mr. Revoor reiterated that the welfare programmes and schemes launched by the Centre and State government for the assistance of the differently-abled persons should reach the needy beneficiaries, he said. Assistive devices, tricycles, and other aids were distributed to 786 persons with disabilities at the programme. Afzalpur MLA M.Y. Patil, and Karnataka State Women Development Corporation (KSWDC) chairperson Shashikasla Tengli were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/specially-designed-devices-aids-distributed-to-786-persons/article33197642.ece
28 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi corpn. reaches out to street vendors with loans||The Kalaburagi City Corporation has reached the doorsteps of street vendors to give them loan of Rs. 10,000 each under the Pradhan Mantri SVANidhi Scheme. The corporation has set up service centres in different localities to receive applications from the street vendors. Commissioner of Kalaburagi City Corporation Snehal S. Lokhande speaking to The Hindu here on Wednesday said that all street vendors who are engaged in vending, including pushcarts and makeshift vendors, in the city can avail themselves of the benefits of the scheme for their business purpose. The scheme aims not only to empower street vendors by extending loans to them but also to bolster their economic conditions. The city corporation is also issuing Certificate of Vending/Identity Card for all the vendors. “We have identified 6,000 street vendors in the city; we have a target to cover at least 5400 street vendors in the city under this scheme,” he said. “We launched a 10-day special campaign on November 22 to raise awareness about the scheme and receive applications. We have been receiving around 250 applications every day,” he added. Mr. Lokhande, who visited the centres set up in the market locality, explained the scheme to the vendors and also suggested to them to apply for a vendor’s identity card. For identity card registration, the vendors must submit a photocopy of their Aadhaar card, ration card, electoral identity card, bank passbook, two passport size photographs and two family photographs. The service is available free in eight Seva Kendras — five in the market locality and one each in the Dargah Area, SVP Chowk and TV Station area. In addition to this, the vendors can avail themselves of the services through CSC centres set up in 11 areas in the city where minimum fees will be collected, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-corpn-reaches-out-to-street-vendors-with-loans/article33197633.ece
28 November 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Cabinet approves boundaries of Vijayanagara district||The State Cabinet on Friday approved the boundaries of the new Vijayanagara district. As per the official communication, six taluks from Ballari district – Hospet, Harappanahalli, Hoovinahadagali, Hagari Bommanahalli, Kotturu and Kudligi – would expectedly be the part of the new district and the remaining five taluks – Ballari, Sandur, Kampli, Kurugode and Siruguppa – would remain in Ballari district after the bifurcation. Hosapet would be the headquarters of the new district. While the World Heritage Site of Hampi and the magnificent Tungabhadra reservoir would be part of Vijayanagara district, the mining areas and the mining-based industries and rice-growing irrigated belts and rice mills would be distributed between the two districts. Though Forest Minister and Ballari in-charge Anand Singh, the man who was instrumental in the formation of the new district, had, as a bid to pacify the dissent for the Ballari bifurcation, repeatedly said that the boundaries of the new district and its headquarters would be finalised as per the administrative convenience, the Cabinet did not alter the original proposal both in terms of the taluks to be carved out from Ballari district to form the new district and the headquarters. Bigger in area Apart from the number of taluks, the new district would be bigger than the Ballari district in terms of geographical area. Vijayanagar would have 5,644 sq.km as compared to Ballari with 4,252 sq.km. Vijayanagara would have 18 hoblis and Ballari 13. But in terms of population as per the 2011 census, Ballari would be slightly bigger with 14,00,970 people as compared to Vijayanagara’s 13,53,628. In September 2019, a delegation comprising Anand Singh and J.N. Ganesh, MLAs of Vijayanagar and Kampli respectively, MLC K.C. Kondaiah, Congress leader Allam Veerabhadrappa and other leaders met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and demanded the formation of new the district. Positively responding to this demand, Mr. Yediyurappa, in an official note, highlighted the need for the bifurcation of Ballari district and directed the Chief Secretary to include the issue in the next Cabinet meeting. Since there was some opposition to the demand, particularly from the camp of Reddy brothers, the proposal was put on hold temporarily. On November 18, 2020, the Cabinet approved the formation of Vijayanagar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-approves-boundaries-of-vijayanagara-district/article33197640.ece
28 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Provocative message causes anxiety among people in city||A provocative writing on a compound wall of a residential complex in Bejai in the central part of the city caused concern among residents on Friday. The writing, in English, “Do not force us to invite Laskhar-e-Taiba and Taliban to deal with Sanghis and Manvedis # Lashkar Zindabad”, was found on the compound wall of the residential apartment on the road connecting the Circuit House and the KSRTC Bus Stand here. After getting to know about it, the police took action to get the writing erased. Condemning the act, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath said in his statement that the writing in support of terrorist organisations is a matter of concern. Zero tolerance There will be zero tolerance to such writings, he said and added that such thinking among a certain section of society has to be nipped in the bud. He said he has spoken to the police and asked them to trace those involved. ‘Rumours’ Democratic Youth Federation of India State president Muneer Katipalla said that the writing has not only caused concern among people but also led to rumours. As the place is only a few metres away from the Mangaluru East Police Station, the incident highlights the failure of the police, he added. Such writings reflect poorly on the governance of B.S. Yediyurappa government in whose period the crime rate is really going high, Mr. Katipalla said. When people are concerned about reduced income, unemployment, education and health, such writings look like an organised act to divert attention from pressing issues and at the same time, create communal tension, he said. VHP protest Meanwhile, activists from the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bajrang Dal staged a protest demanding action against the perpetrators. Activists from the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad too organised a demonstration near the War Memorial here on Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/provocative-message-causes-anxiety-in-mangaluru/article33197645.ece
28 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fisheries college urges MoEFCC to get ship removed from Surathkal beach||Expressing concern over the continued presence of dredging vessel MV Bhagvati Prem at Surathkal Beach near here, the College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, has written to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) to immediately arrange to shift it. Enclosing a letter from local fishermen associations, college dean A. Senthil Vel in his recent letter said the vessel poses great danger to the coast as it could cause serious erosion as was experienced by MV River Princess off Goa coast. The long presence of River Princess on Candolim Beach since 2002 had affected over 2 km of the serene beach stretch, Prof. Vel recalled. The ship remained on the beach for a decade because of legal complications. Prof. Vel noted that the matter of River Princess was dealt with y the MoEFCC and a criminal complaint was lodged by the Ministry against the owners of the ship, Government of Goa. The Ministry finally directed removal of the ship. In view of the seriousness of the long presence of over a year of Bhagvati Prem off Surathkal coast, Mr. Senthil urged the Ministry to direct one of its officers to visit the site and submit a report. Based on the report, necessary directions under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, may be issued by the Ministry to the proponent and others involved to tow the ship to a safer location or to a recognised ship breaking unit to be dismantled. At no instance, the ship may be allowed to remain beached for more than 30 days or be permitted to undertake breaking of the ship in-situ which would be environmentally disastrous, Prof. Senthil cautioned. Bhagvati Prem, that was engaged in dredging the waters of New Mangalore Port, was beached at Surathkal Beach by the Port Trust on October 28 last after it developed technical snag and witnessed waterlogging. The action was taken to prevent the possible sinking of the vessel in the turbulent sea conditions as another dredger vessel MV Tridev Prem sunk in NMPT limits on September 2 last. NMPT thereafter asked its owners, M/s Mercator as well as the Director General of Shipping to remove the ship from the location. With no response from the either, it also put out a public notice for the removal of the ship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fisheries-college-urges-moefcc-to-get-ship-removed-from-surathkal-beach/article33198169.ece
28 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||8-km stretch on Hemmadi-Kollur Road being widened to 11 m||An 8-km stretch of the Hemmadi-Kollur Road that carries a majority of tourist vehicles to the temple town of Kollur is being widened to 11 m by the Public Works Department. Kollur is about 30 km from Hemmadi Junction that is located 8 km north of Kundapur on Kochi-Panvel National Highway 66. Tourist vehicles from different places, including Kerala, take this road to reach Kollur via Vandse. The undulating and winding road falls under four different State Highways/ Major District Roads, including Hemmadi-Devalkunda Major District Road and Virajpet-Byndoor State Highway, and passes through Kundapur and Byndoor Assembly constituencies. While it was widened to 5.5 m a few years ago, people’s representatives and the department felt that the width was insufficient to cater to the increasing vehicular traffic. PWD’s Assistant Engineer in Kundapur Raghavendra Naik told The Hindu that the initial proposal was to widen the road to 7 m. However, local MLAs Halady Srinivas Shetty and B.M. Sukumar Shetty wanted the road to be widened to 11 m. Funds were being arranged from State Highway Development Project for widening the road stretch by stretch. At present, the road is being widened between Hemmadi and Nempu Cross, just before Vandse town. An estimated Rs. 42 crore was being spent on the widening work, Mr. Naik said. Though the widening work commenced in December last, it almost came to a halt during the COVID-19 lockdown only to resume after the South-West monsoon rain subsided. Yet, widening was getting affected on some stretches due to delay in shifting electricity poles as well as objections from the Forest Department. Meanwhile, the Virajpet-Byndoor State Highway too would be widened between Nempu Cross and Vandse to a width of 7 m shortly, Mr. Naik said. Thus, the Hemmadi-Kollur Road would be widened to a sufficient width stretch by stretch, he added. Some small stretches of the road between Hemmadi and Nempu Cross that were already widened to 7 m would also remain as they are.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8-km-stretch-on-hemmadi-kollur-road-being-widened-to-11-m/article33198166.ece
28 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Decrease in detection of HIV cases in DK this year||Like other diseases, there is significant decrease in detection of Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) cases in Dakshina Kannada following COVID-19 and its restrictions, said District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bayeri here on Friday. Speaking with reporters, Dr. Bayeri said the decrease is because of low turn out of people to the Out Patient Departments in hospitals. “The number of people coming to the OPD continues to be low. Hence, like other viruses, detection of HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) among people is less,” he said. Red zone On an average, 500 HIV new cases have been reported every year since 2013 in Dakshina Kannada, which is among the districts in the red zone in the State. In 2018, the number of cases was at 530 and dropped to 422 in 2019. In the last 11 months, 103 HIV positive cases, which included three pregnant women, were found out of the 13,017 persons who were tested. The pandemic, he said, has not affected care of HIV infected patients. Dr. Bayeri added. Apart from two Anti Retroviral Therapy (ART), there are taluk and community hospitals, which are the Link ARTs, where treatment of 4,080 HIV positive persons was being done. The viral loads in these persons are checked and they getting medicines by the 26th of every month, Dr. Bayeri said. AIDS control Bhadruddin, District TB Officer and nodal officer for AIDS control in the district, said NGOs were actively working on AIDS control by bringing HIV positive patients to the 20 Integrated Counselling and Testing centres, the two ARTS and the Link ARTs. “There is no stoppage of remuneration for the NGOs,” he said. Donated blood J. Sharath Kumar Rao, Senior Specialist from the Regional Blood Transfusion Centre of the Government Wenlock Hospital, said that testing of blood that is donated voluntarily has stopped spread of HIV through blood transfusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decrease-in-detection-of-hiv-cases-in-dk-this-year/article33198170.ece
28 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MIT team bags gold at iGEM 2020||Manipal BioMachines (MBM), a synthetic biology research team from Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, bagged the gold medal on its first attempt at the International Genetically Engineered Machine competition (iGEM 2020). The result was announced at the iGEM Giant Jamboree, hosted virtually from November 13 to 23. The iGEM Foundation is an independent, non-profit organisation dedicated to the advancement of synthetic biology and applied biotechnology. It encourages scientific innovation through annual competition that witnesses more than 6,000 participants from various disciplines across the globe. The teams had to submit videos, a poster and a website documenting all information related to their project within stringent deadlines. The competition took place over the summer of 2020, and 249 teams participated from 36 countries. The foundation chose to find an effective, long-term and novel solution to methylmercury poisoning - nicknamed ‘Breaking Bond’. Humans exposed to methylmercury through contaminated fish could experience neurological problems. “By designing a probiotic pill that converts methylmercury to elemental mercury - which is less toxic, we hope to provide a solution to methylmercury poisoning to a large number of people, both in terms of cost as well as usability,” said Varun Udaya Kumar, Manipal BioMachines team leader. The team worked on designing experiments to obtain the proof of concept for their probiotic bacteria keeping in mind the conditions in the gut environment. A small-scale hardware device was also designed by the team that can simulate the gut conditions. Beyond the technology, the team was also evaluated on teamwork, responsibility, entrepreneurship, collaborations, safety and more. The team of 21 students comprised Niyati Sanghvi, Soumodeep Sarkar, Adithi Somayaji, Shravan Balasubramaniam, and Sanya Lakhotia amongst others. They were mentored by Ritu Raval and Praveen Kumar, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor at the Department of Biotechnology, MIT, Manipal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mit-team-bags-gold-at-igem-2020/article33198167.ece
28 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘BJP empowering panchayats to work autonomously’||While Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) governments failed to develop panchayats, the BJP government has given more funds to panchayats in the last two years and is working as per the wishes of people, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan here on Friday. Speaking at the Grama Swarajya convention in Udupi, Mr. Narayan said like cities, villages should develop too. There should be equanimity in development of cities and villages and BJP government was doing this. It was working on digitalising panchayat governance through which there will be accountability for every rupee spent by the panchayat. The panchayats will be empowered to take all actions for its development and will not have to come to taluk or district headquarters for this. The BJP was committed to the Gram Swaraj concept, he said. ‘Stronger village units’ Speaking at Grama Swarajya programme in Koteshwara later, Mr. Narayan said the BJP was unchallenged at the national level and should get stronger at the panchayat level. Every party worker should work in an organised way and strengthen party units in villages by being in close contact with villagers, he said. The BJP government was providing funds for development of drinking water supply, roads and other essential services in panchayats. It was actively pursuing building toilets in every house and bringing the Swachh Bharath Mission closer to people, he said. State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel, Udupi Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje and Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat were present in the two programmes. Tributes were paid former Minister V.S. Acharya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-empowering-panchayats-to-work-autonomously/article33198172.ece
28 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Worker dies||A worker involved in laying electricity lines died while two others were injured following an electrocution in Shalettadka Chakottady of Kaleja village of Belthangady taluk on Friday. According to Dharmastala police, Pratap, Nagappa and Kishore were involved in climbing electricity poles and laying lines. The police said MESCOM lineman Uday had not the cut down the electricity supply of the area where the three labourers were working. As a result, around 1 p.m., Pratap got electrocuted and died on the pole soon after he touched the live line. Nagappa and Kishore suffered burns and fell. They were admitted to a nearby hospital. The police registered a case under Sections 338 and 304 (A) of the IPC against Uday, sub-contractor Kishore Poojary and main contractor Mugarodi Constructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/worker-dies/article33198171.ece
28 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested||The Economic and Narcotic Crime sleuths on Friday arrested two persons allegedly involved in taking cannabis to Kerala. Ibrahim Madannoor and Abdul Nijad were bringing cannabis in a tourist vehicle from Hyderabad. They were arrested near the arch of the Padumaroli Surayanayana Temple. The police seized 24 kg of cannabis worth Rs. 3.6 lakhs. They also seized the car and three mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested/article33198176.ece
28 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers stage protest against amendments to farm laws||Members of Karnataka State Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association and other groups staged a demonstration in the city on Friday condemning the amendments to the various farm laws introduced by the government and the police action taken against farmers on the outskirts of Delhi. This was part of a nationwide protest by farmers against the new farm laws enacted by the Centre, including the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act and the APMC Act, which, farmers fear, would deprive them of Minimum Support Price. But the government has justified it on the grounds that it will accelerate investment and growth in the agricultural sector and benefit farmers. Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of the sugarcane cultivators’ association, lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said laws were being introduced through Ordinance route without any discussion with the stakeholders (farmers). He also said the Prime Minister had found time to interact with the bigwigs of the country, including industrialists and film stars, and to attend their weddings, but could not interactwith farmers. Mr. Shanthakumar said farmers feed the nation despite the agrarian crisis, and yet the PM could not hold talks with them. “He came to power promising to implementthe recommendations of Swaminathan commission committee on agricultural pricing, but has failed to do so. Mr. Modi came to power promising to double farmers’ income, but the policies have helped double the income of industrialists,” he said. He said all the amendments to the law in recent years, including the land reforms Act and the changes to labour laws, were introduced for the benefit of industrialists and were “anti-people” in nature. The protesting farmers also blocked the road for some time and warned of intensifying their agitation before dispersing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-stage-protest-against-amendments-to-farm-laws/article33197784.ece
28 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru DC vs MLA: War of words continues||H.P. Manjunath, MLA for Hunsur, whose remarks against Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri had elicited a sharp response from the latter, on Friday sought to describe her as a “dictator” and launched a diatribe against the official. At a Karnataka Development Programme meeting earlier this week, Mr. Manjunath had complained of “breach of protocol” and alleged that none of his letters pertainingto development works in his constituency had received a reply from the Deputy Commissioner. He then went on to add that Mysuru had “two queens” and did not need another one. But Ms. Sindhuri responded to him in a letter and stated that there was no note pertaining to development works in Hunsur pending in her office though there were a few applications by the MLA seeking change of land use pattern on the swathe of property in his name. Taking exception to this, Mr. Manjunath said this amounted to issuing a threat that his application seeking change of land use would be rejected. He went on to compare Ms. Sindhuri to Hitler. Mr. Manjunath said it was routine to question officials at the KDP meeting and answers to the queries raised were normally provided in the follow-up meetings. But instead, the Deputy Commissioner took criticism personally and chose to go public, writing a letter the very next day and releasing it through social media, the MLA said. He said though the letter was purported to be written by the Deputy Commissioner three days ago, neither he nor his office had yet received it though it was being circulated widely on social media. The Congress MLA went on to add that he had sought a change of land use pattern and land alienation as per the legal provisions. He maintained that he would “not be cowed by threats”. Mr. Manjunath also alleged that the official had locked horns with elected representatives in Hassan and Mandya district as well and it was now manifesting in Mysuru. The MLA said he would consult seniors and explore legal options to seek redressal for what he perceived to be a breach of privilege of an elected representative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-dc-vs-mla-war-of-words-continues/article33197788.ece
28 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Flood victims to get houses at Biligeri||The houses built for flood victims of the 2018 calamity at Biligeri in Madikeri taluk are almost ready for distribution to beneficiaries. In total, 22 houses have been constructed at the village at a cost of Rs. 3.96 crore. These houses will be allotted to those whose houses were fully damaged in the floods and landslips two years ago. On Thursday, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy, along with a team of officials, inspected the newly built houses and other amenities provided at the colony. The officials told the Deputy Commissioner that the works were almost done and the houses were ready to be handed over to the beneficiaries identified. During the visit, the officials said that Minister for Housing V. Somanna, who is also the Minister in charge of Kodagu district, was expected to hand over the keys of the houses to the flood victimsand the date of the function would be finalised soon.     The Deputy Commissioner also inspected the Kodava Heritage Village, a project for showcasing the culture of the Kodavas coming up at Madikeri. Work on the project has resumed. Accompanied by tourism and other department officials, Ms. Joy examined the works. Laterite stones are being used to build the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flood-victims-to-get-houses-at-biligeri/article33197778.ece
28 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||After accident, villagers stage protest in front of bar||The death of a person in an accident at Ramanahalli, on the outskirts of the city, triggered a protest by members of the local community on Friday. The accident took place in front of a bar late on Thursday night. On Friday, people of the village staged a demonstration with the body of the victim in front of the local bar and wanted it to be shifted out of the village on Mahadevapura Road. The residents said the victim, Mahadev, was returning from the bar when he was knocked down by a speeding vehicle. He died on the spot. Saying that the presence of the bar on the highway was causing accidents and deaths, the residents demanded its immediate relocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-accident-villagers-stage-protest-in-front-of-bar/article33197779.ece
28 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Govt. doctors set a shining example under trying circumstances||A team of six doctors in the District General Hospital here have set an example that one can serve society better even during a pandemic by conducting more than 2,000 deliveries in an eight-month period. According to information, there have been more than 2,000 deliveries in the district hospital and a majority of them have been normal, while 30 % were Caesarean. When doctors in private hospitals have been reluctant to conduct deliveries fearing the spread of COVID-19, this team of doctors in the government hospital in Yadgir has extended tremendous service to pregnant women and conducted deliveries taking a high risk. “Obviously, it was high risk. But, we did not shirk from taking up responsibility under such conditions. Being doctors, we should not miss an opportunity to show our efficiency and diligence in service which we extended to pregnant women and conducted the deliveries,” Preethi Patil, a gynaecologist who was among the doctors, told The Hindu .  Some mothers were COVID-19 positive Sources said that in a few cases, mothers were diagnosed to be positive for COVID-19 after delivery of their babies. But the team of doctors anyway conducted deliveries without waiting for test reports considering emergency and to avoid a risk to the mothers and babies. However, later, the doctors involved underwent home quarantine after handling such cases. “We provided all medical equipment, including PPEs to the doctors on duty and also took additional preventive measures. We must be proud of the team members, Preeti Patil, Veena Patil, Nagashree, Rizwana, Narasamma, who were on duty and conducted successful deliveries in more than 2,000 cases,” District Surgeon (In-charge) Sanjeev Raichurkar, who was the anaesthesiologist during the period, said. Doctors affected Dr. Raichurkar also tested positive for COVID-19 and took treatment in the designated hospital in Yadgir and recovered. Normally, people blame government hospitals for lack of facilities and hospitality. However, doctors have extended the maximum facilities and care under trying conditions and putting their own lives at high risk, which, now, is being appreciated by society. “The government should recognise the efficient services of these doctors who have set a worthy example,” Sharanu Gadduge, Karnartaka Rakshana Vedike North Karnataka president, said. Dr. Raichurkar lauded the services of the other staff in the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-doctors-set-a-shining-example-under-trying-circumstances/article33197643.ece
28 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Complete ongoing KKRDB works in time, officials told||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has directed the officials of various government departments to complete the ongoing development works taken up under the grants released by Kalyan Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) within the time stipulated. Chairing a monthly review meeting on KKRDB works in Yadgir on Thursday, Dr. Ragapriya said that there is a slow down in construction of buildings and bhavans sanctioned under the KKRDB grants. “I am specifically directing the heads of the departments concerned to complete such ongoing development works well within the time stipulated or, be ready to face action, if works are not completed,” she warned. Speaking about the projects taken up, Executive Engineer of Public Work Department Devidas Chawan said that of the 513 work under KKRDB grants, 438 works have been completed and the remaining are in progress. He added that they will be completed expeditiously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-ongoing-kkrdb-works-in-time-officials-told/article33197634.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||1,526 fresh COVID-19 cases, 12 deaths in the State||The State on Friday reported 1,526 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,81,086. With 12 deaths, the toll rose to 11,738. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Total recoveries As many as 1,451 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,43,950. Of the remaining 25,379 active patients, 401 were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.34%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.78%. Bengaluru Urban reported 808 cases, taking its tally to 3,67,885. With six deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 4,114. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 19,093. As many as 1,13,591 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 97,246 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,08,04,148.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1526-fresh-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-in-the-state/article33198026.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Garbage contractors threaten to go on strike||Garbage contractors have threatened to stop collection and transportation of municipal waste from the city over non-payment of pending bills. The Bangalore Mahanagara Swachathe Matthu Lorry Malikara Hagoo Guthigedarara Sangh (regd.), in a letter submitted to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, said it will go on a strike from November 30. Sangh general secretary S.N. Balasubramaniam claimed that bills amounting to Rs. 400 crore were pending. In the South zone, pending bills date back to January this year. “Bills from April 2020 are pending in other zones,” he said, adding that they had met senior officials, including Mr. Prasad, earlier this month. “We were assured that the pending bills would be cleared before Deepavali. However, despite the Commissioner’s instruction to clear bills, officials are refusing to do so,” he alleged. He claimed that contractors were not able to pay their employees and had borrowed heavily for day-to-day maintenance. Mr. Prasad said he had spoken with the Sangh. “We have assured them that the bills will be cleared and we will release the pending amount partially. We will release the remaining amount in phases,” he said. However, Mr. Balasubramaniam said the Sangh will meet Mr. Prasad and senior officials on Saturday morning and take a call on the strike based on the outcome of the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/garbage-contractors-threaten-to-go-on-strike/article33198023.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festival hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festival-hues/article33198174.ece
28 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||236 fresh cases, 251 recoveries in Alappuzha||The district reported 236 COVID-19 cases and 251 recoveries on Friday. It also recorded three COVID-19-related deaths. Of the new cases, 224 patients contracted the disease through local transmission while the source of infection of another 11 people remains unidentified. One person who came from another State was also diagnosed with the disease.  Case break-up The 236 cases include 39 cases logged from Aroor, 33 from Alappuzha, and 17 from Cherthala. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 6,581.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/236-fresh-cases-251-recoveries-in-alappuzha/article33197726.ece
28 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||A return to their roots during election time||For them, the 2020 local body elections mean a return to their roots. In 1982, three youngsters D.P. Gopindran, K.R. Thankaji and Ranganath, all from Punnapra in Alappuzha, joined hands to start an advertising firm — Gothara (the initial letters of their name). Soon Gothara became much sought after, especially by political parties, during elections with it doing all kinds of poll advertisements, from making banners, poll graffiti and wall writings. Separate ways Times went by and the trio went their separate ways. Mr. Thankaji joined the government service and Mr. Gopindran, the artist among them, took a job with an advertisement agency in Dubai in 1997, bringing curtains on their collaboration. COVID issue But, after a gap of more than two decades, they are back working together, thanks to the COVID-19 pandemic and local body polls. “We are thrilled to do poll graffiti and campaign-related works again,” says Mr. Thankaji who retired from government service last year. “Back in the 1980s and early 1990s we used to do a lot of graffiti among other works for parties cutting across political lines. Although we all went our own ways, we remained united and ensured Gothara remained active all these years with the help of employees. After Mr. Gopindran returned from Dubai following the COVID-19 pandemic and decided to take brush during this election, I too joined him,” Mr. Thankaji says. Mr. Ranganath, who is recuperating from a surgery, is not currently active in the poll scene. Full circle Mr. Gopindran says that he has come full circle. “Starting an advertising agency was in our minds. One day a friend challenged us to shave our heads. We readily accepted the challenge. After shaving our heads, we tried to put up a banner depicting three bald heads on a tree in the Punnapra market, as we thought it would be a great promotion to the soon-to-be launched advertising agency. As it was in the middle of a festival at the Punnapra Aravukad temple, the police prevented us from putting up the banner. The then panchayat vice president intervened and we got away with it. We soon launched Gothara and it became a success,” says Mr. Gopindran adding that they are taking up work of all parties this election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-return-to-their-roots-during-election-time/article33197735.ece
28 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Where Tamil voters will swing the fortune||The plantation areas and Anchunadu Valley in Idukki are witnessing a high-pitched campaign wooing the majority Tamil voters, whose support is decisive in the local body elections, especially in the grama panchayat. The All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhakam (AIADMK) has fielded more candidates in the elections this time. However, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhakam (DMK) is not active in the elections. “As many as 109 AIADMK candidates are contesting in Idukki, Palakkad, Thiruvananthapuram, and Pathanamthitta districts. There are 60 candidates in Idukki, 40 in Palakkad, eight in Thiruvananthapuram, and one in Pathanamthitta contesting in the party ticket or with our support. We are contesting for the first time in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation,” says AIADMK State secretary Shobhakumar G. In Idukki, nearly 70% of the population in Anchunadu and over 90% in the plantation areas are of Tamil origin. In Devikulam, Peerumade, and Udumbanchola taluks, having a sizeable Tamil population, the entry of the AIADMK has raised a challenge to both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF). Mr. Shobhakumar says the party will support Bharatiya Janata Party candidates wherever it had no candidates in the fray. The AIADMK is contesting in 52 seats to grama panchayats, seven to block panchayats, and one to the district panchayat in Idukki. District joint secretary Dhanalakshmi says the party is contesting in the Vattavada, Chinnakkanal, Marayur, Kanthalloor, Devikulam, Munnar, and Pallivasal grama panchayats in Devikulam and Udumbanchola taluks and the Vandiperiyar, Upputhara, Peerumade and Elappara grama panchyats in Peerumade taluk. The most number of candidates is in Munnar, 15, Marayur, 7, Devikulam, 11, Peerumade, 6, Chinnakanal, 5, and Kanthallur, 4, grama panchayats. Mr. Shobhakumar says the party has fielded candidates in all important wards in Palakkad too. Party sources say leaders of the party are camping at plantation towns to control the election campaign. Taste of victory In the last elections, the party fielded four candidates in Devikulam, Peerumade, and Udumbanchola taluks and three were elected. In the Peerumade grama panchayat, the elected member became president after both the UDF and the LDF got equal number of seats. In the Vandiperiyar grama panchayat, the party has a candidate in the fray. Stephen, a resident of Moonkalar Estate, says campaigning has gained momentum in the estate areas. The Pengal Otrumai, a collective of women tea estate workers, is not in the fray this time. It had fielded candidates and won seats in the Munnar grama panchayat, in addition to the Devikulam block panchayat in the last elections. The response of Tamil voters in the local body elections is keenly watched in the three taluks in Idukki.  The AIADMK has raised a challenge to both the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/where-tamil-voters-will-swing-the-fortune/article33197769.ece
28 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Sixty-day-old tiger cub rescued at Periyar Tiger Reserve||The staff of the Forest Department have rescued a sixty-day-old female tiger cub found stranded on the premises of the Mangala Devi temple on border with Tamil Nadu, inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR). It was found by the forest personnel of the wireless station around 11 a.m. on November 21 and the staff monitored its movements for the next two days. The cub, weighing around four kg, was found in a tree hollow in the dense woods. It was weak and did not have any external injuries or visible deformities. The tiger cub was suspected to have been abandoned by its mother. As the presence of its mother was not noticed, the cub was taken to a temporary shelter, as per the direction of assistant forest veterinary doctor Syam Chandran. PTR east division deputy director said the Forest Department was providing special treatment and care to the animal as per the guidance of the forest veterinary doctor. The health condition of the cub was not fully normal now. The department has installed camera traps, including at facilities, to trace its mother. A joint search was also conducted with the staff of the Megamalai wildlife sanctuary in Tamil Nadu as the tiger cub was found abandoned in the border area.  NTCA guidelines The Forest Department plans to release the tiger cub with its mother after tracing the animal. The treatment and other procedures were conducted as per the guidelines of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), said the deputy director. As per the last tiger census, the PTR has 35 to 40 tigers.  The department has installed camera traps, including at facilities, to trace its mother||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tiger-cub-rescued-at-ptr/article33197657.ece
28 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Largest ward in Kumily grama panchayat||The largest ward in Kerala falls in the Kumily grama panchayat covering the Mullaperiyar lake area and the forest area of the Mangaladevi temple inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve. The Thekkady ward (Ward 11) has an electorate of 830, of which 590 are the Mannan tribespeople of Mannakudy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/largest-ward-in-kumily-grama-panchayat/article33197764.ece
28 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Agriculture innovators’ meet in February||The M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) here, in association with Department of Science and Technology, is organising a rural agriculture innovators’ meet through videoconferencing in first week of February, 2021.  Real-life issues The meet envisages to address the real-life agriculture-related issues such as pest and disease management, man-animal conflict, nutrient management and irrigation as well as develop holistic solutions to tackle those issues, the organisers said. Progressive farmers in the State can apply. For details contact phone numbers: 04936 204477 or 9388020650.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agriculture-innovators-meet-in-february/article33198220.ece
28 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Hotel room to be Maradona museum||In memory of the football legend, Diego Maradona, the hotel room at Blue Nile hotel near Payyambalam beach, where he stayed during his visit to Kannur in October 2012, would be converted into a museum. V. Ravindran, managing director, said that the hotel room number 309, where he stayed, would now be the “Maradona museum”. After he stayed in the room, it was called the “Maradona Suite”, and many football fans later stayed in this room. Mr. Ravindran said the things he had used, including the newspaper, tea cups, the painting given to him by a fan, bed-sheet, bouquet, and others would be framed and kept in the room.  This room will not be given to others as a mark of Kannur’s love for the legend, but people would be allowed to visit it on demand. Maradona stayed in the room for two days during his maiden visit to Kerala to inaugurate a jewellery showroom in Kannur and also celebrate his 52nd birthday along with thousands of his fans at the Jawahar Municipal Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotel-converts-room-into-museum/article33197654.ece
28 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Inspector sent on intensive training||The Inspector of Police of Cherupuzha station has been sent on intensive training at the KAP 4th Battalion after a video went viral on social media showing him abusing and threatening street vendors. The action was taken against Inspector Vineesh Kumar after the District Police Chief ordered an investigation into the issue and submitted a detailed report to the DIG. The Special Branch and Intelligence also examined the incident and handed over reports. The issue started after the traders in the area questioned the sale of fruits on the road near Cherupuzha town. They approached the police and asked them to remove the street vendors. Mr. Kumar tried to remove the vendors. However, he allegedly abused and threatened a vendor who resisted the move. The vendors were also fined. The footage, which was captured by a vendor, was posted on the social media. The Inspector, however, claimed that the vendors had provoked the police, and that the footage on social media had been edited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inspector-sent-on-intensive-training/article33197671.ece
28 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kamaruddin questioned in prison||A special investigation team led by Crime Branch Dy.SP Sunil Kumar questioned Majeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin, accused in the Fashion Gold Jewellery investment scam, at the Kannur Central Prison on Thursday. A Payyanur court had on Thursday granted permission to the Crime Branch to question the legislator in jail on 13 cases registered in Payyanur. Following this, the team from Kozhikode questioned Mr. Kamaruddin. The court asked the police to question the legislator in jail after his lawyer informed the court that he had health problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kamaruddin-questioned-in-prison/article33197750.ece
28 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Passing-out parade at INA today||The Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala, will conduct its passing-out parade for the autumn term 2020 on Saturday. The parade will take place without the presence of parents and guests of trainees, considering the COVID-19 crisis. General Manoj Mukund Naravane, Chief of the Army Staff, will be the Reviewing Officer. Trainees comprising Midshipmen of 99th Indian Naval Academy Course (B.Tech and MSc) and cadets of 30th Naval Orientation Course (Extended) will pass out as officers on successful completion of their ab initio training. Two trainees of the Sri Lanka Navy will also pass out this term. Trainees of the academy’s four-year B.Tech degree course were awarded their degrees by Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, Commandant, INA, on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/passing-out-parade-at-ina-today/article33197673.ece
28 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 23 lakh seized at airport||The air customs seized gold worth Rs. 23.26 lakh from a passenger who tried smuggle it out through the Kannur International Airport on Friday. The gold weighing 463 gram was seized from Fazil, a resident of Vadakara, who arrived from Dubai. He allegedly tried to smuggle out the gold, which was in compound form in three capsules, by hiding it in his rectum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-23-lakh-seized-at-kannur-airport/article33197672.ece
28 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Now, posters do the talking for UDF at Bedadka||The Bedadka grama panchayat is witnessing a poster war these days. The Left Democratic Front’s attempt at projecting its candidates in real-life settings had garnered much applause and they went viral on social media. Now, the United Democratic Front (UDF) has responded, with its posters highlighting the ‘lack of development’ in the panchayat during the LDF regime. The panchayat is an LDF bastion, with the front holding 16 of the 17 wards. The UDF now intends to make a mark in the local body. C.M. Unais, Kasaragod Youth Congress district secretary, responding to the huge popularity of the LDF posters, said the ruling front was discussing campaign materials to divert public attention from its dismal governance in the panchayat over the years. ‘Voters must think’ Hence, the UDF decided to post photos of ‘undeveloped Bedadka’ on the social media under the name ‘Viral Posters.’ “Our intention is to make the voters think. We believe that development issues in the panchayat should be discussed instead of dramatic posters,” he said. The UDF posters show potholed roads, undeveloped rural areas, families living in dilapidated houses, and Dalit and Adivasi colonies with no access to drinking water. “An LDF poster shows a candidate crossing the river by boat. It is actually making a statement to the local people that there is no bridge. The poster of a CPI(M) candidate sitting on a jeep had gone viral. By highlighting potholed roads, we are sending across the message that he is forced to sit atop a jeep as there is no road to drive,” Mr. Unais said. After many years the UDF could win one ward in the panchayat in the last election. “We are confident of improving the tally this time,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-posters-do-the-talking-for-udf-at-bedadka/article33197749.ece
28 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||NGT orders probe into environmental damage||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered the constitution of a committee to probe environmental damage, if any, that is likely when the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) widens the 167-km stretch from Edappally to Ramanattukara in Kozhikode on NH 66 to a 45-metre-wide stretch. This followed a petition alleging that the stretch is being widened without carrying out an environmental impact study. The committee probing violation of environment laws by the NHAI must have officials from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the NHAI. It must do a factual study and submit an action-taken report before January 7, 2021. The committee must also ascertain whether environmental compensation should be recovered from the NHAI. The NH Samara Samiti that has been agitating against the second round of eviction on the Edappally-Moothakunnam stretch of the NH said that environmental clearance and social impact assessment were mandatory for any NH project over 100 km and 40-metres wide. The NHAI omitted these and is “forcibly” going ahead with land acquisition from the very same people who had surrendered land to develop the stretch into a 30-metre-wide highway over two decades ago, said Hashim Chendampilly of the samiti. Meanwhile, an NHAI official said that environment impact assessment was on for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngt-orders-probe-into-environmental-damage/article33198132.ece
28 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Two former councillors re-enter fray in new avatars||After raising the banner of revolt in their political parties and waiting in the sidelines for years, two former councillors of Kochi Corporation have re-entered the electoral arena, but under new political patronage. While M.P. Maheshkumar, a former CPI(M) councillor from Kunnumpuram division, parted ways with his comrades to join his rival camp, the Congress, Sunitha Dixon, the former representative of Vyttila division, contested the last election against the UDF. In her latest political move, Ms. Dixon has entered the contest in Vyttila division as the candidate of Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), a constituent of the UDF. This time, Mr. Maheshkumar is contesting the civic polls from Kunnumpuram division as a Congress candidate in its election symbol palm, in the company of those whom he defeated in the 2010 election. He had then defeated Youth Congress leader M.R. Abhilash by a margin of 486 votes. “It was the difference of opinion with some senior party leaders in the district over organisational and other issues that resulted in the political break-up. Now, Congress workers are fully backing me up in the election, including Mr. Abhilash whom I defeated earlier,” said Mr. Maheshkumar. Serious battle Taking the political battle seriously against their former comrade, the CPI(M) has fielded sitting councillor Jagathambika Sudarsan to retain the Kunnumpuram seat. The division, says Ms. Sudarsan, has been the stronghold of the LDF since 2005. “As the LDF candidate, I am seeking the mandate on the strength of the development activities undertaken in the division during the past five years. The party machinery is functioning full-throttle in the division,” said Ms. Sudarsan. T.K. Hanitha Kumar is the NDA candidate in the division. Considering her rapport with voters, the UDF leadership has asked Ms. Dixon to contest from the Vyttila division as a candidate of the Revolutionary Socialist Party in its election symbol, spade and stoker. Protest in party “Last time, I contested as an Independent candidate after being denied the ticket and garnered 826 votes. The decision of the Congress not to field any party worker from the division led to widespread protest in the party,” said Ms. Dixon who is still an office-bearer of the Mahila Congress, the women’s wing of the party and the trade union INTUC. “We didn’t get time to discuss those organisational issues, and hence I am continuing in the posts,” said Ms. Dixon when asked about her posts in the Mahila Congress and the INTUC. The LDF has fielded P.S. Ambika, a palliative care volunteer, as its candidate to retain the Vyttila division, which P.S. Shine had won for the party last time. The NDA has not fielded any candidates in the division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-former-councillors-re-enter-fray-in-new-avatars/article33198139.ece
28 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||High Court sets aside PCB chairperson’s appointment||The High Court has set aside the selection and appointment of A.B. Pradeep Kumar as chairperson of the State Pollution Control Board (PCB). Justice Devan Ramachandran on Friday held that the procedure adopted by the selection committee, headed by the Chief Secretary, was improper. The court found that the committee had not called nine eligible candidates for the interview. The court, however, allowed Mr. Kumar to function as chairperson of the board till a fresh decision was taken by the selection committee after interviewing the eligible candidates as ordered by the court. The court also directed the committee to interview all eligible candidates and place its recommendation before the government. The court ordered that the new selection be made within four months. The complaint The court passed its verdict while disposing of a writ petition filed by K.S. Govindan Nair, an aspirant and former member secretary of the board against the selection of Mr. Kumar. According to the petitioner, the application was invited in May 2020. The qualification for the post was a master’s degree with specialisation in an environmental subject, 15 years of experience in an establishment engaged in environmental protection, and that the applicant should not be aged above 60. The petitioner had all the prescribed qualifications. The selection committee had called only Mr. Kumar for the interview and selected him. The petitioner and other applicants were not called for the interview. The action of the selection committee was against the principles of fairness and fundamental justice, he contended, The petitioner sought a directive to the selection committee to interview qualified applicants and conduct fresh selection.  Court allows incumbent to continue in post till the selection panel decides anew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-sets-aside-pcb-chairpersons-appointment/article33197747.ece
28 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||At Vathuruthy, spotlight on access to basic facilities||A large section of residents of Vathuruthy, who are workers from Tamil Nadu, may not be able to vote in Kerala, but electioneering is on at full-throttle on the southern end of Willingdon Island, with the spotlight on access to basic facilities like health centre. The division of Island South of the Kochi Corporation comprising the Naval Base and the Vathuruthy residential area, has around 4,400 voters, and has remained a UDF stronghold for the past 25 years. Of the total number of voters, around 2,000 are likely to be residents of Vathuruthy, according to Vibin Raj K.R., the LDF candidate from the area. That is only a fraction of the area’s total population, roughly estimated to be between 5,000 and 6,000, jostling for space on nine acres. Save for the tiling of alleys that separate houses, the proliferation of public taps and the construction of a community hall and homoeopathy dispensary that functions out of the same building, little has changed over the years. “The perception of the place as a slum has not changed. But it is for the State government to do something about that,” said Sheeba Dixon, a resident. Housing is still an issue, Mr. Vibin says. Around 20 families await title deeds, and several homes are single-room structures with tin roofs, some with no toilets in them, which has necessitated the construction of 24 public toilets. At high tide, water from the clogged canal that lies behind the colony sometimes enters homes. The tussle for the division this time is between members of the youth wings of the CPI(M) and the Indian National Congress. While Mr. Vibin was part of the DYFI, Tibin Devassy, the UDF candidate, was the district general secretary of the Youth Congress. Both candidates, who are residents of the area, have promised that the ground at one end of the colony will be converted into a football field. Around 50 football players would pick a candidate to support depending on who was most likely to meet their demand, said a youngster from the area who asked not to be named. Nagalakshmi, a construction worker from Madurai who has lived in Vathuruthy for 27 years, is among the workers from Tamil Nadu who can vote here. Her loyalties are clear, she says. An INTUC-affiliated union brings her regular work. Jyothi, however, is from Dindigul and has been living in Vathuruthy for 16 years, but cannot vote. She is not part of a trade union either, she says. Several workers who went home in March are yet to return. Vathuruthy still lacks a primary health centre since sufficient space is not available, said outgoing UDF councillor Shakrutha Sureshbabu. Mr. Devassy and Mr. Vibin are promising to set up a health centre in the area. The division sees a low voter turnout, particularly among officers at the Naval Base, Ms. Sureshbabu says. Prasad V.G., a retired aeronautical maintenance engineer at the Naval Base, is the BJP candidate from the area. “This division saw the lowest polling percentage in 2015. We hope to bring that up this time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-vathuruthy-spotlight-on-access-to-basic-facilities/article33198134.ece
28 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Local issues hog the limelight in Puthenvelikkara panchayat||A host of issues affecting the daily lives of the electorate has turned the battle for Puthenvelikkara panchayat into a keen tussle. The region bore the brunt of two successive floods since 2018, and many were left homeless after they faced the furious waters from the Chalakudypuzha and the Periyar. A traditional stronghold of the Congress, the civic body was governed by the party with a mere lead of one seat in the 17-ward council following the 2015 election. The LDF hopes that the anti-incumbency factor may turn the tide in their favour. However, the Congress remains confident of retaining its sway over the voters. “We were able to resolve the drinking water issue by setting up a direct feeder line from the Puthenvelikkara pumping station to meet the needs of the people. The panchayat had deposited Rs. 2.38 crore with the Kerala Water Authority, and the project is in its last phase. Two overhead tanks were installed at Manancherrykunnu and Kodikuthiyakunnu,” claimed P.V. Laju, president of the outgoing council. On post-flood restoration work, Mr. Laju said that 300 houses were constructed for those who had lost shelter in the floods under the government’s LIFE Mission project and by utilising the Punarjani programme launched by V.D. Satheesan, MLA. “We also bought four motorised boats and two country craft to rescue people living in low-lying regions in case of an emergency,” he added. But M.P. Jose, Opposition Leader, alleged that the Congress-led council did nothing to improve basic infrastructure and could not utilise funds for development. “The panchayat has not yet allotted land for the college under the Institute of Human Resource Development, and it continues to function from a rented building. The development of the taluk hospital was also hit following shortage of doctors,” he said. Mr. Jose said that the council was not able to repair the damaged shutters of the Kanakkankadavu regulator-cum-bridge, resulting in salinity incursion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-issues-hog-the-limelight-in-puthenvelikkara-panchayat/article33198140.ece
28 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||More stations to permit cycles||Even as the daily footfall in Kochi metro trains has gone up from 10,000 a month ago to 15,000, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has decided to permit commuters to take along their bicycles in trains from all stations, from Sunday. The agency had a week ago permitted entry of bicycles from six major stations. On Sunday, 67 passengers boarded trains with their bicycles. “The response from the public was overwhelming. We are now equipped to cater for bicyclists from all metro stations,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, Managing Director, KMRL. The guidelines for permitting bicycles on board include a cap of four cycles per train. Bicycles must be free of debris and excess grease, dirt, and sharp objects. Motor-powered recreational vehicles of any kind, tandem bicycles, tricycles, and bicycles with training wheels are not permitted. Bicycles that are folded or disassembled and enclosed in carrying bags are deemed “luggage” items. Cyclists are prohibited from riding bicycles on the station premises, corridors, link bridge, platforms, or in any covered space, the metro agency informed. Traffic curbs KMRL has also informed that there will be partial disruption of traffic on the Pettah-S.N. Junction stretch from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. up to December 12, due to the construction of the Kochi metro viaduct in the corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-stations-to-permit-cycles/article33198143.ece
28 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Palm-chopping case: chargesheet read out||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here on Friday read out the chargesheet against 11 accused in a palm-chopping case in Thodupuzha. They include Sajil, the fourth accused in the case relating to the attack on T. J. Joseph, then a teacher at the Newman College in Thodupuzha. Some of the other accused against whom charges were framed include Shafeeq, Najeeb, Azees Odakali, Mohammed Rafi, Subair T.P., M.K. Noushad, Mansoor, P.P. Moideen Kunju, and P.M. Ayoob. The incident occurred on July 4, 2010 when Mr. Joseph was returning home with his family from church. The attack was in retaliation to Mr. Joseph ‘ridiculing’ Prophet Mohammed in a question paper he had prepared for BCom students of the college. The NIA court had convicted 13 of the 51 accused in 2015. Thirty-one persons had faced trial. A resident of Randarakara in Muvattupuzha, Sajil was part of the seven-member group belonging to the Popular Front of India that had chopped off Mr. Joseph’s palm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palm-chopping-case-chargesheet-read-out/article33197763.ece
28 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC told to complete Aluva terminal work||The KSRTC must complete construction of its bus terminal in Aluva, the State Human Rights Commission has directed. The delay in readying the structure has resulted in commuters encountering many difficulties. The PWD (Buildings wing) has not published a deadline to commission the structure. Many items in the works that PWD claims to have done are incomplete, Chairman of the Commission, Antony Dominic, said. The directive came on a petition filed by Dominic Kavunkal, an Aluva native, who said that not even preliminary works were over despite Rs. 6 crore being released from MLA funds. Both the PWD and KSRTC had submitted their versions before the commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-told-to-complete-aluva-terminal-work/article33198144.ece
28 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF seeks police security for polling booths||Two UDF candidates in Vengad grama panchayat in Kannur district on Friday approached the Kerala High Court, seeking a directive to deploy sufficient police force, including CRPF personnel, and install web cameras in the polling booths of ward Nos 3 and 4 of the panchayat. The petitions were filed by Jasleena and Hussain Vengad, UDF candidates in ward 3 and 4 respectively. They sought deployment of the forces and installation of web cameras in the polling booths in E.K. Nayanar Memorial Higher Secondary Schools in north and west and booths in Vengad Theru L.P. School. The petitioners said the booths located in these two wards were sensitive. Booth capturing and threatening incidents were reported in these booths in all the past panchayat elections. It was CPI(M) workers who committed such acts. The miscreants would lie low in the areas and came out on the polling day to capture booths and threaten the voters. The police were hand-in-glove with the CPI(M) workers. The UDF workers were in constant fear of attacks by the CPI(M) workers, they said.  Booth capturing and threatening incidents were reported in these booths in all past panchayat polls||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-seeks-police-security-for-polling-booths/article33197658.ece
28 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||BPCL workers threaten strike||Trade unions at the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) are set to go on the path of agitation against the alleged move by the management to selectively grant pay revision. A statement issued by the Cochin Refineries Workers’ Association accused the management of offering an agenda-ridden pay revision proposal. “Although the contact being signed is for 10 years with effect from 2017, there are so many caveats including a condition authorising the management to amend the contractual clauses unilaterally from June, 2020, and retrench workers,” the association alleged in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bpcl-workers-threaten-strike/article33198145.ece
28 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||397 new cases in Ernakulam||As many as 397 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. The source of infection of 127 people could not be traced and four health workers have tested positive. Pallipuram recorded 24 new cases on Friday while Kalamassery, Thrikkakara, Aluva, Thripunithura, and Eloor registered over 10 cases each. Recoveries stood at 476 on Friday and the active case load is 8,471. A total of 26,322 people remain in quarantine in the district. Around 6,626 people are recovering at home, while 90 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. For testing, 4,181 samples were collected. So far, the district has recorded 212 deaths from the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/397-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article33198142.ece
28 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Provide basic amenities to vessel crew’||The Kerala High Court has directed the Director General of Shipping and the Mercantile Marine Department to offer basic amenities to the five crew members who are forced to remain on board a dilapidated vessel anchored at Munambam harbour. The court order came on a writ petition filed by N. Thayu Manavar and four other crew members. According to them, though their contract of service with the shipping company was over, it was not allowing them to sign off from the Kochi-registered m.v. Great Sea Vembanad .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/provide-basic-amenities-to-vessel-crew/article33198146.ece
28 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two of armed gang arrested||The Aluva East police on Friday arrested two members of an armed gang allegedly involved in hatching a plan for a major theft in Aluva town. The arrested are Albin, 28, of Chelamattom, and Shaji Mathew, 45, of Palakkad. Accused in several theft cases, the two were released from jail six months ago. Intensified patrolling as directed by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) in the wake of a slew of thefts in Aluva led to the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-of-armed-gang-arrested/article33198147.ece
28 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Toll for Kollam bypass sparks row||The Centre’s decision to start toll collection for the Kollam bypass has sparked a row with the public and political parties opposing the move. Public Works Minister G.Sudhakaran has informed Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari that the State government does not want to impose toll for the amount Kerala had spent on the project. The total cost of the project is Rs. 352 crore, of which the Centre had spent Rs. 176 crore on 50:50 cost-sharing basis. The bypass connecting Mevaram and Kavand was thrown open for traffic on April 19, 2019 and the 13-km stretch touches three important National Highways — NH 66, NH 183, and NH 744. The letter from the Union Minister says that as per Cl 3.4 of the Financial Participation Agreement signed between the two governments on January 17, 2014, the State government shall levy and collect the toll fee at full rates applicable at the point of time and remit the entire fee collected to the Central government until full realisation of the investment incurred by the Centre. The letter directs the State government to levy and collect toll at the rate equal to 40% of the full toll fee applicable at the point of time and remit the entire 40% of the toll fee collected to the Centre to take care of maintenance expenses. “The gazette notification for collection of toll fee was published on September 15, 2020. Hence, the toll will be levied strictly in accordance with the financial participation agreement,” it says. MP’s plea Kollam MP N.K. Premchandran has requested the Centre to withdraw the decision. “The procedures of the standalone project to widen the Kollam National Highway bypass into four lane are progressing. Imposing toll for the partially completed project cannot be justified. Due to traffic congestion, the bypass is more used by local residents than long-distance commuters and the decision will cause great inconvenience to them,” he says. The MP points out that since the project was completed without any private sector participation there is no need to start toll collection at the point. “This will be an unbearable burden for commoners and the toll collection should be stopped,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toll-for-kollam-bypass-sparks-row/article33197737.ece
28 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||UDF plans campaign seeking CM’s resignation, says Hassan||The United Democratic Front (UDF) will launch Statewide protests after the local body polls demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, said UDF convener M.M. Hassan here on Friday. Speaking at Janavidhi-Thaddesheeyam 2020, a discussion series organised by the Kollam Press Club, he added that by development the LDF government meant consultancy, commission, and corruption. “They are seeking votes for development and they consider each project as a means to indulge in corruption,” he said. Talking about the upcoming local body elections, Mr.Hassan said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would not pose any major threat, primarily due to the factional feud in the party. “It is contesting against each other, not against the UDF or the LDF. The BJP will not make any headway in this election, not even in Thiruvananthapuram. Its vote share will be much lower compared to the last Parliament elections.” Mr. Hassan also observed that the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress(M) would cause no dent in the UDF vote bank. “The followers of K.M. Mani will never cast their votes in favour of the LDF or the CPI(M). There will be no change in the mindset of voters and they will stand with the UDF only.” Adding that the UDF is quite confident about the electoral outcome, he said the front expected to score a thumping victory this time. “As per initial reports, the UDF will be able to win majority of seats,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-plans-campaign-seeking-cms-resignation-says-hassan/article33197738.ece
28 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||229 cases in Kollam||The district reported 229 new COVID-19 cases and 378 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 219 contact cases, four persons with no known source, and six health workers. A 29-year-old Karungappally resident and a 45-year-old Kottankara resident are the cases with no known source. The health workers who tested positive include five persons from Panmana and a 25-year-old from Anchal. The district at present has 18,399 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,50,116. While 2,400 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 1,13,839 primary and 9,674 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Kollam has 4,208 active cases at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/229-cases-in-kollam/article33197729.ece
28 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||346 cases in Kottayam||As many as 346 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Friday. Of the new cases, all but four contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 42 children and 54 persons aged above 60. With 35 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Changanassery with 20 cases. With 202 recoveries during the day, the district at present has 4,123 active cases. A total of 16,500 people are in home isolation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/346-cases-in-kottayam/article33197730.ece
28 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Gurukkal lauds State’s scientific community||The scientific community of Kerala have succeeded in raising themselves to the international level to make many notable contributions, Rajan Gurukkal, Vice Chairman of the Kerala State Higher Education Council, has said. He was inaugurating ‘Meet the Achiever’, an online felicitation ceremony organised by Mahatma Gandhi University in Kottayam to congratulate those who have been ranked among the top two percent scientists in the world as per a subject-wise analysis conducted by Stanford university. Mr.Gurukkal also called for expanding the platforms to share knowledge between the academic communities. MGU Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas presided over the function. Gangan Prathap, former Vice Chancellor and Emirates Professor, Cochin University of Science and Technology, delivered the keynote address.  38 scientists honoured MGU Pro Vice Chancellor C.T. Aravindakumar and Syndicate member P. Shanavas spoke. As many as 38 scientists from Kerala, who found a place in the rankings, were honoured during the function. Besides, Mr.Thomas, who has been ranked second in the field of polymers, the list also features Ashok Pane of the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Laly A. Pothen of CMS College, Kottayam, and Gangan Prathap of the APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gurukkal-lauds-states-scientific-community/article33197659.ece
28 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Residents prevent survey for semi high speed railway||An action committee of local residents on Friday prevented the attempts of the authorities to conduct an aerial survey as part of the proposed semi high speed railway project at Peruvattumthazhe near Vadakara in Kozhikode district. The protesters thronged the area shouting slogans till the survey works were stopped by the drone operators appointed by a Chennai-based company. The Vadakara police said no case was registered against the protesters as they were ready for conciliatory talks. Also, the survey team did not file any complaint against the protesters, they said. The action committee leaders made it clear that they would not cooperate with any survey activities without getting a clear picture on the reasonable compensation package. They alleged that the government was trying to cheat people without making any assurance on the same. According to the action committee leaders, the proposed alignment was made without any consideration of the thickly populated areas. They also claimed that the plight of many families evacuated earlier in the name of various other welfare projects was enough to oppose the latest move. It was the continuation of a series of local agitations earlier launched by the local residents in Vadakara and surrounding villages against the project. They had alleged that the government was trying to ignore the local sentiments and going ahead with the project by using police force. There were also similar attempts to foil the survey by the local residents in the first week of November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-prevent-survey-for-semi-high-speed-railway/article33197670.ece
28 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJP’s rising graph daunts fronts||The emergence of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as a force to reckon with in the State’s polity leaves both the Congress-led United Democratic Front and Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front in a fidget in the run-up to the three-tier local body polls next month. Literally, the rise in the vote share of the BJP began significantly from the previous local body polls after its cobbled up an alliance with the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam-supported Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BJDS). The upsurge continued in the subsequent Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. In the 2015 local body polls, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance garnered 13.28% of the popular votes against the LDF’s 37.36% and the UDF’s 37.23%. It won 933 of the 15,962 grama panchayat wards, 21 out of 2,076 block panchayat wards, three out of 331 district panchayat divisions, 236 out of 3,122 municipal wards and 51 out of 414 Corporation divisions. Ant-Modi campaign An anti-Narendra Modi campaign helped the CPI(M) to reap better electoral dividends in the 2015 local body and 2016 Assembly polls by securing especially the trust of the Muslim community. In the previous Assembly polls, the LDF received 43.48% of the votes while the UDF got 38.81% and the NDA, 14.96%. However, this rich electoral output was ephemeral for the CPI(M)-led coalition. And it reflected in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 in the aftermath of the Sabarimala issue, which many attribute to the party earning the ‘wrath’ of the Hindu community. In a reverse swing, the Congress-led UDF got 47.48% and the LDF vote share declined to 36.29%. Even then, the NDA secured 15.64% of the votes. Steady rise The political graph of the BJP has been steadily heading north while the vote share of the UDF and the LDF has been oscillating according to the changed political scenario. Now the stringent anti-minority plank charge against the BJP by both the coalitions seemed to have been replaced with other issues. Some 400 nominees of the BJP belong to minority communities. Of these, 100 Muslims, including a dozen women, are contesting on the party ticket. More Christians dominate the campaign scene of the BJP in Thrissur and Kottayam districts. This is a double worry for both the LDF and UDF not only in the local body polls but also in Assembly elections next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjps-rising-graph-daunts-fronts/article33197767.ece
28 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||In Vadakara, LDF counts on achievements||An unbeaten dominance for the past half century, coupled with a long list of achievements, cements the confidence of the Left Democratic Front to face the voters again in Vadakara municipality. The leap attained in the public education sector comes as the biggest campaign tool for the LDF. On the other hand, what they actually missed out in areas such as the creation of newer revenue sources or the improvement of the town gives confidence to the rival front to campaign for a change. The capital of the erstwhile Kurumbranadu principality, which was home to the legendary heros of Vadakkanpattu, Vadakara has come a long way to attain a key position in the list of local bodies after the Kozhikode City Corporation. It has the largest number of voters and candidates in Kozhikode district. The LDF, which came to power by winning 28 out of the 47 seats in the last elections, hopes to make it 30 now. For the UDF, the 17 seats it attained will have to be doubled for any administrative change. With two seats, the BJP is yet to be a challenge for either fronts. “For us, the biggest feat during the last term is the progress of the academic sector. Over 200 students who won the lower secondary and upper secondary scholarships last year alone attest to the results of our efforts,” says K. Sreedharan, who led the municipality. He feels that the creation of 18 high-tech classrooms covering four government schools even before the official launch of the Kerala government’s public education campaign makes the efforts noteworthy for any voter. The municipality’s latest achievement in securing the prestigious hygiene status by adopting a model waste treatment strategy also makes the LDF campaign better this time. It is now the first urban local body to claim the title. Projects worth Rs. 25 crore under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board are also in the pipeline to win the voters’ support. For the rivals, the list of missed-out welfare goals throws in a serious challenge to the LDF. The United Democratic Front campaigners allege that those who make big claims after enjoying power for over five decades can never prove that they have kept pace with the time and achieved larger development goals. “A commercial complex, which was completed on BOT basis five years ago by investing over Rs. 40 crore, is yet to be a revenue generating venture with the administrative incompetence. The Vadakara link road still remains in zigzag form spoiling the whole beauty of the urban space,” says Suresh Babu, one of the 17 UDF councillors. According to him, the LDF failed to keep its promise of constructing a shopping complex at the old bus stand, which troubled many small scale traders. A better drainage system is yet to be reality, he claims.  For us, the biggest feat is the progress of the academic sector. Over 200 students who won lower secondary and upper secondary scholarships last year attest to the results of our efforts K. Sreedharan Outgoing Municipal Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-vadakara-ldf-counts-on-achievements/article33197656.ece
28 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Probe into grant of licence for quarry||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has ordered an inquiry into the State Single Window Clearance Board’s decision to clear the licence of a quarry project at Chengottumala. The order was issued by the panel noticing the alleged failure of the board to consider the local grama sabha’s objection against the project. The judicial member of the commission, P. Mohanan, also sought separate investigation reports from the Chief Secretary, Secretary of the Industries Department and the Kozhikode District Collector on the incident. They were asked to submit the report in three weeks after studying the public complaints against the project. It was on May 20 that the State Single Window Clearance Board considered the application for clearing the licence. The only condition set by the board was to secure environmental clearance. However, the complainants who approached the Human Rights panel against the decision said it was unfair to grant licence for such a project which was opposed by the grama sabha. They also alleged that the board had not complied with the mandatory legal procedures to be followed while approving ventures under the red category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-grant-of-licence-for-quarry/article33197666.ece
28 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID-19 figures continue to show declining trend||It was a day of respite for the district as COVID-19 figures continued to show a downward trend on Friday. The Health Department confirmed only 374 fresh cases though the test positivity rate stood at 12%. With this, the total number of admitted patients in various COVID-19 care centres and hospitals was reduced to 1,607. Of the newly confirmed cases, 349 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The source was found unknown in seven other cases. There were nine health workers and five Gulf returnees. The test was also positive in the case of other 13 persons who came here from various other States. In Wayanad As many as 105 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Friday. Of the new cases, 100 patients, including a health worker, were infected through local contact. In Malappuram While 612 people tested positive for COVID-19, 779 recovered from the disease in Malappuram district on Friday. District officials said 574 of the new cases contracted the virus through direct contact. However, the source of infection could not be traced in 27 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-figures-continue-to-show-declining-trend/article33197668.ece
28 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||In red fortress Koyilandy, UDF takes on a confident LDF||A red fortress with 25 years of unbroken loyalty to the LDF. That is Koyilandy Municipality, where electioneering is at a high pitch now, with all the warmth of a silver jubilee fete. Those who enjoyed power for five consecutive terms are visibly more confident now of retaining the position with bigger development goals. At the same time, what was not achieved even after 25 years is the trump card for rivals to try their luck. Of the 44 divisions, 29 stood for the LDF in the last local body elections. The UDF won 13 seats. The BJP had to be content with just two seats. However, the small margin which led to the victory of the LDF in 10 seats in the last elections had annoyed the leading front. It also raised questions over its declining hold. “What we see now in Koyilandy is the sweat of the LDF-led administration. We ensured the development of public infrastructure,” says V.K. Ajitha, LDF councillor. The biggest achievement, according to her, is the completion of the Koyilandy fishing harbour. K. Sathiyan, Municipal Chairman, feels his team has made interventions in all possible sectors. “We could commission the Koyilandy fire station. That was apart from other projects, including a vocational training centre for women, children’s park, modern fish mart, and mangrove museum, he says. Interestingly, the UDF campaigners have no objections to their opponents’ claims. They are seemingly focused more on the fate of “incomplete or cold-shouldered” projects. The lack of scientific waste management facilities and special welfare packages for coastal families is among the frequently highlighted issues. “We are yet to have a good bus terminal. There is not even a public crematorium, which troubles the coastal community. This could be the only municipality in Kerala without approved slaughterhouses,” says K.P. Sibin, UDF councillor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-red-fortress-koyilandy-udf-takes-on-a-confident-ldf/article33197676.ece
28 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Squads begin 24/7 patrol to check liquor flow||The Excise Department has opened a 24x7 control room (04952-372927) supported by striking squads to prevent smuggling of liquor and narcotic substances ahead of Christmas and New Year celebrations. Night patrol will be intensified covering the city and rural roads under various Excise range and circle offices. Suspected attempts to supply liquor and other narcotic substances to appease voters too will be monitored by the squads. Coastal areas and tribal hamlets will be brought under the close surveillance of plainclothesmen. Civilians who provide confidential information on drug trafficking or drug parties will be rewarded. Cooperation of special investigation wings like the District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force will be ensured to track suspected carriers and frequent offenders. In view of attempts to smuggle costly varieties of hallucinogenic drugs, a State-level directive has already been issued to check the maximum number of inter-State goods carriers along State and national highways. Besides, surprise inspections will be conducted in inter-district buses between Kozhikode and Kannur, to prevent smuggling of Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) from Mahe. A separate squad may also keep vigil along the coastal area to track smuggling of IMFL using fishing boats. To pass on confidential information, the public can contact the Deputy Excise Commissioner (94471-78063) or Assistant Excise Commissioner (94960-02871) . Telephone numbers of various Excise circle offices also will function as helplines to support the special drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/squads-begin-247-patrol-to-check-liquor-flow/article33197665.ece
28 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||‘Elect those upholding secularism’||Sunni leader and Grand Mufti Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliar has called upon people to elect those who uphold the country’s secular credentials. Opening the valedictory session of a Moulid Jalsa organised by the Madin Academy here on Friday, he said people should refrain from malicious campaigns and, instead, work for the development of the land. “The elections are meant to strengthen our democracy. We should avoid hurling abuses at each other. Winning and losing are part of the electoral process. There should not be any hatred because of that,” he said. He also launched the Madin Academy’s project titled Hiya aimed at offering better education for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elect-those-upholding-secularism/article33197677.ece
28 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||VISWAS organises seminar to mark Constitution Day||The Victims Information, Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (VISWAS), a voluntary organisation here engaged in offering legal help to victims of crimes and excesses, celebrated Indian Constitution Day on Thursday. Inaugurating a seminar on the ‘challenges faced by the Indian Constitution’, District Government Pleader P. Anil called upon people to come forward not only to parry the attacks on the Constitution, but also to uphold the rights ensured by the Constitution to people. He said there might be differences among people and organisations about the challenges to the Constitution. “But everyone should unite in protecting the fundamental rights of the people assured by the Constitution,” Mr. Anil said. VISWAS vice president S. Santha Devi presided over the function. K. Vijaya, lawyer, delivered the keynote address. VISWAS secretary P. Prem Nath welcomed the gathering. M.P. Sukumaran, B. Jayarajan, N. Rakhi, Deepa Jayaprakash, Ajay Krishna, and Lekha spoke. M. Manoj proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/viswas-organises-seminar-to-mark-constitution-day/article33198221.ece
28 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||351 test positive in Palakkad||As many as 351 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Friday. When 176 of them contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, the source of infection could not be identified in 172 cases. There were three health workers among the new cases. District officials said 228 people recovered from the disease on Friday. They said 4,892 people were being treated across the district. Most of them were at their respective homes. Apart from them, 88 people from Palakkad were under treatment in Malappuram, 47 in Ernakulam, 41 in Thrissur, 11 in Kozhikode, three in Thiruvananthapuram, two in Kannur, and one each in Wayanad, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/351-test-positive-in-palakkad/article33198222.ece
28 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Two die in road crash||Two persons died and two others were injured when a bus rammed an autorickshaw at Karimpully on Pattambi-Cherpulassery Road on Friday. Saji, 52, wife of Suresh Kumar from Churakkode, and Rajagopal, 63, died on their way to hospital. Both were travelling in the autorickshaw. Driver Abdul Rasheed and another passenger Priyanka were admitted to hospital with injuries. The accident took place when the autorickshaw tried to avoid hitting a dog that ran across the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-die-in-road-crash/article33198223.ece
28 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||159 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 159 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday. Of the new cases, 144 contracted the virus through local contact, of which the contact source of 27 persons were yet to be ascertained. Among local bodies, Pathanamthitta reported 18 cases while Thiruvalla reported 12. Meanwhile, four more COVID-19 patients died in the district. With 145 recoveries during the day, the district at present has 2019 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/159-in-pathanamthitta/article33197731.ece
28 November 2020||S.R. Praveen,KERALA||When polls were strange, fresh events||In October 1940, a young advocate, who had been active in the fight for responsible government in Travancore, walked the streets of Aryasala in the capital, requesting people to vote for him in the upcoming elections to the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. It was to be the first election to the newly formed Corporation, the first such local body in Kerala. He managed to win, becoming one of the 24 elected members of the first Corporation council. Now 106 years old, K. Ayyappan Pillai, that young advocate, reminisces about those days, recollecting even the minute details of the campaigns and the later meetings. “I was representing the Congress at that time. The opposition candidates were mostly independents. Adult franchise had not yet come into force here and so either graduates or tax payers could vote in that election. We mainly did door-to-door campaigns like now. Posters were made out of old newspapers. I won and became the deputy leader of the party in the council as well as the works standing committee chairperson. My family members had served in the municipal councils, before the formation of the Corporation,” says Mr. Pillai. The first council had eight nominated members in addition to the 24 elected members. There was hardly any representation of women, unlike now when a major party like the CPI(M) has fielded 66% women candidates. Retired Chief Secretary C.O. Madhavan was nominated as the first Mayor. He remembers the party that the council members had thrown for Diwan C.P. Ramaswami Iyer, in which he spoke rather cordially. “Though he may be called as a despot by many, he was cooperative with the Corporation council. He suggested a system similar to that in London, where the Mayor would serve only one year, after which a new Mayor is elected. We elected Govinda Pillai a year later. The Diwan told us that we have now got a fully empowered self-governed council, which will be a training ground for us to run a responsible government that would be formed at the State-level,” says Mr. Pillai. One of the major responsibilities for the councillors then was ensuring ration cards for the people. He remembers that the main roads were mostly maintained clean by the workers. The drains were all regularly flushed with water, which was drained into the major canals. Majority of the councillors from that first council did not contest in the next election. A few years later, before the accession of the Travancore state to India, Ayyappan Pillai had served as a messenger between the the then ruler Chithira Thirunal and Travancore State Congress president Pattom Thanu Pillai, to discuss the formation of an interim ministry.  Adult franchise had not yet come into force here and so only graduates or tax payers could vote in that election||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-polls-were-strange-fresh-events/article33197664.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. may move SC in actor rape case||The State government has reportedly sought legal opinion to appeal against the High Court’s rejection of the prosecution’s plea to change the court currently trying the actor abduction and rape case in which actor Dileep is an accused. Officials said on Friday that the government was poised to move the Supreme Court for a change of the trial court after the prosecution accused the Bench of a pronounced bias against the survivor. The court is scheduled to resume the trial, which has been in limbo for the past fortnight. The special prosecutor in the case had also relinquished his brief in the case in protest against the nature of the proceedings. The officials said the government felt the case had broad social ramifications. The vicious attack and its fallout had raised questions about the workplace safety of women. Prosecution case The prosecution case was that the crime was a one-off felony orchestrated to blackmail and shame the survivor as a punishment for some perceived personal hurt. It had occurred when the survivor was returning home after work from a film set. “Hired muscle” with a criminal record had executed the ambush and subsequent sexual assault at the behest of the conspirators. The actor had endured “long siege of terror” in a moving vehicle. She had survived severe physical and mental trauma and had turned up for trial. The survivor had also complained to the High Court against the tack of the proceedings, which she alleged was gender-insensitive. Sources said the government hoped to hire a senior counsel to raise its side of the case in the Supreme Court. It had earlier backed the claims of the survivor in the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-may-move-sc-in-actor-rape-case/article33197752.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||6,465 to try their luck in polls||The district has 6,465 candidates, including 3,343 men and 3,122 women, in the fray for the upcoming elections to local bodies, according to the final figures released by the State Election Commission on Friday. With this, a clear picture of the election scene in the district has emerged. Elections are scheduled in 1,727 wards in 90 local bodies in the district, which goes to the polls along with Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki in the first phase of polls on December 8. Women candidates outnumber men in the district panchayat and, by a slight margin, in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. In all, 4,773 candidates, with 2,482 men and 2,291 women, will be battling it out in the elections in 1,299 wards of 73 grama panchayats in the district. As many as 523 candidates including 266 men and 257 women are in the fray in the 155 wards in 11 block panchayats. Ninety-seven candidates, 45 men and 52 women, form the line-up for the district panchayat elections. The district panchayat has 26 divisions. Together, the municipalities of Varkala, Nedumangad, Neyyatinkara and Attingal have 516 candidates, of which 273 are men and 243, women. For the keenly watched contest in the 100-ward Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, there are 556 candidates in all. Among them, 277 are male candidates and 279 are women, according to the data released by the Election Commission. In the number of candidates, Thiruvananthapuram stands fifth after Malappuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad. Special postal ballots A special cell had been created in the Collectorate for coordinating the distribution of special postal ballot papers for electors who were active COVID-19 patients or in quarantine, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. The certified lists of these ‘special voters’ prepared by the designated health officers would be supplied from the Collectorate to the returning officers of the block panchayats, Corporation and municipalities. They, in turn, would issue the ballot papers to the Special Polling Officers (SPO) for distribution to the residences of the voters. The certified lists would contain the names of voters who test positive or go into quarantine from November 20 to 3 p.m. on December 7. Even if a voter included on this list tests negative before December 8, he/she would not be permitted to visit the polling booths and would have to use postal ballot, Ms. Khosa said. A training programme on the special postal ballots was held here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6465-to-try-their-luck-in-polls/article33198274.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) defends Pinarayi in Police Act controversy||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan on Friday rejected the criticism that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had acted in an authoritarian manner and inserted a harsh provision into the Kerala Police Act, 2011 to ‘bridle’ media without consulting the party or the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Briefing mediapersons after meeting of the party State secretariat, he said Mr. Vijayan had not acted in isolation or capriciously. The CPI(M) had given the government the nod to amend the law to curb hurtful social media campaigns that sought to vilify women, children, families and other marginalised sections. However, the implementation of the political decision had gone awry at the practical level. Left supporters pointed out that the revision appeared to threaten free speech and media independence. Hence, the government set the law aside. The government was perceptive to constructive criticism and did not conduct itself like a monolithic superstate, he said. Flays Congress Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the revelations of former Kerala Bar Hotel Association working president Biju Ramesh reflected the rot in the Congress. The party had become a rudderless entity. Its Central leadership was declining. Congress State units had escaped the sphere of influence of the national leadership and struck their independent course. For one, the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee had attempted a political balancing act. It had welcomed the ‘Islamist’ Welfare Party of India, the political arm of the Jamaat-e-Islami into the United Democratic Front fold. At the same time, the Congress towed a soft Hindutva line in Kerala. Its election manifesto was careful not to criticise the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-defends-pinarayi-in-police-act-controversy/article33197751.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fighting elections being a good sport||Promising improvement in sporting facilities as part of election campaigns is a rarity in local body elections, but as a sportsperson herself, Akshaya V.S. knows a thing or two about how such promises can sway the youth. An accomplished handball player, who represented the Kerala team in 2018, she is the Left Democratic Front’s candidate in the Melamcode ward. She has quite a challenge in front of her, to recapture a ward that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had won in 2015. The sitting BJP councillor R. Sanil Kumar had won the ward by a massive 2,310 votes last time, in one of the biggest margins that year. The rather tough political assignment came at a time when she was forced to take rest from sporting activities after an accident earlier this year. “I was under treatment and have been recovering well with the help of a physiotherapist and sports doctor. I still struggle to walk long distances, as there was some injury to the ligaments too,” says Akshaya. She had begun training for and playing handball when she was in Class VI. She found a place in the school team when she reached Class IX. From there, it was a journey to the Kerala University team as well as the Kerala State team. She represented the State in a few tournaments in 2018, with the team’s fourth place finish at a women’s national event at Hyderabad being the high point. A member of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI)’s district committee, the 22-year-old has completed one round of campaigning in her ward. New to social media Not a social media addict unlike most people of her age, she signed up for a profile in Facebook and downloaded Whatsapp only after she began campaigning. “If I manage to win, there are quite a few issues that have to be taken up on priority, including water logging in some areas and road improvement works. There are also quite a few who do not have houses of their own. Then, of course there is a scope to turn a pond that has fallen into disuse into a swimming pool, where coaching can be organised. We already have another pool in the area, from where a lot of swimmers have trained. There is also scope for new sporting infrastructure in the region,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fighting-polls-being-a-good-sport/article33197741.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orders placed for 7 lakh special postal ballots||Roughly seven to eight lakh special postal ballot papers may be required for electors who are active COVID-19 patients or in quarantine to vote in the coming local body polls in accordance with the new guidelines published by the State Election Commission. ''We have placed orders with government presses for seven lakh ballot papers now. If more are needed, Returning Officers can place orders depending on the numbers,'' said State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran on Friday. Special officers The commission, he added, has directed District Collectors to prepare a list of officers who can be deployed as special polling officers (SPO) and special polling assistants (SPA) for 'home delivery' of the special postal ballots. Under the new guidelines the commission published on Thursday, the special voters (COVID-19 patients and the quarantined) are split into two groups: electors who test positive or go in quarantine within 10 days of the election and till 3 p.m. on the day before the election will be included in the certified list. These electors would be issued the special postal ballot papers. The second group -- who test positive or are quarantined after 3 p.m. the day before and till the end of voting -- can visit polling booths directly after everyone else has voted. Distribution In appearance, the special postal ballots will resemble conventional postal ballots routinely issued to government staff, Mr. Bhaskaran said. “In the case of the special voters, the commission has assumed the additional responsibility of distributing the postal ballots. The candidates also will be informed about the schedule of visit for the delivery and collection of the postal ballots,” he said. The guidelines require the voter to be informed, either through SMS or over phone, in advance about the date and approximate time of visit of the poll officials. The team should first seek the voter's consent for delivery of the ballot paper. For speeding up things, the SPOs are authorised to attest the declaration forms that the voter has to sign before the postal ballot is handed over. In the case of a hospitalised voter, the medical officer concerned also can sign it. If the voter refuses to accept the ballot paper, it will be recorded in the register and Form 19B. The preparation of certified lists for the special postal ballots will begin on Sunday. The designated health officers have been asked to prepare the initial list in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki which go to the polls on December 8 on November 29 and hand it over to the District Election Officers. The lists for the subsequent days and till 3 p.m. on December 7 should be submitted on a daily basis. The process will be repeated for the second and third phases on December 10 and 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orders-placed-for-7-lakh-special-postal-ballots/article33197770.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||74,899 candidates for local body polls||In all, 74,899 candidates (38,593 men, 36,305 women and one transgender person) are in the fray for the local body elections scheduled in the State on December 8, 10 and 14, said the State Election Commission on Friday. Malappuram district has the highest number of candidates at 8,387 (3,997 men and 4,390 women). It is also the only district where women candidates outnumber men. Wayanad, with 1,857 candidates (987 men, 870 women), has the lowest number of candidates. The lone transgender candidate in the fray is in the Kannur Corporation. The district-wise data follow: Thiruvananthapuram 6,465, Kollam 5,723, Pathanamthitta 3,699, Alappuzha 5,463, Kottayam 5,432, Idukki 3,234, Ernakulam 7,255, Thrissur 7,020, Palakkad 6,587, Malappuram 8,387, Kozhikode 5,985, Wayanad 1,857, Kannur 5,144, and Kasaragod 2,648. In all, the grama panchayats have 54,371 candidates (28,321 men, 26,050) women in the fray. The district panchayats have 1,279 candidates (594 men, 685 women) and the block panchayats, 6,932 (3,540 men, 3,392 women). The municipalities have 10,344 candidates (5,159 men, 5,185 women). The six municipal Corporations have 1,973 candidates (979 men, 993 women) and one transgender candidate in the fray. The commission had published the notification for the elections on November 12. November 19 was the last date for filing the nominations. The polled votes will be counted on December 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/74899-candidates-for-local-body-polls/article33197772.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,966 cases in State as testing slumps||COVID-19 testing seems to be generally on a decline in the State for the past few days, despite claims of the State that testing will be upped to at least 70,000 tests daily. On Friday, with just 39,108 samples being tested in the past 24 hours, the new COVID-19 cases reported on Friday was 3,966. However, there was not much change in the test positivity rate (TPR), which has been more or less steady in the 9-10% range for the past few days. It touched 10.14% on Friday. The State registered more recoveries than new cases on the day, with 4,544 patients getting discharged from hospitals. The active caseload came down to 63,885. Till date, 5,21,522 persons have recovered from COVID-19 in the State. The Health Department added 23 more deaths to the official COVID-19 list on Friday, taking the total toll to 2,171. Five deaths were reported from Thrissur, four each from Kottayam and Malappuram, three from Alappuzha, two each from Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam, and one from Kozhikode. The Health Department puts the number of COVID-19 patients who are critically ill and in ICUs at 825. Source untraced Of the new cases, all except 81 are locally acquired infections, with 488 cases remaining untraced to a known source of infection. Malappuram reported 612 cases, Thrissur 525, Ernakulam 397, Kozhikode 374, Palakkad 351, Kottayam 346, Thiruvananthapuram 262, Alappuzha 236, Kollam 229, Pathanamthitta 159, Idukki 143, Kannur 131, Wayanad 105, and Kasaragod 96.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3966-cases-in-state-as-testing-slumps/article33197746.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital’s caseload slumps to 262||The COVID-19 daily count in the district fell considerably to 262 on Friday when 3,859 people was subjected to testing during the last 24 hours. The COVID-19 test positivity rate stood at 6.78. While 334 COVID-19 patients recovered from the illness, as many as 4,426 continued to either undergo treatment in hospitals or home isolation in the district. While all of the fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission of SARS-CoV-2, the infected included seven health-care workers. The sources of infection in 78 cases were unknown, according to official statistics. The COVID-19 death toll mounted to 540 as two more recent deaths—those of a 64-year-old woman who hailed from Naruvamoodu and a 70-year-old man who hailed from Pallickal—have been attributed to the disease. The district administration placed 1,884 people under quarantine on the day. With this, the number of people who were being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms stood at 27,365. As many as 35 people were booked by the Thiruvananthapuram City police for violating COVID-19 norms. Among them, nine people were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. A cumulative fine of Rs. 11000 was collected from 18 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capitals-caseload-slumps-to-262/article33198267.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Action against police officer for abusing complainant||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) attached to the Neyyar Dam police faced disciplinary action for allegedly abusing a complainant in the presence of his daughter on Thursday. State Police Chief Loknath Behera transferred Grade ASI Gopakumar to the Kerala Armed Police (KAP) 5th Battalion in Kuttikkanam, Idukki, with immediate effect, pending inquiry. The controversy sparked outrage after a video clip that the complainant, Sudevan of Pallivetta, had recorded on his mobile phone circulated on social media. With the State Police Chief flagging the incident as one “that has tarnished the image of the Police Department” in his order, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Thiruvananthapuram Range, Sanjaykumar Gurudin was tasked with conducting an inquiry into the issue. Mr. Gurudin, who examined the controversy and has collected relevant statements, is expected to submit his findings on Saturday. According to official sources, Sudevan had initially petitioned the Neyyar Dam police four days ago after his elder daughter had gone missing. However, the police subsequently traced her and discovered that she had eloped with a man. While the issue was soon settled in the presence of Sudevan, police officers in the station claimed that the complainant turned up again on Friday purportedly under the influence of alcohol and abused the personnel there. They accused Sudevan of instigating them on purpose with an intention to portray them in bad light. However, Sudevan said he had gone to the police station in connection with his complaint, but was treated in an undignified manner. Despite being a teetotaller, he was accused of being a drunkard, he claimed. Speaking to mediapersons, he added that no other officer, including the Sub-Inspector, attempted to dissuade the ASI from insulting him in front of his daughter. Other residents of his locality also raised similar allegations against the officer with a few even accusing him of having used casteist slurs against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-takes-action-against-police-officer/article33197732.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special drive to remove unauthorised boards||A special drive has commenced in the district in connection with the upcoming local body polls to remove boards that have been installed without authorisation, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Unauthorised boards put up in connection with the elections would be removed by the anti-defacement squads. Boards not connected with the election campaigns would be removed by the secretaries of the local bodies concerned, Ms. Khosa said on Friday. Boards that caused inconvenience to motorists and pedestrians erected on turns in the road, or on foot paths and bridges would be removed. Campaign materials should not be displayed on public buildings, electric posts, mobile towers, and telephone poles without the prior permission of the authorities concerned. The State Election Commission guidelines also prohibited election campaign materials that were offensive, vulgar, provocative or defamatory. The RDOs had been tasked with overseeing the special drive in the taluks. The support of the police also had been ensured for conducting the drive. The seven anti-defacement squads operational in the district removed 5,657 election campaign materials in inspections conducted across the district. This included 5,101 posters, 336 boards, and 220 flags. The squads would work round-the-clock in the 10 days ahead, the District Collector said. A media relations committee has been formed to look into media-related complaints in connection with the model code of conduct. The committee is headed by the District Collector. The District Information Officer is its convener. It has as its members the Regional Deputy Director, I&PRD, law officer of the Collectorate, and a senior journalist. Complaints can be mailed todioprdtvm@gmail.comor sent to the District Information Officer, Civil Station, Kudappanakkunu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-drive-to-remove-unauthorised-boards/article33198271.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Monsoon could see a revival from Dec. 1||The State, which is gearing up for the local body polls, can expect heavy rainfall from the first week of December, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The northeast monsoon, which has been weak over Kerala, will turn active by the first week of December powered by a low pressure area that is expected to take shape in the Bay of Bengal by Sunday. Under the influence of the low pressure area, which is forming over the southeast part of the Bay, heavy rainfall is expected in Kerala from December 1, IMD Met Centre director K. Santhosh said. In the two weeks ahead, the State is expected to receive above normal rainfall, according to an IMD forecast. The revival of the northeast monsoon will coincide with the frenzy of the local body elections planned in three phases in the State on December 8, 10 and 14. Depression The low pressure area, meanwhile, is likely to concentrate into a depression by November 30. It is likely to intensify thereafter and move westwards and reach the Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coasts by December 2. It may cross the peninsula and there is a low probability of it re-emerging as a low pressure area in the Arabian Sea. The State has received 31% deficient rainfall this northeast monsoon season. Only Kannur, Kasaragod, and Idukki districts have recorded normal rainfall so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monsoon-could-see-a-revival-from-dec-1/article33197757.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nomads under police watch, SHRC told||The Janamaithri wing of the Kerala Police has been entrusted with keeping a close watch on nomads in the light of the rising number of kidnapping cases in the State. State Police Chief Loknath Behera intimated the decision to the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) that sought a report on the matter. Commission chairman Antony Dominic issued an order to Mr. Behera following a complaint submitted by activist P.K. Raju. In his report, the State Police Chief said information on nomadic groups was being collected. He said a probe was progressing into the case in which a seven-year-old -girl was found in a river near her house in Kollam in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nomads-under-police-watch-shrc-told/article33198265.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Webinar on Panchayati Raj system today||The P.N. Panicker Foundation will organise a webinar on ‘Panchayati Raj system and the Relevance of Gram Sabhas and Ward Sabhas’ at 4 p.m. on Saturday. Former Chief Secretary S.M. Vijayanand will deliver the keynote address. Those interested in participating in the webinar have been requested to contact 0471 2328560 or 094955655927 for registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-panchayati-raj-system-today/article33197660.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mop-up allotments||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations published the second mop-up allotment list for admissions to engineering, architecture and pharmacy courses on Friday. The list, uploaded onwww.cee.kerala.gov.in, was prepared on the basis of options submitted until 4 p.m. on Thursday. Those who have received allotments should secure admissions at the colleges by 3 p.m. on November 30 after payment of fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mop-up-allotments/article33197756.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Music talent hunt for the differently abled||City-based Neelambari Music Studio is organising ‘Musicable’, an online music talent hunt for differently abled aspiring musicians. The registration for the programme is free and the competition will be held separately for those below and above 18 years. The participants are permitted to display any type of musical talent and only individual performances are allowed. Videos For the preliminary round that is open till December 15, participants must send three-minute pre-recorded videos of them singing or playing instruments, along with their personal details, to the WhatsApp number 7593960253. The finalists of the talent hunt will be announced on December 20 on the organisers’ social media platforms. The finale will be conducted on December 24 at 7 p.m. when the finalists will have to perform live for a maximum of 5 minutes each. Details Further details regarding the talent hunt can be obtained from the Facebook page of the Neelambari Music Studio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/music-talent-hunt-for-the-differently-abled/article33198261.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for injuring 11-year-old||The Vattiyurkavu police arrested a 42-year-old man for allegedly endangering a teenager’s life over a lingering hostility he has with the victim’s father. The police identified the accused as Aji of Panthukulam in Vattiyurkavu. The incident is suspected to be linked to a long-running feud he has been having with Ratheesh Kumar, who hails from the same locality. The accused allegedly hit Ratheesh’s 11-year-old son using his car when the child was riding a cycle outside his house on November 22. The victim suffered serious spinal injuries after being thrown off the cycle. The accused went absconding following the incident. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-injuring-teenage-boy/article33197739.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DCC expels rebel who is now LDF candidate||The District Congress Committee (DCC) has expelled DCC member S.M. Basheer who is contesting as a candidate of the Indian National League (INL), a constituent party of the Left Democratic Front, in the Manikkavilakom ward of the city Corporation. In a press release, DCC president Neyyatinkara Sanal said that he had been expelled from the primary membership of the party for contesting against the Congress candidate. Mr. Basheer had recently left the Congress and decided to contest as the INL’s candidate. The INL had arrived at its candidature after the CPI(M) district committee expressed dissatisfaction at their first two choices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dcc-expels-rebel-who-is-now-ldf-candidate/article33198270.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||View science holistically: expert||The COVID-19 pandemic has woken up the world to the interconnections between different disciplines in understanding nature and disease, P. Balaram, biochemist and former director, Indian Institute of Science, has said. Delivering the Foundation Day lecture of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) on ‘Chemistry, Biology and the Unity of Nature’ via videoconference, Prof. Balaram said viewing science through a holistic perspective would help understand environmental, social and political issues. Both biology and chemistry are required to understand the Coronavirus. Nothing could be more erroneous than the feeling that fundamental science has done all it can and it is time to turn to technology, he said. “We still don’t know how from a mixture of chemicals a cell can be created,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/view-science-holistically-expert/article33198262.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anti-corruption probe sought against CM||Political commentator and television personality T. G. Mohandas has sought an anti-corruption investigation against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Mr. Mohandas has relied on a statement given by former Kerala Bar Hotel Association working president Biju Ramesh to move the Home Secretary against Mr. Vijayan. Mr. Ramesh had claimed that Mr. Vijayan had sabotaged a case against former Finance Minister K.M. Mani following a meeting in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anti-corruption-probe-sought-against-cm/article33197753.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSERC member assumes office||A.J. Wilson has assumed office as member of the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC). Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta administered the oath of office to Mr.Wilson here on Friday. Chairman, KSERC, Preman Dinaraj, Power Secretary Dinesh Arora, and Chairman, KSEB, N.S.Pillai were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kserc-member-assumes-office/article33197758.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Farmers take out rallies supporting Delhi protest||The State committee of the Joint Action Council of Farmers organised protest marches at over 250 locations across Kerala on Friday against the Union government’s move to crush the farmers’ protest in New Delhi. The farmers took out marches to Central government offices in the State and burnt Prime Minister Narendra Modi in effigy. They shouted slogans expressing solidarity with the Parliament march in New Delhi. Kerala Karshaka Sangham general secretary K.N. Balagopal inaugurated the march to the PMG office in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-take-out-rallies-supporting-delhi-protest/article33197759.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to issue bonds to raise funds||The government is issuing bonds worth Rs. 2,000 crore to mobilise funds for development activities in the State. The bonds will be auctioned on December 1 through the e-Kuber system at the Mumbai Fort office of the Reserve Bank of India. For details of the auction, visitwww.finance.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-issue-bonds-to-raise-funds/article33197760.ece
28 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ISTD office-bearers elected||E. Mohammed Shereef (left) has been elected chairman of the Trivandrum chapter of the Indian Society for Training and Development (ISTD) and U.S. Paul Russel as honorary secretary. Other office-bearers were also elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/istd-office-bearers-elected/article33198277.ece
28 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur district has 18,089 new voters||There are 18,089 new voters in Thrissur district for the upcoming local body elections. They include 9,224 male voters and 8,865 female voters. There are no new transgender voters in the district.  24 transgenders The total number of voters in Thrissur is 26,91,371. There are 24 transgender voters in the district. The list also includes 114 non-resident Keralites. The number of female voters (14,24,163) is more than that of male voters (12,67,184) in the district. There are 1,39,803 female voters in Thrissur Corporation. Among the 86 grama panchayats, the highest number of female voters is in Pananchery panchayat. Of the total 40,452 voters, 21,086 are women. Female voters outnumber males in all the seven municipalities too. Meanwhile, the election to the Pullazhi division has been postponed as a LDF Independent candidate M.K. Mudundan died on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-district-has-18089-new-voters/article33198279.ece
28 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||525 new cases, 826 recoveries in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded 525 COVID-19 cases on Friday while 826 patients recovered from the disease. There are 6,292 active cases in the district and 98 patients from the district are undergoing treatment at hospitals in various other districts. So far 57,660 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in the district and 50,939 patients have recovered. According to official statistics, 507 patients, including four health officials, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. They include 70 people above the age of 60 and 29 children below the age of 10. There are 4,077 people in home care. As many as 231 people were admitted to hospitals for COVID-19 treatment on Friday. As many as 4,480 samples were collected for tests on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/525-new-cases-826-recoveries-in-thrissur/article33198219.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For well-wishers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-well-wishers/article33197744.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Initial step||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/initial-step/article33197762.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The heat is on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-heat-is-on/article33197662.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Life is not a song||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-is-not-a-song/article33197679.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll wall||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-wall/article33198283.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making ends meet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-ends-meet/article33198225.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In rapt attention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-rapt-attention/article33198227.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Election jamboree||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/election-jamboree/article33197774.ece
28 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka impressed by village secretariats||Two IAS officers and eight other government officers visited Village Secretariats in Somandepalli and Chilamattur mandals in Anantapur district on Friday to study the functioning of the new village-level administrative system. The Karnataka government is also planning implementation of a similar village and ward secretariat system, which is why it deputed a team to A.P. to study the functioning of the system. Karnataka Panchayat Raj Commissioner Priyanka Mary Francis found the services being rendered by the village and ward secretariat to be unique as the services were being delivered to the beneficiary at his/her doorstep. Ms. Mary was accompanied by another IAS officer K.R. Nandini, Chief Executive Officer of Ballary Zilla Parishad. Panchayat Raj Commissionerate Director K. Revanappa, Panchayat Raj Resource Centre Director Yelakki Goud, and Rural Development Joint Director Ganesh Prasad were among the 10-member team that keenly listened to the secretariat staff’s presentation on the functioning of these centres. They were also briefed by Joint Collector A. Siri on the software used in the entire system and its functioning. The team was all praise for the way a large number of services were being rendered at one place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-impressed-by-village-secretariats/article33198183.ece
28 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tea mosquito bug infests neem trees in Rayalaseema||A phenomenon has been noticed in neem tress in all mandals of Kurnool, Anantapur and parts of Kadapa wherein the leaves are turning brown and falling and seem as though they have been burnt. This has worried the farmers, who are growing it on a commercial scale for extracting several parts of the tree for different requirements. When contacted, Principal Scientist (Entomology) P. Radhika of the Agriculture Research Station, Rekulakunta, told The Hindu that it was an infestation of ‘tea mosquito bug’ (Helopeltis antonii), which was being reported from several regions in the four Rayalaseema districts. “The bug has affected the neem trees on the ARS Rekulakunta farm also. If the proportion of infestation was large, it leads to death of the tree,” Ms. Radhika said. The current situation, she opined, was not a very serious one, but for a common man it would look very disturbing as the usual leaf shedding season of the tree was February-March and flowering also begins around that time in the southern States and gets delayed till April-May as we move north towards the Himalayas. In South India, fruits ripen from June to August and the tree starts fruiting at the age of five but the economic yield of fruits is obtained at the age of 10-12. About 3,300-4,500 seeds weigh one kg and on average, a medium-sized tree produces 37-55 kg fruits on a farm. The bug affects cashew on a largescale in Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh and besides neem, it infests grapevine, guava, cashew, mahagony, cacao, cinchona, pepper, tamarind, cinnamon and apple, she explained. As for pest management, she advises farmers to collect and destroy the damaged plant parts; spray insecticide like profenofos, a 50% Emulsifiable Concentrate 2 ml, Thiamethoxam 25 WG 0.2 g, dimethoate 2 ml per litre of water. The spray should be done early in the morning or late in the evening hours on trunks, branches, foliage and inflorescence for effective control, she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tea-mosquito-bug-infests-neem-trees-in-rayalaseema/article33197527.ece
28 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy crop in Anantapur bears the brunt of Cyclone Nivar||The incessant rain under the influence of cyclonic storm Nivar that lashed the central and eastern parts of Anantapur district on Thursday and Friday has caused an estimated crop damage of Rs. 2.99 crore, Agriculture Joint Director Y. Ramakrishna has said. The damaged crops include paddy in 82 villages of 15 mandals and groundnut and maize crops in four villages. There are, however, no reports of damage to properties or complete inundation of colonies in the district. Joint Collector Nishant Kumar, who has been monitoring the damage done by heavy rain, has ordered enumeration of crop damage. “The BPT-5204 variety of paddy, popularly known as Sona Masuri, has been damaged due to gusty winds and continuous rain. The enumeration of actual damage will start from Saturday and the exercise will be completed by December 15,” said Mr. Nishant Kumar. Input subsidy The enumeration data will help in assessment of the input subsidy cost that the government need to provide to 1,243 farmers who have undertaken crops in around 716 hectares. Preliminary estimation has put the input subsidy at Rs. 1.07 crore. The district recorded an average rainfall of 27 mm between 8.30 a.m. on Thursday and 8.30 a.m. on Friday. Nambulapulakunta Mandal recieved a record precipitation of 244 mm. On Friday, the weather system moved northwards causing close to 20 mm of rainfall in Mudigubba, Anantapur city, Rural and Gooty mandals by 8 p.m. By 5 p.m. on Friday, 23 of the 63 mandals in the district received rainfall between 10 mm and 20 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-crop-in-anantapur-bears-the-brunt-of-cylone-nivar/article33198208.ece
28 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineer in ACB net for ‘accepting Rs. 2 lakh bribe’||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Friday arrested a Deputy Executive Engineer identified as Mohan Gandhi of Chitravathi Balancing Reservoir for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 2 lakh for releasing a compensation cheque of Rs. 21 lakh to a displaced woman Leelavathi of Raghavampalli in Mudigubba mandal of Anantapur district. Tirupati ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police V. Allabaksh said at a press conference here that Leelavathi was displaced as her land in the village and house got inundated. She was supposed to get Rs. 21 lakh for the house she was getting constructed at an alternative place and also 13 cents of land was to be identified and handed over to her. Mr. Allabaksh said that Mr. Mohan Gandhi allegedly demanded 10% of the value to hand over the cheque after certifying the work on house construction and identifying some land as a backyard. She had struck a deal, but repeated demands for a higher sum forced her to approach the ACB. The ACB sleuths reportedly arranged Rs. 2 lakh in currency notes of Rs. 2,000 at Rithi Gold shop at Srikantham Circle in Anantapur city. As soon as the engineer allegedly accepted the money, the Tirupati ACB DSP, who is also the in-charge of Anantapur, arrested the engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engineer-in-acb-net-over-rs-2-lakh-bribe/article33198184.ece
28 November 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Life certificate submission date extended||Here is good news for the Central government pensioners, who are worried that non-submission of life certificate will result in withholding of their pensions. The Centre has extended the deadline for submission of life certificate for this year till Febreury 28, 2021. With social media messages doing the rounds that they have to submit the certificate by the November-end, pensioners remain a confused lot. This is despite the government clarifying in September that the deadline was extended till the December-end in view of the pandemic. The deadline has been extended again in view the prevailing pandemic and the vulnerability of the elderly persons to the infection. Though submission of the life certificate by the November-end is a routine annual procedure, senior citizens are worried about going to the Pension Disbursing Authorities (PDAs) such as banks and post offices to submit the same amid the pandemic. The Centre has launched the ‘Jeevan Pramaan’ or digital life certificate six years ago to save pensioners from the hassles of going to the bank and submit life certificates every year. How to generate DLC While some tech-savvy pensioners switched to the new mode long ago, many others are now going to the Mee Seva centres and cyber cafes to generate digital life certificates. They complain of problems such as non-integration with the Aadhaar data and other technical issues. Pensioners can generate life certificate online by using a software application and secure Aadhaar-based Biometric Authentication System. The Digital Life Certificate (DLC) can be stored online and accessed, whenever required. ‘Jeevan Pramaan’ app Pensioners should have an Aadhaar number and a working cellphone number. They need to download the ‘Jeevan Pramaan’ app and register by entering details such as bank account, Aadhaar number, name, pension payment order (PPO) and mobile number. On registration, an OTP will be sent to the registered mobile number and a Pramaan ID will be generated after validation.  Pensioners need to use the Pramaan ID and OTP to log into the ‘Jeeven Pramaan’ app. They need to enter Aadhaar number and mobile number after selecting the ‘Generate Jeevan Pramaan’ option. The PPO number, name, name of the disbursing agency and other details need to be entered. A confirmation message will be sent to the registered mobile number and the DLC will be displayed on the screen after scanning of fingerprint or iris. In view of the pandemic, the RBI has decided to allow pensioners, family pensioners and ex gratia recipients to submit the scanned copy of the signed life certificates/declaration of the marital status in the prescribed format through e-mail to the respective pension cells from where the pension amount is being withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/life-certificate-submission-date-extended/article33198212.ece
28 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC asks State not to axe trees at Kapuluppada site in Vizag||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday directed the State government to file a counter affidavit, explaining the rationale behind construction of a guest house in the high-security zone atop Kapuluppada in Visakhapatnam, and asked it not to axe any more trees there. While hearing a petition filed by the Amaravati Parirakshana Joint Action Committee, represented by Gadde Tirupathi Rao, the High Court issued direction not to cut down trees in the 30-acre site. The government had already submitted an affidavit before the Supreme Court, taking objection to the manner in which the High Court had been issuing directions and “taking over the Executive functions of the State and intervening in matters as small as construction of a guest house in Visakhapatnam.” The State government said the guest house was being constructed to provide accommodation to the President, the Vice-President, the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of India, judges, Union Ministers, Governors, Chief Ministers and Ministers during their visit to the city. A JAC petition challenged the State government’s move to construct the guest house, wherein it contended that it would entail an expenditure of Rs. 1,000 crore and also jeopardise the safety of the Greyhounds Commandos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-asks-ap-govt-not-to-axe-trees/article33198088.ece
28 November 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drag racing on the rise in city||With the aim to control rash and errant drivers, city police conducted a special drive for a week and seized 211 motorcycles, including many high-end ones, on Monday. Police teams found that most of the erring motorists were youth aged between 18 and 25 years and were taking up organised drag racing at various areas, especially along the coastal stretch, with the roads being mostly deserted. The youth created social media groups to communicate about racing and to alert other members over police patrolling at various routes. According to the police, some of the youth were college students, while rest were dropouts or doing petty jobs. While there were many among them who forced their parents to buy the bikes, there are a few, who are paying monthly instalments for the vehicles by doing odd jobs. The police say that many of the bikes are high-end ones. One of the bikes caught under Arilova police station limits costs over Rs. 3 lakh and it has radiators fitted to engine. Many bikes did not even have a number plate. A few youth had adorned their bike with fancy lights and objectionable quotations. According to a senior officials, many youth pressurise their parents to buy a bike, and take up racing after getting inspired by movies. “Many youth are involved drag racing and zig-zag driving. We have caught nearly 50 bikes just on R.K Beach Road stretch, in the last one week,” said Inspector of III Town K. Rama Rao. Explaining the modus operandi , Assistant Commissioner of Police (Dwaraka Zone) R.V.S.N Murthy, said that the youth select some distance and fix a time to cross or make laps. “They discuss this in WhatsApp groups and also alert others over police patrolling at various stretches. They also fix the timing between 10.30 p.m. and 4 a.m.,” he said. “Youth attracted to speed, take part in races. What they do not understand is this could be fatal not just to to them, but also to other road users,” Mr. Murthy said. According to Mr. Murthy, at least one or two students are dying in road accidents due to overspeeding in the city every month. He said that parents should monitor the activities of their children. “If children are leaving home late night, parents should enquire,” he said, adding that all the youth who were caught are being counselled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drag-racing-on-the-rise-in-city/article33198309.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Asset bifurcation: MHA to meet TS, A.P. Chief Secretaries on Dec. 1||The Ministry of Home Affairs has called for a meeting of the Chief Secretaries of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on December 1 to discuss about the bifurcation of assets and liabilities between the two successor Telugu States. The Union Government, in its communication, said the Union Home Secretary would be holding a meeting with the Chief Secretaries through video conferencing on Tuesday at 4.30 p.m. to discuss issues related to apportionment of Andhra Bhavan in New Delhi. The Telangana Government however is planning to seek postponement of the meeting as it coincides with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election that is scheduled to be held on the same day. “We are planning to seek postponement of the meeting at a later date convenient to both the sides as well the Union Home Ministry,” an official said. The government was, however, prepared to participate in the meeting if the Union Ministry was not inclined to defer it. The scheduled meeting assumes significance as it was aimed at apportioning the close to 20-acre site with several buildings valued at Rs. 7,110 crore. The Andhra Pradesh government had put forth proposals according to which it would get 11.32 acre valued at Rs. 4,146.73 crore while Telangana would get 8.41 acre land estimated to cost Rs. 2,963 crore as its share if the property was divided in the ratio of 58:42 in line with the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014.  A.P. Reorganisation Act Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, however, contended that the property would not fall under the bifurcation process as it pertained to the Nizam’s era property and belonged solely to Telangana. The Central government after a series of interactions with the officials of the two States said there existed a clear provision in Section 48(1) of the Andhra Pradesh State Reorganisation Act for bifurcation of the AP Bhavan in population ratio between the two States. On the issue of practical difficulty in dividing the property, it was decided that the total land and Floor Area Ratio would be taken into account for the purpose of divisibility, the Home Secretary said during a meeting between the two States held last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mha-calls-for-meeting-of-ap-ts-chief-secretaries-on-dec-1-on-ap-bhavan/article33198127.ece
28 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed as car capsizes in swirling waters in Kadapa||Two persons, identified as Ravi and Venkata Subbaiah of Rajampet, were killed when the car in which they were travelling fell into the swirling river water between Gurramkonda and Chinnamandem. In another incident, a car proceeding from Kancheepuram in Tamil Nadu to Mantralayam in Kurnool district plunged into the Vontimitta tank abutting the Tirupati-Kadapa highway on Friday. Policemen, led by Vontimitta Circle Inspector Hanumantha Naik, got into the tank and pulled the car ashore with great effort. The injured passengers were rushed to the local PHC for first aid. Rescue operations Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan monitored rescue operations in Nagarajupeta locality, as the swollen Buggavanka water spread across the low-lying areas of the city. As many as 450 persons were rescued from One Town, Two Town and Taluk police station limits and shifted to safe locations. The police arranged to shift the residents of ground and first floors in most of the buildings prone to submergence. Uprooted trees in eleven locations were removed. Five villages were totally under water in Rajampet mandal with the sudden flow of water. Twenty-two persons, including an infant, were safely rescued from the flash floods. Mr. Anburajan later rushed to Tallapaka village in Mannur police limits to oversee an operation where 10 electrical department staff who got stranded in a marooned mango orchard while repairing a damaged electric pole were rescued. Meanwhile, the district administration directed release of 1,200 cusecs of water from Chitravathi balancing reservoir, by retaining 10 tmcftr. In view of the damage to the culvert on Kadapa-Badvel road near Bhakarapet, traffic was diverted via Moolapalle and Machupalle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-as-car-capsizes-in-swirling-waters-in-kadapa/article33198196.ece
28 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||East Godavari farmers told to go for short duration paddy in rabi season||The East Godavari district authorities have advised the farmers to go for the four short duration paddy varieties for rabi season to deal with the shortage of irrigation water. The advisory was issued after the authorities decided to stop supply of irrigation water from the Godavari river at Polavaram project site on March 31. Action plan The Polavaram project authorities have urged the district officials and farmers in the Godavari delta to prepare an action plan to manage with the shortage of irrigation water during rabi season. The work of Polavaram project cofferdam will commence on March 31, with the aim of completing it by the June-end and the supply of the water from the Cofferdam would be stopped till then. The decision was taken the irrigation advisory board meeting recently. Direct sowing In a release, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has said that farmers in the eastern and central delta should prefer four paddy varieties —MTU 1121, RNR 15048 (Telangana Sannalu), RP Bio-226 (Improved Samba) and NLR-34449 (Nellore Sannalu) for rabi season. All these varieties are of 120 day duration. “The shortage of irrigation water during rabi season can be managed by cultivating these four paddy varieties. Farmers should go for direct sowing to avoid the need of more water to raise nurseries. Those who go for direct sowing by December 10 can get timely irrigation water in the eastern and central delta,” said Mr. Muralidhar. Special teams formed Meanwhile, the district adminsitration has constitued special teams under the supervision of Joint Collectors G. Lakshmisha, Ch. Kirthi and Raja Kumari. The officers will see that farmers go for the four paddy varieties and direct sowing method.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/east-godavari-farmers-told-to-go-for-short-duration-paddy-in-rabi-season/article33198210.ece
28 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held, 41 motorbikes recovered||The East Godavari police on Friday arrested three persons and recovered 41 motorbikes stolen by them in the past one year. Addressing the media, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that a 31-year-old car driver, I. Maha Lakshmi, resorted to stealing two-wheelers as he was needed money for cricket betting. The other two -- S. Subba Rao and Y. Sattibabu -- were arrested on the charge of buying the stolen two wheelers from Maha Lakshmi at lower prices and reselling the vehicles to others. The two belong to Kajuluru village in the limits of Coringa police station. Kakinada DSP V. Bheema Rao, who led the operation, said that a majority of the two wheelers were stolen in Kakinada city and rural areas. An investigation is on into the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-41-motorbikes-recovered/article33198185.ece
28 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rape survivor undergoes minor surgery||AP State Women’s Commission Member S. Rajya Lakshmi on Friday said that the five-year-old rape survivor had undergone a minor surgery and added that she was in a stable condition at the Government General Hospital in Kakinada. The girl was abducted from her house by miscreants and raped in the early hours of Tuesday. She was admitted to hospital on Wednesday. Accompanied by ICDS Assistant Project Director D. Vijaya Lakshmi, District Child Protection Officer Ch. Venkata Rao, Ms. Rajya Lakshmi has visited the victim and inquired about the treatment during her interaction with the doctors. Police said they are waiting for the girl to return to normalcy in order to register her statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rape-survivor-undergoes-minor-surgery/article33198186.ece
28 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Penna, other water bodies in spate||Water bodies, including the Penna river, were in spate as heavy rain battered South Coastal Andhra Pradesh for the second day on Friday under the influence of ‘Nivar’, which left a trail of destruction in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts. The Penna river bank embankment breached on the Kovur suburbs as irrigation authorities let out up to four lakh cusecs of water from near-full Somasila reservoir into the sea. About 600 persons from Pothireddipalem village were shifted to safer places. Relief camps About 2,000 people were moved to relief camps in Anantasagaram mandal alone at the behest of State Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy, who monitored the flood situation continuously in the mandals downstream of Somasila and in other places with officials concerned. Several low-lying areas in Nellore city, including Jayalalitha nagar, Venkateswarapuram and Idgahmitta were flooded though the inflow into Somasila reservoir decreased to about 3.60 lakh cusecs as of Friday evening. A heavy discharge of water from Annamayya project in YSR Kadapa district was responsible for flooding in Nellore district, said SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu after visiting the Penna river. The inflow into the reservoir was expected to come down to about 3 lakh cusecs later in the day, Somasila Superintending Engineer N. Krishna Rao told The Hindu . Over 160 tmcft of water was let out into the sea so far this season as the Penna experienced floods in several spells, he said. Vehicular traffic was disrupted at several places, including on the arterial Chennai-Kolkatta highway as rivulets in Venkatagiri, Nellore (Rural), Gudur, Naidupeta, Sullurpeta and Ozili, including Pambaleru, Swarnamuki, Kaivalya and Godderu were in spate. Vehicles on the expressway were stranded for several hours near Gudur. Collection of toll tax on the highway added to the woes of travellers who complained about poor maintenance of the highway especially at the spot where it had breached following heavy rains in 2015. Food packets distributed Social activists rose to the occasion and distributed food packets and water to the stranded passengers and those in relief camps. Power supply was cut in Nellore and other places to avert fatalities following uprooting of a large number of trees and electric poles. Standing crop in about 94,000 hectares(ha) were damaged in the two districts, according to a preliminary report compiled by the Agriculture Department. In Prakasam district alone, crops in 60,334 hectares were damaged leaving the farmers in a State of despair. The damaged crops included paddy (10,486 ha), black gram (17,573 ha), red gram (10,039 ha), tobacco (6854 ha), millets (5807 ha) and bengal gram (5601 ha), Agriculture Joint Director P.V.Sriramamurthy said in Ongole. In SPSR Nellore district, standing crops in over 33,000 ha were damaged when rabi crop cultivation was going on in full swing. These included paddy (14,300 ha), black gram (13,393 ha) and green gram (1,219 ha), said Agriculture Joint Director Anantha Lakshmi. In Prakasam district, 5,700 persons were shifted to 58 relief camps organised in 12 mandals, said Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar after reviewing the damage caused by the weather system especially in Kandukur revenue division. Aqua farms were also hit by 'Nivar', added the Collector who asked the officials concerned to take up detailed enumeration of loss in two to three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/penna-other-water-bodies-in-spate/article33198192.ece
28 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zero deaths in South Coastal A.P.||The COVID situation improved further in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as fresh cases subsided, while more patients recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. Continuing the positive trend, both Nellore and Prakasam districts reported zero deaths during the period. As a result, the death toll remained static at 1,072 — 577 in Prakasam district and 495 in Nellore district. New cases declined to 42 in the region during the period. The overall caseload stood at 1,24,308. With 158 patients making a recovery, the caseload came down to just 1,168. As a result, the recovery rate improved further to 98.59%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-new-cases-below-50-in-south-coastal-ap/article33198188.ece
28 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 inmates freed for good behaviour||Nineteen women serving life imprisonment were granted an early release from the Rajamahendravaram Central Prison (RCP) on Friday after their plea for mercy was accepted on grounds of good behaviour. They were granted the mercy plea on Independence Day but their release was delayed as the COVID-19 lockdown was in force. In an official release, Rajamahendravaram Central Prison Superintendent S. Raja Rao and Superintendent (RCP Women Cell) K. Krishnaveni and other staff were present during the release programme. Mr. Raja Rao has said that all the 19 women inmates were given skill training during their imprisonment which would enable them to earn a livelihood once they are freed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/19-women-released-from-jail-for-good-behaviour/article33198187.ece
28 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industries told to have on-site emergency plan||Srikakulam Revenue Divisional Officer I. Kishore instructed all industries in the district to ready an on-site emergency plan and a local emergency plan to handle crises and fire accidents. Mr. Kishore held an emergency meeting here on Friday with all industrial houses, including pharmaceutical companies, which are part of the Srikakulam Industrial Safety and Security Council. He suggested them to hold mock drills every once in six months to assess staff preparedness in discharging their responsibilities during an emergency. Inspector of Factories P. Chinna Rao requested industry representatives to involve locals in surrounding areas in their mock drills and other safety activities so that they would also be able to respond quickly in the event of a fire accident or other mishaps. Aurobindo Pharma Limited senior general manager N.R. Rajreddy (Administration-CSR) said that the firm was giving utmost priority to safety norms, at par with the standards suggested by the Inspector of Factories and Fire Safety Department. Nagarjuna Agrichem Limited vice-president C.V. Rajulu and Dr. Reddy’s Labs’ senior executive K.V.S.N. Raju sought establishment of a common emergency centre in the Pydibhimavaram industrial zone which would prove to be useful in case of an emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/industries-told-to-have-on-site-emergency-plan/article33198240.ece
28 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All India Craft Bazaar evokes good response||The All India Craft Bazaar organised at Day and Night Junction in Srikakulam has something on sale for everyone. Traders from across the country have converged at the bazaar to ply their wares. Saris, dress material, carpets, toys and jewellery from Kashmir, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, among other States, are the prime attractions at the bazaar. Artisans who have lost their livelihood due to the lockdown are hopeful of tiding over their losses by making brisk business at the bazaar ahead of the Christmas, New Year and Sankranti festive season. The bazaar, which began on November 24, will continue on the same premises till January 26 and will observe all COVID-19 protocols. “We are hopeful of achieving decent business for all the artisans with the improvement in economic activity in rural and urban areas,” said Mohammad Nasim, president of Visakha Artisans Development Society which coordinated the establishment of a Craft Bazaar in Srikakulam. K.A. Bala, an artisan, came all the way from Srinagar to sell saris expressed happiness over the good response from customers. “There is a strong demand for saris from other States, Kashmir in particular. Kashmiri saris have a distinct look and are also affordable. The price range is between Rs. 800 and Rs. 2,600,” he said. Spoilt for choice Customers are appreciating the display of Kalamkari and Patiala dress materials, Madhubani paintings, stone photos and Etikoppaka toys. “The lockdown and restrictions on shopping malls have left us with no options to do our festive shopping. Now, we are able to shop in a relaxed manner at the Craft Bazaar as many varieties are available at one place. Moreover, it is also safe here with little congestion and crowds,” said K. Deepika, a resident of PN Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-india-craft-bazaar-evokes-good-response/article33198238.ece
28 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing farmer’s body found in Rallavagu||Members of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) on Friday fished out the body of a farmer in Rallavagu. He was among the three who got stranded in swirling waters after the gates of the Mallemadugu reservoir was opened, with the other two being rescued on Thursday. While all three managed to climb a tree to prevent being washed away in the gushing waters, Prasad reportedly slipped and fell into the waters and was washed away. His body was fished out near Kummarapalle of Renigunta mandal, a little distance from where they had taken refuge. Srikalahasti MLA B. Madhusudhan Reddy, who had joined the rescue operations by getting down into the stream, pulled out Prasad’s body from the water. The body was sent to Ruia Government Hospital for post-mortem. A car was washed away in a stream in Irala mandal of Chittoor district, in which a person Vinay Reddy of Palakuru died. Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu rushed to the spot along with Revenue Divisional Officer (Chittoor) Renuka and arranged to send the body to the government hospital for post-mortem. Elsewhere, 11 members of a family, including three children, were stranded at Sivagiri colony of Sadasivapuram village in Yerpedu mandal in the floods. They were reportedly taking shelter in a shed, which remained inaccessible to rescue teams. Officials made use of technology to reach out to the stranded family, using drones to deliver food packets and water to them. A rescue boat overturned in the swirling waters, with two rescuers tumbling into the water. One surfaced at a distance, while the other fell sick after consuming excess water. Both of them were rushed to hospital in a 108 ambulance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/missing-farmers-body-found-in-rallavagu/article33198189.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Avoid smoking, breathe easy||Braving the winter chill, a large group of people, standing in a row along the Prakasam Barrage, held placards that had thought-provoking messages on the need to prevent lung cancer. November is National Lung Cancer Awareness Month. The Hindu FIC, in collaboration with the Healthcare Global (HCG) Cancer Centre, organised an awareness programme on lung cancer on Friday. As part of the initiative, a human chain was formed along the barrage that became a cynosure of all eyes. The passers-by paused, some of them partaking of the programme till the end. “Breathing is important for survival and the main function of our lungs is to help oxygen from the air we breathe enter the red blood cells in the body. It is therefore important to keep our lungs in healthy condition,” said Krishna District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, addressing the gathering. Speaking after formally opening a giant size plant structure in the pyramid-shaped lungs with the words ‘Let's clear the air’ on it, he said the most important thing one could do to prevent lung cancer was to avoid smoking, or quit if one was habituated. “Smoking can cause cancer and then block your body from fighting it. A majority of lung cancers are caused by smoking cigarettes,” he pointed out, stating that though treatments were getting better, the disease continued to kill more people than any other type of cancer. He urged people to avoid tobacco products and instead focus on leading a healthy lifestyle. ‘Deadly disease’ M. Gopichand, Medical Director of HCG Cancer Centre, Vijayawada, said lung cancer was a deadly disease and was the most common type of cancer. He said in India, around one lakh patients were diagnosed every year with lung cancer out of which around 70,000 people died every year. Emphasising the need to take people away from the vice of smoking, he said 90 % of the lung cancer cases were the result of smoking habits and sometimes due to pollution. “Around 3 % of lung cancer is due to passive smoking or second hand smoking. Important measures for prevention of lung cancer are to stop smoking, avoid second hand smoking and avoid exposure of carcinogens at work,” he said. Ambedkar Open University (AP) Officer on Special Duty Velaga Joshi, HCG Cancer Centre, Vijayawada chapter's assistant vice-president (business development) Sridhar Muni and cluster Chief Operating Officer Raghuram were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/avoid-smoking-breathe-easy/article33197531.ece
28 November 2020||vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protesters against farm laws take to streets in Vijayawada||Expressing solidarity with the nation-wide farmers' strike against the new farm laws, representatives of various organisations under the banner of Andhra Pradesh Akhila Paksha Rythu Porata Samanvaya Committee, took to streets in the city on Friday. Raising slogans against what they called ‘black laws’ that would further exploit the farmers and threaten the food security of the country, the protesters marched from Sri Sri Bhavan and reached Bandar Road via Praja Vaidyasala Road. They demanded that the new agricultural laws brought in by the Modi government at Centre be revoked and instead laws on loan waiver and remunerative price for the farmers be formulated. They also condemned the police attack on farmers protesting at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi for the same cause. “The most unfortunate thing here is that there has been no consultation with farmer organisations regarding these draconian laws which will reduce farmers to labourers in their own lands,” lamented a senior leader. On Bandar Road, the protesters, led by former Minister Vadde Sobhanadreeswara Rao, Y. Kesava Rao, M. Suryanarayana, V. Srinivasa Rao, Ch. Babu Rao, Ravula Venkaiah, Yalamanda Rao, P. Jamalaiah, V. Venkateswarlu and others, were stopped by the police. Mild tension There was mild tension when the police personnel jostled with the leaders trying to prevent them from going ahead with their protest rally. The leaders resisted the police force and squatted on the ground raising slogans. The police parked their vehicles across the road, obstructing the protesters from moving ahead and took them into custody. Many leaders condemned the behaviour of Governorpet CI Krishna Babu accusing him of catching senior leaders by their collar and using abusive language against the protesters. The arrested leaders were shifted to the Governorpet police station and were released by afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protesters-against-farm-laws-take-to-streets-in-vijayawada/article33197533.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conditional remission for 53 women life convicts||The State government has issued guidelines for the grant of special remission to 53 women life convicts, paving the way for them to lead a dignified life after their release. In the G.O. 142 issued on Thursday, the government said the Standing Committee headed by the Principal Secretary (home) had reviewed the list of eligible prisoners as per the guidelines. The Director-General of Prisons had submitted the prison-wise list of the eligible prisoners. Of the 53 prisoners, 19 are in the Special Prison for Women in Rajamahendravaram, 27 in the Special Prison for Women in Kadapa, two in Visakhapatnam central prison and five in the Nellore central prison. As per the G.O., most of the life convicts had almost completed their conviction period. In a press release on Friday, the government said these women would be able to lead a dignified life as a few of them had obtained degrees while serving the sentence and a few others learnt tailoring, embroidery, baking and other skills. The government had placed certain conditions to ensure that these prisoners would not commit any wrongdoing again. They were subject to execution of a personal bond of Rs. 50,000. The prisoner would have to appear before the Probation Officer and the police station concerned once in three months till the completion of the unexpired portion of their sentence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conditional-remission-for-53-women-life-convicts/article33197456.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Immediate aid of Rs. 500 each for the cyclone-hit||The Cabinet meeting held here on Friday resolved to pay an immediate assistance of Rs. 500 per head to those taking shelter in relief camps. It was resolved at the meeting that assessment of damage to crops should be completed by December 15 and compensation paid in the following 15 days. It was also decided to supply seeds at 80% subsidised price. Officials told the Chief Minister that Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts recorded 188% excess rainfall from November 23 to 26 and more than 10,000 people were in relief camps. Crops in about 29,800 hectares in the State were damaged as on November 26 (paddy in nearly 16,300 ha, black gram in roughly 7,400 ha and cotton in 3,570 ha). Crops over 10,000 hectares each were damaged in Chittoor and Prakasam districts. Fisheries varsity The Cabinet gave clearance for the establishment of a fisheries university for which AP Fisheries University Bill has been drafted, and for the formation of Krishna-Kolleru Salinity Mitigation Project. A sum of nearly Rs. 778 crore has been sanctioned for the 2nd and 3rd phases of Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project and Rs. 920 crore for doubling the capacity of Somasila-Kandaleru flood flow canal project to 24,000 cusecs. Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu, who briefed the media about Cabinet decisions, said the Cabinet resolved to allocate approximately Rs. 241 crore for storing 10 tmcft in Chitravathi balancing reservoir in Anantapur district and implementing R&R package covering 1,729 families and Rs. 632 crore for widening Rallapadu reservoir north feeder canal in Prakasam district. Online gambling The Cabinet approved the AP Gaming Amendment Act, 2020 under which stringent punishment has been envisaged for online gambling and games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/immediate-aid-of-rs-500-each-for-the-cyclone-hit/article33198206.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Permit all media houses to cover proceedings, say TDP MLCs||MLCs belonging to the TDP have requested the Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council to permit all the media houses to cover the proceedings of the House. In a memorandum submitted to the Chairman on Friday, P. Ashok Babu, Buddha Venkanna and Mantena Satyanarayana Raju alleged that the government, in pursuit of its vindictive policies, was favouring only a section of the media and targeting select media houses. “The government has barred certain electronic channels such as ETV, ABN and TV5 from covering the proceedings while promoting those favourable to it. Such discrimination is in direct violation of Article 19 of the Constitution, the TDP MLCs alleged. Question Hour In another memorandum, they stressed the need for including the Question Hour and short discussion in the winter session. “It is necessary to discuss various issues. The government seems to be planning to do away with the Question Hour and short discussion citing the COVID19 pandemic,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/permit-all-media-houses-to-cover-proceedings-say-tdp-mlcs/article33198200.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No new fatalities in eight districts in State||The State reported 733 new COVID infections and six new deaths in the past day ending Friday morning taking the tally to 8,66,438 and the toll to 6,976. As many as 1,205 patients recovered in the past day, taking the recovery rate to 97.79% and number of recoveries to 8,47,325. There are 12,137 active cases at present. The number of samples tested inched close to one crore as it reached 99,13,068. In the past day, 57,752 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 1.27%, lowest in months. The overall positivity rate stands at 8.74%. The tests per million ratio increased to 1.85 lakh and the cases per million ratio also increased to 16,225. New cases Krishna again topped with two new deaths in the past day while Anantapur, Chittoor, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram reported one death each in the past day. The remaining eight districts reported no new deaths. West Godavari reported 118 new cases and was followed by Guntur and Krishna with 112 and 102 new cases. They are followed by Chittoor (74), Visakhapatnam (73), East Godavari (65), Anantapur (40), Kadapa (33), Vizianagaram (31), Nellore (29), Srikakulam (22), Kurnool (21) and Prakasam (13). The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,152), West Godavari (92,168), Chittoor (83,518), Guntur (72,678), Anantapur (66,633), Prakasam (61,400), Nellore (61,342), Kurnool (60,186), Visakhapatnam (58,028), Kadapa (54,259), Srikakulam (45,420), Krishna (45,154) and Vizianagaram (40,605).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-new-fatalities-in-eight-districts-in-state/article33198204.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State govt. encouraging inland waterways to reduce logistics cost’||Special Chief Secretary, Industries and Commerce, Infrastructure and Investment R. Karikal Valaven on Friday said that the State government wanted to encourage the establishment of multi-modal logistics parks in Anantapur and Kadapa districts. Speaking at a conference on ‘Economic Prosperity through Logistics’, organised in virtual mode by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Mr. Valaven pointed out that the State was endowed with good road and rail network and there was a need to focus on inland waterways to reduce logistics cost. Stating that the export sector was one of the priority area of the government, he said that an export promotion policy was on the cards. Coastal shipping berths He said that in an attempt to enhance the connectivity with the industrial clusters in the State, establishment of coastal shipping berths across the sea coast was being planned. It will also leverage the advantage of long coastline, he said. Speaking on the occasion, Visakhapatnam Port Trust Chairman (VPT) K. Rama Mohan Rao highlighted various initiatives of the government such as Make in India, Atma Nirbhar Bharat and Sagar Mala project, to drive growth in the logistics sector. He said that the Visakhapatnam port had taken measures for safe evacuation of goods in views of COVID-19 pandemic. Enhanced cargo handling system helped to avoid congestion at the port, he informed. Chief Commissioner, Central Excise & Customs, Visakhapatnam Zone Naresh Penumaka, Chairman, JM Baxi Group Krishna B Kotak, Chairman, CII Andhra Pradesh and Managing Director, Efftronics Systems Private Limited D. Ramakrishna and others also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-encouraging-inland-waterways-to-reduce-logistics-cost/article33198211.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu asks cadre to reach out to rain-hit people||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Friday urged the party cadre to rise to the occasion and take part in the relief activities in the cyclone-affected areas in the State. He asked the party workers to engage themselves actively in the task of supplying food and drinking water to the people in the affected areas in strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. They should also help the officials in the evacuation of the affected population to safer destinations, he said. The BJP leader called for greater caution by the people in the wake of the threat of two more cyclones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-asks-cadre-to-reach-out-to-rain-hit-people/article33198201.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. bent on suppressing Amaravati farmers’ stir’||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has condemned what he calls the government’s “high-handed behaviour and arm-twisting tactics” to suppress the Amaravati farmers’ agitation against the “arbitrary three-capital” decision. He was addressing the farmers from Krishnayapalem who had called on him on Friday. The farmers had earlier been sent to jail and released on bail later. Narrating their “harrowing experiences,” the farmers told Mr. Lokesh that they had not resorted to any unlawful activity. “We were not allowing those coming from outside to enter the capital city area,” they said, and thanked Mr. Lokesh for extending them his support. The way the farmers had been handcuffed showed that the YSRCP government had no humanity or decorum, Mr. Lokesh observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-bent-on-suppressing-amaravati-farmers-stir/article33198199.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training for journalists||C. Raghavachari Press Academy of Andhra Pradesh will be organising a training programme for journalists from Krishna district on Saturday. Academy chairman Devireddi Srinath said that Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkatramaiah would be chief guest, while Registrar of Vikramsimhapuri University L. Vijaya Krishna Reddy would be coordinator of the training session. The classes would be conducted online, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-for-journalists/article33197528.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT CET postponed to December 5||In view of the impact of Cyclone Nivar on a few districts in the State, Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) Common Entrance Test- 2020, scheduled to be conducted on November 28, has been postponed to December 5 (Saturday). In a statement on Friday, its convener D. Harinarayana said the CET would be conducted between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m on that day at the designated centres. Candidates should report at the allotted centres two hours before the commencement of the examination along with their hall-ticket and any identity proof, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-cet-postponed-to-december-5/article33197457.ece
28 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM aerial survey today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will undertake an aerial survey of the Cyclone Nivar- affected areas on Saturday. After the survey, the Chief Minister will conduct a review meeting in Tirupati with the district Collectors of Nellore, Chittoor and Kadapa and other officials. Briefing the media about the decisions taken by the Cabinet here on Friday, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said that ex gratia and compensation with regard to loss of human life and damage to property would be paid as per guidelines. Almost 180-km of roads were damaged, he said. In all, 664 houses were inundated and damaged houses were put at 673. He said the Chief Minister had instructed the officials to focus on restoration of power supply and repairs to damaged roads on a war-footing. The Chief Minister told the officials to provide ex gratia to the kin of deceased families at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-aerial-survey-today/article33198197.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains to be extended from Dec. 1||The services of some special trains are being extended by the railways with revised timings. Train no. 02727 Visakhapatnam-Hyderabad daily special express will leave Visakhapatnam at 5.20 p.m. with effect from December 1, 2020, to reach Hyderabad at 6.15 a.m. on the next day. In the return direction, 02728 Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam daily special express will leave Hyderabad at 5.05 p.m., with effect from December 1 to arrive in Visakhapatnam at 5.35 a.m. on the next day. Train no. 02784 Secunderabad – Visakhapatnam weekly special express will leave Secunderabad on Saturdays at 9.35 p.m., with effect from December 5, to arrive in Visakhapatnam at 9.50 a.m., on the next day In the return direction, 02783 Visakhapatnam - Secunderabad weekly special express will leave Visakhapatnam on Sunday at 7.05 p.m. with effect from December 6 to reach Secunderabad at 7.10 a.m. on the next day. Double decker Train no. 02708 Tirupati – Visakhapatnam Double Decker tri-weekly special will leave Tirupati on Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays at 9.55 p.m. with effect from December 2 and arrive in Visakhapatnam at 10.30 a.m. on the next day, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. In the return direction, 02707 Visakhapatnam - Tirupati Double Decker tri-weekly special will leave Visakhapatnam on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays at 11 p.m. with effect from December 3 to reach Tirupati at 12.45 p.m. on the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-train-services-to-be-extended-from-dec-1/article33197534.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal||The cyclonic storm Nivar has weakened into a well-marked low pressure area over south coastal Andhra Pradesh and neighbourhood and moved north northeastwards and and lay centered over south coastal A.P. and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal on Friday morning. A cyclonic circulation lies over east equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining south Andaman Sea and extends up to 5.8 km above mean sea level. Under its influence, a low pressure is likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. It is likely to concentrate into a depression during subsequent 24 hours and likely to intensify further thereafter and move nearly westwards and reach Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts on December 2. Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on Saturday. Thunderstorm and lightning with isolated heavy rainfall is very likely to occur in Guntur and Prakasam districts of south coastal A.P. on Saturday. The chief amounts of rainfall (in cm) recorded during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Friday are: Kavali (Nellore) 27, Nambulipulikunta (Anantapur) 24, Gurramkonda (Chittoor) 21, Sambepalle(Kadapa) 20, Rayachoti (Kadapa) 18, Madanapalle (Chittoor) 18, Chinnamandem (Kadapa) 18, Kalakada(Chittoor) 18, Udayagiri (Nellore) 17, Vinjamur (Nellore) 17, Punganur (Chittoor) 17, Pullampeta (Kadapa) 16, Thambalapalle (Chittoor) 16, Atmakur (Nellore) 16, Palamner (Chittoor) 16, Avanigadda (Krishna) 15, Chapad (Kadapa) 15 Chittoor 15, Ongole (Prakasam) 15, Amalapuram (East Godavari) 15, Proddutur (Kadapa) 15, Arogyavaram (Chittoor) 15 and Visakhapatnam 7 cm. Thunderstorm and lightning is forecast over north and south coastal AP and Rayalaseema on December 1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-likely-to-form-over-southeast-bay-of-bengal/article33198304.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone damages paddy, other crops in district||Sudden rains due to the impact of Cyclone Nivar came as a shock to the farmers of the district. Crops in various mandals in rural areas have been reportedly affected due to the rains for the last two days. Most of the crop which were damaged, were about to be harvested. According to sources, a number of paddy fields in various villages of Atchutapuram, Payakaraopeta, Rambilli, Yelamanchali, Butchayyapeta, Anakapalle (Rural), Nakkapalle and a few other mandals have been damaged. It was learnt that paddy crop was most affected followed by banana, sugarcane and a few others. In the city limits, agricultural crops in various villages in Anandapuram and Padmanabham mandals were affected. Officials have been inspecting the damages and are yet to give a consolidated report. It may be remembered that due to the rains caused by the influence of deep depression in October, 13,135 farmers from 285 villages in 30 mandals of the district were affected. Crops in 5,795 hectares of were inundated. Meanwhile, a number of roads, streetlights, electric poles and a few other properties of the civic body were also damaged due to the rain and winds. GVMC Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao said that Engineering Department officials from all the zones have been asked to inspect and prepare a report on losses by Saturday. The GVMC had suffered losses to the tune of about Rs. 15 crore due to rains in October. Meanwhile, the CPI(M) Visakha District Committee has demanded payment of compensation to farmers, who lost their crops in the rains due to Cyclone Nivar. Party District Committee secretary K. Lokanadham in a statement here on Friday demanded payment of compensation, without trying to reduce the loss by showing technical reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyclone-damages-paddy-other-crops-in-district/article33198314.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘FIRs against human rights activists a move to stifle voice of lawful dissent’||Taking strong exception to the accusations made in the two FIRs filed at Munchingput police station in Visakhapatnam district and Piduguralla in Guntur district against V.S. Krishna of Human Rights Forum (HRF) and functionaries of several other rights, literary, and dalit organisations, the HRF functionaries on Friday described it as an intimidation tactics to stifle the lawful dissent and protest. In the Munchingput FIR, Mr. Krishna, Coordination Committee member of the HRF (A.P. & Telangana), was accused of influencing the Vakapalli rape survivors to depose falsely against the accused police personnel. “This is an atrocious allegation. Since 2007, the HRF, along with many adivasi, women, and people’s organisations, has been seeking justice for 11 Vakapalli women who were allegedly raped by the personnel of A.P. Special Forces. It is because of the resilience of the women and the intervention of High Court in 2012 and Supreme Court in 2017, the trial is continuing in the SC, ST Special Court in Visakhapatnam,” said S. Jeevan Kumar of the HRF. Two of the survivors have died and the remaining nine deposed in the Visakhapatnam court. “The HRF, along with several other organisations, provided food and shelter to them. It is not a crime to provide food and shelter to the women witnesses from remote areas and help them depose in a criminal trial mandated by the law,” said A. Chandrasekhar of the HRF. UAPA invoked “It is because of this solidarity that the police are now seeking to intimidate Mr. Krishna and we believe to be a clear case of vindictiveness. They have gone to the extent of invoking the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act,” they observed. The UAPA was invoked against three HRF functionaries —HRF vice-president (Telangana) Atram Bhujana Rao, HRF Adilabad district president A. Suguna and HRF Komaram Bheem Asifabad district president Kanaka Venkatesh—in an FIR lodged at Tadvai police station in Mulug district of Telangana on November 2. All three are teachers in government schools, said Mr. Jeevan. ‘Drop accusations’ He further said that the HRF was not a surrogate or a front of any political party. “HRF was formed in 1998 with the firm conviction that a broad-based and truly independent human rights movement is desirable and possible. We demand that the fabricated accusations in the FIRs be immediately dropped,” said Mr. Chandrasekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/firs-against-human-rights-activists-a-move-to-stifle-voice-of-lawful-dissent/article33198214.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two women prisoners released from jail||Two women prisoners serving life imprisonment have been released from Visakhapatnam Central Jail on Friday. It was quite an emotional moment for both the convict prisoners — G. Kanthamma and N. Roja — who never imagined they they could experience such a moment again to reunite with their families. “When I entered the jail, I was very much depressed and though that this was the end of my life. Gradually with the help of jail authorities, I started a new life. I overcame my depression and learnt tailoring and bakery works,” said Ms. Roja, a resident of Naupada, Srikakulam district, who served jail term of eight years and four months, said during her release. Thanking the State government for the initiative, Ms. Roja said that she is confident that she would lead a new life. “Obviously, it is tough living without our families. We keep on missing them. I am very eager to meet my family members, especially my children studying Class IV and VI,” Ms. Roja. Another prisoner G. Kanthamma, a resident of Munchingputtu mandal, Visakhapatnam district, who spent eight years and two months in jail, said that she never imagined such a day would come in her life. She said she would net forget the support extended by the jail officials during the struggling days. “I will never commit any offences again in my life and will lead a responsible life. It is time to take care of my children, who are staying with my relatives,” she said. Speaking to newsmen, Superintendent of Police S. Rahul said that during the initial days, prisoners get depressed and they counsel them. The SP and other jail authorities have presented them saris and fruits. They also handed over sewing machines presented by Chinna Jeeyar Trust. The authorities expressed hope that the sewing machines would help them in starting a new life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-women-prisoners-released-from-jail/article33198313.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 73 new cases, 1 death||For the first time since July, the number of active cases in the district has come below 1,000. The number of recoveries has also crossed the 57,000-mark, which is almost 97.5%. The district reported 73 new COVID-19 infections and one death since the last 24 hours. The new cases take the tally to 58,540 and the death toll to 506. As many as 127 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered taking the number of recoveries to 57,043. With this active cases have reduced to 991.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-73-new-cases-1-death/article33198318.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram project only solution to meet water needs of Vizag: TDP||TDP Visakhapatnam president Palla Srinivasa Rao said Polavaram project was the only solution to meet drinking and irrigation water needs of Visakhapatnam district. Though the government announced that it would complete the project by December 2021 they were doubtful about its completion, he said . He said 70% of works were completed during the TDP government He said there were no storage facilities for 12 tmc ft of water to be drawn from Polavaram. Steps should be taken to construct storage reservoirs, he said. Former MLA Peela Govind said Polavaram project works gained pace when TDP was in power. He said Mr. Chandrababu Naidu converted Somavaram (Monday) as Polavaram. He said the stone for Babu Jagjivanram Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanti was laid by Mr. Naidu and 30% of works were completed. However, the present government ignored the project which will benefit farmers of Narsipatnam, Chodavaram and Anakapalle segments, Mr. Govind alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-project-only-solution-to-meet-water-needs-of-vizag-tdp/article33198307.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two skilling programmes for tribal youth started||The Chintapalle Sub-division police, in association with ITDA Paderu, have started a new community policing initiative, Sankalpam, a 120-day skill development programme, where dropouts from various stages of education between age group of 18 and 30 years have been identified and being provided training in basic computer skills, English language, communication skills, mathematics and logical reasoning. An orientation programme was organised as part of the programme here on Friday. Assistant Superintendent of Police, Chintapalle, Vidhya Sagar Naidu, said that the main aim of the course is to train tribal youth in various skills. Assistant commandant CRPF GK Veedhi, Devendra Naidu, and Assistant commandant Annavaram Kuldeep stressed the importance of education to the youth. Meanwhile, another skill development programme was also started by the district police in which 30 youth were picked up and sent to the institute, where they will be given training on retail sales associate, manufacturing assistant and fitter mechanic jobs. The police said that training, food and accommodation will be provided free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-skilling-programmes-for-tribal-youth-started/article33198306.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ordinance on property tax opposed||The Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (APFERWAS), an umbrella organisation representing RWAs in the State, has strongly opposed the recent Ordinance no.16 brought out by the State government on the new methodology of levying property taxes. According to the newly-amended municipal law, property tax will be levied based on the market price of the property as against the earlier method of levying property tax based on rental value of the property. This new tax regime comes into effect from April 2021, and over a short period of time there is a likelihood of a tenfold increase in property tax, because the new tax gets reviewed and increased annually when the registration department increases the market value of the properties annually. Under the new law, tax will be levied also on the land on which the building is built, Uday Shirname, president, APFERWAS, said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ordinance-on-property-tax-opposed/article33197535.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Registrations open for film festival in Goa||The 51st edition of International Film Festival of India (IFFI), being organised by the Directorate of Film Festivals, Government of India, will be held from January 16 to 24 at Goa. The directorate has invited film enthusiasts and film society members to participate as delegates, according to Narava Prakasa Rao, secretary, Vizag Film Society (VFS). The registration can be done by logging on to the websitehttps://iffigoa.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/registrations-open-for-film-festival-in-goa/article33198310.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||UBI holds mega loan mela at Gajuwaka||Union Bank of India, Gajuwaka cluster branches, organised a mega loan mela (MSME, Retail & SHGs) at SME Gajuwaka branch premises on Friday.The meeting was chaired by Field General Manager Srinivasa Setty, Regional Head Ajay Kumar, Deputy Regional Head ISS Murthy and Deputy Regional Head D. Ramana Murthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ubi-holds-mega-loan-mela-at-gajuwaka/article33198311.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU demands withdrawal of Farm Bills||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Greater Visakha City Committee has demanded withdrawal of the three Farm Bills, which are detrimental to the interests of farmers. In a statement, CITU city committee general secretary M. Jaggu Naidu and president R.K.S.V. Kumar condemned the use of tear gas and lathicharge on farmers, who were on their way to Delhi from Punjab, by the police of Haryana. Barricades were erected and water cannons were used to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi. They alleged that the Centre was trying to favour the corporate companies while denying support to the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-demands-withdrawal-of-farm-bills/article33198312.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointment letters given to mahila police volunteers||Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao on Friday handed over appointment letters to candidates, who cleared Village, Ward, Mahila Police Volunteer examinations. According to the officials, 96 candidates have attended the certificate verification process out of which 79 candidates were given appointment letters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appointment-letters-given-to-mahila-police-volunteers/article33198315.ece
28 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation camp organised||As part of Navy Day Celebrations, a blood donation camp was organised at INS Dega at Visakhapatnam on Friday. Surgeon Rear Adm C.S. Naidu, Command Medical Officer, inaugurated the camp. A total of 145 naval personnel, including officers, sailors and Defence Civilians of the station, donated blood. The donated blood was handed over to NTR Trust Blood Bank, Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-donation-camp-organised/article33198320.ece
28 November 2020||VIZIANAGAGRAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Award for Collector||District officials led by Joint Collector G.C. Kishore Kumar on Friday felicitated Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on his selection for the ‘Man of Excellence Award’ by the Indian Achievers Forum, New Delhi. He was selected for his sustainable development activities in water management and improvement of greenery in the district. Dr. Jawaharlal said he could get the award with the concerted efforts of everybody in the administration. Chief Planning Officer J. Vijaya Lakshmi, District Project Manager of Disaster Management K. Padmavati, DPRO D. Ramesh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/award-for-collector/article33198194.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unchecked littering||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unchecked-littering/article33198242.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cold comfort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cold-comfort/article33198216.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chill in the air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chill-in-the-air/article33197537.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Acid test for contestants in Malkajgiri, Alwal||Civic issues like roads, drainage or sanitation, are believed to be the factors that decide the fate of contestants in Baldia polls. Barring East Anandbagh (139), other issues like contestant’s party, anti-establishment vote and ‘works rendered by local MLA, seem to be assuming importance in the nine divisions of Malkajgiri and Alwal GHMC circles. Parts of East Anandbagh had some of the worst affected residential localities in Malkagiri Assembly constituency during recent floods that hit the State’s capital. Lot of protests with the general public pouring out anger against public representatives were witnessed here. Yet, some feel that more than inundation of streets and houses for days together, the pending Road Under Bridge (RUB) works in this division would have a far more impact on voting. “Downpours and submerging of houses are witnessed for over the past two decades here. The unfinished RUB holding up traffic frequently is a serious civic issue,” a chit-fund operator Anjaneyulu opines. GHMC’s Malkajgiri and Alwal circles come under Malkajgiri Lok Sabha constituency, which was won by Congress nominee A. Revanth Reddy in last year’s general election. In the Assembly election held four months prior to that, ruling TRS party’s Mynampally Hanumantha Rao won over BJP’s N. Ramchander Rao. In addition to the corporator candidate’s image, influence and tactics of Revanth Reddy, Hanumantha Rao and Ramchander Rao are also likely to play a role in the final outcome of their respective party nominees. Despite the presence of candidates from other parties like Telugu Desam Party and Independents, the fight is mainly between TRS and BJP in majority of the nine divisions. An exception is Neredmet (136) where the Congress nominee is throwing serious challenge to BJP and TRS candidates. She was an ex-corporator of the same division and known as a leader “approachable at any time”. TRS party changed three of its sitting corporators from Neredmet, East Anandbagh and Gouthamnagar (141) divisions. In Alwal circle’s Alwal division, TRS candidate Ch. Shanthi Reddy, a sitting corporator, is far ahead of her rivals and bombarding voters with multiple door-to-door campaigns, rallies and meetings. A stranger passing from Alwal main road to Loyola college is likely to have a misconception that no other party candidate is in the fray with pink flags, banners and flexi posters occupying most of the public places. BJP top leaders fielded here Veena Goud, whose husband Ravi was murdered in 1996. Since the accused in Ravi’s murder, who eventually got acquitted, was playing a key role in Malkajgiri Assembly, BJP leaders hoped their candidate would have an edge. Interestingly, two other BJP ticket aspirants, having considerable clout, are keeping off the election campaign affecting Ms. Veena’s prospects. “Srinivasanagar colony of Alwal division was seriously affected by recent floods. There is resentment against sitting corporator but no other contestant is noticing this,” says Satyanarayana of the locality. While TRS star campaigner and Minister K.T. Rama Rao made a whirlwind election tour of Alwal circle, other parties are yet to pull their socks up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acid-test-for-contestants-in-malkajgiri-alwal/article33198091.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nadda takes potshots at KCR||BJP national president J.P. Nadda said a true leader is one who leads from the front like Prime Minister Narendra Modi who took “bold” decisions like enforcing national lockdown to save 130 crore people of the country from COVID-19 and even visiting the borders to be with the soldiers. “Here (in Telangana) we have a Chief Minister who does not come out of the house, did not go to the Secretariat in the last five years and even demolishes it for the sake of ‘vastu’. What can a leader, who is scared of ‘vastu’ - do good to people,” he chuckled, at a meeting of the Telangana Intellectuals Forum on Friday. Expressing his happiness over the party gaining support during the GHMC polls campaign, he claimed BJP is the only party where leaders come from the people and not from family/dynasty - whether it is Mr. Modi, TS party chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar or Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. “This is our intrinsic strength - so the focus is on public service unlike other family owned parties. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao wants to rally anti-BJP parties but, why does he not say all the family-based parties should come together - because birds of the same feather flock together. Aren't all these parties interested in perpetuating dynastic rule,” he remarked. On TRS criticising his visit, he said though he was a national president, he is ready to go anywhere “where corrupt rule needs to be put an end.” "When even the developed nations were caught off-guard due to coronavirus pandemic, Mr. Modi took many proactive steps starting from the lockdown. From a single testing lab of National Virology Lab (NVL) with capacity of 1,500 tests and not having a single COVID dedicated hospital or lab or single firm making PPE kits, we have 1,600 such hospitals and 1,600 labs to do 15 lakh tests capacity. We are making five lakh protection kits and even exporting them, manufacturing three lakh ventilators and have 4.5 lakh dedicated hospital beds. That is the change brought about," he said. The Prime Minister not only addressed the health issue but also economic issues in ensuring 8 crore women got three gas cylinders in last three months, Rs. 500 each directly to bank accounts of the poor, 80 crore were given 5 kilo rice and other commodities during the period, Rs. 1000 for widows, elderly people and disabled, the Atma Nirbhar package for MSMEs, street vendors, agriculture, etc. Earlier, Mr. Nadda along with Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, Mr. Sanjay Kumar and others participated in a roadshow amid rain at Kothapet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nadda-takes-potshots-at-kcr/article33198101.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC issues electoral guidelines for polling day||The GHMC has on Friday conveyed the guidelines pertaining to appointment/conduct of polling/counting agents for the ensuing GHMC elections on December 1. According to the guidelines, the list of ineligible persons includes State and Central Ministers, Members of Parliament, State legislators, Mayor/Deputy Mayor of any municipal corporation, chairperson/vice-chairperson or members of the municipalities or any local bodies, chairpersons of the elected national, State, district cooperative societies, chairpersons of the Central or State institutions, public sector organisations, State counsels and additional counsels, and government employees. The polling agent should have valid electoral photo identity card, and should be resident of the polling area pertaining to the polling station. On the day of the polling, the agent’s booth may be set up outside the 200 metres periphery of the polling station, using a table, two chairs, and a temporary tent displayed with the candidate’s and party name and symbol on a banner in 3X4.5 feet size. The booth should have permission letters from the local officials, which may be produced upon demand from the police or electoral officials. Election campaign will not be allowed within the 100 metre periphery of the polling booth. Possession or use of mobile phones, cordless phones, and wireless sets will be banned within the periphery. Election observers, micro observers, presiding officers, returning officers and security personnel may keep the mobile phones, but they must keep them in silent mode. The contesting candidates will be permitted to move within the division limits in a single registered vehicle, while his agents, cadre and other politicians will not be allowed any other vehicle. The registered vehicle for one candidate may not be used by any other candidate. Providing vehicle transportation for voters directly or indirectly from polling station will not be construed as an offence, a note from GHMC informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-issues-poll-guidelines/article33198103.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Opposition gives a run for money to TRS in Moosapet, Kukatpally||From a near sweep by winning 10 out of 11 wards by securing 42% to 63% of the polled votes in the 2016 GHMC elections held in the backdrop of State formation, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) is being given a run for its money this time by the Opposition parties in Moosapet and Kukatpally circles. Voters from AP The two circles with 5,78,376 electorate have a sizeable number of voters with Andhra Pradesh origin, who were believed to have been tilted the balance in TRS favour heavily last time. Although a total of 87 candidates are in the fray this time, the main contest is between TRS, BJP, Congress and TDP in the 11 wards with AIMIM having some strong presence in two wards – Allapur and Old Bowenpally, where it was the nearest rival to the winner. The lone ward (KPHB Colony) that did not come into the TRS kitty last time, eventually went to TRS itself with the corporator switching sides to the ruling party. The party candidates came second in six other wards in the two circles, while BJP candidates were runners up in two other wards and the Congress contestants were in distant third position or beyond in all the 11 wards. Rise of BJP However, the emergence of BJP as a strong contender this time appears to be changing the equation in the two circles with some local rank and file switching sides to it from Congress and TDP. Some of the TRS supporters too have switched loyalties to BJP. “Although the Telugu Desam Party is not a force to reckon with this time, it still holds some sway over the electorate and impact the result helping decide the winner. Those who are not satisfied with the TRS for the last five years are likely to switch their favour to others in the fray this time, mostly BJP,” R.S. Raju, an AP origin entrepreneur, in Hydernagar ward said explaining the changing equations. Although localised problems such as poor sanitation or drainage system and poor upkeep of internal roads are in the minds of the electorate in all the 11 wards, some serious discontent is lingering in the minds of a section of the electorate in the matter of Rs. 10,000 each flood relief distribution to families affected by heavy rains in October. “The flood relief assistance has been given to many ineligible families at the cost of genuinely affected ones as the sitting corporators, legislators and local leaders have influenced the identification of the beneficiaries. We are not even allowed to meet our legislator in his camp office in Allwyn Colony ward and we could not even enrol our name for the relief amount as there were serpentine queues at a nearby MeeSeva centre for three days before it was stopped,” M. Mohan, who ekes out a living as a construction worker, said narrating the issue. Several residents in most of the wards, however, admitted that water supply was no more a problem although there had been instances of non-supply for days ranging up to seven, due to repairs and other reasons. Several low-income group households also have complaints of not having ration cards in the two circles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/opposition-gives-trs-a-run-for-its-money-in-moosapet-kukatpally/article33198089.ece
28 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||In four years, elector population plummets in GHMC by 0.26%||In four years, the elector population for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections has dipped by 0.26% and is likely to hold the key for the smooth conduct of the December 1 polls in the city. For the February 2, 2016 GHMC elections, there were 74,23,980 electors on the EC rolls. For this year’s elections, the number of voters as on November 11, 2020, has dipped to 74,04,286. For a city that has been officially growing by leaps and bounds, the decline of elector population by 19,694 is surprising. The dip in voter numbers has shown a yo-yo trend. The number of electors for the GHMC elections is lower than even the electors during the 2018 Assembly elections in Telangana. In the 24 Assembly constituency segments that constitute the GHMC limits, the electors were 77,57,745 for the 2018 elections. During the 2018 Assembly and 2019 General Elections, the deletion of voter names had led to trouble in polling booths across the city with many irate voters taking up the issue on social media, including badminton player Jwala Gutta. This year, some citizens who have checked their names on the online portal of Election Commission of India have been shocked to find their names missing from the rolls. “@ECISVEEPI applied for voter registration two months back and application approved three days back. End result I cannot use the same in current election. Simple question, how #GHMC election notification is released without conducting/completing pending voter enrolment process (sic),” tweeted Sangeeth Kumar on Wednesday. Responding to a social media message about voter discrepancies raised by a political party, the GHMC electoral officer of Malakpet responded: “Our office has verified thoroughly. There is no such discrepancies in voter list as alleged. We have conducted political parties meeting on draft voter list on 10.11.2020. And no such objection was raised by any political party. Statutory time for claims and objections for ward wise voter list was completed on 11.11.2020. And such claims cannot be considered now.” In 2016, with just 46% of electors exercising their franchise, the margin of victory was wafer thin in nearly a dozen wards. In Jambagh, the AIMIM candidate won by just five votes against his TRS rival. In Goshamahal, the TRS candidate won against his BJP rival by 78 votes. In Champapet, the TRS candidate won by 146 votes. With decline of nearly 20,000 votes and innumerable deletions, the GHMC polling day may see high drama on the streets.  @ECISVEEPI applied for voter registration two months back and application approved three days back. End result I cannot use the same in current election. Simple question, how #GHMC election notification is released without conducting/completing pending voter enrolment process (sic). Tweets Sangeeth Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-four-years-elector-population-falls-in-ghmc-by-026/article33198097.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR may have to change his tone||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will address a public meeting as part of TRS campaign for GHMC elections at Lal Bahadur stadium on Saturday evening but weather will hold the key to mobilisation of crowd in view of the prevalence of cyclonic storm Nivar. The party has announced a congregation of two lakh people though a turnout of that size was unlikely by the admission of its own leaders. Nonetheless, an arrangement to set up a dozen mega LED screens outside the stadium was made to provide telecast of proceedings for those who could not come inside. Mr. Rao will need to change the tone of his speech at this meeting from what he dwelt in the rally at Parade grounds ahead of GHMC polls in 2016. Barely 18 months into governance, Mr. Rao had spoken then about his refusal to yield to demands by the Centre to compromise on the position of Hyderabad when a separate State was formed. He stuck to his guns that there was no question of compromise as Hyderabad was the heart of Telangana. The Chief Minister will have nothing to reflect on statehood issues this time as the contest had boiled down to meeting the challenge from rival parties, mainly BJP, which in its run-up to polls harped on communal divide of population in the city. Sources said he was expected to warn public while giving their mandate to choose between a development model set up by TRS and an ‘anarchic situation’ caused by the BJP. What could be unsettling to Mr. Rao was the promises that he made immediately after TRS won the 2016 GHMC polls with 99 out of 150 divisions in its kitty. He had promised for the city one lakh double bed room houses for poor in four to five years, two drinking water reservoirs of 35 to 40 tmc ft capacity, island power supply and three new thousand bedded hospitals in addition to upgrading the King Kothi hospital to 1,000 beds. Mr. Rao had been committed to giving up to then Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao municipal administration portfolio which the former had retained soon after polls and he stuck to it. Mr. Rama Rao who had carried out road shows in TRS campaign then with large audience repeated the act now. His focus in road shows was the Rs. 67,000 crore development that took place in Hyderabad under TRS rule. Mr. Rama Rao inspected the arrangements at the stadium late in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-may-have-to-change-his-tone/article33198120.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Land digitisation to end disputes: KTR||Telangana government will soon digitise every inch of the land mass to clean up the land records and put an end to the malady of “double and triple registrations” in Hyderabad and elsewhere and this is the larger goal behind the launch of the ‘Dharani’ portal, said Minister of IT, Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao on Friday. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is looking at “streamlining and regularising” properties belonging to Wakf, Urban Land Ceiling, Notarised ones and others to “unlock” the nine lakh properties for the owners in the twin cities and bring them into the government register so that property taxes can also realised later, he said. The Minister was participating in the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) Hyderabad’s ‘The Real Estate Summit 2020’ in association with Telangana Real Estate Developers' Association (TREDA), Telangana Builders Federation and Telangana Developers Association. Mr. Rama Rao said he was conscious of the problems being faced by real estate developers about the stoppage of registrations of non-agriculture properties leading to cash flows and liquidity. “There are some teething troubles but if necessary I will take up the issue with Chief Minister and convince him to follow old methods till the Dharani portal becomes fully functional,” he said. A survey had shown there are 60 lakh properties in the rural areas but without any land title or registration. Unlocking the value of these properties would be of great help to the owners, he said. Research Agency CBRE conducted a session on Alternate Asset Class - warehouse, data centers, retail, co-living and co-working, retirement homes, highlighting the emergence & future requirement of these asset-classes. Knight &Frank shared insights on the trends in the residential Market in the city and JLL conducted a session on Capital Market & Office Space- six years growth of Hyderabad, influencing factors and the outlook for the future. “The real estate sector is the second largest contributor to the GDP. We are thankful to Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao and his team for the reforms to streamline the approval and operational processes through various schemes,” said CREDAI-Hyderabad president P Ramakrishna Rao. “TS government initiated the process of digitising land records. With introduction of TS-bPASS, we are hopeful of more growth in real estate and maintaining the USP of the low price,” said CREDAI TS president Ch. Ramchandra Reddy. President of Telangana Developers Association P.V. Rao and TREDA president  R Chalapathi Rao spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-digitisation-to-end-disputes-ktr/article33198117.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ramnaspura ward: Little done, vast undone||It was around two years ago when a man was reportedly swept away in storm water drain in Macca Colony of Kalapather. Two years later, work at the nala is still in progress but residents of the area, which is a part of the Ramnaspura ward, have heaved a sigh of relief, even as they point out that more need to be done. Designated as Ward 55, and as per data available with the Telangana State Election Commission, Ramnaspura has a total of 37,802 voters. Of this 19,336 are men and 18,457 are women. There are nine more categorised as ‘others’. An additional 176 voters have been added. In the poll fray are All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s Mohammed Khader, Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s Mohd Inkeshaf, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Guru Charan and Congress’ Younus. Residents pointed out that while civic infrastructure has improved over the past few years, the perennial problem of overflowing sewage water and broken or misplaced manholes remains. They added that once the construction of Macca Colony storm water drain is complete, a major cause of concern would have been taken care of. “Two years ago a man was swept away when the nala got inundated. Residents here were worried when this happened. However, work has begun. We hope that the problem will be solved once and for all. When the GHMC was making the most by building bridges and laying roads in the lockdown, they did little work here, which is unfortunate,” said S.Q. Masood, a resident of the area, who had brought the issue to the attention of authorities. Residents and those who are involved in development work in the area said that it was in March 2019 that work began. They alleged that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) dragged its feet, and that work should have been completed much sooner. Across the road from Macca Colony is Bilal Nagar, also a part of the Ramnaspura ward. Mohammed Munawar, a tailor, said that civic works here have been executed. However, occasionally the issue of polluted water crops up once or twice in two or three months. Another problem is the constant overflowing of sewage water. “Around 10 years ago, a new nala in Bilal Nagar was constructed, which took care of a major problem. It would be great if the problem of overflowing drainage water is tackled. There is also a problem of lifting of garbage in Macca Colony,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramnaspura-ward-little-done-vast-undone/article33198098.ece
28 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Early historic habitation site explored in Guntur||A hitherto unrevealed significant early historic habitation site was recently explored at Krosuru village in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh. Narrating the explorations to The Hindu , D. Kanna Babu, former Superintending Archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India, Chennai, said that while he was conducting extensive exploration and architectural survey of the Kakatiya shrines, he stumbled upon the habitation site. After surveying the historical swayambhu kshetras of Sri Kunda Pada Aishwarya Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy rock-cut temple, an interesting ancient habitation mound is explored at the foot of the hillock, he said. “Unfortunately, the mound is cursed by nature by means of hectic rainy erosion and poor people have taken shelter there. However a part of it is still intact, but trees are well-grown over it,” he said. The cultural debris is about one-metre thick and characterises the habitation of early historic period. A fairly good number of ancient potsherds strewn over the mound were noticed during the course of exploration. The ceramic finds include black and red ware, red ware, dull red ware, red slip ware, and burnished black ware. The notable pottery shapes consisted of dishes, bowls, storage jars, basins, small to medium sized jars etc. “These domestic earthen dishes bear a striking similarity with pottery discovered at Dharanikota, the fortified capital city of the celebrated Satavahana kings which is nearer to this village,” Mr. Babu said. “Further, an interesting finding of this exploration is a fragmentary inscribed shred with letter ‘ka’ in Brahmi script of 1st Century A.D. These objects strongly suggest that the site may be dated to 1st or 2nd Century A.D. This chance discovery would surely strengthen the list of early historic sites so far found in the lower Krishna valley and also bring name and fame to Krosuru as a habitat of early man,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/early-historic-habitation-site-explored-in-guntur/article33198253.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traffic restrictions today||Traffic police have issued an advisory to commuting public in view of Chief Minister and TRS president K. Chandrasekhar Rao's public meeting at LB Stadium on Saturday. Traffic restrictions will be imposed around LB Stadium from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. General traffic coming from Police Control Room will not be allowed towards BJR Statue and it will be diverted at A.R. Petrol Pump towards Chapel Road and Nampally. Traffic coming from Abids and Gunfoundry will not be allowed towards BJR Statue - and it will be diverted at SBI Gunfoundry towards Chapel Road. Similarly, motorists coming from Basheerbagh Junction towards GPO, Abids, will be diverted at Basheerbagh junction towards Old MLA Quarters and King Koti Road. Traffic coming from Old MLA Quarters towards Basheerbagh will be diverted at Old MLA Quarters towards Himayatnagar Y Junction. Accordingly, commuters coming from Liberty towards Basheerbagh Junction will be diverted at Liberty Junction towards Himayatnagar. While, traffic coming from Police Control Room towards Basheerbagh Junction and Old MLA Quarters will be diverted at Basheerbagh towards Liberty Junction, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said. People who are coming to attend the meeting will be allowed up to gates of LB Stadium for alighting. "They are advised not to get down away from the designated alighting point," he said. All the commuters coming from Secunderabad shall alight at G-Gate of LB Stadium and send the vehicles for parking at Public Garden, Ravindra Bharathi, Dr. Cars Parking beside Imax Theatre. While vehicles coming from L.B. Nagar, Dilsukhnagar, Old City shall alight at AR Petrol Pump and send the vehicles for parking in Public Garden and Peoples Plaza. Similarly, vehicles coming from Musheerbad, Amberpet, Himayathnagar shall alight at F, F-1 Gate of LB Stadium and send the vehicles for parking at Nizam College Ground-2 and 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-restrictions-today/article33198106.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Democratic strike’ awaits BJP: Owaisi||Responding to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s claim of a conducting surgical strike on the old city, Hyderabad parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday said that people of Hyderabad would perform a ‘democratic strike’ on the BJP on polling day. Speaking at a public meeting in Shaikpet division, Mr Owaisi said, “They say that here there are Pakistanis, Rohingyas and Afghans and that they will carry out surgical strikes here. If the BJP wants to do this, then on December 1, the whole of Hyderabad will conduct a democratic strike on the BJP, and save democracy.” Mr Owaisi said that the BJP is deploying Union Ministers to campaign for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls, and in a sarcastic fashion, suggested the party to invite US President Donald Trump to campaign for it. ‘Bring Donald Trump’ “Everyday a BJP minister parachutes here. Only one man is remaining: Donald Trump. Our Prime Minister had visited (the USA), held his hand and said ‘ab ki baar Trump sarkar’ . He (Trump) fell into a ditch. He went to Britain, held Cameroon’s hand, and now Cameroon is sitting at home,” he said. Mr Owaisi criticised the BJP ministers for not visiting flood-hit neighbourhoods in the city. He made clear that the AIMIM is not a party of razakars.   “ One of their Ministers came and said razakar. Silly man, those who were razakars fled to Pakistan. Those who are wafadaar (loyal) have remained in Hindustan. We are wafadaar, therefore we stayed. The MIM is that of Abdul Wahed Owaisi. Not that of Qasim Razvi,” Mr Owaisi said. Meanwhile, the party, which is not in the practice of releasing a manifesto ahead of polls, they did release an action plan before the 2016 civic polls. Cut to 2020, the party has not released a similar document. The 2016 document included implementation of traffic management systems, beautification of water bodies and better streetlights, among other issues. According to party functionaries, one of the reasons for not releasing an action plan this year is the sudden announcement of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/democratic-strike-awaits-bjp-owaisi/article33198107.ece
28 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Engg. graduate held for selling hash oil||The sleuths of Rachakonda’s Special Operations Team (Malkajgiri zone) nabbed an engineering graduate who was procuring, transporting and supplying hash oil to customers in Hyderabad. The accused, Veerapalli Laxmipathi, 24, from Manikonda, and native of Beeramguda in Sangareddy, was also delivering it through online apps to consumers. Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat said that the accused came in contact with drug peddlers in Vishakapatnam Agency areas and started procuring and supplying ganja to customers at higher prices. “Later, he came to know about hashish oil, which is more in demand than ganja, and is generally not available to drug peddlers,” he said. “As Hashish oil values Rs. 1 lakh per litre, he was diluting it by mixing Isopropyl alcohol and making small 10 ml packs and selling it to consumers for Rs. 3,000. He was also delivering small boxes through online delivery apps like Dunzo, Porter, Uber and Swiggy,” he said. He was regularly procuring ganja and hashish oil from his source Nagesh from Vizag Agency area. Acting on a tip off, he was apprehended at Peddaamberpet crossroad. The sleuths found two two litres of hash oil in plastic containers, three isopropyl alcohol 500 ml packs, three weighing machines, OCB paper packets, 15 courier covers, and a mobile phone. He along with the seized property was handed over to Hayatnagar police for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engg-graduate-held-for-selling-hash-oil/article33198249.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||It’s advantage TRS in Mayor, Deputy Mayor election||Role of ex-officio members in the election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor for the GHMC Council post elections assumes importance, as indications are aplenty for increased diversity in the council. In the existing council, TRS has unequivocal majority, with 99 of the total 150 elected corporators in its kitty. MIM has 44, leaving single digit seats for other parties. Ruling party has highest number of ex-officio members too, which facilitated election of both Mayor and Deputy Mayor from its ranks. With uncertainty defining the poll predictions this time, the number and role of ex-officio members vis-a-vis the volume of majority to be secured by each party could be the determining factors in the election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. Calculations In simple terms, for securing both the posts, any opposition party must be able to pull off a TRS during 2016 elections, by securing over 90 seats, while TRS needs mere 67 elected members for the same. It could count on MIM too based on the post poll situation, which may become the king-maker with better bargaining power. According to sources from GHMC, the council has 52 ex-officio members as on Friday, of whom seven will not be eligible for voting in Mayor’s election because they had already exercised the right in other corporations as co-option members. Of the remaining 45 members, TRS has 31 and MIM, 10, BJP has three ex-officio members and Congress - one. Together with 150 elected members, the strength would be 195, and for a simple majority, any single party or alliance would need 98 votes. Hence, for TRS to bid for Mayor’s position, the party will need merely 67 seats from this elections, either solely or with support from other parties. BJP on the other hand, will need to secure 95 seats in the elections for the same. Congress will need 98 seats. MIM which is contesting in only 51 divisions, cannot bid independently for either Mayor or Deputy Mayor positions. The party, however, could become the wire puller based on the post poll scenario. Ex-officio members of GHMC Council include elected members of Legislative Assembly and Lok Sabha from the constituencies within the GHMC limits (even when part of the constituency falls within), and members of Legislative Council and Rajya Sabha who are registered as ordinary voters within GHMC. Of the 25 existing MLAs, 17 are from TRS, seven are from MIM and one is from BJP. MLCs are 20 in total, including the three recently nominated by the Governor, of whom 17 have their loyalties with the ruling party. Two are from MIM and one from BJP. It is learnt from TRS party sources that the recently nominated three MLCs have applied for inclusion in the electoral rolls within the city. Of the five Lok Sabha members, two are from TRS, while Congress, BJP and MIM have one each. Two Rajya Sabha members, D. Srinivas and K. Keshava Rao, too are from TRS, though the participation of former is doubtful, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/its-advantage-trs-in-mayor-deputy-mayor-election/article33198102.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Parties keep fingers crossed over choice of intellectuals||After announcing sops to different sections through their manifestos, major political parties are busy ascertaining the way in which votes cast by intellectuals, academics, employees, both private and government, and youth who constitute a significant chunk in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. Three major parties, the TRS, the BJP and the Congress, are keeping their fingers crossed over the way these sections would vote. All the major players have an assessment of their traditional vote bank in each of the 150 divisions as also the votes that could be secured on caste/religion and on the basis of the developmental programmes taken up under their respective regimes. They are however unable to ascertain the way in which these votes will go as these are the sections which analyse the existing situations politically and otherwise before exercising their franchise. Aware of the fact that these voters can influence the outcome in more than half of the divisions in the GHMC limits, political parties are making their calculations on how to win over this section of voters. The TRS leaders are confident that these voters, who stood solidly behind it in the previous elections in 2016 and Assembly elections in 2018, would repeat the same this time too. But opposition parties are banking on these sections since the conditions have undergone a significant change since the previous Assembly elections. The strong reaction against steps like announcement of LRS, inordinate delays in the announcement of pay revision to employees, the failure of the authorities concerned to help a major section of victims of the devastating flood that hit most parts of the GHMC and other factors are likely to have their say in the outcome of the elections. Another factor is the way in which the people with roots in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh settled here would cast their vote. “Andhra origin people voted for TRS or did not participate in the election process out of fear of being harassed. The situation has changed post COVID-19 as they feel the government had done precious little in helping those who suffered financially due to the impact of the virus,” a TDP leader said. The erstwhile municipalities, LB Nagar, Kukatpally, Serilingampalli, Malkajgiri and Uppal, where there is concentration of these people, are expected to play a major role in deciding the final outcome of the election. This apart, the impact of the independents in the fray has also become a worrisome factor for the contestants and their respective leaderships as they could impact their winning prospects as in Dubbak where an independent scored around 3,800 votes while the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi lost the election by little over 1,000 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parties-keep-fingers-crossed-over-choice-of-intellectuals/article33198118.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NTPC raises model urban forest blocks in Ramagundam||After the successful raising of one urban forest block in the Miyawaki method, the officials of NTPC-Ramagundam/Telangana project officials have taken up the second block in a larger area not only to improve greenery in the industrial town but also to set an example for other such urban areas. On January 23 this year, the project officials have taken up a pilot project of raising an urban forest block in an area of 1,618 square metres in the oxidation pond area. About 3,350 saplings/seedlings of 53 varieties/species were raised in the block with the guidance of Telangana State Forest Development Corporation (TSFDCL) and Forest Department officials. “Within 10 months, the block has now grown into dense plantation with good growth 100% survival, encouraging us to take up Miyawaki plantation on a larger block,” Sahadev Sethi, a senior manager with NTPC, explained. The second block has been taken up recently on 6,044.5 square metres in the same oxidation plant area, he stated. This time, about 10,700 saplings/seedlings of 61 varieties/species have been planted with Vice-Chairman and Managing Directors of TSFDCL and Principal Chief Conservator of Forests P. Raghuveer, Chief Conservator of Forests-Warangal M.J. Akbar and Chief General Manager of NTPC-Ramagundam/Telangana Sunil Kumar supervising it personally. Developed in association with TSFDCL and the Forest Department, the second-phase urban forest block development under the Miyawaki method has been protected with a boundary wall. Planting points were marked and 22 varieties of high canopy, 16 varieties of medium canopy and 23 varieties of low canopy were planted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ntpc-raises-model-urban-forest-blocks-in-ramagundam/article33198260.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana Sona rice can emerge as a new, healthy food preference||A online panel discussion on Telangana Sona Rice saw speakers, led by a senior government official, highlighting the health benefits of the rice and the need to tap its export potential. Addressing the programme on ‘Agricultural Innovations and Consumer Markets: Benefits and Challenges for Telangana Sona Rice’, organised by Indian School of Business (ISB) on Thursday, Agriculture Secretary B.Janardhan Reddy said the rice variety can become a new, healthy food preference. Telangana Sona Rice, which has low glycemic index (GI), can contribute to building a healthier India and address lifestyle issues like diabetes. With its intrinsic health benefits and enhanced production in the State, the new paddy variety has good potential reach out to various consumers across the globe. The need is to catch the imagination of consumers on its health benefits and also build upon the export potential, he said, urging ISB to work closely with all the stakeholders and take this initiative forward. Developed by scientists of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU), Telangana Sona (RNR-15048) superfine variety rice has low glycemic index and higher protein, carbohydrates, energy and vitamin B3. A few months ago, the State Agriculture Department, PJTSAU and ISB signed an agreement on strategic branding and marketing of Telangana Sona rice. PJTSAU Vice Chancellor V. Praveen Rao told the panel discussion that Telangana Sona Rice gels with local climatic conditions and is a disease resistant, short duration crop with high protein content and low glycemic index. PJTSAU adopted a multi-pronged approach in terms partnerships, innovations, research, mapping, value chain in offering more value to the stakeholders, he said. Senior Assistant Professor Marketing at ISB Madhu Viswanathan, the lead faculty for Telangana Sona, shared his insights on how the branding and marketing study for the rice was carried out. The results show that there is a need for segmentation specific positioning strategy covering both health and taste attributes of the rice to reach the mass market. Founder of The Great Hyderabad Food and Travel Club M.Ravikanth Reddy underscored the significance of promoting the health benefits of the rice variety by adopting a holistic marketing approach. Dean Research of ISB Manish Gangwar and Director, ISB-Centre for Business Markets D.V.R. Seshadri spoke, a release from the business school said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-sona-rice-can-emerge-healthy-food-preference/article33198111.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jolt to Congress: TPCC treasurer to resign from party posts||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee Treasurer and AICC member Gudur Narayan Reddy has decided to quit the Congress. It is understood that he is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party in the next few days. Top leaders of the BJP reportedly gave the go-ahead to his joining the party. Mr. Reddy, a senior member of the Congress for the last 39 years, was said to have conveyed his decision to resign from the party TPCC chief N. UttamKumar Reddy. Two senior Congress leaders are said to have made a last-ditch effort to request Mr. Narayan Reddy to reconsider his decision. Mr. Narayan Reddy said on Friday night that he had made up is mind to resign from the posts he holds in the party and also the primary membership of the Congress. Considered close to the top leaders of the Congress in New Delhi, Mr. Narayan Reddy played a key role in resolving several issues that confronted the Congress. Sources close to Mr. Narayan Reddy said that former Congress leaders, who had joined the BJP, had invited him to join the saffron party. Notably, senior national BJP leaders gave the go-ahead for his entry. His decision comes close on the heels of former Union Minister Sarvey Satyanarayana joining the BJP earlier this week and speculation that actor Vijayashanti too was planning to cross over to the saffron party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jolt-to-congress-tpcc-treasurer-set-to-resign-from-party/article33198113.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP appeal to Governor for special forces||The TS-BJP appealed to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday to ensure special forces are deployed to monitor law and order situation and to pre-empt the designs of anti-socials to create problems during the GHMC polls. Appointment of special observers to ensure free and fair elections and urging officials including Chief Secretary and DGP not to attend the Chief Minister’s ‘review programmes as they are being used for political purposes until the completion of elections’ were the other demands put forth in their memorandum presented to her, a copy of which was released to the media. BJP national OBC president K. Laxman, city president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao and former MLA Ch. Ramachandra Reddy met the Governor and sought her “immediate intervention to protect democracy from the brazen attempts of the ruling TRS to subvert it.” They referred to the CMO statement about ‘credible reports’ of anti-nationals hatching a conspiracy to foment communal riots with a view to get the elections postponed and the earlier statement of MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao, before the Dubbak by-elections, making similar claims of the “BJP trying to create a law and order problem”. “There is a pattern in both statements. The Dubbak result actually busted the conspiracy of TRS to intimidate and browbeat people in the name of riots. As the TRS had realised that GHMC is going to witness a repeat of Dubbak, the CM came up with false narrative of ‘fomenting communal trouble’,” they charged. The BJP leaders further stated that the CMO statement is a “cleverly crafted tact to divert the attention of people from core civic issues, TRS misrule and its miserable failure in fulfilling the promises made during the last elections”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-appeal-to-governor-for-special-forces/article33198092.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea in High Court||A writ petition challenging the provision of permitting ex-officio members of GHMC (MPs, MLAs and MLCs) to participate in Mayor’s election as voters was filed in Telagnana High Court. The plea filed by former MLA E. Anil Kumar of Nizamabad district is likely to come up for hearing soon. The petitioner requested the court to declare Section 90 (sub-section 1) of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) Act-1955 as illegal and arbitrary. Inclusion of the elected public representatives mentioned above negates the very election of corporators from divisions, the petitioner contended. While 150 corporators are directly elected by the voters of GHMC area, 55 ex-officio members can participate in the election of Mayor. These 55 voters have the capacity to alter the result of Mayor election, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-in-high-court/article33198099.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No AIMIM ‘action plan’ for civic polls||While the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen is not in the practice of releasing a manifesto ahead of polls, they did release an action plan before the 2016 civic polls. Cut to 2020, the party has not released a similar document. The 2016 document included implementation of traffic management systems, beautification of water bodies and better streetlights, among other issues. According to party functionaries, one of the reasons for not releasing an action plan this year is the sudden announcement of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls. “We had released action plans in 2002 and 2009 as well. We do not release a manifesto and our slogan is ‘Our Work is Our Identity’. Our corporators, MLAs and MP are available at the party office in Darussalaam and also on the phone. Our corporators get work done by contacting, and working with GHMC officials and officials of others departments,” said AIMIM legislator Syed Aminul Hasan Jafri. Interestingly, the party did not officially issue list of candidates thus far. Meanwhile, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation released data which showed the AIMIM as contesting in 51 divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-aimim-action-plan-for-civic-polls/article33198251.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||761 fresh COVID cases, 4 deaths in Telangana||As the steady rise of COVID-19 cases continues in Telangana, 761 positive cases were reported in the State during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on November 26 taking the total positive cases to 2,67,665 so far. With four more deaths due to COVID reported during the 24-hour period on Thursday, the number of fatalities has also increased to 1,448. According to a COVID status bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare on Friday, the number of persons declared recovered from the virus disease has also gone up to 2,55,378 with 702 declared recovered on Thursday. Of the 10,839 active cases as of 8 p.m. on Thursday, a total of 2,188 are admitted in government and private hospitals as in-patients, while 8,651 are under home and institutional isolation. The official bulletin put the number of screening tests for finding COVID positive cases on Thursday at 42,242 taking the total tests done till 8 p.m. on November 26 to 53,32,150. Stating that the reports of 631 samples were awaited as of 8 p.m. on Thursday, the officials said samples of 18,585 primary contacts and 5,069 secondary contacts of COVID positive cases were screened on Thursday and the remaining tests were of persons who wanted to get tested voluntarily in 18 government and 54 private RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT test centres and 1,076 rapid test centres in government sector. Of the 761 positive cases reported on Thursday, 136 were from GHMC area followed by 69 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 55 from Rangareddy district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/761-fresh-covid-cases-4-deaths-in-telangana/article33198126.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seek package for GHMC, Vinod tells Kishan, Bandi||Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar has asked Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy and BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar to seek a special package for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he visited Hyderabad on Saturday instead of giving provocative speeches. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Vinod Kumar counselled both leaders not to create social tensions with their provocative speeches but inform people of their development agenda for Hyderabad. He also urged them to seek a special package for the expansion of Hyderabad metro rail project. They must also demand funds for introduction of mono rails connecting various colonies with the metro rail. He expressed disappointment that the BJP leaders talked about surgical strike in the old city and the MIM leaders threatened to demolish the P.V. Narasimha Rao and N.T. Rama Rao memorials. They tried to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in Hyderabad with their conspiracies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seek-package-for-ghmc-vinod-tells-kishan-bandi/article33198121.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||General insurer settles 120 claims of flood damage||SBI General Insurance has settled nearly 120 claims, largely from small and medium enterprises, related to property damage during last month’s flood in the State. “We had received more than 120 claims for damage to property and businesses and 100 motor claims post the flood. Majority were from Hyderabad and neighbouring districts. Keeping the impact of damage in mind, on a priority basis, we settled claims of stalled business on a fast-track mode,” MD and CEO P.C.Kandpal said. A release from SBI General Insurance said the insurer pro-actively tried to connect with customers in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh enquiring for any damages that can be covered under insurance claim. Thereafter, it took steps to expedite claims received from both the States, where heavy rains and floods caused widespread loss of property, roads, businesses and crops. The flash flood had disrupted businesses of SMEs having manufacturing units, factories, shops and godowns. Overall, at SBIG, approximately 120 property claims had been addressed largely covering SMEs, thereby helping these businesses get back on feet, the release said. It did not provide information on amount of claim paid. Mr. Kandpal said to provide seamless claim service to those affected by Cyclone Nivar “we have made necessary arrangements for our policyholders.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/general-insurer-settles-120-claims-of-flood-damage/article33198246.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Page 3 - with arraned pic New RPO||D. Balaiah took charge as new Regional Passport Officer (RPO) Hyderabad on Thursday. The IRS 2008 batch officer replaces E. Vishnuvardhan Reddy who has moved to the Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi. Mr. Balaiah was working as Joint Commissioner of GST Commissionerate in Rourkela, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-with-arraned-pic-new-rpo/article33198115.ece
28 November 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Konda Gorre’ wilderness park launched||An urban wilderness park titled ‘Konda Gorre’ (meaning Chowsingha) has been launched by the Telangana State Forest Development Corporation at Lalgadi Malakpet on Karimnagar Highway close to ORR on Friday, by the Vice Chairman and Managing Director of the Corporation P. Raghuveer. ‘Konda Gorre’ is established on a small section of 2,635 acres of forest area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/konda-gorre-wilderness-park-launched/article33198122.ece
28 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Pandemic may hit Palair tourism||The crisis triggered by coronavirus may prove a stumbling block to the ambitious plan of the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) to develop the picturesque Palair reservoir in Kusumanchi mandal into a recreational zone and promote a slew of community-based tourism initiatives. As part of a grand tourism promotion plan, boat riding services were introduced in the reservoir a couple of years ago. The site has become a popular boating spot due to its location near the Khammam-Suryapet highway and its picturesque surroundings. Encouraged by good response to the boat riding services, the DTPC entrusted the task of maintaining the boat ride facility to the Palair Gram Panchayat as part of a community-based tourism project to run the services in a self-sustaining manner a few years ago. A group of local youths were given special training by experts from the National Institute of Water Sports for this purpose. After an enthusiastic start, the initiative faced some hiccups due to financial constraints in carrying out repairs to the boats and maintaining the park abutting the reservoir, a hub of freshwater fish and prawn culture, sources added. An ambitious plan to construct a suspension bridge and cottages to develop the reservoir site into a major tourism and recreational zone remained a non-starter. The pandemic crisis came as a major setback to the tourism promotion plans at the site. There had been a sharp drop in the footfall of visitors to the Palair reservoir, the hotspot for boat ride, post-lockdown, said a local fisherman. When contacted, the District Tourism Officer Suman Chakravarthy said two boats including a 25-seater motor boat and another small motor boat are being operated daily at Palair reservoir under the aegis of the Palair Gram Panchayat. All precautions are being followed as per the COVID-19 safety protocols during the boat ride, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pandemic-may-hit-palair-tourism/article33198257.ece
28 November 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Brahmi inscription of Ashokan period found||Giving a boost to the historical importance of Telangana, particularly during Mourya dynasty, researchers discovered a terracotta object containing Brāhmī inscription written in Prakrit language and in characters of the 3rd century B.C. This inscription reads “dēvānaṁ” prefixed with a symbol of ‘nandipada’. The word “dēvānaṁ” suggests indicating the part of the title of Emperor Aśōka of the Mauryan dynasty. History and Archaeology researcher M. A. Srinivasan and his team comprising of B. Shankar Reddy, B. Nagaraju and N. Arun Kumar discovered this terracotta antiquity on the bank of Manjira river which is a tributary of Godavari river located at Kulcharam (deserted village) in Medak district of Telangana state. The present ancient mound is located in the island formed by the two streams of river Manjira. The inscription on the pottery was studied and identified as “dēvānaṁ” of Mauryan period by the Director, Epigraphy, Archaeological Survey of India. This discovery of Brāhmī script palaeographically assignable to Mauryan period on the terracotta is a rare and landmark epigraphical discovery in India in general and in Telangana State in particular. Three Buddhist label inscriptions were also found in rock shelters just a kilometer away from the site where this antiquity is found. These inscriptions are in Prakrit language and Brahmi script of 1st BC-1st AD. They inscriptions found on the rock boulders are ‘Henamo Buddeya’, ‘dhama’, ‘he jama’. The researchers found them after cleaning these rocks. This rock shelter has evidences of neolithic period too. Finding of the terracotta antiquity inscribed with Mauryan Brāhmī letters happened in the process of finding a supporting ancient habitation site for the Buddhist rock shelter. The site spreading an area of about 100 acres and likely to yield a large number of archaeological materials besides evidences like fortification wall, terracotta objects such as different potshards of red slipped ware, black polished ware and dull red ware. “This discovery unveils a new chapter in the history of Telangana as this is the first time we could find such precious evidence in Manjira valley. This is the only evidence of “dēvānaṁ” in Brāhmī script on terracotta. This may unveil the history of Ashokan period in Telangana and India and may precede the ancient sites of Kotalingala, Dhulikatta and Kondapur,” said Mr. Srinivasn. The exploration was taken up with support of Director of Epigraphy Archaeological Survey of India D. Surya Kumar and Y. Bhanu Murthy of Department of Heritage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brahmi-inscription-of-ashokan-period-found/article33198255.ece
28 November 2020||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||Tension at Bharati Nagar over TRS-BJP clash||Tension prevailed for some time at Bharati Nagar on Friday when some TRS activists reportedly stopped BJP campaigners and tore their pamphlets. According to sources, when the BJP workers were campaigning in this ward, some TRS workers reached there on motor-cycles and tore the pamphlets of BJP candidate Godavari Anji Reddy. Later, they held a protest and lodged a complaint with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-at-bharati-nagar-over-trs-bjp-clash/article33198245.ece
28 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||DDS releases two food products||The Deccan Development Society (DDS) headquartered at Pastapur in Zaheerabad mandal and working with women farmers, has released two food products in the market. These products are slowly processed safflower oil and multi-millet nutri bar. The safflower oil is being extracted with clod pressed in traditional wooden ganuga (crusher). Releasing the products here at Pastapur on Friday, DDS Director P.V. Satheesh said that the organic safflower oil is healthy and will retain its nutrients as it was processed in slow manner. Referring ti multi-millet nutrient bar, he said that these bars will be consumed mostly by children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dds-releases-two-food-products/article33198124.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Page 2 - Must with announcement People’s Voice||Improving the age-old drainage system is imperative for the city. The plan must be based on long term perspectives with keen foresight in resolving such critical issues for the next 30 years. They should also plan on rainwater harvesting in soil and construction of pits. Unless we utilise rainwater judiciously, we might face a severe water crisis in the near future. We do witness a major water crisis in Chennai and other states. K.S.N. Prasad Ramanathapur   Internal roads need to be laid properly. Many such roads are full of potholes, where even walking is extremely difficult, leave alone driving. Footpaths should be kept free for pedestrians to walk freely. Vegetable markets need to be modernised while wires hanging dangerously is another major area of concern and the authorities should take a detailed survey to ensure that these wires are properly covered. B. Pavani Alwal   Each winning corporator should come up with a vision for improving amenities in his or her area focusing on community resource centres to cater to the needs of senior citizens and children, dedicated playgrounds, effective water management like rain water harvesting, recycling, and ensure government schools and primary healthcare centres have all amenities and provide a grievance redressal mechanism for quick response to civic issues. Shyam Rathod Hyderabad   The GHMC had ambitiously started water ATMs in 2017 with lakhs of rupees but none of these are working. One of these was strategically placed in City Central Library and at Ashoknagar circle. It would be useful for people if the authorities concerned look into this issue and sort it out. G.V. Harish Raju Ashoknagar   It is high time to take the lead and set an example for other cities regarding public transport by doubling the present number of city buses to 6,000 initially and increasing them further in phases. Higher frequency of buses is a sure way to decongest our roads with significant reduction in private vehicles and pollution. M.V. Nagavender Rao Anandnagar   Religious structures should be removed from roads and relocated elsewhere to make the roads free from obstructions. Metro rail should be extended from L.B. Nagar to Hayatnagar and Uppal and L.B. Nagar should also be connected. Colony roads should be free from the menace of stray dogs and stray cattle and third mile connectivity to and from Metro rail stations should be there. I.V. Prabhakar Rao Vanasthalipuram   Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao had declared that Metro rail will be extended upto Nagole from L.B. Nagar so that people residing in R.K. Puram, Alkapuri, Snehpuri and other areas along the ring road to Nagole via Kamineni Hospital would be benefited by the extension from L.B. Nagar to Nagole. Request the Minister to keep his promises. B. Rajendra Prasad IT Colony||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-2-must-with-announcement-peoples-voice/article33198095.ece
28 November 2020||BAHADURGARH,||‘Farmers have never been this angry with any govt. before’||“Farmers have never been this angry with any government before. We are ready to take bullets, but won’t return home till the time the three black laws are repealed. In fact, the farmers are already dead,” says Mitthu Singh (52), reaching the Tikri border at the doorstep of Delhi with hundreds of farmers from Fatehabad in Haryana and parts of Punjab in tractors and trolleys on Friday in response to the call for “Dilli Chalo” by farmers groups. As he gears up to cook the first meal of the day with fellow farmers after a round of fierce face-off with Delhi Police, others join the conversation. ‘Lost trust’ “It is the most dictatorial government. It is a government for the Ambanis and Adanis. They have sold everything — from railways to airports — to them,” chips in Buta Singh, 32, also from Fatehabad. He says that people in many villages in Fatehabad had put banners outside their villages, asking political leaders not to enter. “We will groom our own people to contest elections next time,” he says. Hakam Singh, 55, also part of the group, adds that his ancestors toiled hard on the land to make it fertile and they were engaged in agriculture for generations. “We cannot give our land to corporates on lease. We cannot be labourers on our own land,” adds the elderly, donning a black turban with a flowing white beard. Parked haphazardly for almost a kilometre from the Tikri border till Pandit Shree Ram Sharma metro station in Bahadurgarh and beyond, many tractors had green and red flags tied in the front bearing the names of different farmers’ unions inscribed in Gurmukhi. Almost all trolleys were blanketed with tarpaulin or covers made of plastic fertiliser bags sewn together, keeping in view the falling mercury. ‘Well-stocked’ To make their travel comfortable through the bumpy roads and keep themselves warm, many had their trolleys padded with rice straw before putting mattress on them. “We are carrying flour, potatoes, spices, utensils and cooking gas cylinders. A few trolleys carry woods to be used as a fuel and there is a water tanker with a capacity of around 5,000 litres,” says Paramjit Pradhan, 60, adding that they could sustain themselves for months. “I have fought for the farmers for four decades. I have been a comrade [a communist],” he proudly proclaims, holding a red flag. Many also carried small stairs to enable the elderly members to climb up and down the trolleys. Some cars were also part of the convoy that was first to reach Delhi. Shringar Singh (70) says that they have been travelling for two days to reach Delhi from Moga in Punjab and broke through at least half-a-dozen barricades. “The Haryana police tried to stop us with water cannons and tear gas. They had dug up roads, put barbed wires and parked punctured trucks to block our way. But we managed to overcome all hurdles. The Delhi police, however, were the most fierce in their attempt to stop us,” says Sukhwant Singh (42). Pyara Singh, 74, says that no one wants to leave the comfort of their home and step outside, especially at his age, but they were compelled to march to Delhi. “ Agar phasal hi rul gayi toh kya bachega [If our crops are ruined, nothing will be left],” says Pyara, summing it up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-have-never-been-this-angry-with-any-govt-before/article33197816.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Glaring shortcomings forced Shah to intervene, says Centre||The Centre, in an affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court on Friday, stated that glaring shortcomings in the Capital on the COVID-19 front led Union Home Minister Amit Shah to call a review meeting on November 15. “While there were regular advertisements on achievements of the Delhi government, including on dengue prevention and control, no ads on COVID-appropriate behaviour were to be seen,” stated the MHA affidavit. Reacting to affidavit, AAP said it is extremely unfortunate that the Centre has chosen to play “dirty politics” at this critical hour. “The affidavit seems to have been drafted by a BJP spokesperson rather than by Union government, which is meant to work in collaboration with the States at the time of a pandemic. The affidavit is also factually incorrect,” the party said. The Centre said a Ministry of Home Affairs survey held in November of 114 private hospitals in Delhi found that the observance of discharge policy and prescribed Clinical Management Protocol was “very lax”, thus leading to a large number of patients not being given proper treatment. Even patients who were under home isolation were not properly traced. The Delhi government has now been asked to strictly comply with the prescribed protocols, the affidavit said. “The report of a high-power committee headed by V.K. Paul, Member of NITI Aayog, had recommended that Delhi should plan for a surge of around 15,000 cases per day and accordingly provide for about 6,500 ICU beds. Against this recommendation, GNCTD did not take any timely measures to increase ICU beds from the present level of around 3,500, thus causing a sudden pressure to come on the health and medical infrastructure in Delhi,” the affidavit said. The Centre said despite promising to increase the ICU (non-ventilator) beds by around 2,680, the Delhi Chief Minister, in a letter on November 19 to the Home Minister, expressed inability to enhance the beds by more than 912. The letter, the affidavit said, requested the Centre to create the additional 1,700 ICU beds. AAP, however, countered that Mr. Shah had promised to provide 750 ICU beds within 72 hours in the meeting on November 15. “Till date, only 200 beds have been provided. We hope the Centre will provide the rest of the beds soon,” it said. RT-PCR tests One of the shortcomings listed by the Centre against the Delhi government was that despite repeated exhortations in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases, the latter had not taken steps to enhance testing capacity, particularly for RT-PCR, which remained static at 20,000-odd daily tests for a long time. “It is only after the review meeting of Mr. Shah on November 15, that it was decided that RT-PCR tests would be enhanced to around 60,000 daily and RAT tests to around 60,000 — both by November end, thus leading to a doubling of the total tests being conducted in Delhi,” the affidavit said.  (With inputs from Staff Reporter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/glaring-shortcomings-forced-shah-to-intervene-says-centre/article33198083.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protesters enter Delhi after series of clashes with police||Farmers protesting at Delhi-Haryana borders were allowed to enter the national capital after rounds of clashes on Friday. “After discussion with farmer leaders, the protesting farmers have been permitted inside Delhi to hold peaceful protest at Nirankari ground in Burari. Delhi Police appeals to them to maintain peace,” said Eish Singhal, Delhi Police PRO. In the morning, thousands of farmers marching towards Delhi were stopped at Tigri and Singhu border. The police had made elaborate security arrangements by placing layer of barricades and deployed water canons to stop the protesting farmers. The Delhi police used tear gas shells to disperse a group of farmers, who had reached the Singhu border, while at the Tigri border security personnel used water cannons to disperse farmers trying to enter the national capital. During the clash, three policemen sustained injuries. Plumes of smoke were seen as security personnel used multiple rounds of tear gas to disperse the protesting farmers at the Singhu border. At the Tigri border, farmers clashed with the police and also tried to remove a truck, which was placed as a barricade, by tying it to a tractor with the help of a chain. Drones are also being used by security personnel to keep a strict vigil on the movement of protesters in bordering areas. In view of the march, the Delhi Police has sought permission from the AAP government to use nine stadiums as temporary jails.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-enter-delhi-after-series-of-clashes-with-police/article33197823.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||AAP govt. denies permission to use stadiums as temporary jails||The AAP-led Delhi government on Friday denied permission to the Delhi police to use nine city stadiums as temporary jails to detain protesting farmers, as per an order issued by Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain. The Delhi police is under the ambit of the Central government and AAP and the BJP often spar over issues related to law and order in the city. The Delhi police had sought permission from the Delhi government to use nine stadiums as temporary jails for farmers expected to be arrested during protests, according to a senior police officer.  “The demands of farmers are justified. Putting farmers in jail is not the solution. Their protest is completely non-violent. To protest peacefully is the constitutional right of every Indian citizen. And people cannot be jailed for it. So, the Delhi government dismisses Delhi Police’s request to use stadiums as jails,” Mr. Jain said in the order. Earlier in the day, before the government had announced that the request had been rejected, multiple AAP leaders attacked the BJP over the plan to detain the farmers. “I think it’s the most inhuman thing we can do to our farmers. Delhi Police should stop calling themselves ‘Dil wali police’,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said in a tweet. Delhi Jal Board Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha on Friday said that the DJB has appointed nodal officers to ensure proper supply and arrangement of drinking water for the peaceful protesters who have assembled at Burari grounds. “All possible arrangements with respect to food and shelter have been made. In addition, every AAP MLA will take steps to help our farmers. The Arvind Kejriwal government is in support of the protesting farmers and we want to assure them that arrangements of food, shelter and drinking water shall be made for them at Nirankari grounds,” Mr. Chadha said.  The demands of farmers are justified. Putting farmers in jail is not the solution. Their protest is completely non-violent Order issued by Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-govt-denies-permission-to-use-stadiums-as-temporary-jails/article33197818.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mosque, NGO come to farmers’ rescue||Several mosques in the Capital and United Against Hate, a campaign founded by a group, tied up to provide food to the protesting farmers at the Sant Nirankari Samagam Ground in north Delhi’s Burari. This was after the Delhi Police allowed the farmers to enter the Capital and stage a peaceful protest. Timely support UAH members said they will provide three meals and essentials such as water. “We stand with the farmers and their demands. We eat our meals because of them and they need to be heard by the government. The least we can do is support them and feed them at this hour,” said UAH member Shariq Husain. Mr. Husain also said that the mosques were roped in and the group members had spoken to the Imams of significant mosques in the city, especially the ones close to protest sites, to facilitate food for the farmers before Delhi Police allowed the protest at a designated place. “We had spoken to mosques in south and central Delhi because we weren’t sure if they’ll be allowed to protest at a particular place. We thought the mosques will provide food wherever required,” Mr. Husain said. UAH’s co-founder Khalid Saifi is lodged in jail under sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act registered in connection with communal riots, which broke out in the Capital in February this year. Farmers have been protesting against the three new bills passed by the government in June and demanding guarantee of a Minimum Support Price for their produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mosque-ngo-come-to-farmers-rescue/article33197817.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Majority of protesters refuse to enter Capital||Even after Delhi Police allowed the entry of farmers protesting at Delhi-Haryana borders, a majority of them refused to move to Nirankari Ground in Burari. Only 200 protesters have moved to the protest site and others remained at the borders. Delhi Police have deployed security personnel at borders and at the protest site. Liquor shops located around border areas have been shut till further orders. Delhi government have made other arrangements like tents, washrooms and water facility at the protest site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/majority-of-protesters-refuse-to-enter-delhi/article33197821.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers’ stir: six stations closed on Green Line||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Friday closed entry and exit at six stations on the Green Line in view of the farmers’ protests. “Entry and exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on the Green Line are now closed,” the DMRC said in a tweet around 10 a.m. DMRC officials said that normal operations across all lines were resumed only after 5.30 p.m. Earlier on Thursday, the DMRC had announced that metro services from the NCR to the Capital will remain suspended due to the agitation. “As advised by Delhi Police, metro services will be available only from Delhi towards the NCR sections. However, services from the NCR stations towards Delhi will not be available due to security reasons till further notice,” the DMRC had said in a statement. Officials added that as of Friday evening, metro services are scheduled to operate according to normal timings on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-stir-six-stations-closed-on-green-line/article33197824.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||November ferment||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/november-ferment/article33197820.ece
28 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||BKU to march towards Delhi||After a day-long protest in support of farmers of Punjab and Haryana, hundreds of farmers, led by senior Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, moved in tractors and other vehicles from Muzaffarnagar to Meerut via the Delhi-Dehradun highway. BKU spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said the farmers would spend the night at the Siwaya Toll Plaza in Meerut before proceeding to Delhi on Saturday morning. Through the day, farmers, under the banner of BKU, blocked highways in Baghpat, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Amroha, Hapur, and Bulandshahr districts. They were demanding the rollback of three farm laws and said minimum support price should be guaranteed by law. The numbers grew as the day progressed.  Scores of farmers blocked the Yamuna Expressway leading to a traffic jam on the busy route connecting Delhi to Mathura and Agra. Police detained the Mathura district president of BKU Rajkumar along with some protesters. The impact was also seen in Pilibhit and Lakhimpur. As there were a number of weddings on Friday, the baraats had to take long detours because of the protests. At some places, the groom was allowed to cross the protest site only after raising slogans in support of the demands of the farmers. Meanwhile, Anil Sharma, Minister of State in the U.P. government, said those who had hit the roads were not representatives of farmers. “They are the same old 20-30 goons who like to spread anarchy and indulge in violence with government officials in the name of farmers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bku-to-march-towards-delhi/article33197832.ece
28 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot flays BJP for ‘negative politics’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday lambasted the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party for indulging in “negative politics” by raising doubts about the COVID-19 management and making “senseless remarks” about the future of the Congress government. Mr. Gehlot said the people in the State were agitated over the BJP’s politics. ‘Destabilising govt.’ Reacting to a series of statements, allegations and remarks made by some senior BJP leaders during the last few days, Mr. Gehlot said the Opposition party was trying to destabilise the State government by using “money and muscle power”. He said the BJP was frustrated ever since it failed to topple the government here after forming the governments through horse-trading in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. “The recent remarks of BJP leaders claiming that the State government will fall, mid-term elections will be held and the MLAs could leave the ruling party any time smack of their anti-democratic mindset,” Mr. Gehlot said. The leaders included Gulab Chand Kataria, Arun Chaturvedi, Arjun Ram Meghwal and Jaskaur Meena. The senior Congress leader said the BJP had utterly failed to play the role of a responsible Opposition during the pandemic and was creating fear among the public at the instance of its central leaders. Battle against COVID-19 “The people will never accept such immoral acts and will give a befitting reply to them... We will win the battle against COVID-19,” Mr. Gehlot said. The Chief Minister pointed out that even the BJP leaders, who had recovered from infection, had praised the State government's COVID-19 management. Despite the virus spreading fast in the winter season after festivals and wedding events, the Congress government had succeeded in restricting the death rate to less than 1% and made excellent arrangements of oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilators for the patients, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gehlot-flays-bjp-for-negative-politics/article33197835.ece
28 November 2020||Mumbai,||HC allows Malegaon victim to intervene in plea by Prasad Purohit||The Bombay High Court on Thursday allowed a victim of the 2008 Malegaon bomb blast to intervene in a plea filed by the accused, Lieutenant Colonel Prasad Purohit, challenging the sanction to prosecute him. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik allowed the intervention while hearing the criminal interim application filed by Nisar Ahmed Haji Sayyed Bilal, a victim and father of a man who died in the blast along with five others. Former Additional Solicitor General of India B.A. Desai, representing Mr. Bilal, had earlier sought permission to intervene in the case. He said he had filed for an intervention during the trial before the Supreme Court. Advocate Neela Gokhale, appearing for Mr. Purohit, had previously opposed the application and said the plea filed by Mr. Purohit was only challenging the sanction to prosecute him and his role in the case was restricted to his discharging his official duties as an Army officer. She said, therefore, the intervention application should not be allowed. The National Investigation Agency’s counsel, Sandesh Patil, had said 140 of the 400 witnesses had been examined and that the trial was stalled for a while because the presiding judge retired and the new judge had not been able to take charge due to the outbreak of the COVID 19 pandemic. However, the trial resumed on November 26 and it will be heard in December on a day-to-day basis. The next hearing is on December 3. Mr. Purohit is out on bail but has been charged with murder, voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony, and relevant sections under The Arms Act, Indian Explosive Substance Act, and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Six people were killed and 100 others injured when a bomb strapped to a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon on September 29, 2008. Mr. Purohit was arrested in 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-allows-malegaon-victim-to-intervene-in-plea-by-prasad-purohit/article33197720.ece
28 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC forms team to probe alleged COVID-19 testing scam||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has formed an investigation team to probe allegations of a scam in COVID-19 testing centres. Social activists have claimed that relatives of positive patients are listed as having tested negative on the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) website even though they have not undergone tests. They claimed that at least 10,000 such fake reports from Navi Mumbai have been published on the website and a similar pattern has been observed in Thane and Palghar districts. Ankush Kadam, core committee member, Maratha Kranti Morcha, said the NMMC’s testing centres have been releasing negative reports of the kin of positive patients without testing them for COVID-19. Mr. Kadam said, “After we learnt that the names of people who have been tested for the infection were published on the website, some fellow activists got themselves tested at these centres. When they were asked to provide the details of their family members, they purposely gave the details of their relatives who had passed away a few years ago. After some days, we found that their names had been published on the ICMR website as people who had tested ‘negative’ for the virus.” Mr. Kadam said crores of rupees allocated for purchasing testing kits were being embezzled through this practice of publishing fake reports. “The State government pays the money incurred for the tests to the civic corporations, but 75% of these tests have not been conducted,” he said. Pravin Darekar, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, met Navi Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Abhijit Bangar on Thursday evening and demanded a probe into these allegations. The delegation included former MP Sanjeev Naik, MLA Ramesh Patil, and several office-bearers of the Bharatiya Janata Party. “I have demanded an investigation into these claims and we hope that the NMMC Commissioner will ensure that there is a fair investigation,” Mr. Darekar said. Mr. Bangar said the investigation team would verify the claims by not only making phone calls but also visiting the homes of those who have tested positive for COVID-19. “If any discrepancy is found, we will take strict action against the people responsible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nmmc-forms-team-to-probe-alleged-covid-19-testing-scam/article33197714.ece
28 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Police officers work as waiters to bust gang||Officers of the Navi Mumbai Crime Branch’s Central unit worked as waiters in a Bengaluru hotel for three days to bust a gang that ran a car rental racket. Following the arrest of Satyaprakash Verma alias Babu (30) on November 6 after staking out his apartment in Bhoisar for 10 days, the team learnt that his accomplices Ashish Gangaram Pujari (32) and Anthony Paul Chettiyar (38) were staying in a hotel in Bengaluru. A team including senior police inspector Nivrutti Kolhatkar and assistant police inspector Rajesh Gajjal then worked as waiters in the hotel and nabbed the duo. Later, the team arrested Mohammad Waseem Mohammad Fareed Shaikh (33) from Surat and Javed Abdul Sattar Shaikh alias Mama (46) from Daman. The Nerul police registered a case against the accused in February after they cheated 25 people by taking their cars on rent and selling them. The police have recovered 21 vehicles worth Rs. 2.2 crore. The accused also have cases registered against them at Yerwada and Dindoshi police stations. The accused have been remanded in police custody till Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-officers-work-as-waiters-to-bust-gang/article33197713.ece
28 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases near 88,000||COVID-19 cases outpaced recoveries yet again with Maharashtra reporting 6,185 new cases on Friday as opposed to just 4,089 recoveries. The total case tally now stands at 18,08,550, with the number of active cases continuing its upward rise to reach 87,969. The cumulative recoveries have reached 16,72,627, with the recovery rate decreasing to 92.48%. As many as 85 deaths were reported, taking the total death toll to 46,898. “Of a total of 1,06,35,600 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,08,550 (case positivity rate of 17%) have returned positive, with over 88,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.59%.  1,074 cases in Mumbai Pune district reported another big surge of 1,198 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,50,689, while nine deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,322. As per district administration figures, the active case figure has risen further to 10,883, while its recovery rate incrementally dipped to 94.36%. Mumbai city, too, reported a big spike of 1,074 cases to take its total case tally to 2,80,818, of which 14,185 are active. 17 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,757. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 370 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,12,350, of which just 3,839 are currently active. Six deaths took the total death toll to 2,935. In western Maharashtra, Satara district reported five deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,631. A heightened spike of 257 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 52,042, of which 2,234 are currently active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 66 cases and two deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 48,521, of which just 955 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,716. Kolhapur reported a mere 12 cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 48,451. Its active case tally has now come down to 207. The total death toll remained at 1,672. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 370 cases and two deaths as its total case tally reached 104,061, of which 1,872 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,686. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported just 29 cases and one death as its total case tally reached 54,842, of which only 1,111 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,384. Dr. Awate informed that currently a total of 5,28,395 people across the State were in home quarantine and 7,248 were in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-active-cases-near-88000/article33197719.ece
28 November 2020||Pune,||GMRT accorded prestigious IEEE Milestone status||The Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) has been selected as a ‘Milestone’ facility by the U.S.-based Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), which is the world’s largest technical professional organisation dedicated to advancing technology in all areas related to electrical and electronics engineering. The IEEE Milestones programme honours significant technical achievements which have global or regional impact. This is only the third such IEEE ‘Milestone’ recognition for an Indian contribution. The previous two Indian IEEE Milestones were for the pioneering work done by Sir J.C. Bose to demonstrate the generation and reception of radio waves in 1895 (recognised in 2012), and for the Nobel Prize-winning (in 1930) ‘scattering of light’ phenomenon observed by Sir C.V. Raman in 1928. Considering the global impact of GMRT with users from over 40 countries and the fact that it was designed and built entirely in India, the IEEE’s India office and its Pune branch had initiated the proposal to nominate GMRT for this recognition. The formal proposal was submitted, in cooperation with the Pune-based National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA), to the IEEE early this year after an initial review of the history and accomplishments of the GMRT by a team from IEEE India. Following a review process, which included appraisal by international experts, the proposal was first put up to the History Committee of the IEEE, which cleared it for approval in October. It was then submitted to the IEEE Board of Directors for final approval, which was granted on November 23. Professor Toshio Fukuda, president and CEO of IEEE, said: “IEEE milestones recognise important landmarks in the global pursuit of excellence in Science and Engineering, which have significantly advanced technology for the benefit of humanity. I am pleased that the GMRT programme of India has been recognised as an IEEE Milestone, acknowledging its contributions to the important work of exploring the universe through radio astronomy. I also congratulate all of the scientists and engineers who have developed and operated GMRT with such great distinction.” Harish Mysore, senior director, IEEE India Operations, said the IEEE has so far recognised 212 milestones for their scientific and engineering contributions. “The GMRT is the third IEEE Milestone in India. This IEEE milestone not only recognises the contributions of scientists and engineers of India, it also helps to attract young talent towards fundamental science and engineering,” Mr. Mysore said. A number of technical innovations pioneered by the GMRT, conceived by pioneering radio astronomer, late Professor Govind Swarup, are mentioned in the citation for the award. “…It (the GMRT) pioneered new techniques in antenna design, receiver systems, and signal transport over optical fiber.” The citation also recognises the scientific work done using GMRT. “The GMRT has produced important discoveries in domains such as pulsars, supernovae, galaxies, quasars, and cosmology, greatly enhancing our understanding of the Universe.” Professor Yashwant Gupta, Centre Director, NCRA, said it was indeed a very proud and special moment, not just for GMRT and NCRA but also for the country’s science and technology fraternity to see a modern, made-in-India facility earn this international recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gmrt-accorded-prestigious-ieee-milestone-status/article33197717.ece
28 November 2020||Pune,||AIKS slams Centre over police action on farmers||The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) on Friday strongly condemned the Central government and the Delhi Police’s “repressive” actions against farmers protesting the farm laws in Delhi. Dr. Ajit Nawale, State general secretary, AIKS, said, “Tear gas and water cannons were used on farmers marching towards Delhi despite receiving permission for the ‘Chalo Delhi’ protest. Several farmers have been injured… we have been giving proposals for the last two months, but the Centre has paid no heed to them. Instead of holding a dialogue with farmers, the government orders the police to crack down on them.” ‘Stopped at borders’ Dr. Nawale alleged that the police were blocking farmers heading for Delhi on State borders. “The police, on the Centre’s instructions, are arresting farmers’ leaders and trying to break up their legitimate protest on the pretext of COVID-19 regulations… the AIKS, on behalf of all farmers of Maharashtra, condemns these actions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aiks-slams-centre-over-police-action-on-farmers/article33197715.ece
28 November 2020||Ranchi,||HC defers Lalu’s bail plea hearing||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday deferred RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s bail plea hearing in a fodder scam case till December 11. His lawyer Kapil Sibal and the prosecuting agency, the CBI, differed on the time he spent in judicial custody, prompting the court to direct the rival parties to verify their claims with the lower court and adjourn the hearing. Mr. Sibal contended that the former Bihar Chief Minister completed over 42 months in judicial custody, which is more than half the punishment handed down by the trial court in the Dumka treasury case. The CBI claimed he had only spent 34 months in jail in three other cases. The court also fixed December 4 as the date for hearing of a case involving Prasad’s alleged misuse of facilities at RIMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-defers-lalus-bail-plea-hearing/article33197833.ece
28 November 2020||Washington,||Trump says he will leave office if Biden’s victory is confirmed||President Donald Trump said on Thursday for the first time that he would leave the White House if Joe Biden is officially confirmed the winner of the U.S. election, even as he railed against the “rigged” vote. Mr. Trump has made an unprecedented attempt to defy the results of the election by refusing to concede, spreading wild theories about stolen ballots and launching baseless legal challenges that have been thrown out by courts. Answering his first questions from reporters since the November 3 vote, the President moved closer to accepting that he would serve only one term in office before Mr. Biden is inaugurated on January 20. When asked if he would leave the White House if the Electoral College confirmed Biden’s victory, Mr. Trump said, “Certainly I will. And you know that.” But “if they do, they made a mistake,” he said, adding, “It’s going to be a very hard thing to concede.” “I think that there will be a lot of things happening between now and (January) 20th,” he said. The Electoral College, which determines the White House winner, will meet on December 14 to certify Mr. Biden’s victory, with Mr. Biden receiving 306 votes to Mr. Trump’s 232. “This election was a fraud,” Mr. Trump said, again without providing any evidence during his remarks to reporters at the White House after he spoke to military personnel via video-link on the Thanksgiving holiday. He described the U.S. voting infrastructure as “like a third-world country.” Earlier in the day, he tweeted that “this was a 100% RIGGED ELECTION,” while on Wednesday he called on his Republican supporters “to turn the election over.” No proof of fraud President-elect Biden has said that Americans “won’t stand” for attempts to derail the vote outcome, and urged for Americans to unite to fight the worsening pandemic. More than 260,000 people have died in the U.S. from COVID-19, with daily death tolls surging to 2,000 on recent days. Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede the election to Mr. Biden has added to the countless norms he has torn up during his four years in power. Mr. Trump, 74, is alleging — among other conspiracy theories — that voting machines deliberately deleted millions of his votes, though the government election security agency declared it “the most secure” election in U.S. history. Under pressure from some senior Republicans, Mr. Trump this week ended his blockade of government assistance to ease Mr. Biden’s preparation for assuming the presidency. Mr. Trump said on Thursday he would soon travel to Georgia to campaign ahead of two key run-off elections that will decide which party controls the Senate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-says-he-will-leave-office-if-bidens-victory-is-confirmed/article33197443.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||With Cabinet picks, Joe Biden remains close to the political centre||If the nearly four years under U.S. President Donald Trump led the country away from international alliances and eschewed Washington’s commitment to globalisation and multilateralism, it appears that the administration of Joe Biden, Democrat and winner of the 2020 election, will aim to reverse that experience. The recent announcement by Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris that they would be inducting a raft of Obama-era policy specialists into the 46th President’s Cabinet suggests two things: first, the early months of his term will be dedicated to undoing the damage done by Mr. Trump to the U.S.’s past foreign engagement in various treaties and alliances; and second, Mr. Biden has carefully sought to remain close to the political centre so as to maximise his chances of working successfully toward bipartisan consensus with the likely Senate Majority Leader from January 2021, Mitch McConnell. Consider the backgrounds of the most high-profile appointees thus far. Leading the list is Antony Blinken for Secretary of State. A former Deputy Secretary of State who served under Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, Mr. Blinken’s work to date suggests that he has an unshakeable commitment to internationalism, particularly to the U.S.’s transatlantic alliances, given his many years spent in Paris. He shares the Biden-Obama keenness to speak up against perceived human rights violations abroad, for example publicly ruing the decision for the U.S. to not intervene in the humanitarian crisis of recent years in Syria. The flip side of this zeal to get involved in such international episodes, which includes a firm commitment to ally Israel’s security, is that his views might be opposed by some Democrats farther to the left of Mr. Biden, including outspoken advocate of Palestinian rights, Michigan Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib. Policy direction Several other Cabinet appointments by Mr. Biden point in the same direction, including Linda Thomas-Greenfield, a senior diplomat with years of experience across Africa, shaping U.S. foreign policy in the sub-Saharan region., as the next U.S. Ambassador to the UN. Similarly, Jake Sullivan, a lawyer, a former National Security Adviser to Mr. Biden when he was Mr. Obama’s Vice President, and Deputy Chief of Staff to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, has been chosen for the National Security Advisor’s role. He, along with former Secretary of State John Kerry as the Special Envoy for Climate Change, will presumably help the Biden administration carry out its top priorities for its first 100 days in the White House: a gradual reversal of the U.S.’s abrogation of the Iran Nuclear Agreement and the Paris Climate Agreement. It will certainly help that Mr. Sullivan played a critical role in negotiating the Iran deal, while Mr. Kerry was a key interlocutor in forging together the Paris accord. On the economic front, matters may be more straightforward, if perhaps perilously poised, making Mr. Biden’s pick of Janet Yellen, the first woman to chair the Federal Reserve, as Treasury Secretary, an optimal one. She comes with decades of experience in macroeconomic policy, particularly the impact of economic growth on labour markets. Just as President Obama inherited the worst moments of the Great Recession of 2008 at the very outset of his first term, Mr. Biden will be in firefighting mode to tackle rampant joblessness and the sharpest drop in economic activity witnessed in a generation, owing to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Similarly, in nominating Alejandro Mayorkas, a Cuban-American attorney and Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security under Mr. Obama, as Secretary of Homeland Security, Mr. Biden has not only sought to signal diversity within his Cabinet selection — Mr. Mayorkas would be the first Latino and first immigrant in this role — but also likely a break from the uncompromising policies of the Trump administration in handling the influx of undocumented workers across the U.S.’s southern border. Under Mr. Trump, executive orders and administrative rules for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement were used to implement a steady crackdown on aspiring immigrants, including everything from family separations and the holding of minors in detention facilities, to the ban of issuance on green cards and skilled worker visas for new applicants. While it may be tempting to assume that the incoming administration would adopt a more nuanced approach, it remains a fact that the Obama years actually witnessed a spike in deportations, and given the mood and pressures in U.S. politics at the moment, Mr. Biden could hardly appear to be soft on immigration policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/with-cabinet-picks-joe-biden-remains-close-to-the-political-centre/article33197438.ece
28 November 2020||Brasţlia,||Bolsonaro says he won’t take vaccine||Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro on Thursday said he will not take a vaccine against the coronavirus even after it receives approval from his own government. “I’m telling you, I won’t take it (the vaccine),” he said in a video posted to social media. “It is my right.” Brazil has recorded over 1,70,000 coronavirus deaths, according to an AFP tally, behind only the U.S. Mr. Bolsonaro faces criticism for his handling of the pandemic, which has included playing down the virus, opposing lockdown measures and relentlessly promoting the drug hydroxychloroquine despite studies showing it is ineffective against COVID-19. He caught COVID-19 himself at the beginning of July, and more than half of his Cabinet have tested positive for the virus in recent months. Once any treatment is approved by Brazil’s health regulatory authorities, his government will “immediately organise” its purchase and distribution to those who want it, he said. But he added he was “sure” that Brazil’s Parliament would not make immunisation mandatory. Brazil’s Health Ministry has already agreed to buy 100 million doses of a different vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bolsonaro-says-he-wont-take-vaccine/article33197439.ece
28 November 2020||COLOMBO,||Courts ban remembrance events for LTTE cadre on ‘Heroes Day’||Many Tamil families living in Sri Lanka’s north and east on Friday marked ‘Heroes Day’ — an annual commemoration of LTTE cadre who died in the civil war — by lighting lamps in the quiet confines of their homes, after the government obtained a court order banning the remembrance. Petitioning different courts in the war-affected districts in the last week, Sri Lanka’s Attorney General Department sought prohibition orders on the commemoration. Government lawyers and police argued that such an event could lead to the “revival of the LTTE” or potentially cause disharmony among communities. In a submission — that drew wide criticism on social media — an inspector told the court: “we [the government] made it possible for those [referring to northern Tamils] who ate pittu and vadai those days to eat pizza now,” referring to the opening up of the area after the armed forces defeated the separatist LTTE in 2009. Sinnathurai Maheswari, 83, whose son, an LTTE combatant, died in 1985, was among those who went to court to assert her right to remember. “But they have now said we can't hold the remembrance. I just lit a lamp in front of his picture at our home and kept some fruits and biscuits in front of it,” she told The Hindu from Jaffna. “They say remembering our dead children might bring back the LTTE. How is that even possible now? Who is alive to revive it? The leader is dead, everyone is dead. In my case, I have no one to call my family, other than one other son who is ill and needs my care. All I have is the memory of my son who gave his life.” The LTTE began commemorating its fallen cadre on ‘Maveerar Naal’ [Heroes Day] in 1989 on November 27 — marking the day that a member, for the first time, died in combat in 1982. Since then, members and families have followed the practice of paying respects to the dead combatants every year, gathering at their tomb stones, or at road junctions to remember them together. Police presence According to Mullaitivu residents, a heavy police and army presence was seen across the district on Friday. “The more they prevent us from remembering, the more we will remember our heroes in our homes, within our families. They [the government] want to erase this history, but that will not happen,” said a resident, requesting not to be named fearing police questioning. His son died in 2008, at 21. Intervening in Parliament earlier this week, Jaffna legislator M.A. Sumanthiran asked the Rajapaksa administration: “Why are you so worried, why are you so scared of the dead? Is it because you put them to death in the most brutal manner violating all the international norms?” The Rajapaksa administration is widely credited for bringing the war to an end in 2009, but the armed forces are accused of grave human rights violations during the three decade-long war. Pointing to the Sri Lankan government’s apparent double standards in the House, in allowing the leftist Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna [JVP or People’s Liberation Front], to commemorate its mostly Sinhalese cadre killed in two failed insurrections against the state, while seeking a ban on the remembrance of LTTE cadre, he said it was the “most unfortunate, most undignified act by the state”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/courts-ban-remembrance-events-for-ltte-cadre-on-heroes-day/article33197441.ece
28 November 2020||BEIJING,||China slaps 200% tax on Australian wine||China on Friday added wine to the growing list of Australian goods barred from its markets in a trade war against Australia over disputes including its support for a probe into the origin of the coronavirus. The Ministry of Commerce imposed import taxes of up to 212.1%, effective on Saturday, which Australia’s Trade Minister said make Australian wine unsellable in China, his country’s biggest export market. China increasingly is using its populous market as leverage to extract political concessions and increase its strategic influence. Earlier, China stopped or reduced imports of beef, coal, barley, seafood, sugar and timber from Australia after it supported calls for a probe into the origin of the pandemic, which began in China in December. China’s Communist Party is trying to deflect criticism of its handling of the outbreak, which plunged the global economy into its deepest slump since the 1930s, by arguing the virus came from abroad, without providing evidence. Meanwhile, Australia is working on a mutual defence treaty with Japan, which Chinese leaders see as a strategic rival, and has expressed concern about China’s construction of military facilities on islands in the disputed South China Sea. Australia’s main stock market index fell 0.5% on Friday following the news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-slaps-200-tax-on-australian-wine/article33197440.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||From underworld to broad daylight||On the night of October 15, business began to slowly pick up at the Duet Bar and Restaurant off the busy Brigade Road in the central business hub of Bengaluru. The bar owner, Manish Shetty, 41, as was his routine, left his flat in Bhoopasandra in North Bengaluru in his SUV and reached Brigade Road at around 9:30 p.m. As he got down from his car and walked up to his bar, a bullet from a single-barrel breech-loading gun pierced his back. Assailants surrounded him and rained blows on his head with machetes, killing him on the spot before fleeing from the scene. It did not take long for the police to conclude that what happened that Thursday was an underworld hit job. It had all the hallmarks of one: the firearms and the bike were abandoned a short distance away, a known modus operandi in such cases. Moreover, the deceased was a jailbird, with known links to underworld gangs in coastal Karnataka, associated with Ravi Pujari,  Bannanje Raja and Muthappa Rai, at various points of time. The first two were arrested and the third died recently. Shetty had seven criminal cases including robbery and extortion against him. Hours later, their suspicions were confirmed when a person who identified himself as Vikki Shetty, 47, an underworld operative from the coastal city of Mangaluru and now suspected to be based out of Southeast Asia, called up multiple media outlets and claimed he “got Manish Shetty killed, to avenge the murder of Kishan Hegde”, a realtor with a criminal background, who was hacked to death in Hiriyadka, Udupi on September 24. A shoot-out in the heart of the city coupled with the brazenness of an underworld operative calling up media houses claiming “he got it done” sent shockwaves across Bengaluru, not used to such crimes. The last such shoot-outs were in 2007 and 2010 when Ravi Pujari attacked the offices of Shabnam Developers, killing two employees, and Mantri Developers, for extortion. “But this was different. It was not a builder or a business that was targeted, it seemed like gang rivals were spilling blood on the streets,” said a senior police official handling the case. But the police were left flummoxed as the Udupi Police had already ‘cracked’ the Kishan Hegde murder case. They had arrested nine men including the alleged kingpin Manoj Kodikere, another history-sheeter and moneylender. Contrary to Vikki Shetty’s claims, Manish Shetty’s name had not figured in the investigation. The murder that started it all Kishan Hegde, 35, a realtor and money-lender associated with Hindu right-wing organisations, was a history-sheeter accused of murder and assault. Related by marriage to a Shiv Sena corporator in Mumbai’s Kalyan Dombivali Municipality, he served as ‘Madipu’, a translator of utterances of ‘Daiva’ (holy spirit) at Inna village. He and his brother Kiran, both with careers in crime, were arrested for murder and assaults. Kishan Hegde was allegedly linked to Vikki Shetty. When he was released on bail in connection with a murder case, Kishan Hegde focused on real-estate and money lending. “He had borrowed money from Manoj Kodikere and in turn lent it at a higher rate of interest. Kodikere had recently assaulted Kishan’s friend Rajesh Shetty over non-payment of loan to the tune of Rs. 55 lakh. This angered Kishan and he complained to Vikki Shetty, who reportedly asked him to not repay Kodikere,” said senior police officials in Udupi. The decision had a domino effect and many debtors stopped repayment. “To send out a message, Kodikere and his associates killed Kishan Hegde in the busy Hiriyadka market in broad daylight,” the Udupi police added. Nowhere had the name of Manish Shetty figured in the probe. But the two were acquaintances when they were in prison together in 2010 — Manish Shetty in a jewellery store robbery case and Kishan Hegde in a case related to an attempt to murder a Karkala businessman case, it has now emerged. In an interview to Daijiworld , a coastal Karnataka-based news portal, Vikki Shetty said: “It was Manish Shetty who organised boys for the murder of Kishan Hegde. He held meetings and was the force behind Manoj Kodikere. Kishan Hegde was with my boys, and came from a respectable family. Should all financial disputes end in murder? This is wrong. I can’t let people who hit at my boys go. So I had to take down Manish Shetty”. Meanwhile, the Bengaluru Police arrested four men in connection with the case, on October 17 — Shashikiran, 45, a history-sheeter who led the gang in the case and has three cases of murder against him; Ganesha, 39; Akshay, 32, who worked at a bar near Manish Shetty’s bar on Brigade Road; and Nitya, 29, the shooter with no criminal antecedents. All of them hail from coastal Karnataka. “CCTV footage of the crime led to the identity of two of them — Shashikiran and Akshay. We got a tip-off on their location and arrested them from a lodge in the city. The four have confessed to the murder. They said Vikki Shetty gave the orders to carry out the hit,” said M. N. Anucheth, DCP (Central Zone), Bengaluru. The police took them to Barlane Cemetery, Hosur Road, to recover the machete used in the murder and then disposed of. Shashikiran and Akshay allegedly attacked the escort police in a bid to escape. “The police warned them and later fired at their legs to stop them from fleeing,” said a senior police officer. The interrogation of the accused revealed more contradictory information. “The gang had carried out a recce of Manish Shetty’s movements as early as February 2020, when Kishan Hegde was still alive,” a senior police officer said, adding that the murder of Kishan Hegde had definitely acted as a catalyst but was not the only motive. ‘More than what meets the eye’ As the Bengaluru Police were trying to cut through this haze, another gory murder was reported from Bantwal, from the coastal district of Dakshina Kannada. Financier-turned-actor Surendra Bhandary, 39, who was associated with Hindu right-wing outfits but had recently fallen out with them, was found hacked to death in his flat on October 20. Two days later, his long-time associate Satish Kulal sent an audio clip to the police and the media, owning up to the murder. “I had forbidden Surendra from giving financial aid for the murder of Kishan Hegde and his killers later. But he threatened to kill me. So, I, along with Kishan Hegde’s associates, killed him,” the audio said. The Bantwal police have arrested Satish Kulal and 10 others, including close associates of Kishan Hegde and Akashbhavan Sharan, a notorious rowdy-sheeter and a close associate of Vikki Shetty. Sharan is presently in jail for the rape of a minor girl and organised resources for the murder of Bhandary from jail, police said. “A photo of the crime scene with Bhandary dead was sent to Sharan,” said an investigating officer. In this case too, the police are not buying the narrative that Surendra Bhandary was killed only to avenge the murder of Kishan Hegde. His name too had not figured in the Udupi murder investigation earlier. “Satish Kulal owed Surendra Bhandary money, and so did another accused in the case. They have put together a team convincing associates of Kishan Hegde that Bhandary helped his murderers. Akashbhavan Sharan held a grudge against Bhandary for the role Bhandary played in his arrest in the rape case. Many who held a grudge against him came together,” a senior police officer probing the case said. The murders have raised red flags in the State police. “Though we have caught the people who carried out these murders, in each of the three cases, we are yet to unravel the real motives behind these murders. There is definitely more than what meets the eye. This may indicate a churn in the underworld of coastal Karnataka,” a senior police official, who has had long stints in both Mangaluru and Bengaluru, said. ‘A cover story’ Born as Balakrishna Shetty in 1973, ‘Vikki’ Shetty fled the country in 2005 after coming out on bail in an arms case in Mangaluru, the only time he was probably arrested. “He was a small-time crook then, influenced by the Mumbai mafia, like many boys of his age in the coastal districts,” said an officer who arrested him back then. After fleeing the country, he is said to have been based out of Australia, Dubai, Thailand and Cambodia. In his recent calls to media outlets, he claimed to be speaking from Australia, which the police don’t buy. “He has shifted to Southeast Asia,” a senior official said. Vikki Shetty has eight criminal cases registered against him, all in the coastal districts of the State. Said to have earlier worked with Ravi Pujari, he fell out with him and is now known to be running independent operations. A senior officer overseeing the probe into the Manish Shetty murder case in Bengaluru said they had picked up chatter that Vikki Shetty had raised money from among businessmen in the powerful and monied Bunts community in Mumbai and coastal Karnataka to “avenge [the death of] Kishan Hegde”, who was a big name in the community. He has made calls to some financiers in the community, sources said. “We are yet to figure out the root of enmity between Vikki Shetty and Manish Shetty, but it definitely did not start with Kishan Hegde’s murder. It seems to be a cover story,” said the official. In fact, in his call to Daijiworld, Vikki Shetty said: “Manish Shetty is just a robber but was talking big. I had warned him a year or two ago, but he did not mend his ways.” This indicates that their rivalry is older. Given that multiple underworld operatives hailing from coastal Karnataka have taken a hit recently, Vikki Shetty may be trying to emerge as a new player, a senior police officer from Mangaluru said. What’s at stake? The underworld in Karnataka’s coastal districts is closely associated with and is modelled on the mafia in Mumbai. While smuggling and labour unions were at the root of the mafia in Mumbai, so is it in Mangaluru, but real estate has been a new addition in recent years. Starting from Karwar, the State’s coast is dotted with several ports in Mangaluru and Belekeri, to name a few. “Elements from the underworld dominate the black market in import/export of bitumen, naphtha, and timber in many of these ports,” a senior police official in Mangaluru said. While customs officials and sources in the shipping industry said operations at New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) had largely been corporatised putting a check on smuggling, the police said post this phenomenon, black market operations at other smaller ports had only gone up. Queries to NMPT did not elicit a response. Various factions of the underworld have had stakes in the logistics of the cargo business like in the transport sector, contracts for toll collection and also in labour unions at multiple ports and docks, said police sources. For instance, Manoj Kodikere, who allegedly killed Kishan Hegde, was locked in one-upmanship with a friend-turned-foe associated with Kishan Hegde, on control over logistics at the old Mangaluru port, sources said. A section of the police in Mangaluru suspect that the murder of Kishan Hegde may also be a fallout of this turf war. Meanwhile, at present, Congress leader Rakesh Malli, a former aide of Muthappa Rai who fell out with him during his last years, and who is now leading a “reformed life”, leads the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) in the region. He is credited with the recent INTUC victory in the union elections at NMPT, consolidating his grip over the labour force in the region, and thereby over logistics at these ports. “The ports of the Karnataka coast and real estate in Mangaluru are a lucrative business. Muthappa Rai did exercise considerable influence over these spheres until he came down with cancer and eventually died in May this year. Many are trying to take a share in the pie. Vikki Shetty may be just one of them,” a senior police official said. Hindu right and the underworld Mimicking Mumbai, the underworld in Karnataka’s coast has also been divided along religious lines. All the three killed and most of the accused in the three cases have had associations with Hindu right-wing organisations in the coastal districts. Acknowledging this, office bearers of the Hindu Jagaran Vedike, Bajrang Dal and Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) came together and appealed to the youth, especially those associated with either the victims or the perpetrators of these murders, to “end the cycle of revenge”. VHP Mangalaru Divisional Secretary Sharan Pumpwell said: “Those who were murdered and those arrested have been associated with Hindu outfits. We cannot be silent spectators when both victims and the accused are from the Hindu community. We are making efforts to reform such youths.” But he was quick to add that none of those arrested in the Kishan Hegde and Surendra Bhandary murder cases were, at present, associated with Sangh Parivar outfits. Hindu right-wing organisations have worked as front organisations for underworld operatives to not only acquire a veneer of acceptability in the garb of religious polarisation, but also to recruit youths, said the police. Many of the accused in cases of cattle vigilantism and moral policing are also history-sheeters with links to the underworld, they said. Various factions within these organisations have now been at each other, the recent spate of murders show, they said. In his interview with Daijiworld , Vikki Shetty lashed out at Manoj Kodikere, who allegedly killed Kishan Hegde, for targeting “other Hindus”. He said, “Community organisations must help the poor, not keep people who target others from the same community. It is they who give the organisations a bad name.” Vikki Shetty has also often used his ‘Hindu identity’ over the years, for instance, in making threat calls to Karachi Bakery over their name. “Avenging the murder of Kishan Hegde who had a large following in Hindu right-wing organisations will fetch Vikki Shetty boys to work for him,” a senior police official said. Rumblings in Bengaluru Bengaluru police are worked up that members of the underworld could carry out a daring hit in the heart of the city and make brazen calls to media houses. “At this juncture, our analysis says that the gang rivalries in Mangaluru have spilled over into our streets. But we have increased surveillance and are keeping tabs on any activity in the city,” a senior Central Crime Branch official from the Bengaluru City Police said. He added that stringent action would be taken to nip it in the bud. However, as it stands today, after Manish Shetty’s murder, Vikki Shetty has not made any calls to businessmen in the city. The police have learnt that he has raised money in Mumbai and Mangaluru, sources said. Not being a port city like Mumbai, and with no strong labour unions, Bengaluru is not big on the narcotics map either. Real estate is the only parallel economy that can sustain a mafia in the city. Ravi Pujari and others operating from abroad have earlier made futile attempts to gain a foothold in the city’s realty sector. “Ravi Pujari carried out two shoot-outs on leading builders in the city in 2007 and 2010. But he failed to gain a foothold in the city,” said a senior police officer in the city. Multiple sources in the realty sector of the city said it has been at least three years since any of them received a threat call for extortion that had become a menace when Ravi Pujari was active. Local underworld operatives in Bengaluru are involved in “dispute settlement” between various parties over properties or end up buying disputed properties, settle disputes by the threat of violence and sell them for a windfall. “The real estate market in the city is dominated by the local politicians who use local rowdies and the police as a muscle. The police are also an active part of dispute settlement in the real estate market of the city,” said a retired top police officer, who did not want to be named. The Karnataka Police has in fact issued multiple circulars over the last decade explicitly barring the police from intervening in “civil disputes”. The set-up in the city doesn’t allow outsiders so easily, police said. Historically, underworlds of Bengaluru and Mangaluru have never converged, they added. A senior official in the State police leadership said Karnataka had demonstrated a success streak in tracking down underworld fugitives — Muthappa Rai, Bannanje Raja and Ravi Pujari — and successfully extraditing them to the State to stand trial for their offences. “We think it is time to concentrate our efforts to nab Vikki Shetty, before he grows any bigger. Our teams are working on the same,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/from-underworld-to-broad-daylight/article33197436.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The global epidemic of alternative truths||Truth is often regarded as a metaphysical construct, though it has a more pragmatic dimension as a process of accurately recording perceptions, and ensuring they become part of an agreed social record. The latter understanding is serviceable in a practical sense, but opens the door to a certain troubling relativism. Perceptions are moulded by culture, and observation statements are conditioned by language. Is truth then culturally determined? The U.S. and social fractures In the United States, a defeated President sulks in his lair insisting that he really won. Defeat brings sorrow and remorse in its wake, but this election has revealed an anxiety to wallow in untruth. Earlier in the year, as the novel coronavirus pandemic began its lethal spread across the United States, the political leadership sought salvation in denial and then in division. By a calculus of costs and benefits, that may have been smart. The worst hit, at least in the early phase of the pandemic, were people of the minorities and lower income groups, unable by their very identity to impose a serious punishment on political delinquency. Fractures of race and class in the U.S. are now overlaid with profound differences in culture. At just the time the death toll in America crossed a grim milestone, the journalist, Talia Lavin, observed that the “culture wars” had reached a stage at which 100,000 dead was “a matter of political opinion”. It was, she bemoaned, a telling symptom that the U.S. was “an utter failure of a country”, a lament that brought to mind Hannah Arendt’s classic 1967 essay , titled “Truth and Politics”. Truth and politics Arendt was drawn to the theme by the response to her landmark 1963 book on the trial in Jerusalem of the Nazi killer, Adolf Eichmann. That book, written from eyewitness observation, spoke what she thought were undisputable truths. But the response ranged from puzzlement at her motivations, to outright mendacity in discrediting the facts she relied on. Thinking back, Arendt made what seemed a vital distinction. “Factual truths” for her, bore reference to observations by living subjects of constantly changing reality. “Formal truths” on the contrary, were part of the received wisdom. Few could question the latter, such as the proposition that two and two made four. But factual truth was always prone to challenge as being no more than opinion. Truth and politics, Arendt conceded, had always been “on rather bad terms with each other” and “truthfulness” was never counted “among the political virtues”. This was a reality with a profound bearing on the practice of politics, since “facts and events”, the outcome of the collective life of humanity, were the “very texture of the political realm”. James Madison, one among seven “founding fathers” of the U.S. Constitution, said about governments, that finally, they all “rest on opinion”. Yet, an individual’s opinion tended to be “timid and cautious” in its expression, and only acquired “firmness and confidence in proportion to the number with which it is associated”. Numbers could be a guarantee of strength, though not of authenticity. Indeed, the whole procedure for Arendt seemed thoroughly unsatisfactory, since there was nothing that prevented a majority “from being false witnesses”. Rather, “the feeling of belonging to a majority may even encourage false testimony”. There is no wisdom in crowds — like all forms of power, majoritarianism could threaten the truth. War and deception In 1971, soon after the Pentagon Papers (officially called the Report of the Office of the Secretary of Defense Vietnam Task Force) were published in The New York Times , exposing a long trail of official deception on the U.S. war in Vietnam, Arendt wrote about how the lie in normal circumstances, is “defeated by reality”. However large the tissue of falsehood, even when spun with the help of computers, it would be inadequate to “cover the immensity of factuality”. A fact could be removed from the world if a sufficient number of people “believe in its non-existence”. But this would require a process of “radical destruction”, an experiment that totalitarian regimes had undertaken with frightening consequences, though without the intended result of “lasting deception”. The lessons from the Pentagon Papers, and the “extraordinarily strong” opposition that had emerged to the U.S. war in Vietnam, was that a government intent on intimidation to secure its ends, was unlikely to succeed. The role of social media A readily identifiable aspect in which things have changed since, is the sheer ubiquity of the computer, which Arendt believed, even with all its prowess, could not quite conceal factuality. Earlier modes of harvesting attention and securing assent for a particular perception of reality, have been transformed in this intensely networked milieu. And since the events of 2016 — notably the United Kingdom’s Brexit referendum and Donald Trump’s election as the U.S. President — social media has come in for intense scrutiny for its ability to create bubbles of political misinformation. It is difficult though, to imagine social media as an autonomous force that works to similar effect irrespective of the soil it falls upon. The U.S. in this regard, is fertile soil, segregated by class and credentials into ghettos of privilege and deprivation by four decades of neoliberal economics. The economist, Raghuram Rajan, and the philosopher, Michael Sandel, have in recent times pointed out how daily lives in the U.S. today are increasingly about sameness, less about exposure to diversities of culture and social perception. It is a context that enables particular population cohorts to pretend that other worlds do not exist, that their perceptions, fortified in regular “check ins” with social media, are all that matter. India, a social milieu with its own modes of sorting by class, caste and community, affords new means of campaigning and exercising political power through connectivity. Customary deliberative processes have been dispensed with: Parliament sessions conclude without the Question Hour and consultative meetings across party lines over significant legislative initiatives have been scrapped. Political leaders, beginning with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speak from high pedestals but rarely put themselves under scrutiny in media conferences or interviews. Still to be neutralised In his first address to party representatives after securing a decisive win in the general election last year, Mr. Modi issued several explicit warnings about the media. Print media and TV may seem a good way to project ideas onto the public stage, he said, but there is a risk of falling victim to their “magnetic power”. These remarks were in spirit congruent with his instructions in 2014. Soon after taking office then, Mr. Modi signalled his enthusiasm for social media at a meeting with Facebook’s Chief Operating Officer, Sheryl Sandberg. Immediately afterwards, he instructed colleagues in the party and government, to use social media to get the word out, but to stay clear of direct interactions with traditional news media. Public opinion in democracies is now fashioned within cocoons of privilege and power, untroubled by factuality or diversities in perception. If the U.S. seems, at least for now, to have tapped the sources of countervailing power to neutralise this drift towards a world of alternative truths, the challenge remains unmet in India. Sukumar Muralidharan teaches at the school of journalism, O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-global-epidemic-of-alternative-truths/article33197429.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Stepping out of the shadow of India’s malnutrition||“School- er prarthana sabhar somoy hotat matha ghure pore jaoar ghotona hamesai ghotte dekhi amra. Beshirbhag khetrei ora mid-day - meal khete chaay naa, jiggesh korle bole pete byatha hochhe, Sir (There have been numerous instances during the prayer session in schools where we often observe students feeling sick and falling down out of dizziness. Most of the times they do not want to take mid-day meals and when asked, they complain of stomach ache).” These words were echoed during a telephonic survey which we conducted in the Burdwan district of West Bengal in September 2020, with schoolteachers on the health conditions of students. Apart from our academic interest, the survey had been largely motivated by a report in the Bengali daily, Anandabazar Patrika , on February 10, 2020 (https://bit.ly/3meN6wX). In this report, a schoolteacher had highlighted how girl students, who took admission in Standard five were relatively shorter in height than the previous year’s batch of students. This, the teacher inferred, was largely integrated with malnutrition that is burgeoning not only in the State but also in rest of the country. In line with what repeatedly restated in our survey, she had reported children from impoverished households not being able to have the mid-day meal many a time because of stomach-related problems, which, according to her, was a result of the children skipping breakfast. If this is found to be the general trend across India, such anecdotal evidence can have larger consequences that can very well lead to different manifestations of malnutrition. Global reports, measures Two recent reports — the annual report on “The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2020” by the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (https://bit.ly/33mgGtf) and the 2020 Hunger report, “Better Nutrition, Better Tomorrow” by the Bread for the World Institute (https://bit.ly/39gRxDX) – document staggering facts about Indian food insecurity and malnutrition. Using two globally recognised indicators, namely, the Prevalence of Undernourishment (PoU) and the Prevalence of Moderate or Severe Food Insecurity (PMSFI), these two reports indicate India to be one of the most food-insecure countries, with the highest rates of stunting and wasting among other South Asian countries. The PoU measures the percentage of people who are consuming insufficient calories than their required minimum dietary energy requirement, while the PMSFI identifies the percentage of people who live in households that are severely or moderately food insecure. The reduction in poverty has been substantial going by official estimates available till 2011-12. However, malnutrition has not declined as much as the decline has occurred in terms of poverty. On the contrary, the reduction is found to be much lower than in neighbouring China, Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh. Except China, these are countries which had somewhat similar levels of PoU in and around the year 2000. In terms of percentages, the PoU has declined 24.7% between 2001 and 2018 for India; other data are China (76.4%), Nepal (74%), Pakistan (42%), Afghanistan (37.4%) and Bangladesh (18.9%). It must be noted that the decline in China is way higher than that of India, even though it had started with lower levels of PoU in 2000. In contrast, Afghanistan (47.8%) that started with a higher base than India (18.6%) had experienced higher rates of decline. Of note is the fact that, economically, while Afghanistan is relatively much poorer and has gone through several prolonged conflicts in last two decades, it has been more successful in reducing malnutrition than India. Further, Pakistan and Nepal which had almost similar (slightly higher to be precise) levels of PoU in the initial years, have also successfully reduced malnourishment at a rate that is much faster than India. Therefore, irrespective of the base level of PoU, most of these countries have done better than India on this dimension. These findings also get substantiated through Food Insecurity Experience Scale survey (https://bit.ly/2Jh0m5X), which covers almost 90% of the world’s population. Because it is not allowed to be conducted in India, direct estimates are not available. Instead, three-year moving average figures are given separately for the whole of South Asia and South Asia, excluding India. A difference between these two would roughly give us a sense about the extent and broad direction of the prevalence of food insecurity here. Our estimates indicate that between 2014-16, about 29.1% of the total population was food insecure, which rose up to 32.9% in 2017-19. In terms of absolute number, about 375 million of the total population was moderately or severely food insecure in 2014, which went to about 450 million in 2019. Crucial elements excluded Despite the National Food Security Act – 2013 ensuring every citizen “access to adequate quantity of quality food at affordable prices”, two crucial elements that still got left out are the non-inclusion of nutritious food items such as pulses and exclusion of potential beneficiaries. Because of this, there is little to disagree that the current COVID-19 pandemic would make the situation worse in general, more so for vulnerable groups. In fact the recently initiated “Hunger Watch” by the Right to Food Campaign (https://bit.ly/2VeBoGF) presents a very grim situation, with close to one out of every three respondents reporting low food consumption and massive compromise on food quality. Though States have temporarily expanded their coverage in the wake of the crisis, the problem of malnutrition is likely to deepen in the coming years with rising unemployment and the deep economic slump. Hence, a major shift in policy has to encompass the immediate universalisation of the Public Distribution System which should definitely not be temporary in nature, along with the distribution of quality food items and innovative interventions such as the setting up of community kitchens among other things. This year’s Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the United Nations World Food Programme, which should bring some of the focus back on these pressing issues of undernourishment and hunger in India. The need of the hour remains the right utilisation and expansion of existing programmes to ensure that we arrest at least some part of this burgeoning malnutrition in the country. Amartya Paul is Doctoral Scholar, Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. Upasak Das is Presidential Fellow in Economics of Poverty Reduction, Global Development Institute, University of Manchester||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stepping-out-of-the-shadow-of-indias-malnutrition/article33197432.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A vial half full||After a spate of successes in the vaccines being tested in human trials, there is now a blip: a manufacturing defect in some batches of the trial vaccine being tested and marketed by AstraZeneca, which has partnered with the Oxford University vaccine group to test and market the ChAdOx1 nCOV-19 vaccine. Some volunteers, who were supposed to get two doses of vaccine a month apart, got only half the required dose in one of the injections. Intriguingly, the data suggested that the efficacy was 90% in the half/dose-full dose sub-group than the 62% in the regular full dose group. The manufacturing snafu was disclosed by neither Oxford nor AstraZeneca, but came to light after the head of the United States vaccine programme disclosed it on Twitter. The company maintains that this was not a ‘mistake’ as the manufacturing discrepancy was discovered, and disclosed to the United Kingdom regulators. It was with their approval that the batches with the reduced doses were allowed to progress. However, the company is reportedly looking at an additional trial to properly test the half-dose/full-dose regime. A reduced dosage turning out to significantly improve efficacy could mean that more vaccine can be made and distributed to the world quickly. India is among those countries that is dependent on the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine because some of those doses will be administered to a high-priority group of 30 crore people already identified by the government. Vaccine makers and immunologists are aware of the ‘prime boost’ technique where a limited dose of a vaccine is administered that prepares the immune system and a later shot then improves the overall production of protective antibodies. The results could even cause other vaccine manufacturers to test similar strategies. However, sober reflection leads to the ineluctable conclusion that this might not be one of the ‘lucky accidents’ of science lore. The fraction of people who got the reduced doses were under 55, and so it is not known if the dosage works for people in the older, more vulnerable group who have already been included in the high priority groups of several countries including India. Also, the number of volunteers who got the accidental dose were statistically insignificant to draw the conclusion of increased protection. Though the overall assessment, that the vaccine works, and is safe, holds, the events cloud trust in the process of scientific public communication. Companies that are otherwise jostling to prematurely announce vaccine results before scientific publication are opaque about full public disclosure. This when they have already been given a free pass in terms of accelerated regulatory processes, combining results from early trials and guaranteed government procurement. Haste and opacity will only delay the availability of a safe and efficacious vaccine as India prepares for possibly the largest immunisation programme in history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-vial-half-full/article33197424.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Tech tact||India’s decision on Tuesday to block another 43 Chinese mobile applications hardly comes as a surprise. Since June, following escalation of tensions with China at the border, India has blocked over 250 Chinese mobile apps, a bunch at a time, on the grounds that they have been engaging in activities “which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. The latest instance of app blocking has come at a time when the two sides, while still talking, are struggling to come up with an agreement for disengagement along the Line of Actual Control. With the immensely popular TikTok and PUBG already blocked, this time it was the turn of the likes of Alipay Cashier, Snack Video, Chinese Social, Adore App, and Alibaba Workbench to meet the same fate. China, not for the first time either, has charged India with using national security as an excuse to target Chinese apps. Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Chinese Foreign Ministry, has asked India to “correct its discriminatory approach and avoid causing further damage to bilateral cooperation”. China crying discrimination is ironical — its version of the Internet is tightly controlled and heavily censored, and has been so for years. There may not be much to argue against decisions made on the grounds of national security. But the question to ask is: would this have come about if all was hunky-dory between the two countries? In the short run, it may be useful for India to use its vast market for Internet services as a leverage in its attempts to keep China in check at the border. Indian app alternatives may also find the much-needed space to grow now, and initial reports indicate as much. But there are a few risks with this approach, especially given India’s global ambitions in technology. First, this approach runs the risk of triggering an unconventional battle between the two countries in the larger technology realm, if not in the larger business space. China, being an important player in the technology global supply chain, will be hard, if not impossible, to sideline. Second, there is a risk that moves such as blocking apps would be perceived adversely by global investors and Internet companies. While it is true that there has been some push back against Chinese companies and technology globally, India must stick to a rules-based approach in regulating the Internet. There is a need to implement the long-pending data protection law. It is also important to engage with the ecosystem and provide clarity on these issues as India has to win the technology battle as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tech-tact/article33197425.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Core sector contraction widens to 2.5%||Output at India’s eight core sectors shrank 2.5% in October with the contraction widening from September’s revised 0.1% decline as steel production slid again after a brief revival in the preceding month. Steel output, which has an almost 18% weight in the index and had recovered for the first time since March to record 2.8% growth in September, slipped back last month to register a 2.7% contraction. Cement, however, saw production rise for the first time since February, posting an increase of 2.8%, and along with the positive growth in the output of fertilizers, electricity and coal helped slow the pace of overall contraction. Electricity generation rose by a strong 10.5%, marking the second successive month of growth after rising 4.8% in September, as per revised data. Between March and August, electricity generation had consistently declined. Coal production grew for the third straight month, rising 11.6% in October. Still, economists said the data reflected a weakness in underlying economic activity. ‘Recovery still weak’ “Core sector data suggests the industrial recovery is still weak and the traction seen in the index of industrial production growth lately is triggered largely by the festival demand,” noted Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist at India Ratings and Research. The core sectors account for about 40% of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) and Mr. Sinha expressed concern that all core sectors, barring fertilizers, had seen negative growth in the first seven months of 2020-21. Output of fertilizers, one of the few sectors to record consistent growth through most of the lockdown months, surged 6.3% in October after a marginal 0.3% decline in September. Oil sector drags Refinery products contracted for an eighth month, falling 17%, natural gas output shrank 8.6% and crude oil production fell 6.2% in October, continuing a sustained period of decline. Updated data for September suggests output shrank just 0.1%, from the 0.8% estimated originally. Similarly, the contraction in July, at 7.6%, was marginally narrower than an 8% estimate. “Given the 2.5% drop in core industries’ output for October and a sharp 13% drop in consumption in the second quarter... a meaningful recovery in the third quarter looks doubtful,” said Binod Modi, head of strategy at Reliance Securities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/core-sector-contraction-widens-to-25/article33197406.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hetero to produce Russia’s COVID-19 vaccine in India||Russia’s COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V will be produced in India by generic pharmaceutical firm Hetero. Announcing an agreement with Hetero, sovereign wealth fund RDIF — which is piloting the vaccine — said more than 100 million doses of the vaccine would be produced. A joint statement from the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Hetero on Friday said the agreement was to produce more than 100 million doses per year in India. The production is intended to start at the beginning of 2021. Hetero would manufacture the vaccine through its subsidiary Hetero Biopharma, which has a facility in Hyderabad. It will be equipped with sufficient capacity, sources said. RDIF’s CEO Kirill Dmitriev said the agreement would pave the way for production of the ‘safe and highly effective’ Sputnik V vaccine on Indian soil. The vaccine’s interim clinical trial results show 95% efficacy on the 42nd day after the first dose. “We are pleased to collaborate with RDIF as a manufacturing partner for Sputnik V vaccine for the treatment of COVID-19,” said Hetero Labs director-International Marketing B. Murali Krishna Reddy. “While we look forward to the clinical trial results in India, we believe that manufacturing the product locally is crucial to enable swift access to patients,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hetero-to-produce-russias-covid-19-vaccine-in-india/article33197404.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vodafone Idea partners with firms to add non-core revenues||With the aim of increasing the share of non-telecom revenues, cash-strapped Vodafone Idea on Friday partnered with edtech and wellness companies, including upGrad, Udemy, cure.fit and 1mg, to provide exclusive offers from these firms to its subscribers. “We’re fundamentally looking at non-telco revenue streams through partnerships becoming a strong source of revenue for us,” said Avneesh Khosla, director - Marketing. “It is going to be a meaningful revenue stream as we move forward. The organisation is putting its weight and might behind this... we definitely see this scaling up fairly aggressively,” he added. ‘4G push’ The move would also additionally help drive core telecom business revenue through higher engagement and by incentivising subscribers to upgrade to 4G from 2G, Mr. Khosla said. “The partnerships are essentially targeted to a smartphone consumer, aged 18-45 years old and not necessarily only urban,” he said. “While there will be a larger resonance in urban, we have started to see a fair amount of interest even as far as rural is concerned. I don’t think rural is going to be a distant second,” Mr. Khosla added. Vodafone Idea would be announcing more such partnerships in the near future, the director said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-partners-with-firms-to-add-non-core-revenues/article33197401.ece
28 November 2020||Bengaluru,||‘E-tailers clock $8.3 bn in Oct.-Nov.’||India’s online festive sales for a month from mid-October to November clocked $8.3 billion, a 65% year-on-year growth, and Flipkart Group played a dominant role with a share of 66% of the total sale, Redseer Consulting said on Friday. “The overall growth story has been very bullish this festive season. We had predicted $7 billion of sales but the actual figures surpassed our expectations, showing how comfortable consumers have become with shopping online even in this pandemic-hit year,” Mrigank Gutgutia, director at consulting firm RedSeer, said. The festive season for this year saw 88% customer growth from last year, driven by about 40 million shoppers from Tier 2+ cities. Further, mobiles continued to dominate across all products. With a further increasing share of users from Tier 2+ cities, GMV (gross merchandise value) per customer dropped to Rs. 6,600 from Rs. 7,450 in the last festive season. “According to our estimates, Flipkart Group emerged as the leader during the whole festive month with 66% share of the total sale,” he said. Factors like high pre-sale awareness and anticipation driven by an impactful campaign, wide selection across categories and seamless supply chain planning helped Flipkart and Amazon to drive growth this festive season, Redseer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/e-tailers-clock-83-bn-in-oct-nov/article33197402.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Fiscal deficit reaches 120% of annual target||The Union Government’s fiscal deficit further widened to Rs. 9.53 lakh crore, or close to 120% of the annual budget estimate, at the end of October of the current fiscal, according to official data released on Friday. The deficit widened mainly due to poor revenue realisation. The lockdown imposed to curb spreading of coronavirus infections had significantly impacted business activities and in turn contributed to sluggish revenue realisation. The fiscal deficit at the end of September 2020 was about 114.8% of the annual budget estimate. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit stood at Rs. 9,53,154 crore at October-end, which is 119.7% of the annual budget estimates, as per the data released by the Controller General of Accounts. The fiscal deficit or gap between the expenditure and revenue had breached the annual target in July this year. In the first 7 months of the previous fiscal, the deficit was at 102.4% of the annual target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fiscal-deficit-reaches-120-of-annual-target/article33197408.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Adani tops DHFL bid with Rs. 33,000 crore offer||Billionaire Gautam Adani’s roads-to-mining group outbid U.S.-based Oaktree with a Rs. 33,000 crore bid for collapsed housing lender, DHFL. However, rival bidders want it out of the race for allegedly missing the deadline, a charge Adani Group denies saying it followed due process and the ‘cartel’ wants to prevent value maximisation. Four entities — Adani Group, Piramal Group, Oaktree Capital Management and SC Lowy — submitted bids for DHFL in October, sources with DHFL’s lenders and the industry said. But lenders, who are getting DHFL auctioned to recover unpaid loans, wanted suitors to revise their bids as original offers were low. Adani Group, which had initially bid only for DHFL’s wholesale and Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) portfolio, in the revised offer submitted on November 17, bid for the entire book, offering a total of Rs. 30,000 crore plus interest of Rs. 3,000 cror, a lending source said. Piramal quoted Rs. 23,500 crore only for the retail portfolio of DHFL, while Hong Kong-based SC Lowy bid Rs. 2,350 crore for SRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-tops-dhfl-bid-with-rs-33000-crore-offer/article33197414.ece
28 November 2020||Mumbai,||Oct. non-food bank credit growth slows||Non-food credit growth decelerated to 5.6% in October 2020 compared with a growth of 8.3% in the same month of the previous year, RBI data showed. Growth in loans to agriculture and allied activities accelerated to 7.4% in the reporting month from a growth of 7.1% last year, the data on Sectoral Deployment of Bank Credit – September 2020 showed. Credit to industry contracted by 1.7% in October 2020 as compared with 3.4% growth in October 2019. In September 2020, credit to industry recorded nil growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oct-non-food-bank-credit-growth-slows/article33197410.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||CPSEs must have m-cap targets: DIPAM||The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) has suggested the inclusion of CPSEs’ market capitalisation improvement and asset monetisation as parameters in the MoU target they sign with the government. DIPAM has also asked public sector enterprises to engage with investors “consistently and transparently” to improve market capitalisation. It has also asked them to pay interim dividends to reward shareholders. Addressing the PSE Summit organised by CII, DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said a point of concern had been, between March and November, the Sensex had climbed about 50%, while the BSE CPSE Index had risen only 19%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cpses-must-have-m-cap-targets-dipam/article33197415.ece
28 November 2020||Mumbai,||Burger King India IPO to raise upto Rs 810 crore||Burger King India Ltd., which runs a quick-service restaurant chain, said it would open its initial public offering (IPO) for bids on December 2 at a price band of Rs. 59-Rs. 60 apiece. The firm aims to raise up to Rs. 810 crore at the upper band. The IPO closes on December 4. The proceeds will be used for opening new company-owned restaurants and general corporate purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/burger-king-india-ipo-to-raise-upto-rs-810-crore/article33197398.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||LPG subsidy for BPCL consumers to continue post-privatisation: Pradhan||LPG customers of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) will continue to get cooking gas subsidy post privatisation of the nation’s second-biggest fuel retailer, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. “Subsidy on LPG is paid to consumers directly. So, the ownership of the company is not of any material consequence,” Mr. Pradhan toldPTI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lpg-subsidy-for-bpcl-consumers-to-continue-post-privatisation-pradhan/article33197412.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||FM pushes large CPSEs to exceed capex target by March||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday exhorted large central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) to exceed their planned capital expenditure (capex) target for 2020-21 by March to accelerate economic growth hit by the COVID-19 crisis.  While reviewing the performance of CPSEs, she said that capex by CPSEs needed to be scaled up for 2020-21 and 2021-22.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-pushes-large-cpses-to-exceed-capex-target-by-march/article33197416.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Significant moment for Indian sport: Bindra||Former World and Olympic champion Abhinav Bindra was pleased with the prospect of elite athletes running the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon (ADHM) on Sunday, and putting Indian sports back on the rails. “The ADHM is a very significant moment for Indian sports, since the pandemic started. Our athletes have resumed training but we have to get them in competitive space. This is a very important step towards resuming competitive sports in India, and a benchmark for other sports,” said Bindra, the brand ambassador for the event. Despite having been a rifle shooter, Bindra said he had to do quite a bit of running as part of physical training. “I picked up shooting because I thought I wouldn’t have to move. “However, to succeed in shooting, I had to run quite a bit. Running was a very important part of my training,” Bindra said. Some of the elite Indian runners like Avinash Sable, Srinu Bugatha, Abhishek Pal, Pradeep Singh, Parul Chaudhary, Chinta Yadav and Sanjivani Jadhav will be competing on Sunday, along with some of the best in the world. The rest of the participants across the globe will join through a mobile app. “This era forces us to embrace technology and innovate more. “To survive a challenging situation, we have to adapt to the situation,” said Bindra, about the amateurs running in remote locations. “We need to get back to competition and find out how much we have improved. Endurance is required for both steeplechase and marathon,” said National steeplechase record holder Avinash Sable. “It always feels great with spectators. This time, the event will be different due to the situation,” conceded defending champion of the Indian section, Srinu Bugatha. “I have to do a bit more this year to bag the first position, as I had finished second in the last two years. I have practised harder,” said Parul Chaudhary. Even though she finished third last year, Chinata Yadav was happy with her improved time. “I have prepared well and will perform better,” said Chinta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/significant-moment-for-indian-sport-bindra/article33198078.ece
28 November 2020||MANAMA,||No stopping Hamilton||Lewis Hamilton set the pace in Friday’s opening practice for the Bahrain Grand Prix ahead of teammate Valtteri Bottas who completed a one-two for Mercedes. The Briton, who equalled Michael Schumacher’s record haul of seven titles at the last race in Turkey, lapped the 5.4km Sakhir desert track in one minute, 29.033 seconds, 0.449 seconds clear of Bottas. Sergio Perez in the Racing Point was third, 0.967 seconds off the pace. Hamilton heads into Sunday’s race, the first of a whirlwind Middle Eastern triple-header that wraps up the season, as favourite to chalk up an 11th win of the season. On course for record Victory a week later, also in Bahrain but around the track’s shorter outer loop, and then at the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix would see him end a record-breaking campaign with 13 wins, his most in a single year. It would also make him only the third driver after Schumacher and Sebastian Vettel to win 13 races in a season. Carlos Sainz was fourth for McLaren, ahead of AlphaTauri’s Pierre Gasly, with the Red Bull pair of Max Verstappen and Alexander Albon sixth and seventh respectively followed by Renault’s Esteban Ocon. Lance Stroll was ninth in the other Racing Point and Daniel Ricciardo rounded out the top 10 for Renault. Charles Leclerc, who was on course for a pole-to-flag win in Bahrain last year, was 11th in his Ferrari. His teammate Vettel, the most successful driver in Bahrain with four wins, was 12th. Uneventful The session, which took place under overcast skies, was largely uneventful apart from occasional spins and lock-ups as drivers got to grips with the track. Alfa Romeo reserve driver Robert Kubica made his fourth practice appearance of the season, taking over Kimi Raikkonen’s car for the session. At Williams, development driver Roy Nissany got some track time in Briton George Russell’s car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-stopping-hamilton/article33197802.ece
28 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Suvankar Bal guides Customs home||Opener Suvankar Bal’s unbeaten 57 (57b, 4x4, 1x6) guided Calcutta Customs to an eight-wicket win over Town Club in the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Friday. Town, opting to bat, managed 104, which was overhauled by Customs with 11 balls to spare. Opener Kazi Junaid Saifi (37, 35b, 5x4) served Town well despite Customs bowlers’ frugal showing. On a slow pitch, the left-hander exhibited his timing to pick up some impressive boundaries on the off-side. Kazi and last match’s hero Gitimoy Basu (18, 17b, 2x4, 1x6) showed promise as a pair before the former holed out at long on off left-arm spinner Shreyan Chakraborty. Shreyan strikes Shreyan bowled with accuracy to claim two more important wickets — Purab Joshi (2) and Mohammed Kaif (4) — without giving away much. Seamer Arka Sarkar removed Basu as Customs checked Town’s progress in the middle overs. Abhilash Semiwal, who generated some movement, captured the last three wickets. After the dismissal of Abhishek Das (16, 18b, 3x4), Bal combined with Agniv Pan (20, 21b, 1x4) to put on 46 runs for the second wicket. Bal, who worked the ball around and ran hard to gather most of his runs, got reprieves on 23 and 26 in the 13th over. He added 35 runs with captain Sumanto Gupta (10 n.o., 13b, 1x4) to seal Customs’ second victory. It was Town’ first defeat.  The scores:   Town Club 104 in 20 overs (Kazi Saifi Junaid 37, Shreyan Chakraborty 3/13, Abhilash Semiwal 3/19, Arka Sarkar 2/23) lost to Calcutta Customs 108/2 in 18.1 overs (Suvankar Bal 57 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suvankar-bal-guides-customs-home/article33197800.ece
28 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Cricket stadium near Barasat named after Maradona||A stadium near Barasat, where Diego Maradona was last seen in action in India, was on Friday named after the football legend. During his last visit to Kolkata three years ago, Maradona had conducted a football clinic with school children at the Aditya School of Sports in Kadambgachi on the outskirts of Barasat, about 35 kilometres from here. “The stadium has now been converted into a full-fledged cricket stadium and we have named it ‘Diego Maradona Aditya School of Sports Cricket Stadium’,” chairman of Aditya Group Anirban Aditya told PTI. “This is the first-ever cricket stadium in the Argentine football legend’s name. We also have special Maradona memorabilia in the changing room. The seat and the cloth hanger that Maradona used would now be preserved with his autographed No. 10 jersey.” Intense session Maradona was last seen in action in India on December 12, 2017 when he turned up in shorts on a humid afternoon playing with 60-odd school kids. He was seen drenched in sweat, pouring water on his head during the gruelling session. He also crooned Spanish songs and inaugurated a seven-a-side exhibition match featuring former India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly. He was slated to feature in a match billed as ‘Diego vs Dada’ but by the time the match began, the 1986 World Cup-winning Argentine captain was completely drained out after the session with school kids. Anirban said the stadium was built in four months and Maradona was the first sportsperson to step into it. “I remember taking Maradona from his hotel. He was tired but when he saw the crowd he became full of life. Initially, it was to be a 45-minute affair but it went on. He had promised he would be back and train the kids. So as a tribute to him we have named the stadium after him.” Students heartbroken Some of the students who had interacted with Maradona at the school were heartbroken. “I had always heard of Maradona but never thought that we can touch him and play with the ‘God of Football’. It was completely magical. “I will always remember the workshop that he took as the most remarkable event of my life, said 17-year-old Avita Sarkar of Aditya Academy Senior Secondary School. “I was one of the lucky ones who got the football pass from Maradona. It was unbelievable,” said 18-year-old Aritra Sarkar. Built on a 30-acre campus, the school conducted grass-roots programmes for Indian Super League franchise ATK Mohun Bagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricket-stadium-near-barasat-named-after-maradona/article33197797.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Eight para athletes included in TOPS scheme||The Union Sports Ministry has included eight para athletes, including four who have qualified for the Tokyo Paralympics, in the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS). The decision was taken by the Mission Olympic Cell at its meeting on Thursday. The eight athletes are from athletics, shooting, badminton and table tennis. From para-athletics, Vinod Kumar and Ajit Kumar Panchal (both men’s discus) and Praveen Kumar (high jump) have been included while Virender Dhankar (shot put) and Jayanti Behera (women’s 400m) have been dropped. Both Vinod and Praveen have already qualified for the Tokyo Paralympics. In para-badminton, women’s doubles pair of Parul Parmar and Palak Kohli, currently ranked world number 5 in the race to qualification for the Paralympics, has been included in the TOPS scheme. Tokyo Paralympics-bound Siddharth Babu (men’s 50m rifle prone event) and Rubina Francis (women’s 10m air pistol) have been included in the TOPS scheme from para-shooting while Deepender (men’s 10m air pistol) has been dropped. Para table tennis player Bhavina Patel, ranked 8th in the world, has been included in the TOPS scheme. She will be the first Indian to represent the country in para table tennis at the Paralympics.  The decision was taken by the Mission Olympic Cell at its meeting on Thursday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eight-para-athletes-included-in-tops-scheme/article33197803.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||ATKMB rides on Krishna and Manvir’s strikes in Kolkata Derby||ATK-Mohun Bagan powered past traditional rival SC East Bengal 2-0 in the maiden Kolkata derby of the Indian Super League at the Tilak Maidan, Vasco, on Friday. Roy Krishna (49th minute) and Manvir Singh (85) found the target as Antonio Habas’ men registered their second successive victory of the season. East Bengal enjoyed a clear edge in terms of possession in the opening half, but it was Bagan which had the best chance to score. In the 36th minute, midfielder Javi Hernandez unleashed a powerful left-footer that was headed for goal, but East Bengal goalkeeper Debjit Majumder pulled off a fantastic save. Hernandez’s effort was easily the highlight of the first half. Though East Bengal had quite a few openings in the first half, it was let down by poor finishing. Balwant Singh and Congolese forward Jacques Maghoma failed to get it right in the final third despite all the hard work. Immediately after the break, ATKMB’s Roy Krishna pounced on the first opportunity that came his way. The goal was a result of a quick build-up which saw Jayesh Rane and Hernandez combining in the middle and releasing Krishna, who made no mistake. Manvir, a 63rd-minute replacement for an off-colour David Williams, sealed the contest with a solo effort.  The result: SC East Bengal 0 lost to ATK Mohun Bagan 2 (Krishna 49, Manvir 85) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atkmb-rides-on-krishna-and-manvirs-strikes-in-kolkata-derby/article33197506.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI,||We had a shot but lost vital wickets: Hardik||Hardik Pandya felt India was in the hunt, despite chasing a stiff target of 375, during his 128-run partnership with Shikhar Dhawan for the fifth wicket. In a virtual interaction with the media after the game, Hardik, who top-scored for India with 90, said, “When I was batting, we had to believe and I genuinely felt we could have done it. “It is just that we lost important wickets at the wrong time. Shikhar got out. We had a fantastic partnership and could have built from there, and maybe had a better shot at the total. Unfortunately, we lost wickets when I felt we were getting the rhythm. “When you have to chase more than 370-odd runs, there is not much planning. Everyone has to play with intent and at a good strike-rate.” Having picked just five bowlers, and with most of them proving expensive, India missed Hardik's ability with the ball.  Asked when he would be able to bowl in a match, thus helping the side’s balance, the 27-year-old said, “It is a process, and I am looking at a long-term goal. “I want to be at 100% of my bowling capacity for the most important games like the World Cups and other crucial series whenever required. Bowling not game-ready “I am not looking at a short-term plan where I exhaust myself. I am following a process and I am bowling in the nets but [am] just not game-ready,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-had-a-shot-but-lost-vital-wickets-hardik/article33197509.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepo, Naka and So bounce back||In a reversal of fortunes, Ian Nepomniatchtchi (Nepo), Hikaru Nakamura (Naka) and Wesley So bounced back from first-set defeats to reach the semifinals of the $100,000 Skilling Open online chess tournament on Thursday. Nakamura raced away to 2.5-0.5 victory in the rapid games against Maxime Vachier-Lagrave after winning twice from the white side. However, he stared at elimination against losing the first tie-break blitz game as Vachier needed just a draw in the second blitz game. Undeterred, Nakamura levelled the blitz score and then pulled off a draw from the black side to claim the Armageddon game for a place in the semifinal against American compatriot So. In another well-contested game, So won the second game and drew the rest in the rapid section against Teimour Radjabov. Following the two drawn blitz games, So came out undefeated from the black side in the Armageddon game to advance. Nepomniachtchi was in his element against Levon Aronian. He won the rapid phase 3-1 and then clinched both blitz games to stamp his superiority. He next faces World champion Magnus Carlsen.  The results:   Quarterfinals: Set Two: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) drew with Anish Giri (Ned) 2-2. Ian Nepmniachtchi (Rus) bt Levon Arnoian (Arm) 3-1; Blitz: Nepomniachtchi bt Aronian 2-0. Wesley So (USA) bt Teimour Radjabov (Aze) 2.5-1.5; Blitz: So drew with Radjabov 1-1; (So prevails in Armageddon).   Hikaru Nakamura (USA) bt Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) 2.5-0.5; Blitz: Nakamura drew with Vachier 1-1; (Nakamura prevails in Armageddon).   Semifinal-lineup: Carlsen-Nepomniachtchi; So-Nakamura .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nepo-naka-and-so-bounce-back/article33197798.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||FICCI global sports summit||The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) will host its 10th global sports summit, TURF 2020, on the business of sports, the first virtual global sports and fitness exhibition, apart from the Indian sports awards, on Dec. 8 and 9. The exhibition attempts to connect consumers across the world through a low-cost, easy-to-access platform, FICCI said in a statement. “FICCI is committed to finding innovative and effective ways to promote the development of sports and sports business in the country,” said FICCI secretary-general Dilip Chenoy. “Turf will bring together multi-disciplinary experts from the world of sports with innovative ideas and exclusive insights into issues and growth opportunities of sports and fitness in India,” said FICCI Sports and Youth Affairs Committee co-chairperson Shabnam Panjwani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ficci-global-sports-summit/article33198076.ece
28 November 2020||LONDON,||Mourinho has a point to prove against Lampard||Jose Mourinho takes his table-topping Tottenham side to former club Chelsea this weekend determined to prove he is back where he belongs — top of the Premier League. Four straight wins has taken Spurs to 20 points after nine games, ahead of Liverpool on goal difference, but Frank Lampard’s Chelsea is just two points behind them. Champion Liverpool travels to Brighton, while goal-shy Manchester City hosts Burnley in the unaccustomed position of 13th in the table and Arsenal seeks a win to lift it out of a slump. Spurs boss Mourinho has a point to prove against Lampard, with whom he won two Premier League titles at Stamford Bridge. Reverses Mourinho and the former Chelsea midfielder-turned-manager have met four times in different dugouts. Lampard gave Mourinho a bloody nose when his Derby side dumped Manchester United, then managed by Mourinho, out of the League Cup on penalties in 2018. After returning to Chelsea as manager, Lampard twice outwitted his former boss, by now in charge at Tottenham, in the Premier League last season. The 57-year-old veteran will be hoping this season’s League Cup win against Chelsea on penalties has turned the tide. He has never lost three consecutive league matches against the same manager or club before. “We are not fighting for the title, we are just fighting to win every match. “But we are going to lose matches, we are going to draw matches,” said Mourinho. But, like it or not, Spurs are in the title mix and will have to get used to the pressure, which will be ramped up on Sunday. Indifferent season Arsenal’s indifferent start to the season has left them languishing 12th in the Premier League table, with just four points from their past five matches. Arsenal’s Mikel Arteta, whose team host Wolves on Sunday, remains optimistic despite his side’s poor run and struggles in front of goal — Arsenal has now not scored from open play in five Premier League games. Manchester City, which hosts Burnley, has not scored more than once in a League match since September. The club’s record goalscorer, Sergio Aguero, had a brief runout in Wednesday’s 1-0 win at Olympiakos as he makes his way back to fitness following a hamstring injury. But it is a difficult balancing act for the manager, whose side is already eight points behind Spurs and Liverpool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mourinho-has-a-point-to-prove-against-lampard/article33197812.ece
28 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Udayakumar memorial award for Jerome Vinith||India international Jerome Vinith has been chosen for this year's K. Udayakumar memorial award for the best volleyball player in India. The award carries a cash award of Rs. 50000, a statuette and a citation. The award was instituted by the Volley Family Club in memory of former Indian spiker and Arjuna Award winner Udayakumar. Internationals Ukkarapandian, Tiji Raju, Prabhakaran, Gureender Singh and Minimol Abraham were the earlier recipients of this award. The award will be presented to Vinith at a ‘virtual’ function on November 30, Jimmy George’s remembrance day. Arjuna and Dronacharya awardee Shyam Sundar Ghosh will deliver the Jimmy George memorial lecture. Mani C. Kappan, MLA and Jimmy George’s former teammate, will also speak. The first Danikutty David memorial endowment award for the most promising young player in Kerala will be given to Arin Varghese. The award was instituted in memory of the former Kerala captain by his colleagues and teammates of Travancore Titanium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/udayakumar-memorial-award-for-jerome-vinith/article33197722.ece
28 November 2020||CHENNAI:,||MRF Natl. c’ship final round this weekend||The third and final round of the MRF MMSC-FMSCI National championship 2020 — a two-day, seven-race programme — will be held at the MMRT on Saturday and Sunday. Titles in all four categories — the Premier Indian Touring Cars, Super Stock, Formula LGB 1300 and MRF Saloon Car series — are up for grabs. MMSC’s Facebook page will live stream the races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mrf-natl-cship-final-round-this-weekend/article33197421.ece
28 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam signs Malian striker Saliou Guindo||Gokulam Kerala has signed Malian striker Saliou Guindo for the new I-League season. The 24-year-old is the final foreign signing for the club. He has played leagues in Turkey, Tunisia, Cote d’Ivoire, Albania and Bahrain. Saliou represented the Mali Under-20 team that finished third in the FIFA World Cup in 2015. In the 2019-20 season, he scored 11 goals for Byllis Ballsh in the Albanian league. “I am glad to sign for Gokulam Kerala,” said Saliou. “I have taken part in a training session already and the squad is full of young and vibrant players. I am ready to work hard and make sure that we bring the trophy back home.” “Saliou is a quality striker,” Gokulam coach Vincenzo Alberto Annese said. “He has the skills to score with right and left foot. He is very fast. He has 11 goals in Albanian league, which is a top-level league. He has also played for Mali national team. He is young and has the potential to become the top scorer in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-signs-malian-striker-saliou-guindo/article33197724.ece
28 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||Forest Flame for Bangalore 1000 Guineas||Forest Flame, who is in fine fettle as evidenced by her mock race, should be hard to toss in the Bangalore 1000 Guineas (1,600m), the chief event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Nov 28). There will be no false rails.  LINGANAMAKKI PLATE (1,200m), rated 00 to 20, 2 p.m.: 1. Roc Girl (12) Jagadeesh 60, 2. Green Channel (9) S. John 59.5, 3. Skiathos (13) Trevor 59.5, 4. Definitive (11) M. Prabhakaran 59, 5. Iconic Princess (5) Shreyas Singh 59, 6. Ultimate Charm (6) Darshan 59, 7. Tiger Returns (2) Arshad 58.5, 8. Glorious Days (1) Irvan 58, 9. Indian Star (3) Kiran Rai 58, 10. Anakin (10) J.H. Arul 57.5, 11. Air Force One (14) Khurshad 56.5, 12. South Bell (8) Afsar Khan 56.5, 13. Jai Vikram (7) Tousif Khan 56 and 14. Song And Dance (4) Rayan 55.5.  1. SKIATHOS, 2. ICONIC PRINCESS, 3. GREEN CHANNEL   BELUR PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 2-30: 1. Benignity (7) Chetan K 57, 2. Cavallini (1) Anjar Alam 57, 3. Christopher Wren (3) Srinath 57, 4. Extraordinary (9) Ashhad Asbar 57, 5. Griffin (12) Vaibhav 57, 6. Handsome (—) (—) 57, 7. Amazing Blaze (11) Trevor 55.5, 8. Embosom (8) M. Naveen 55.5, 9. Livisilla (10) Neeraj 55.5, 10. Orleans (2) Zervan 55.5, 11. Sand Castles (—) (—) 55.5, 12. Ultimate Choice (6) Kiran Rai 55.5 and 13. War Song (5) Akshay K 55.5.  1. AMAZING BLAZE, 2. CHRISTOPHER WREN, 3. CAVALLINI   BRAHMAGIRI PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 3-00: 1. Four Wheel Drive (9) Rayan 60, 2. Smithsonian (14) Darshan 60, 3. Cherokee Moon (8) Suraj 59.5, 4. Gallic (1) Srinath 59.5, 5. Arrogance (12) Khurshad 59, 6. Florencia (3) S. Imran 58.5, 7. Handsome Rocky (13) Sai Kiran 58.5, 8. He’s The One (4) Chandrashekar 58.5, 9. Ironic Humour (11) S. John 58.5, 10. Prerana (5) Irvan 58.5, 11. Raven Rock (2) Zervan 58.5, 12. Smoke The Grass (6) Neeraj 58.5, 13. Stunning Beauty (7) Afsar Khan 58.5 and 14. Polar Express (10) Arshad 58.  1. CHEROKEE MOON, 2. GALLIC, 3. SMITHSONIAN   KRISHNA RAJA SAGARA PLATE (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over, 3-30: 1. Fantastic App (1) R. Pradeep 60, 2. Marco Polo (9) J.H. Arul 59.5, 3. Desert Rose (4) Likith Appu 58.5, 4. Ultimate Power (10) Jagadeesh 58, 5. Habanero (13) Tousif Khan 57.5, 6. Ozark (6) Zervan 57.5, 7. Raw Gold (5) Chethan G 57.5, 8. Estella (12) Akshay K 57, 9. Legendary Princess (3) Srinath 56.5, 10. Augustina (7) Anjar Alam 55.5, 11. Eco Friendly (14) Afsar Khan 55.5, 12. Celestial Highway (2) Nazerul Alam 54, 13. Gazebo Talk (8) Arshad 52 and 14. Elite Agent (11) B. Harish 50.5.  1. LEGENDARY PRINCESS, 2. MARCO POLO, 3. AUGUSTINA   HYDERABAD SILVER VASE (1,200m), rated 75 & above, 4-00: 1. Areca Legend (1) Arvind K 63.5, 2. Aeisir (7) Darshan 59, 3. Automatic (8) Suraj 58.5, 4. Into The Spotlight (3) Trevor 57.5, 5. Silver Ikon (5) Neeraj 54.5, 6. Cerise Noir (4) Akshay K 53, 7. Into The Groove (6) P.P. Dhebe 51 and 8. Psychic Warrior (2) Irvan 50.  1. CERISE NOIR, 2. AUTOMATIC, 3. INTO THE SPOTLIGHT   BANGALORE 1000 GUINEAS (1,600m), 3-y-o fillies (Terms), 4-30: 1. Allabouther (3) Zervan 58, 2. Amalfi Sunrise (4) Srinath 58, 3. Antibes (2) S. John 58, 4. Aztec Queen (5) Akshay K 58, 5. Flamingo Road (7) R. Marshall 58, 6. Forest Flame (1) Trevor 58, 7. Perfectimagination (8) R. Shelar 58 and 8. Rani Jindan (6) Neeraj 58.  1. FOREST FLAME, 2. ANTIBES, 3. RANI JINDAN   MANDYA PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50, 5-00: 1. Animal Queen (7) Darshan 60, 2. Treasure Striker (10) Rayan 59, 3. Caballo Rapido (1) S. Shareef 58.5, 4. Skyfire (8) B. Dharshan 58.5, 5. Brooklyn Supreme (12) Chetan K 56.5, 6. Galvarino (4) Akshay K 56.5, 7. Gypsy (13) S. Imran 56, 8. Reczai (5) Afsar Khan 55, 9. General Patton (11) Neeraj 54.5, 10. Port Of Beauty (9) Jagadeesh 54, 11. Crimson Heart (6) Vivek 53.5, 12. Anne Boleyn (14) Trevor 53, 13. Alexandre Dumas (2) Sai Kiran 51 and 14. The Response (3) Shreyas Singh 51.  1. GENERAL PATTON, 2. ANNE BOLEYN, 3. GALVARINO   BRAHMAGIRI PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-30: 1. Splash (6) Suraj 60, 2. Princess Pride (13) Naveen K 59, 3. Stroke Of Genius (8) S. John 59, 4. Another Rainbow (3) S. Shareef 57, 5. Perfect Perfecto (5) Chethan G 57, 6. Paradiso (7) Arshad 56.5, 7. Glenary (10) Arvind K 56, 8. Welcome Surprise (4) Trevor 56, 9. Almanach (12) Srinath 55.5, 10. Formidable Star (2) Darshan 55.5, 11. Ombudsman (—) (—) 55.5, 12. Baroness (9) P.P. Dhebe 54, 13. Michigan Melody (11) Zervan 54 and 14. Smile Around (1) Shreyas Singh 54.  1. SPLASH, 2. PERFECT PERFECTO, 3. STROKE OF GENIUS   Day’s best: GENERAL PATTON   Double: AMAZING BLAZE — CHEROKEE MOON  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8; Tr (i): 3, 4 and 5; (ii): 6, 7 and 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/forest-flame-for-bangalore-1000-guineas/article33197417.ece
28 November 2020||Auckland,||Ferguson sets it up for NZ||A savage spell of fast bowling by Lockie Ferguson and an unbeaten 48 by James Neesham propelled New Zealand to a five-wicket win over the West Indies in the first T20I on Friday. Neesham produced his highest T20I score and combined in partnerships of 77 with Devon Conway (41) and an unbroken 39 with Mitchell Santner (31 not out) to see New Zealand home with four balls to spare. In a rain-interrupted match decided under the Duckworth-Lewis system, New Zealand replied with 179 for five to the West Indies’ 180 for seven. Kieron Pollard scored a career-best 75 not out off 37 balls for West Indies. Ferguson ended with five for 21, becoming only the second New Zealander after Tim Southee to take five wickets in a T20I.   The scores: West Indies 180/7 in 16 overs (Andre Fletcher 34, Kieron Pollard 75 n.o., Fabian Allen 30; Tim Southee 2/22, Lockie Ferguson 5/21) lost to New Zealand 179/5 in 15.2 overs (Devon Conway 41, James Neesham 48 n.o., Mitchell Santner 31 n.o.; Oshane Thomas 2/23); Toss: NZ; MoM: Ferguson; NZ won by five wickets in D/L method.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ferguson-sets-it-up-for-nz/article33197419.ece
28 November 2020||Pune:,||Spring Grove claims Welcome Trophy||Trainer M.K. Jadhav’s ward Spring Grove, ridden by N.S. Parmar, won the Welcome Trophy, the feature event of the opening day’s races of the Mumbai winter racing season here on Friday (Nov. 27). The winner is owned by Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke & Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. There was no online or totalisator betting operations.  1. M D PETIT PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: WHISPERING QUEEN (Peter) 1, Thea’s Pet (Kaviraj) 2, Red Fire (Prasad) 3 and Colosseum (Merchant) 4. 1, 1-1/4, Lnk. 1m, 12.01s. Owners: M/s. Ivor Fernandes, Koonal M. Antani, Premnath Kasinathrao, Sacheen P. Gamre & Shivaji G. Bhagwat. Trainer: Ivor Fernandes.  2. MASTER SHIFU PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: MS BOSS (Sandesh) 1, Mount Olympus (Kaviraj) 2, Beemer (Trevor) 3 and Between Friends (Ayyar) 4. 3-1/4, Sh, 2. 1m, 10.01s. Owners: Mr. Geoffrey B. Nagpal, Mrs. Charonne Nagpal, Mr. Nishant G. Nagpal & Mrs. Erika Nagpal. Trainer: Sanjay Kolse.  3. ABEETA PLATE (1,400m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: SULTAN SULEIMAN (Akshay Kumar) 1, Mystic Bay (Trevor) 2, Kildare (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Barack (Kirtish Bhagat) 4. 1, 1-1/4, 1/2. 1m, 23.91s. Owners: M/s. Dinsha P. Shroff, Munchi P. Shroff, Mrs. Aban N. Chotia & Mr. Saleem Fazelbhoy. Trainer: Altaf Hussain.  4. M D PETIT PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: SANDALPHON (T.S. Jodha) 1, Ame (Parmar) 2, Arabian Storm (Kaviraj) 3 and Caesar (Chouhan) 4. 1-3/4, Lnk, 1-1/4. 1m, 11.61s. Owner & Trainer: Mr. Himmat Singh.  5. SECRET STAR PLATE (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: GIANT STAR (Yash Narredu) 1, Sunrise Ruby (Zervan) 2, Mount Moriah (Sandesh) 3 and Bostonia (Trevor) 4. Not run: Star Comrade. 2, 1-1/4, 8-3/4. 1m, 38.03s. Owners: Mrs. B.E. Saldhana, Mr. Mark Saldhana, Mr. Shashi Chand Jain, M/s. Vivek S. Jain, Faisal F. Qurreshi & Khushroo R. Battiwala. Trainer: Deepesh Narredu.  Note: Western Front stumbled near the 600m and jockey J. Chinoy, who was dislodged, escaped unhurt.  6. WELCOME TROPHY (1,000m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: SPRING GROVE (Parmar) 1, Enigma (Yash Narredu) 2, Fuhrer (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Aegon (J. Chinoy) 4. Not run: Strong One. Sh, 1-3/4, 2-1/4. 57.35s. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke & Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: M.K. Jadhav.  7. RAZA ALI PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) 3-y-o only: LEOPARD ROCK (Yash Narredu) 1, Costa Rica (Parmar) 2, Powerful Lady (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Pepper (Akshay Kumar) 4. 4-1/4, 1/2, 1-1/4. 1m, 9.64s. Owners: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Dilip G. Jhangiani, Mr. Sunil G. Jhangiani & Mr. Milan J. Patel rep. Equest (India) Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: M. Narredu.  8. MASTER SHIFU PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: BELENUS (Sandesh) 1, Monk (Zervan) 2, Dreams (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Guarnerius (Neeraj) 4. 3/4, 3/4, 1. 1m, 10.79s. Owner: Mr. Gautam Maini. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spring-grove-claims-welcome-trophy/article33198177.ece
28 November 2020||Sydney,||Protesters breach security||In a security breach, two protesters made their way onto the field of play during the first One-Day International match between India and Australia here on Friday. One of the invaders, carrying a placard against Adani Group’s coal project in Australia, almost reached the pitch even as Navdeep Saini was getting ready to send down the sixth over of the match. The two invaders were escorted out by security officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/protesters-breach-security/article33197502.ece
28 November 2020||Sydney,||Indians join Aussies in anti-racism gesture||The Indian cricketers on Friday joined their Australian counterparts in forming a barefoot circle on the ground before the first ODI to support the anti-racism movement and acknowledge Aborigine culture. They also wore black armbands in memory of former Australia players Dean Jones and Philip Hughes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-join-aussies-in-anti-racism-gesture/article33197504.ece
28 November 2020||Sydney,||‘Our body language was disappointing’||India skipper Virat Kohli, on Friday, questioned his team’s body language after the loss to Australia. “Everyone needs to show intent in the entire 50 overs. Probably, we played 50 overs after a long time that could have had an affect.. However, we have played so much ODI cricket, this is not something we don’t know how to do,” Kohli said at the post-match presentation. “I think the body language in the field wasn’t great after around 25 overs. It was a disappointing part. If you don’t take your chances against a top-quality opposition they’ll hurt you and that is what happened today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/our-body-language-was-disappointing/article33198013.ece
28 November 2020||PARIS,||Napoli does it for Maradona||Napoli honoured the memory of Diego Maradona with a 2-0 win over Rijeka, climbing to the top of Europa League Group F on Thursday. Gennaro Gattuso’s side entered the field wearing Maradona’s No. 10 jersey.  Important results: Molde 0 lost to Arsenal 3 (Pepe 50, Nelson 55, Balogun 83); Bayer Leverkusen 4 (Schick 29, Bailey 48, Demirbay 76, Alario 80) bt Hapoel 1 (Shviro 58); AZ Alkmaar 0 drew with Real Sociedad 0; Napoli 2 (Anastasio 41-og, Lozano 75) bt Rijeka 0.   Braga 3 (Al Musrati 4, Paulinho 24, Fransergio 90+1) drew with Leicester City 3 (Barnes 9, Thomas 79, Vardy 90+5); Lille 1 (Bamba 65) drew with AC Milan 1 (Castillejo 46); Tottenham 4 (Carlos Vinţcius 16, 34, Winks 63, Moura 73) bt Ludogorets 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/napoli-does-it-for-maradona/article33197420.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Siva’s support to devotees||The Tiruvilayadal Puranam describes the many inexhaustible wonders that Siva as Somasundareshwara along with His consort, Goddess Meenakshi, enacts to support His devotees against the backdrop of the culture-rich town of Madurai. The Siva leelas relating to the life of the devout Manikkavachagar establish the supremacy of grace, bhakti, righteousness and jnana, and continue to inspire many till date, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. Manikkavachagar was an accomplished scholar with extraordinary proficiency in scriptures as well. It is held that the Pandya king, coming to know of his multi-faceted talents and graces, appointed him as his minister. Manikkavachagar is diligent in serving the king. At the same time, his mind is drawn towards spiritual yearnings. Siva intervenes in his life in many interesting ways to personally guide him through the arduous path of bhakti and also to strengthen his faith. To impress on the king and the people, the extent of his deep devotion, Siva plans the episode of the horses. Manikkavachagar is entrusted with the responsibility of purchasing horses for the king. While on this errand, Siva appears as a Guru and grants him diksha. Manikkavachagar offers all the wealth of the king for building temple and for welfare of Sivan Adiyars. The king naturally is cut up with Manikkavachagar’s act, which he sees as misappropriation of funds. Siva assures Manikkavachagar not to worry and to inform the king that the horses would arrive. The Lord converts foxes into horses and leads them to the king’s presence. Even as the king is impressed, the Lord turns them back into foxes. It is a subtle move that not only reveals the Lord’s response to the true devotion of Manikkavachagar, but also helps to relieve the king from shackles of samsara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sivas-support-to-devotees/article33197499.ece
28 November 2020||CAIRO,||Indian challenge ends||The third-seeded Indian pair of Anirudh Chandrasekar and Manish Sureshkumar was beaten by a Swiss-Spanish duo of Johan Nikles and Sanchez Jover 7-6(4), 6-1 in the semifinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here on Friday. Fourth-seeded Arjun Kadhe and Yaraslav Shyla of Belarus were beaten 6-2, 6-2 by Argentinian pair of Juan Bautista Otegui and Juan Pablo Paz in the other semifinal.  Quarterfinal results: Shyla & Kadhe bt Yurii Dzhavakian (Ukr) & Mariano Navone (Arg) 6-1, 6-3; Anirudh & Manish w/o Emiliano Maggioli (Ita) & Dalibor Svrcina (Cze) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-challenge-ends/article33197813.ece
28 November 2020||BUENOS AIRES,||Maradona laid to rest||Diego Maradona, one of the world’s greatest ever footballers, was buried on Thursday amid a global outpouring of grief from the streets of Buenos Aires to Naples in Italy. On a day of high emotion, the World Cup winner was taken by hearse late on Thursday to the Bella Vista cemetery on the outskirts of Buenos Aires, where his parents are also interred, for a small private ceremony involving his family and friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maradona-laid-to-rest/article33197507.ece
28 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||PBL Season-6 postponed||The sixth season of the Premier Badminton League (PBL), scheduled to be held during December-January, has been postponed due to the pandemic, according to official host Sportzlive’s Managing Director Prasad Mangipudi. “After carefully considering all guidelines, protocols and commitments and following discussions with the BAI, we have decided to look for possible dates only next year,” Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pbl-season-6-postponed/article33197511.ece
28 November 2020||NAPLES,||Neapolitans pay rich tributes to a hero||Napoli players honoured club legend Diego Maradona on Thursday by stepping out onto the pitch wearing his No. 10 jersey ahead of their Europa League match with Rijeka. All wearing black armbands, they also sported Maradona’s iconic jersey during the team presentation and minute’s silence, under a photo projected on a large screen of the man who led Napoli to league titles in 1987 and 1990 and the UEFA Cup in 1989. Supporters thronged in front of the San Paolo stadium, which could soon be renamed in honour of Maradona.  A plaque was put up on the gates of the stadium which read “Diego Armando Maradona Stadium” and bore the face of the fans’ Argentine hero. Blue-white scarves, flowers, photos of Maradona and shirts stamped with No. 10 were left in memory of the player whose seven seasons between 1984-1991 left an indelible mark on Neapolitans.  I believe it is right to baptise the San Paolo with your name to still have you with us — de Laurentiis, Napoli president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neapolitans-pay-rich-tributes-to-a-hero/article33197810.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||All-round show by Rawat||Saqlain Haider’s all-round performance (3/33 and 109 not out) proved in vain as Delhi’s former Ranji Trophy player, Man-of-the-Match Kuldeep Rawat scored a timely 48 not out and then took four wickets to help Ravi Brothers beat Quetta DAV Cricket Academy by 24 runs for a place in the pre-quarterfinals of the 30th All India Sperry Om Nath Sood memorial tournament on Friday. In another encounter, medium pacer Nitish Hudda (4/34) and left arm spinner Akash Rawat (3/17) triggered a collapse for Gush CC and set up Uday Bhan CA’s six-wicket victory.  The scores: Ravi Brothers 221/9 in 40 overs (Abhishek Gupta 52, Kuldeep Rawat 48 n.o., Saqlain Haider 3/33, Farman Ahmed 3/49) bt Quetta DAV Cricket Academy 197 in 34.5 overs (Saqlain Haider 109 n.o., Farman Ahmed 36, Bobby Yadav 4/27 and Kuldeep Rawat 4/34); Gush CC 99 in 23.5 overs (Nitish Hudda 4/34 and Akash Rawat 3/17) lost to Uday Bhan CA 103 for 4 in 19.4 overs (Gulzar Singh Sandhu 41, Shivam Bhan 39 n.o.) .    Man-of-the-Match Sohail Khan (98) and Mridul Jain (4/7) were the stars of Ravindra Cricket Academy’s 146-run triumph over Sehwag Cricket Academy in the first Bhola Singh memorial (under-17) cricket tournament at the Chattarpur Cricket Ground.  The scores: Ravindra Academy 215 in 34 overs (Sohail Khan 98, Tanish 30, Sumit Kumar 4/57) bt Sehwag Cricket Academy 69 in 15.5 overs (Mridul Jain 4/7) .    Hitesh Gemini’s all-round effort (57 and 5/38) and Kapil’s 83 helped Haryana Cricket Academy outplay Youth Cricket XI by 45 runs in the Tripathi League cricket tournament.  The scores: HCA 239/9 in 40 overs (Kapil 83, Hitesh Gemini 57, Rajat 36, Vipul Choudary 4/39), C.K. Yadav 3/53) bt Youth XI 194 in 35.5 overs (Vikas Nagar 58, Pradeep Malik 36, Bhanu Anand 35, Hitesh Gemini 5/38) .    Daksh Virmani (80) was the star of Pacific Sports Club’s five-wicket victory over Captain Pathan Wing Cricket Academy in the P.T. Wing (under-17) tournament.  The scores: Captain Pathan Wing 186 in 31.4 overs (Arnav Sharma 63, Gourav Gujjar 3/21, Gautam Bhutani 3/27) lost to Pacific Sports 190/5 in 31 overs (Daksh Virmani 80, Sarthak Talwar 27, Aditya Mittal 26) .    Dhruvpal Godara scored six goals to guide Achievers ONN to a thrilling 8-7 victory over Jindal Panther in the semifinals of the Baroda Cup 10-goal polo tournament. In the other semifinal, Kuldeep Singh Rathore’s seven goals powered Rajnigandha Achievers past Fighters 12 goals to 2 1/2. The final will be played at 3 p.m. on Sunday.  The results (semifinals):   Rajnigandha Achievers 12 (Kuldeep Singh Rathore 7, Daniel Otamendi 3, Padmanabh Singh 2) bt Fighters 2 1/2 (handicap 2 1/2); Achievers ONN 8 (Dhruvpal Godara 6, Salim Azmi 2) bt Jindal Panther 7 (Simran Shergill 3, Siddhant Sharma 3, Venkatesh Jindal).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-round-show-by-rawat/article33198075.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 09:20 IST,||Sudoku - November 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-28-2020/article33198496.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Tenet, my second Cinderella moment’||After the terrible disappointment of the semi-autobiographical and hideously expensive Mera Naam Joker in 1970, Raj Kapoor decided to make a teen love story. That it was inspired by Archie comics is possibly apocryphal, but Bobby (1973) tells the story of teenagers Raj (Rishi Kapoor) and Bobby. The movie was a blockbuster. Apart from the lovely songs and seductive look (Aruna Irani’s back gave an award-winning performance), the female lead, 16-year-old Dimple Kapadia, became the nation’s sweetheart. When she pushed her hair from her face with floury hands (supposedly inspired by Nargis), Dimple became the girl everyone wanted to date. We know what happened next — she got married to the reigning superstar, Rajesh Khanna, had two children, separated from Khanna and returned to films. Through the 80s, 90s, noughties and 2010s, Dimple made her presence felt in ‘masala’ flicks as well as art-house films. She rocked her auburn locks and champagne eyes in diverse roles, from rolling in the hay with Anil Kapoor in Feroz Khan’s Janbaaz (1986) to Kalpana Lajmi’s Rudaali for which she got the National Award in 1993. The millennium saw her effortlessly shining in everything from the aspirational Dil Chahta Hai (2001) and as the feckless Katy in Being Cyrus (2006) to Homi Adajania’s latest, Angrezi Medium (2020) where she plays Kareena Kapoor Khan’s mum.  Veterans on set  From her Bobby days, when her knotted, polka-dotted blouses and shorts set off a craze, to everyone wanting a ‘Dimple’ haircut even if they did not have her crowning glory, she has always been a style icon. Her character, Priya, in Christopher Nolan’s Tenet — the time-bending espionage film that just might entice you to step into a theatre next week — keeps up the good work. Priya with her fitted jackets, paisley shawls, stately saris and chunky jewellery is very much the personification of the iron fist in a beautifully-tailored velvet glove. Jeffrey Kurland, who apart from designing all the sharp suits for the gentlemen and putting the 6’3” Elizabeth Debicki in vertiginous heels, also designed for Dimple. “Everything was completely supervised by Nolan,” says the actor, over the phone from Mumbai. “From the colour of my hair... he wanted to see how it would look, when it should go from auburn to brown... it was all supervised by him.” Former footballer John David Washington (of Monster and BlacKkKlansman fame) plays the protagonist, called Protagonist (yes), trying to stop the end of the world as and when we know it. “It was a fabulous experience working with him. He was so comfortable; I think that is half the battle won. He is so warm and he made me feel like I am the veteran and he is the newcomer [laughs]. As far as I am concerned it was just the opposite.” A co-production between the United Kingdom and the United States, Tenet features a multi-national cast, including British actors Robert Pattinson, Michael Caine and Kenneth Branagh; Debicki is Australian and Washington is American. Diversity in casting is almost a given these days, especially in action films, and Dimple says, “It is wonderful that people from all over the world are getting the opportunity to showcase their talent.”  Nolan the maniac  Branagh, who plays a Russian oligarch Andrei Sator (with suits and an accent to match), had recently remarked about how Nolan had promised him a bespoke working experience. The 63-year-old Dimple concurs, describing the director as a maniac on set. “I cannot believe his energy levels, his passion for filmmaking, and the effort he puts into it. He is so focussed and absorbed that you don’t want to step up to him out of fear that you might distract him. The level of concentration he had on the entire shoot was absolutely amazing. That is what drove the entire crew. All of us put our best foot forward, everyone was on the same page, we had no choice but to give our best.” Dimple has been quoted admitting she was nervous before shooting. But, according to Branagh — who didn’t get to share screen space with the actor, but says she has a “smashing part” in the film — both Nolan and Washington were bowled over by her. After a rehearsal, they had said, “If that is nervous, I don’t know what calm is”, going on to describe Dimple as being “awesomely brilliant”. When I tell her this, she laughs. “My God, those are very, very kind words. But yes, I have always been a bundle of nerves and I always will be a bundle of nerves irrespective of the number of films I do. That is not changing.” Her anxiety also gave the actor her best memory on set. “Before the shoot, I was standing next to Nolan having a bad case of nerves. He gave me his hand to hold for a second. That will be my dearest, most beautiful memory of the shoot,” she says.  Fighting nerves  Like so many of us, Dimple worships at the temple of Nolan. “The first film I watched of his was The Prestige (2006). And it completely blew my brain. I watched it four times and in the fourth viewing I finally made sense of it,” she recalls. “I called my nephew, who loves films and told him, ‘If you want to know what cinema is, you have to watch this film.’ It transports you into another world. I think that is what good cinema is all about. It grabs you and takes you to a different world. I think it is every actor’s dream to work with Nolan. Thank God, I got the opportunity.” How did she get the chance of a lifetime? “There was this girl, Purvi Lavingia [Vats, a Mumbai-based talent manager]. She called me and said I needed to give an audition,” says Dimple. “I didn’t believe it. I told my nephew that such-and-such a thing has happened and he said it is Christopher Nolan!” With a bad memory for names, Dimple did not immediately put two and two together. “I said, ‘Who Christopher Nolan’ and he said, ‘It is your favourite director!’ As the audition got closer, I got nervous as ever and thought of every excuse in the book to run far away from it. Then better sense prevailed.” With Nolan coming to India for a recce, Dimple took her nephew along for the audition. “I was sure I would not get the role. So I thought he could take a picture with Nolan. But it happened; I got the role. It was my second Cinderella moment — Bobby was my first. It was destined.” Early reviews have been good. Variety magazine stated that the “wonderful Dimple Kapadia” gave “the film’s wiliest performance”; closer home, stars, including Sonam Kapoor, took to social media to praise her role. Daughter Twinkle Khanna chipped in too, tweeting, “Mom is so laid-back that she refuses to do any publicity around Tenet , but she is incredible.” Dimple, however, insists that the best thing about her character was Nolan. She says: “It is only Nolan, forget about me, I have got nothing to do with it.” Tenet is scheduled to release on December 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tenet-my-second-cinderella-moment/article33198008.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Bringing 2020’s upcyling trend to menswear||You could say that 2020 is when ‘upcycling’ joined the luxury vocabulary. Last month, when Miu Miu announced a capsule collection of dresses made from refashioned vintage clothing, they were joining a growing list of international luxury brands that were either making sense of excess inventory or sharing plans to be less wasteful. For creatives, I think this year was a blessing; a time to introspect and re-align. The past few months of revision also brought about a change in how we, at Eka, plan our collections and design cycles. I spent a lot of quiet, reflective time at home in Gurgaon in the months of March and April, a period when we usually do most of our sales. I realised that owing to the scarcity of resources due to the pandemic, we may not be able to develop as many textiles as we had in the past. It made me turn to our inventory accumulated over the years from our network of weavers in Phulia, Murshidabad, Bhagalpur and elsewhere. We recycled a lot of those textiles imaginatively. We used overdyes, prints and patchwork, and we created menswear.  The suit alternative With Eka Core, I wanted to make a proposal for men who didn’t want to be confined to suits. Would they, instead, consider easy shapes to work, lounge, travel or holiday in? In the past, I’ve picked up a lot of stuff for my husband, Sandeep, from boutiques in Paris and New York and small labels in Tokyo that offer brilliant collections for men. I was inspired by the workmanship and the easy cuts of these pieces. Sandeep’s individualistic taste has resulted in a wardrobe replete with clean, functional pieces, including trial-and-error coordinates from our sample room. I was inspired by his worn-to-shreds Comme des Garçon garments and the clever finishing inside-out. Then there is Rajesh Pratap, who has always led by example with his cuts, finishes, fabrics and by being sensitive to conscious design. I come from a family of agriculturalists. It is often said that design is evolved or an acquired aesthetic. I feel it is something that must match your philosophy of life. For me, this would be craft, community living, a simple life. Comfort is paramount to my collections. Breathable textiles are difficult to sew close to the body, thus giving room around the shape and creating silhouettes that are baggy, generous, slouchy. Having a strong hold over indigenous textiles and using them to create comfortable shapes while working with womenswear since 2011 has also been channelised here. Core is an idea that I had seeded last year and it was anyhow due to be launched this year. The pandemic gave it a nudge as daily essentials became a necessity.  Not a capsule collection I don’t expect men to buy as women; for instance, if they like the fall of a pair of trousers, they would buy those in three colours whereas women tend to pick a variety. At the same time, I feel menswear is a stronger, more loyal market as seasonal collections don’t need a huge variation. The textiles used in Eka menswear won’t require much surface and design developments. The idea is to add elements that make it work for the segment of men who are evolved in their fashion sensibility. This is not a capsule collection but will be ongoing. In natural textiles like wool, linen and cotton, all recycled and repurposed from Eka collections, they have a timelessness and functionality. Right now, our real-time access to the world through social media and trade platforms has made the world a smaller place. Clothes are but one medium that demonstrate how the lines are blurring for design identities — transcending country of origin and native design sensibility. They merit through the local craft landscape and expression of personal identity. We can either live in our silos or create a fluid language with clever identity to cross over and merge.  Rina Singh is the founder and designer of Eka and Eka Core. Her début menswear line launches on ogaan.com on December 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bringing-2020s-upcyling-trend-to-menswear/article33197962.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||on the runway||In a video titled Talent Stimulates Talent , Ralph & Russo’s creative director, Tamara Ralph, draws parallels between the British luxury fashion house’s creations and the timepieces by Swiss luxury watchmaker Audemars Piguet. For example, the new Royal Oak Concept Flying Tourbillon watch’s frosted gold finish uses a modernised Florentine jewellery technique — creating tiny indentations with a diamond-tipped tool for sparkle effect — to create a finish “similar to our embroidery work”. This focus on craftsmanship, quality and design is the crux of their cross-disciplinary collaboration, unveiled virtually at Paris Fashion Week last month. While timepieces may not be your typical runway accessory, Audemars Piguet’s latest Royal Oak watches complement Ralph & Russo’s Spring/Summer 2021 ready-to-wear collection. After all, fashion and watchmaking are all about the details. Made for smaller wrists, the new line of timepieces comes in stainless steel and 18 carat pink gold, powered by a new self-winding movement and featuring the collection’s trademark guilloché design.  Building on quality  Ralph, who sees watches as “an exquisite extension of an outfit” rather than a functional object, feels that such collaborations are an incredibly interesting part of their business. “Who we choose to partner with is very important to me,” says the designer. Collabs are also, undoubtedly, a great way to stay relevant and brave the pandemic, which has been particularly brutal for the luxury goods market. While tourism, which always benefited their business, came to a grinding halt, François-Henry Bennahmias, CEO of Audemars Piguet, says the brand saw a rise in local sales. “The one thing Covid-19 has taught us is that the quality and strength of the brand will depend on the quality of its relationship with its clients,” he shares. So, once shy of selling their watches online, Audemars Piguet sold 40 of the new [Re]master models to customers worldwide through emails, calls and virtual walkthroughs of the making process.     The latest Royal Oak models start from Rs. 16,26,000. Audemars Piguet watches are available at Kapoor Watch Company, DLF Emporio.   quote quote quote quotee quote quote quote quotee quote quote quote Swaroop reddy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/on-the-runway/article33197972.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||OTTs wrong with you?||An up and coming leader spoke for 1.3 billion — give or take a few hundred million — Indians when he said, “Who abuses this much in real life, #*&%?” (I added the ‘#*&%’ for dramatic impact.) He was referring, of course, to the linguistic excesses of a show currently being aired on an OTT platform. I have to agree with him. Some of these shows are so full of profanity that they have altered our viewing experience completely and irreparably. While TV-watching used to be a wholesome joint-family event in Vedic times, with everyone from Dada ji to little Chintu sitting on the living room floor, eating khakhra and sipping chilled thandai , it has now turned into a fragmented affair with family members slinking off one by one to watch the content in bathrooms on their mobile phones on the sly. Rumour has it that, thanks to this development, families are being forced to build extra bathrooms in their havelis . And that Akshay Kumar’s next Independence Day release, Toilet: Ek Prem Katha – Part 2 , could well deal with this burning issue. What’s the matter with us? When Barack Obama — a great role model, not to mention, dear, dear friend of our leader’s — himself has openly admitted to watching Ramayana and Mahabharata on DD in his formative years, why should we, proud citizens of the land of ancient plastic surgery, watch such corrupting fare? How can our future generations aspire to be President of the United States if they continue watching Mirzapur 1 and 2? It is such a relief that the all-knowing authorities are considering putting a stop to the rampant nonsense on these channels. A timely move considering we are on the threshold of greatness. The bullet train, Ayurvedic surgery, bulloctricity, and big, big statues of our valorous kings are in the offing, and we just can’t afford to lose our way in this manner. As a patriotic, god-fearing Indian who constantly worries about the way things could go, I humbly submit a few suggestions to the regulatory authorities. Alternative words and phrases If characters must use strong language, let it not be vulgar. For instance, if a character uses the ‘f’ word followed by the word ‘off’ or its Hindi equivalent, the more acceptable phrase ‘go to Pakistan’ could be dubbed over. Similarly, if cuss words that no cultured Indian would be caught dead uttering are used by a character, we could dub over them with, say, ‘urban naxal’, ‘libtard’, ‘Italian’, ‘Mughal’, etc, depending on the intent, intensity and gender of the original word. Commentary When we watch cricket matches with running commentary, why not make that a regular feature for shows, too? Imagine there is a show with questionable content. We could introduce an inset featuring a role model like, say, Kangana Ranaut, popping up and explaining (in her soothing voice) what is wrong with what the characters are saying, and how they would be punished if they did it in real life. Intimate scenes We are a land so cultured that kissing scenes are done using SFX. If you don’t believe me, check out the YouTube clip of Kajal Aggarwal kissing a balloon against a green screen. Why not go back to the old way of flowers caressing each other in a gentle breeze to denote kissing? And, when characters... er... take it further, it could be a soda bottle being opened or steam engine tooting. At which point, an animated version of Kangana Ranaut could pop up and beat the errant couple with a comic sledgehammer. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/otts-wrong-with-you/article33197980.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Growing up with the graphic novel||There’s a certain kind of post that keeps popping up on online reading groups that I’m a part of. It goes something like this. “My 10-year-old only reads comics like Captain Underpants . How can I get her to read better books?” The responses are varied: from “read aloud to her” (excellent suggestion) to “cut down on screen time” (making assumptions, of course). I rarely see responses that suggest that there’s nothing wrong with reading comics or graphic novels. Wait, is there even a difference between the two? I asked Bengaluru-based author-illustrator Vinayak Varma. “A graphic novel is something that was intended to be a novel, with all the literary constraints and conventions. We tend to make ‘graphic novels’ an umbrella term for all substantial works of sequential art, but it is more accurate to call them all comics,” he says.  Hooked to reading  In the past few years, there’s been a surge in demand from young readers for books in this format. I’ve seen it with my two boys who are at times indifferent to chapter books but are voracious consumers of graphic novels — bursting with gorgeous illustrations and offering stories that are cool, contemporary and peppered with pop culture references that they ‘get’. Sujata Noronha, who has run the BookWorm Library in Goa for 15 years, says that there are many young members who want to read them. “They are an amazing format to say powerful things in a ‘text light’ way,” she says, but cautions against generalising that just because a story is presented in a more visual narrative it is easier to read. There’s a growing body of evidence that shows that not only are graphic novels a wonderful way for struggling and reluctant readers to get hooked to reading, but that even ‘advanced’ readers have much to gain. With these books, readers have to use both text and images to make meaning of the narrative, a challenging skill to master. Sunando Chakraborty, an illustrator whose work has been published by Dark Horse Comics and Image Comics,  recalls he was a late reader. “I couldn't read properly till I was seven or eight. But I got through two years of school with the help of picture books and comic adaptations of the literature/classic books we had to study, figuring out the story from the pictures,” says Chakraborty, who loves Jeff Smith’s Bone series and Raina Telgemeier, creator of Smile and Guts.   No taboos on topics  The graphic novel collection at our home has been built with the help of Aashti Mudnani, who runs Lightroom Bookstore in Bengaluru. “Middle-schoolers are spoilt for choice with a host of books that perfectly capture these fraught, turbulent years — the ups and downs of friendship, bullying, trying to fit in,” says Aashti. She’s right. Middle school can be hard and confusing. Children are growing, both physically and emotionally, and trying to make sense of shifting social hierarchies. Tweens usually navigate these challenges while at school. But with the onset of the pandemic, I wonder if the reason my boys love some of these books is because they are reassuring and make them feel less alone. During breaks in online school, I often find them re-reading Victoria Jamieson’s Roller Girl , which is as much about trying to colour your hair without permission as it is about finding and mastering a passion. Cece Bell’s El Deafo and Jerry Craft’s New Kid, which examine trying to fit in and make friends at a new school, are also favourites. After months of experiencing different forms of isolation and uncertainty, I see how much comfort they take in these stories. I think another reason children are so eager to read graphic novels is that they treat readers like adults, offering glimpses of reality and mirroring their experiences. No topic is off the table: divorce ( Nadya by Debasmita Dasgupta), blended families, social cliques, the toll that social media takes on the mental health of teenagers (Vibha Batra and Kalyani Ganapthy’s The Secret Life of Debbie G ), and the holocaust (RJ Palacio’s White Bird ). Even literary classics like To Kill a Mockingbird and Iliad have been adapted to the graphic novel format. Forget kids, this is possibly the only way that I’ll ever read Homer.   Stock the   shelf    The Bad Guys by Aaron Blabey, a hilarious series of books about the baddest good guys in the world, and Raina Telgemeier’s reboot of The Baby-Sitters Club .   Amulet by Kazu Kibuishi. There are eight books in the fantasy series and I know there’s going to be a fight over who gets to read it first.   Anya’s Ghost by Eva Brosgol is a fantastic introduction to horror.   Hey Kiddo by Jarrett J Krosoczka is a searing memoir about growing up in a family dealing with addiction. (It contains mature themes, so I’d recommend it for older teens.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/growing-up-with-the-graphic-novel/article33197978.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||From milkweed to wool in Auroville||Earlier this week, the world’s first Vegan Fashion Library was unveiled in Los Angeles. Featuring an array of designer apparel and accessories in plant-derived wool, vegan silk and vegan leather, the launch proves yet again that the hunt for alternatives to animal-derived fabrics is going strong. Earlier this year, Japanese designer Yuima Nakazato’s outing at the Paris Fashion Week featured boots embroidered with recycled silk yarn and stunning ‘unit’ dresses with fabric processed from plant-derived Brewed Protein. Meanwhile, on home turf, wasteland shrubs are being used to make vegan wool. Developed by Faborg, headquartered near Auroville, Weganool is silently making inroads in the fashion industry. “The pandemic actually did well for us; we’ve seen nearly 400% rise in enquiries,” says entrepreneur Gowri Shankar, who sees this intervention (derived from the wild flowering shrub calotropis) as a way to ease the industry’s over-dependence on unsustainable practices. Promising a chemical-free and sustainable start-to-finish process and “no greenwashing”, he adds that people needed this time off in isolation to reconsider their lifestyle choices. Weganool’s first commercial outing comes in German vegan kidswear brand Infantium Victoria’s fall/winter 2021 collection — also showcased at Future Fabrics Expo in London this year — that features delicate cape dresses and hoodies. Like green cashmere? Shankar has over 15 years of experience in the fashion industry. He has worked with high-end brands like Chanel, Hermès and Louis Vuitton, courtesy his association as a freelance merchandiser for Chennai-based embroidery atelier, Vastrakala. A profile he gave up in 2015 to start Faborg. “The first thing I did was research different plants and their uses,” says the 35-year-old, who came across Calotropis Gigantea and Calotropis Procera — ayurvedic plants that grow in conditions otherwise considered too barren for agriculture. Shankar, who set up his first Weganool processing unit in 2017 after two years of research, says that rather than seeking certifications for organic farming, it made sense for him to alter present-day practices and make them sustainable. “I maintain complete transparency. I send them samples to test, photographs from an electron microscope [to show the hollowness of the fibres], etc,” he says, adding that he also encourages factory visits for first-hand verification. Additionally, hailing from a family of weavers belonging to the Devanga community, Shankar has seen age-old weaving methods being replaced by the use of harmful chemicals. Which is why he went on to co-found Natural Dye House in Tirupur in 2018. He is also working on his brand of natural repellent, Arka (made from a byproduct of Weganool production), and has convinced close to 70 farmers in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh to make the switch from chemical pesticides. “A lot of farmer communities in Brazil, for example, have shown interest in collaborating with us [for Weganool and Arka]. The model can be replicated anywhere along the equatorial belt, where you have ample sunlight,” he elaborates. “The final product is insulative and anti-microbial, and uses a blend of 70% organic cotton and 30% Weganool.” Shankar is now in talks with brands like H&M, Marc O’Polo, Hugo Boss and Louis Vuitton to develop collections. While this mix is the current favourite, the company is looking at experimenting with blends and spinning techniques. What sets calotropis fibres apart from other vegan alternatives such as coconut or hemp is that it is hollow inside, similar to alpaca wool protein fibres. “This makes it as good as cashmere,” he says, adding that the yarn can be spun on readily available cotton spinning equipment. Collabs for the future As of today, regions like Europe, Australia and the Americas make for the maximum enquiries fielded at Faborg. “There is growing interest in Europe, Italy in particular, to find natural alternatives. The customer is more conscious today,” says Michele Vencato of Isan Ai Mirai. The Italy-based textile agent — who represents a number of global fibre and yarn manufacturers and links them to potential buyers — connected with Faborg last year. Eager to find cashmere and alpaca wool substitutes, Vencato has taken Weganool to a number of brands in Europe to incorporate the material in their sustainable collections. The drive to experiment and expand — from knitted shoes to bringing more farmlands under calotropis cultivation — is also on Shankar’s radar. He has already wrapped up a campaign with cashew farmers in and around Auroville and, with close to 30 acres dedicated to raising the plant around Auroville, he plans to introduce multi-crop farming. “Most farmers don’t work in the summer. Instead of sitting idle, they could grow calotropis along with their primary crops, and get busy with the collection and processing of fibres,” he says, adding that growing the plant along the peripheries could function as a natural fence for their fields. As far as raising funds, collaborating with others and potential investors go, Shankar would rather fly solo until he gets the right fit. “Such investments usually come with riders but for us it is about how we can take our knowledge to everybody. We’ve patented our processes so that big companies can’t take advantage of it,” he says, sharing that at best, Faborg will opt for crowdfunding. “The priority isn’t just about looking for someone to help us, but placing more faith in the farmers to support the project.” With the calotropis plant available in plenty, Shankar sees no reason why this model shouldn’t pick up pace, especially when it comes to cultivating barren land. But will a system overhaul take time? “Not more than 10 years,” he concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/from-milkweed-to-wool-in-auroville/article33197968.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Building brand||Jacqueline Fernandez spent several months of the lockdown in a Panvel farmhouse, reading, practising yoga and riding horses. In October, she crossed 46 million followers on Instagram (@ jacquelinef143), making her one of the top 10 Indian celebrities on the photo sharing app. Amidst this, the actor also managed to find time to work on endorsements; she is the new face of Colorbar cosmetics. Incidentally, with limitations on filming during lockdown, many of her sponsored campaigns have taken on a personal angle. A Samsung phone ad focussed on health, while Listerine shared her morning routine, and Drools ‘sponsored’ pet food for the strays she feeds outside her home. Brands have consistently tied in with the actor’s interests in fashion, fitness and animal welfare to utilise her massive reach on social media (14.8 million on Twitter and 22 million on Facebook). As most influencers will tell you, content creation isn’t easy. Yet Fernandez confirms on email that she is very involved in the process. “I think it is important when you are endorsing and representing a brand. You need to be 100% truthful... so you need to be sure that it is trustworthy. I deeply believe in environmental conservation and I pick brands that are against animal testing,” she says, adding that Colorbar’s cruelty-free tag was a big factor in signing on for their ‘Be who you want to be’ campaign. For fans of mask-friendly make-up, she has a tip: the brand’s Flawless Full Cover Concealer for under eyes and finish with their Sheer Mattifying Loose Powder. Getting personal on social media Even being a mid-level influencer is a taxing job, requiring a dedicated team to coordinate campaigns and schedule shoots for different platforms. Add filming on location and movie promotions to the mix, and it becomes even more complicated. So, it is surprising when Fernandez says, “I manage my Instagram account all by myself. I feel I’m able to engage with followers on a personal level and that is what makes me keep it as real and natural as possible.” However, in earlier interviews, she has mentioned the presence of a social media team that “transforms [my] thoughts or vision on the page and helps with content creation”. She also turns to professionals for her YouTube videos and her new podcast, Feels Good , which she co-hosts with American vlogger, Amanda Cerny. The 35-year-old is comfortable with her online persona, but she isn’t blind to its negative aspects, where people measure a celebrity’s success by their following. “It has become a huge facet today. So much so that if we don’t have a good following, it is taken as a factor to judge one’s success,” she had told Pinkvilla back in May 2019. While she may have had a rough few years professionally — Race 3 , her last big-screen appearance in 2018, was a box office hit but was panned by critics, and Drive , her OTT debut on Netflix last November, wasn’t successful — it hasn’t diminished her popularity online. Trolls are an unfortunate by product of this. How does she deal with them? She’d rather not waste time on people who “do not make a valid point or even express an opinion”. And she does have enough to keep herself busy. The Sri Lankan will be seen in yet another sequel, Salman Khan-starrer Kick 2 directed by Sajid Nadiadwala, as well as Ranveer Singh-Rohit Shetty’s Cirkus . “I am currently shooting for Bhoot Police in Himachal Pradesh [alongside Saif Ali Khan] and we had a lovely Diwali here with the cast and crew,” she concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/building-brand/article33197988.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||SA Virtual: The annual Serendipity Arts Festival, like most others this year, has been postponed to a later date. In its place is SA Virtual, a new digital experience that is on from December 4 to 21. Their Instagram feed is a curation of mini-series that introduce the sessions while being informative. The theme focusses on the internet and how it connects people. @serendipityartsfestival on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article33197990.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Deck the halls||It is never too early to put up that tree. Chennai-based Oh Scrap! has introduced a range of upcycled ornaments made of fabric waste. Choose from snowmen, stars and buntings, as well as wreaths made from pressure cooker gaskets and fabric scraps. For DIY enthusiasts, Lavender Green Flowers, the London store behind Pippa Middleton's peony and rose themed wedding decor, is organising virtual workshops to make your own wreath. Classes start today, at approximately Rs. 7,400 per person on lavendergreen.co.uk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/deck-the-halls/article33197992.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s up with cat?||"Feed me." " I'm angry. " "Resting." Find out what mood your cat is in with Meow Talk, a new app from a former Amazon Alexa engineer. Cat parents can also label the translation, which helps the AI software learn. Thirteen phrases are included in the beta version. Users can also create profiles to keep track of each pet’s unique language. On iOS and Android. Meanwhile, Google has announced the launch of Task Mate in India, which will pay users to do random tasks. The app, on Play Store, will only be accessible through a referral code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/whats-up-with-cat/article33197994.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Big screen bonus||Tune into the ongoing International Kids Film Festival, with over 150 movies from 40 countries, being hosted on the Krayon app. Along with curated collections that cover topics like conflict and LGBTQ+ issues, there are also masterclasses and a filmmaking competition. Till December 20. Details: myikff.com. The Japan Film Festival also goes virtual, starting December 4. Organised by the Delhi-based Japan Foundation. Register for free on jff.jpf.go.jp to watch 30 films (including animated features) over 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/big-screen-bonus/article33197996.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Heroes of New York: Robin Hood (a poverty-fighting organisation) and iHeartRadio take this annual event online. The stellar lineup includes Al Pacino, Tina Fey, John McEnroe, Jon Stewart, and musical performances by Mariah Carey, Andra Day and Tony Bennett. Watch the hour-long show for inspirational stories of innovative people. On December 2, at 5.30 am IST. robinhood.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article33197998.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Mike Tyson returns||Boxer Mike Tyson (54) steps back into the ring after 15 years for an exhibition match against Roy Jones Jr (51). No knockouts are allowed. The pay-per-view event, produced by Triller, broke pre-sale records for the decade. The undercards include YouTuber Jake Paul and former NBA star Nate Robinson, Badou Jack vs Blake McKernon, and Viddal Riley vs Rashad Coulter, as well as musical performances from Lil Wayne, French Montana, Wiz Khalifa, YG and Ne-Yo. On November 29; from 7.30 am IST. Tickets at Rs. 129 on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mike-tyson-returns/article33198000.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Some auto, some art||Automobiles and art meet in this virtual edition of The Cartist Festival, with over 100 artists presenting live paintings and more than 20 design workshops. Founder Himanshu Jangid adds that music performances and talks are on the cards. Register at Rs. 100 on in.bookmyshow.com. Till November 30. Forum Art Gallery presents 'A State of Oneness', an online show featuring works by Sarla Chandra. The paintings are inspired by theVedas. View on forumartgallery.com8778726960||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/some-auto-some-art/article33198002.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Let's talk design||India Design Forum begins a series of virtual debates on the future of architectural design. Titled 'Building Blocks', the four sessions,to be held over four Saturdays starting today,have been curated by industrialist and founder of IDF, Rajshree Pathy, and architect Mrinalini Ghadiok. Topics range from what is 'good' architecture to how design can address the dangers posed by contagious diseases. The lineup includes Brinda Somaya, Sanjay Puri and Niels Schoenfelder, among others. Details: indiadesignforum.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lets-talk-design/article33198004.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Theobroma’s South debut||Mumbai’s cult brownie and dessert obsession comes to Hyderabad this December, with not one, but four outlets in Jubilee Hills, Inorbit Mall, Begumpet and Gachibowli. Founded in 2004 by sisters Tina Messman Wykes and Kainaz Messman Harchandrai, Theobroma now has over 60 stores across Mumbai, New Delhi, NCR and Pune. The menu also includes cruffins, cookies cakes, savoury sandwiches and coffee, with products featuring local ingredients in their first southern outpost. Details: theobroma.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/theobromas-south-debut/article33198006.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘ Tenet, my second Cinderella moment’||After the terrible disappointment of the semi-autobiographical and hideously expensive Mera Naam Joker in 1970, Raj Kapoor decided to make a teen love story. That it was inspired by Archie comics is possibly apocryphal, but Bobby (1973) tells the story of teenagers Raj (Rishi Kapoor) and Bobby. The movie was a blockbuster. Apart from the lovely songs and seductive look (Aruna Irani’s back gave an award-winning performance), the female lead, 16-year-old Dimple Kapadia, became the nation’s sweetheart. When she pushed her hair from her face with floury hands (supposedly inspired by Nargis), Dimple became the girl everyone wanted to date. We know what happened next — she got married to the reigning superstar, Rajesh Khanna, had two children, separated from Khanna and returned to films. Through the 80s, 90s, noughties and 2010s, Dimple made her presence felt in ‘masala’ flicks as well as art-house films. She rocked her auburn locks and champagne eyes in diverse roles, from rolling in the hay with Anil Kapoor in Feroz Khan’s Janbaaz (1986) to Kalpana Lajmi’s Rudaali for which she got the National Award in 1993. The millennium saw her effortlessly shining in everything from the aspirational Dil Chahta Hai (2001) and as the feckless Katy in Being Cyrus (2006) to Homi Adajania’s latest, Angrezi Medium (2020), where she plays Kareena Kapoor Khan’s mum.  Veterans on set  From her Bobby days, when her knotted, polka-dotted blouses and shorts set off a craze, to everyone wanting a ‘Dimple’ haircut even if they did not have her crowning glory, she has always been a style icon. Her character, Priya, in Christopher Nolan’s Tenet — the time-bending espionage film that just might entice you to step into a theatre next week — keeps up the good work. Priya with her fitted jackets, paisley shawls, stately saris and chunky jewellery is very much the personification of the iron fist in a beautifully-tailored velvet glove. Jeffrey Kurland, who apart from designing all the sharp suits for the gentlemen and putting the 6’3” Elizabeth Debicki in vertiginous heels, also designed for Dimple. “Everything was completely supervised by Nolan,” says the actor, over the phone from Mumbai. “From the colour of my hair... he wanted to see how it would look, when it should go from auburn to brown... it was all supervised by him.” Former footballer John David Washington (of Monster and BlacKkKlansman fame) plays the protagonist, called Protagonist (yes), trying to stop the end of the world as and when we know it. “It was a fabulous experience working with him. He was so comfortable; I think that is half the battle won. He is so warm and he made me feel like I am the veteran and he is the newcomer [laughs]. As far as I am concerned it was just the opposite.” A co-production between the United Kingdom and the United States, Tenet features a multi-national cast, including British actors Robert Pattinson, Michael Caine and Kenneth Branagh; Debicki is Australian, and Washington is American. Diversity in casting is almost a given these days, especially in action films, and Dimple says, “It is wonderful that people from all over the world are getting the opportunity to showcase their talent.”  Nolan the maniac  Branagh, who plays a Russian oligarch Andrei Sator (with suits and an accent to match), had recently remarked about how Nolan had promised him a bespoke working experience. The 63-year-old Dimple concurs, describing the director as a maniac on set. “I cannot believe his energy levels, his passion for filmmaking, and the effort he puts into it. He is so focussed and absorbed that you don’t want to step up to him out of fear that you might distract him. The level of concentration he had on the entire shoot was absolutely amazing. That is what drove the entire crew. All of us put our best foot forward, everyone was on the same page, we had no choice but to give our best.” Dimple has been quoted admitting she was nervous before shooting. But, according to Branagh — who didn’t get to share screen space with the actor, but says she has a “smashing part” in the film — both Nolan and Washington were bowled over by her. After a rehearsal, they had said, “If that is nervous, I don’t know what calm is”, going on to describe Dimple as being “awesomely brilliant”. When I tell her this, she laughs. “My God, those are very, very kind words. But yes, I have always been a bundle of nerves and I always will be a bundle of nerves irrespective of the number of films I do. That is not changing.” Dimple’s anxiety also gave the actor her best memory on set. “Before the shoot, I was standing next to Nolan having a bad case of nerves. He gave me his hand to hold for a second. That will be my dearest, most beautiful memory of the shoot,” she says.  Fighting nerves  Like so many of us, Dimple worships at the temple of Nolan. “The first film I watched of his was The Prestige (2006). And it completely blew my brain. I watched it four times and in the fourth viewing I finally made sense of it,” she recalls. “I called my nephew, who loves films and told him, ‘If you want to know what cinema is, you have to watch this film.’ It transports you into another world. I think that is what good cinema is all about. It grabs you and takes you to a different world. I think it is every actor’s dream to work with Nolan. Thank God, I got the opportunity.” How did she get the chance of a lifetime? “There was this girl, Purvi Lavingia [Vats, a Mumbai-based talent manager]. She called me and said I needed to give an audition,” says Dimple. “I didn’t believe it. I told my nephew that such-and-such a thing has happened and he said it is Christopher Nolan!” With a bad memory for names, Dimple did not immediately put two and two together. “I said, ‘Who Christopher Nolan’ and he said, ‘It is your favourite director!’ As the audition got closer, I got nervous as ever and thought of every excuse in the book to run far away from it. Then better sense prevailed.” With Nolan coming to India for a recce, Dimple took her nephew along for the audition. “I was sure I would not get the role. So I thought he could take a picture with Nolan. But it happened; I got the role. It was my second Cinderella moment — Bobby was my first. It was destined.” Early reviews have been good. Variety magazine stated that the “wonderful Dimple Kapadia” gave “the film’s wiliest performance”; closer home, stars, including Sonam Kapoor, took to social media to praise her role. Daughter Twinkle Khanna chipped in too, tweeting, “Mom is so laid-back that she refuses to do any publicity around Tenet , but she is incredible.” Dimple, however, insists that the best thing about her character was Nolan. She says: “It is only Nolan, forget about me, I have got nothing to do with it.” Tenet is scheduled to release on December 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tenet-my-second-cinderella-moment/article33197683.ece
28 November 2020||Patna,||Nitish, Tejashwi duel in Bihar Assembly||The Bihar Assembly Friday plunged into turmoil following an uncharacteristically angry outburst by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar after having stoically listened to barbs and allegations by opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav. Mr. Kumar, who is known for his composure and impeccable manners all through his four terms in office, was seen standing up and screaming jhooth bol raha hai yeh (he is speaking a lie). The Chief Minister, who chose not to react when the 31-year-old RJD leader made a series of personal attacks and allegations in his nearly an hour-long speech, erupted in anger when the latter sought to interject during a statement made by JD(U) leader and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary. Mr. Chaudhary had voiced his disapproval of references made by Mr. Yadav in his speech to a murder case in which Mr. Kumar had been named an accused, a case of plagiarism lodged by a JNU scholar with regard to a book published by a Patna-based think-tank which was endorsed by the Chief Minister, besides the Srijan scam which is being investigated by the CBI. Mr. Yadav rose in his chair and said, “It was a serious matter that I raised on the basis of facts. Is it not true that the Chief Minister had to pay a fine in connection with the murder case.” The interjection by the young leader proved to be the proverbial last straw for the Chief Minister, who got up and screamed “He is speaking a lie. I challenge the Chair to get the veracity of his statement examined and take necessary action. I have been listening to his diatribe simply because he is the son of a friend whom I treat like a brother.” “Does he know how his father (Lalu Prasad) became the Chief Minister? Has he forgotten who made him the Deputy CM? I had to part ways simply because he did not heed my advice to explain things,” Mr. Kumar said trembling with anger. Support to Lalu Notably Mr. Kumar was among the leaders of the erstwhile Janata Dal who had supported Lalu Prasad in the election for the legislature party leader in 1990 wherein the latters victory against veteran leaders Ram Sundar Das and Raghunath Jha had enabled the then Chhapra MP to become the Chief Minister of Bihar and script a political success story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nitish-tejashwi-duel-in-bihar-assembly/article33197695.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘In a few weeks, all of the Capital can be inoculated’||The city witnessed 5,482 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,56,744, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. Also, 98 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 8,909. Of the total cases, 5,09,654 people have recovered and there are 38,181 active cases. Also, out of the total 18,287 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 9,372 were vacant. There were 5,229 containment zones as on Friday. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the entire population of Delhi can be inoculated in a “few weeks” once the government gets the vaccine. “In Delhi, three times more testing is being done as compared to the rest of the country... We have the infrastructure and system to inoculate the entire population of Delhi in a few weeks, once the vaccine is out. We have mohalla clinics, polyclinics, hospitals and other facilities where we can inoculate people,” he said. Minister on testing The Minister added that the positivity of RT PCR tests was 30% on November 7 and now it is about 15.4%.  Also, the positivity of the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) has gone down from 8.39% to 2.61% and the overall positivity has fallen by 45%, he added. The government is expected to start civil and electrical works on two floors of government-run Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital, which will be used as a storage facility for the COVID-19 vaccine, once the vaccine is available. “We have given the ground and first floor of the utility block to the Delhi State Health Mission (DSHM) for using it as a vaccine store. The DSHM will start civil and electrical work in one or two days. Currently, it is an empty space,” said Chhavi Gupta, spokesperson of Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. She said the DSHM had surveyed the location last month and the process has been going on for the last one to one-and-a-half months. When asked about the storage facility in Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, the Minister said there will be many storage facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-a-few-weeks-all-of-the-capital-can-be-inoculated/article33197712.ece
28 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Dog nibbles at ‘unattended’ girl’s body in U.P. government hospital||After disturbing visuals of a dog licking a corpse, allegedly left unattended at the district government hospital in Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh, went viral, two staffers were suspended by Chief Medical Officer Dr Amita Singh for negligence on Thursday. In the 20-second video, the dog appears to be nibbling at the body covered by a white sheet. “An explanation was sought from the doctor and pharmacist on duty and an inquiry has been ordered by the Chief Medical Superintendent,” said Dr. Singh. Describing it as heart-wrenching, she promised strict action against those found guilty. The minor girl’s father, Charan Singh, said his daughter and son met with a serious road accident on Wednesday. “My daughter was declared brought dead while my son is undergoing treatment in the emergency ward. As he is critical, I was busy getting him referred to Moradabad. When I went to see my daughter’s body, a stray dog was feeding on it. Her body was lying unattended. It is clear negligence by the staff,” he told reporters. Chief Medical Superintendent Dr. Sushil Kumar admitted that it was the work of one of the stray dogs that roamed the hospital premises.. “We had written to the municipal corporation many times but no action has been taken,” he said. Dr. Kumar said two staffers, a sweeper and a ward boy, had been suspended for negligence and a probe was ordered. “The body was handed over to the father as he refused a post-mortem. It seems the incident happened when the body remained unattended for a few minutes”. ‘Rodents kill newborn’ In another incident of alleged medical negligence, a private hospital was sealed in Aligarh’s Atrauli area on Thursday after the father of a newborn alleged that his daughter died after she was bitten by rodents. Rajesh Kumar told reporters that his wife gave birth to a baby girl in Kirti Hospital on November 22. He alleged that the staff put his daughter in the newborn kit. “After an hour, we were told that the baby has died. When the body was shown to us, it had animal bite marks on the face,” he said.  Irregularities found Taking cognisance of his complaint, District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh ordered an inquiry that found irregularities in the hospital. “The hospital is authorised to have five beds but we found 11 beds in operation during the investigation. Two rooms are mysteriously locked. We have revoked the licence of the hospital and it has been sealed,” said Dr Durgesh Kumar, Assistant Chief Medical Officer, Aligarh. Investigation was on, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dog-nibbles-at-unattended-girls-body-in-up-government-hospital/article33197692.ece
28 November 2020||Guwahati,||HC stays Nagaland ban on dog meat sale||The Kohima Bench of the Gauhati High Court has stayed the Nagaland government’s decision to ban the commercial import and sale of dog meat in markets and restaurants. The court, hearing a petition by licensed dog meat traders, passed the interim stay on November 25. Justice S. Hukato Swu said the court was of the view that the ban order “may be stayed until the next returnable date”. On July 3, Nagaland Chief Secretary Temjen Toy announced the government’s decision to ban “commercial import and trading of dogs, dog markets and also the sale of dog meat, both cooked and uncooked”. The ban came into effect from July 4 across the State, four months after Mizoram took a similar step. Dog meat is a delicacy among certain communities in the two Northeastern States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-stays-nagaland-ban-on-dog-meat-sale/article33197691.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Capital’s air improves to ‘moderate’ category owing to fast surface winds||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram and Noida improved to “moderate” category on Friday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air quality of the national capital is predicted to stay in “moderate” to “poor” levels on Saturday. Rainfall too helped The air quality improved on Friday as the surface winds were fast and there was rainfall in the surrounding regions. The last time Delhi’s air quality was in the “moderate” category was for just a day on November 17. For the rest of the month, the air quality has been worse than it. “The AQI is forecast to stay in the moderate to ‘poor category for the next two days. Surface winds are forecast to decrease by November 30 and AQI will be in the ‘poor’ to the lower end of ‘very poor’ category likely,” said government-run monitoring agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The AQI of Delhi was 137 on Friday, better than 302 on Thursday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 107 and 125 respectively. Delhi’s AQI was 171 on November 17. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was estimated to be only 2% on Thursday. Also, the number of fire counts in neighbouring States were only 136, said SAFAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capitals-air-improves-to-moderate-category-owing-to-fast-surface-winds/article33197709.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Interim bail denied to Ishrat Jahan in riots case||A Delhi court has denied interim bail to former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan in a case related to the north-east riots here in February this year.  ‘Due to COVID-19’ Mr. Jahan had approached the court for bail citing COVID-19 outbreak in Mandoli prison and other medical issues. While dismissing the accused’s application, Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat on November 26 said, “Considering the gravity of the offences including Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 with which the applicant is charged, the discussion in the preceding paragraphs and the Jail Report, I do not deem it a fit case to grant interim bail to accused Ishrat Jahan.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/interim-bail-denied-to-ishrat-jahan-in-riots-case/article33197699.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia felicitates students who excelled in vocational subjects in Class XII boards||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday felicitated Delhi government school students — who excelled in Class XII boards with vocational subjects. He said it was necessary to change the attitude of society towards vocational courses. “These courses provide excellent employment and business opportunities yet they are looked down upon. You should be proud of your achievements”, Mr. Sisodia said. He also spoke about the plans of government to open a Skills and Entrepreneurship University. “Once vocational subjects in schools open the way to university degrees, the importance of these subjects will increase significantly. This change in the perception will greatly benefit the students,” he added. Minister seeks feedback He sought feedback from students, parents, and teachers on vocational studies; spoke about its future in terms of employability, and skill development. Mr. Sisodia, also the Education Minister, said in the coming years, with the Skills and Entrepreneurship University, the government hopes to create an environment in Delhi where vocational courses and studies would not be considered as secondary areas of study. He added that the suggestions of all the students, teachers and parents will be very useful in helping to design the courses that can be offered at the university. Skills and Entrepreneurship University Vice-Chancellor Neharika Vohra said in countries like Germany, and Finland, vocational subjects are given importance because such skills are viewed in a positive light. “We hope with the Skills and Entrepreneurship University, we are able to offer the students a holistic space to develop their skills, get degrees and not just make them job-ready but also help them develop an entrepreneurial mindset,” Ms. Vohra said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-felicitates-students-who-excelled-in-vocational-subjects-in-class-xii-boards/article33197703.ece
28 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Ready for SIT probe into child’s murder: Odisha CM||With Opposition parties training gun for ouster of Odisha Agriculture Minister Arun Kumar Sahu, the Odisha Government on Friday said it was ready for a probe by Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the murder of a five-year-old girl, Pari. Parents of Pari had on Tuesday (November 24) attempted self-immolation in front of the State Assembly. They had alleged that Nayagarh district police were reluctant to arrest the main accused, Babuli Nayak, as he was a close confidant of Mr. Sahu. Audio clips in which the Minister was purportedly heard instructing a man not to raise the issue had made the matter worse. Member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress has started demanding resignation of Mr. Sahu both inside and outside the House. As the Assembly witnessed persistent disruptions due to vociferous demand for the Minister’s resignation, Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro had directed Minister of State for Home Dibyashankar Mishra to give a statement. Subsequently, the State government ordered an investigation into the murder by Crime Branch. But it could not satisfy the Opposition, who kept demanding resignation of Mr. Sahu. “If SIT investigation is what is required, State government will take steps in this regard and do it immediately. My government is always committed for free and fair investigation and we always want justice to be done,” Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said on Thursday. “I am deeply saddened by the incident. My government will always stand for rule of law. I would request the members to cooperate and participate,” said Mr. Patnaik. The girl was found murdered under mysterious circumstances in Jadupur village in Nayagarh district on July 14. Parents, Ashok and Soudamini Sahu, alleged that one Babuli Nayak who was involved in organ trade had committed the crime. Giving a statement on the issue, Minister Sahu said, “I am deeply hurt by the murder of kid, Pari. I sincerely hope Pari’s family gets justice. In my political life, I have always been against violence. Whoever is involved in the crime must be punished. Political parties should desist from politicising the issue.”  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ready-for-sit-probe-into-childs-murder-odisha-cm/article33197689.ece
28 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||IGNCA may shut for 3 months to shift to temporary location||The Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) is likely to be closed for three months as it shifts from its current location on Janpath to the Janpath Hotel while its new campus near Jamnagar House is constructed as a part of the Central Vista redevelopment, an official said. The IGNCA will be shifted to the Janpath hotel for the duration of the construction, which is likely to be completed by December 2023, said IGNCA member secretary Sachidanand Joshi. He added that the Central Public Works Department, which is carrying out the redevelopment project, is expected to handover the Janpath Hotel after refurbishing by December 31. He said it would take about two months to shift the centre and another month to settle in. Regular activities at IGNCA, including outdoor exhibitions and performances, would be re-started by March 31, he said. “The hotel is being refurbished as per our requirements. There will be a space for outdoor exhibitions. The CPWD is creating an auditorium of almost the same size we have now and an amphitheater larger than the current one,” he said. According to the redevelopment plan, IGNCA would be demolished to make way for new government offices as a part of the proposed Common Central Secretariat. IGNCA would get a permanent home near Jamnagar House. A total of 10 office complexes have been proposed along the Central Vista after demolishing most of the existing office buildings. “IGNCA will be given a very prominent place. The new campus is likely to be completed by December 2023, so it is a matter of two years that we will be at Janpath Hotel. The new campus being created will be as per our requirements and will be at par with any world-class arts centre,” he said. The design of the new campus would be finalised soon by the CPWD’s consultant for the project, HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt. Ltd., he said.  The hotel is being refurbished as per our requirements. The CPWD is creating an auditorium of almost the same size we have now and a larger amphitheatreSachidanand Joshi IGNCA member secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ignca-may-shut-for-3-months-to-shift-to-temporary-location/article33197701.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||BJP conducts organisational meeting||An organisational meeting was held at the BJP State headquarters by national general secretary Dushyant Gautam and BJP national vice-president and newly-appointed Delhi in-charge Baijayant Panda here on Friday. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, State organisation general secretary Siddharthan, LoP Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and other senior party leaders discussed matters related to the party’s State unit. ‘Ideological base’  Mr. Panda urged partymen to move forward with the objective of reaching out to and expanding the ideological base of the BJP in Delhi. Mr. Gupta said a detailed discussion was held about the expansion of the organisation during the meeting where special emphasis was laid on the topic of going among public to “expose” the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government and its failures in controlling “lethal problems like corona and pollution”. New departments He also said apart from cells and morchas, 28 new departments will also be created, to include as many party cadre as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-conducts-organisational-meeting/article33197704.ece
28 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Forest officer, son held for alleged graft||An Odisha cadre Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer, who was found to have amassed assets vastly disproportionate to his known sources of income, and his son, were arrested on Friday. The officer, Abhay Kant Pathak, who was the State’s Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest- Plan, Programme and Afforestation, and his son, Akash Pathak, had been forwarded to the court, Superintendent of Police-Vigilance M. Radhakrishna said here. Mr. Radhakrishna said that about Rs. 9.35 crore of cash had been deposited in the son’s account, but there had been no satisfactory answer as to the source of the cash. Though the officer said the allegations were false, officials of the State Vigilance Directorate officials said they had “never come across the ownership of such massive property and lavish lifestyle by a government employee”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/forest-officer-son-held-for-alleged-graft/article33197690.ece
28 November 2020||November 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Highway tragedy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/highway-tragedy/article33197697.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||DTC approves proposal to procure 1,250 low-floor buses||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) Board on Friday approved a proposal to procure 1,250 BS-VI compliant, AC CNG propelled low-floor buses. With the induction of these buses, the government said, the total fleet size of public-run buses in Delhi will reach an all-time high of 7,851. The board meeting of DTC was chaired by Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot. The government said these BS-VI compliant AC buses would be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities like real-time passenger information system, CCTVs, panic buttons, GPS and other facilities, along with being differently abled friendly. Bharat Stage (BS) standards are emission standards that regulate the output of air pollutants from motor vehicles. Currently, the DTC runs 3,762 buses and both DTC and Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) together operate a fleet of 6,601 buses in the city. In the last 2 years, 1,681 new buses had been added to Delhi’s fleet, the government said. The induction of the low-floor AC buses will begin after it receives approval from the Council of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dtc-approves-proposal-to-procure-1250-low-floor-buses/article33197705.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre playing dirty politics at critical hour’||Reacting to the Union government blaming the AAP-led Delhi government in the Supreme Court for the “massive increase” in COVID-19 infection, AAP said it is extremely unfortunate that Central government has chosen to play “dirty politics” in this critical hour. “Comments of the Central government about Delhi govt. in its affidavit before SC are very unfortunate. The affidavit seems to have been drafted by a BJP spokesperson, rather than by Union Govt. which is meant to work in collaboration with the States at the time of a pandemic. The affidavit is also factually incorrect,” the AAP said. The party said that the Delhi government is worried about the well being of its people and will continue to work together with all governments and agencies as it has been doing so far and hope that the Central government will refrain from playing dirty politics. “Amit Shah promised to provide 750 ICU beds within 72 hours in the meeting on November 15. Till date, only 200 beds have been provided. We hope Centre will provide the rest of the beds soon. Central government has deprived Delhi of all funds provided to other State governments during this pandemic on the flimsy premise that Delhi is a Union Territory. Therefore, we hope the Central government will do something concrete for Delhiites rather than play blame game,” the party said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-playing-dirty-politics-at-critical-hour/article33197710.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Court grants custody parole to Jamia student Tanha to appear in exam||A Delhi court has granted three day custody parole to Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots earlier this year, to appear in examination due in December. The parole has been granted to the student for December 4, 5 and 7 to appear in compartment/ supplementary exams of BA Persian (Hons). The court also directed the Jail Superintendent to provide necessary assistance in terms of the teaching material for the examinations of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-grants-custody-parole-to-jamia-student-tanha-to-appear-in-exam/article33197700.ece
28 November 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin-Brief||The BJP will stage a sit-in protest at Jantar Mantar against the ‘Gupkar Gang’ on Saturday. It will be led by former Rajya Sabha MP Vijay Goel. Mr. Goel said the protest would be against the “anti-national activities” of the Gupkar alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-brief/article33197706.ece
