29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||We are prepared to stay at Delhi border for six months: farmers||Thousands of farmers dug in their heels at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on Saturday, deciding to stay put and not move to the Burari ground to ensure that their movement against the Centre’s new farm laws does not die down. “We are fully prepared to stay here for six months and can stay longer if we are not heard and our demands are not met,” said Dilbag Singh, 25, a farmer from Karnal. He added that every truck standing by for the protest had rations and other necessary items for the period. Sacks of flour, pulses and potatoes were stacked up inside a truck; a stove was placed outside along with huge utensils; piles of mattresses lay inside the vehicle and outside. There were also charging points and extra batteries available for mobile phones. Water tankers have been installed at regular intervals and langar provisions have also been made by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee for the protesters. “We will not go to the Nirankari ground in Burari because once we go there, we’ll just sit there for days and nothing will happen. Here, the border is locked and it’s making an impact,” Harvinder Singh, 24, said. Pandemic vs livelihood While COVID-19 precautionary measures, including wearing masks and maintaining distance, have taken a back seat, the farmers said they were not scared of the pandemic in the face of the threat to their livelihood. “One, it didn’t happen to us for the past two months when we were protesting in Punjab, why would it happen to us now [COVID-19]? Second, our bodies are immune to all diseases because of the way we are brought up. Thirdly, if these laws are not revoked, we will anyway die because we will be exploited at the hands of corporates,” said Raghuveer Singh, 50, from Moga Punjab, who is associated with the Bharti Kisan Krantikari Sangh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/we-are-prepared-to-stay-at-delhi-border-for-six-months-farmers/article33203497.ece
29 November 2020||Pune,||COVID-19: active cases inch towards 90,000||Maharashtra reported 5,965 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday as opposed to just 3,937 recoveries. The total case tally now stands at 18,14,515 with the number of active cases now rising to 89,905. The active cases had dipped to around 75,000 a fortnight ago. The cumulative recoveries have reached 16,76,564 with the State’s recovery rate decreasing to 92.4%. As many as 88 deaths were reported (with a reconciliation of 13 previous deaths and 75 reported ton Saturday), taking the total fatalities to 46,986. “Of a total 1,07,22,198 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,14,515 (case positivity rate of 16.92%) have returned positive with over 87,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.59%. Pune district reported another big surge of nearly 1,100 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,51,784 while 16 deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,418. As per district administration figures, the active case figure has risen further to 11,098 while its recovery rate incrementally dipped to 94.31%. Mumbai city, too, reported 1,063 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,81,881 of whom 14,979 are active. The city’s death toll rise to 10,847 with 17 fatalities. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 500 new cases, taking the total case tally to 1,13,236 of whom 4,402 are currently active. Five deaths took the total death toll to 2,974. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported just one death to take its cumulative death toll to 1,662. A heightened spike of 228 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 52,270 of whom 2,312 are active cases. Neighbouring Sangli reported 51 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 48,572 of whom only 958 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,710. Kolhapur reported a mere 16 cases and two deaths as its total case tally reached 48,467. Its active case tally has now come down to 239. The total death toll remained stands at 1,645. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 250 cases and one death as its total case tally reached 104,314 of whom 1,985 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,708. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported 109 cases and three deaths as its total case tally reached 54,951 of whom only 1,172 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,398.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-active-cases-inch-towards-90000/article33204028.ece
29 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Save Hyderabad from divisive forces, says KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has appealed to the people “to save Hyderabad from divisive forces” and not to get influenced by the leaders from outside flooding the city. “KCR is your son and keep faith in me. I am appealing as Telangana achiever and Chief Minister to come forward and support me. Think before you vote,” he said in an indirect reference to the election campaign that has taken a religious tone and multiple leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) joining the election campaign for GHMC elections. Addressing a public meeting at Lal Bahadur stadium on Saturday, he sent a message that the TRS government was for all sections and tried to dispel the notion that it was soft towards some sections, an image being created by the BJP during the poll campaign. Hyderabad is a like a bouquet and it is colourful and beautiful only when it has all the flowers, and not let some divisive forces spoil it, he said. He repeatedly harped on law and order and peace, saying it was the responsibility of all sections to ensure that the city’s growth doesn’t get affected. “Businesses will be ruined and real estate prices will fall and all sections will suffer if you fall into the trap of outside leaders,” the Chief Minister said, while lacing his speech with his unique one-liners like you want ‘B-Pass or Curfew-pass’. Turning to Hindi to appeal to the North Indian community in the city and in English to reach out to the intellectual community and the IT sector, KCR asked them not to fall for emotive issues. “Some divisive forces are trying to create havoc in the city. Rise against them, think of our children’s future and support progressive parties like the TRS.” Referring to personal attacks against him, the Chief Minister said he doesn’t want to respond to the abusive language used against him by some leaders. Reeling out the welfare programmes, KCR said no other State in the country matched with the welfare schemes and that too coming over the fears of certain sections on Hyderabad’s future during the Telangana movement. Flood relief amount The Chief Minister stated that the Rs. 10,000 financial assistance to flood victims will resume on December 7 and the remaining 3 to 4 lakh people would be covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/save-hyderabad-from-divisive-forces-says-kcr/article33203987.ece
29 November 2020||Srinagar,||Power cuts leave Kashmir’s COVID-19 patients gasping||Kashmir is not new to winter woes, but this year’s unprecedented and unscheduled electricity cuts have left hundreds of oxygen-dependent COVID-19 patients on edge. Niyaz Khan, a shopkeeper from Srinagar’s Lal Bazaar, has kept his ageing parents on a low-flow oxygen supply. “My parents had acute bilateral pneumonia. They were discharged from hospital and advised to be on round-the-clock oxygen for over a month. But we face a six-hour power cut during the day and erratic supply in the night. We sold gold ornaments to buy a generator,” Mr. Khan said.  Rising mortality Rayees Qureshi, a banker from Bagh-e-Mehtab, who lost his father to the pandemic last month, said the poor electricity supply was increasing mortality. “My COVID-affected mother is oxygen dependent. Generators are the only means for such patients to survive. Where will poor people go? Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) can provide oxygen cylinders and concentrators but they won’t work without electricity,” Mr. Qureshi said. Kashmir valley managed the pandemic’s peak earlier this year by nursing hundreds of patients at home. Virtual COVID-19 clinics run through WhatsApp groups helped the affected population recuperate at home, with timely medication and oxygen supply, aided by NGOs. “Home management has become tougher. I advise patients to keep generators handy and lend them to needy people too,” Dr. Nasir Shamas, a physician at Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial (JLNM) Hospital and a volunteer at a virtual WhatsApp clinic, said. Doctors at the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital in Srinagar also pointed to a different COVID-19 case trend in the winter. “Earlier, cluster cases would come from weddings and funerals, but they are now coming from large families forced to function from a single well-insulated room due to power cuts,” a doctor said. Official figures put the number of active cases at 5,236 on November 27. Hundreds were being treated at home, but government hospitals are again staring at grim patient numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-cuts-leave-kashmirs-covid-19-patients-gasping/article33203500.ece
29 November 2020||TIRUPATI,||Nivar: Chief Minister announces Rs. 5 lakh ex gratia for kin of eight deceased||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to the next of kin of the eight persons who died due to the impact of Cyclone Nivar in the State. Of the eight, six belonged to Chittoor district and two to Kadapa. Mr. Reddy arrived at the Renigunta airport here on Saturday from where he conducted an aerial survey over the three contiguous districts of Chittoor, SPSR Nellore and Kadapa that had borne the brunt of the cyclone. He watched the fields and residential localities that remained submerged under water and gave instructions to the respective district Collectors to arrange ex gratia payment at the earliest, without having to wait for formalities. Similarly, he directed the officials to get the crop loss estimated and submit a report by December 15. After the Chief Minister left, the Deputy Chief Ministers K. Narayanaswamy and S.B. Amzath Basha, Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy (Panchayat Raj) and Anil Kumar Yadav (Irrigation) gave specific directions to the official machinery to expedite the estimation process. Relief and remedial steps Speaking to the media later, they explained that the government would immediately focus on relief and restoration in the short term and also study the long-term plans needed to address similar situations in future. Mr. Basha said the reasons behind the release of excess water from the Araniar and Pincha projects and the need to expand their capacity at a minimal cost to ensure higher storage would be seriously pursued. “The capacity of the Pincha project will be increased to store 2 tmcft and Annamayya project to 10 tmcft so as to make use of such flood water. The irrigation officials have been instructed to this effect to prepare Detailed Project Reports (DPR),” he explained. Mr. Basha admitted that horticulture, paddy and Bengal gram crops had suffered huge losses due to inundation, but added that the details would be shared after proper estimation. “The Chief Minister has instructed the officials to take a humane view of the issue and see that no farmer is left with tears in his eyes,” he said. On the Buggavanka stream passing through Kadapa city that had flooded several low-lying colonies, he said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had sanctioned Rs. 39 crore for completing the revetment wall and also for its further extension. Member of Parliament (Chittoor) N. Reddeppa, Collectors Bharat N. Gupta (Chittoor), Ch. Hari Kiran (Kadapa) and Chakradhar Babu (Nellore), DIG of Police (Anantapur range) Kanthi Rana Tata, SPs Avula Ramesh Reddy (Tirupati Urban) and S. Senthil Kumar (Chittoor) and MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha were among those who saw off the Chief Minister at the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-5-lakh-to-kin-of-8-killed-in-cyclone-in-ap/article33203425.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||PM takes stock of vaccine development by 3 firms||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday visited the facilities of three biotechnology companies that are testing different COVID-19 vaccine candidates. The companies, two of which have begun Phase 3 trials in thousands of volunteers, are expected to manufacture millions of doses in the first half of 2021 if the candidates pass regulatory muster. Mr. Modi began his tour by visiting Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad, Gujarat. Wearing a PPE kit, he reviewed the vaccine development process at the company’s research centre. The company had commenced the Phase 2 clinical trials of its vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D, in August. Zydus Cadila chairman Pankaj Patel recently said the company was aiming to complete the trial by March 2021, and could produce up to 100 million doses a year. “Visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to know more about the indigenous DNA-based vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadila. I compliment the team behind this effort for their work. Government of India is actively working with them to support them in this journey,” Mr. Modi tweeted. The Prime Minister next visited Bharat Biotech’s manufacturing facility in Genome Valley, Hyderabad, which is now testing ‘Covaxin’, a candidate developed based on an inactivated strain sourced from the Indian Council of Medical Research, which is being tested in 26,000 volunteers. The company in a statement said the Prime Minister’s visit “serves as a great inspiration to our team, and further reinforces our commitment towards scientific discovery, solving public health issues and the fight against COVID-19”. In the final leg of his tour, Mr. Modi visited the facilities of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune. SII, which has partnered with pharma major AstraZeneca and Oxford University, will be applying in the next two weeks for an emergency licence to permit the use of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine, CEO Adar Poonawalla said. “SII’s first priority for distributing ‘Covishield’ would be India and the COVAX countries (which includes several in Africa),” Mr. Poonawalla said at an online press briefing. “We are in the process of applying for emergency use licence in the next two weeks. While as of now, we don’t have anything in writing with the Centre on how many doses they plan to purchase, the Health Ministry’s indication is that they are looking at 300-400 million doses by July 2021.” He said, “That is the figure we hope to achieve by then,” adding that the SII was manufacturing 40 million doses per month and would then start scaling up to 100 million doses a month after January-February 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-takes-stock-of-vaccine-development-by-3-firms/article33203498.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Announcement likely from Rajini on Monday||Rajinikanth is expected to make an announcement on on November 30 about whether or not he will contest the 2021 Assembly election. The actor has called a meeting of Rajini Makkal Mandram office-bearers at Raghavendra Kalyana Mandapam on Monday. A district secretary said Rajini Makkal Mandram members were expecting the actor to make a clear statement and they would stand by him. Surprise announcement “We don’t know what to expect. We were just told to come to Mandapam at 9 a.m. We expect a good announcement from him,” he said. The actor announced in December 2017 that he would form a party and contest in the Assembly election. However, he has not started a party since then, creating an impression that he has decided not to enter politics. In March this year, he laid out his three-point agenda. Ruling himself out of the post of Chief Minister, the actor said he wanted to separate party from the government by forming a council that would appoint a young and capable Chief Minister and supervise the functioning of the government, abolish thousands of party posts and induct youngsters into the party. In October, Mr. Rajinikanth responded to a ‘leaked statement’ by confirming his health issues and the doctor’s advice that meeting people and campaigning would put him at risk in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. While this raised doubts whether he would take the political plunge, observers say Mr. Rajinikanth would play some role in the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/announcement-likely-from-rajini-tomorrow/article33203934.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal draws hope from ‘third wave’ trends||The national capital reported 4,998 new COVID-19 cases and highest-ever number of test at 69,051 in the last 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, the death toll rose to 8,998 with 89 more deaths being reported in the past 24 hours. Of the total 5,61,742 cases, 5,16,166 people have recovered and there are 36,578 active cases. “Since 7 Nov, cases and positivity in Delhi are going down. Today, less than 5000 cases, 89 deaths and 7.24 positivity. Hope this trend continues. Delhiites and Delhi govt together will win over this third wave also. Pl continue to observe all precautions (sic),” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted while sharing the bulletin. Delhi recorded 6,746 cases on Sunday, 4,454 on Monday, 6,224 on Tuesday, 5,246 on Wednesday, 5,475 on Thursday and 5,482 on Friday. The city had recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases on November 11. The positivity rate on Saturday was 7.24% and the overall positivity till now is 9.10%, as per the bulletin. Vacant beds Out of the total 18,389 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 9,793 are vacant. There are 5,331 containment zones in the city as of Saturday. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that the positivity rate of COVID-19 has reduced by 50% compared to November 7, when it was a little over 15%.  He also said that the whole of Delhi can be inoculated in “three to four weeks” once the vaccine is available. The Health minister said that Delhi should be given priority during the distribution of the vaccine as it is the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-draws-hope-from-third-wave-trends/article33203746.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Bay system likely to reach T.N. coast by December 2||The next low pressure area has formed over south Andaman sea and the adjoining areas of the south-east Bay of Bengal. It is likely to become a depression by Monday and start bringing scattered rainfall to coastal and south Tamil Nadu. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the weather system is expected to intensify further and move westwards towards Sri Lanka. It may reach the south Tamil Nadu coast by December 2. The intensity of rainfall will gradually increase and become widespread in the State and Puducherry from December 1. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said, “There is a marginal chance of the weather system becoming a cyclonic storm, and we are tracking the system. We are yet to fix a place where the system will reach the south Tamil Nadu coast. Many places in the State will receive moderate rain between December 1 and 3.” A few places in the northern districts are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rain. The system may have more influence in the southern districts, yielding even an extremely heavy rainfall of over 24 cm at one or two places, he said. “There would be more clarity on the movement of the system and rainfall intensity on Sunday. Chennai, too, has a chance of rain next week,” Mr. Balachandran said. The IMD has forecast a relatively dry weather over the city till Monday, with a maximum temperature of 30 degrees Celsius. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday, interior districts recorded moderate to heavy rain. Mettupatti in Madurai district received the day’s highest of 9 cm. The State’s seasonal rain since October 1 remains deficit by 14%, though the rain from Cyclone Nivar helped to bridge a wider gap. The next system is expected to wipe out the shortfall in the southern and interior districts, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bay-system-likely-to-reach-tn-coast-by-december-2/article33203544.ece
29 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Assembly to pass a host of Bills||The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly is likely to pass a slew of important Bills in its winter session beginning November 30, mainly including the one for making certain changes to the Criminal Law (AP Amendment) Act, 2019 (Disha Act) as advised by the Centre. Two other amendment Bills for converting agricultural lands to non-agricultural purposes and banning online gambling, and a Bill for establishing a fisheries university in West Godavari district are set to be passed. Disha Act envisaged the completion of trial of offences on women and girls in just 21 days and awarding of death penalty in rarest of rare cases, but the Union government had returned it with some suggestions for tweaking the legislation to ensure that it was not at odds with the Central law. The amendment to AP Gaming Act, 1974, is to include online gaming, gambling and betting and making the top managerial personnel of the online gaming companies liable for punishment. Besides, a Bill for amending the AP Motor Vehicles Taxation Act aimed at garnering additional revenue for the cash-strapped government is likely to be tabled. Possible confrontation The session is expected to be brief but boisterous due to the TDP's possible confrontation with the government on a host of issues, especially the fate of Amaravati which hangs in the balance due to the proposed shifting of Executive capital to Visakhapatnam. The bitter conflict between the ruling YSR Congress Party and TDP led to a tense stand-off on the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts that culminated in a resolution moved by the Assembly in January this year for abolishing the Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assembly-to-pass-a-host-of-bills-including-one-for-amending-disha-act/article33203776.ece
29 November 2020||Vijayawada,||Assembly to pass a host of Bills||The Assembly is likely to pass a slew of important Bills in its winter session beginning November 30, mainly including the one for making certain changes to the Criminal Law (AP Amendment) Act, 2019 (Disha Act) as advised by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assembly-to-pass-a-host-of-bills/article33203492.ece
29 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Save Hyderabad from divisive forces, says KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has appealed to the people “to save Hyderabad from divisive forces” and not to get influenced by the leaders from outside flooding the city. “I am appealing as Telangana achiever and Chief Minister to come forward and support me,” he said. Addressing a public meeting at Lal Bahadur stadium on Saturday, he sent a message that the TRS government was for all sections sections and tried to dispel the notion that it was soft towards some sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/save-hyderabad-from-divisive-forces-says-kcr/article33203961.ece
29 November 2020||Hyderabad,||‘TRS rule is for family-friend’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, in a dig at KCR’s rule, said it has become a ‘Family-Friend’ rule and was only interested in their own development and enrichment. KCR wants his family and friend (AIMIM) to be happy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trs-rule-is-for-family-friend/article33203962.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Making it count||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/making-it-count/article33203540.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready for talks in Burari: Shah||The Centre is quite willing to hold talks with farmers’ groups if they are prepared to move away from the highway and shift to the designated protest site in Burari, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said late on Saturday. The farmers’ groups, which are demanding a repeal of the three agricultural reform laws enacted recently, said they would respond after internal consultations on Sunday morning.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-talk-in-burari-shah/article33203491.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||India to host SCO heads of government meeting||India will host the Heads of Government council meeting of the eight-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation on Monday, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not attend the meeting, which will be chaired by Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu instead. According to a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs, the Prime Ministers of China, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstan will attend the virtual conference. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has also decided to miss the meeting, deputing his Parliamentary Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Andleeb Abbas, in his place. “It will be the first time that a Summit-level Meeting will be held under India’s Chairmanship, since it gained full-membership of the organisation in 2017,” the statement read. Trade agenda “This Summit is held annually at the level of Prime Ministers of SCO and deals primarily with the trade and economic agenda of the organisation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-to-host-sco-heads-of-government-meeting/article33203495.ece
29 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan cuts COVID test rate for private labs||The Rajasthan government on Saturday fixed the rate for RT-PCR diagnostic test for COVID-19 infection conducted by private laboratories at Rs. 800, slashing it by Rs. 400. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the rate had been reduced from Rs. 1,200 following a drop in the prices of test kits. Mr. Gehlot made the announcement while inaugurating a COVID-19 ICU at Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Hospital here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-cuts-covid-test-rate-for-private-labs/article33203749.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,||State govt. to amend taxi aggregators rules||The State government is set to prepare new rules to regulate taxi aggregators such as Ola and Uber in keeping with the Centre’s new Motor Vehicle Aggregators Guidelines, 2020. The State had introduced ‘Karnataka on demand transportation technology aggregators’ rules in 2016, which will be revised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-to-amend-taxi-aggregators-rules/article33203882.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Management of heart attack cases at taluk level||To avoid delay in providing diagnosis and treatment to heart attack patients in rural areas, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences is set to start a heart attack (ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction-STEMI) management project at the taluk level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/management-of-heart-attack-cases-at-taluk-level/article33203883.ece
29 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan slashes COVID test rate for private labs||The Rajasthan government on Saturday fixed the rate for RT-PCR test for COVID-19 infection conducted by private laboratories at Rs. 800, slashing it by Rs. 400. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the rate had been reduced from Rs. 1,200 following a drop in the prices of test kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-slashes-covid-test-rate-for-private-labs/article33203948.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality drops to ‘poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram and Noida deteriorated to the ‘poor’ category on Saturday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board data. The air quality of the national capital is expected to deteriorate to the ‘very poor’ category on Sunday. The AQI of Delhi was 231 on Saturday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhis-air-quality-drops-to-poor-category/article33203748.ece
29 November 2020||COIMBATORE,||MSMEs seek changes in GST law, want sop||The Central government should support micro and small-scale engineering units, which are in need of financial assistance now, by making changes in the Goods and Services Tax, the owners said here. They want 2% interest subvention to micro and small-scale units that make GST payments on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/msmes-seek-changes-in-gst-law-want-sop/article33203585.ece
29 November 2020||Mumbai,||Thackeray govt. ignoring farmers, says Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday accused the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of ignoring the plight of farmers in Maharashtra and failing on the Maratha reservation issue. Mr. Fadnavis said the MVA government, which completed a year in office on Saturday, “ has failed to provide financial assistance to farmers. It has completely ignored their plight. Cotton, soybean crops got destroyed due to pest attack, but no help was provided to them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thackeray-govt-ignoring-farmers-says-fadnavis/article33204029.ece
29 November 2020||Pune,||NCP legislator Bharat Bhalke passes away||Three-time Nationalist Congress Party legislator from Solapur district, Bharat Bhalke, died at a private city-based hospital on Saturday while undergoing treatment for post-COVID-19 complications, said medical authorities. According to sources, the MLA had tested positive on October 30, but was discharged after recovery. He was moved to Pune on November 9 after being diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncp-legislator-bharat-bhalke-passes-away/article33204030.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,||MSMEs in jeopardy as steel prices increase||The price of steel has risen by 35-40% in the last three months, along with zinc and aluminium, and this has put medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs) in great jeopardy, especially when they are yet to recover from COVID-inflicted business loss. KASSIA brought this to the attention of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/msmes-in-jeopardy-as-steel-prices-increase/article33204021.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,||MSMEs in jeopardy as steel prices increase||The price of steel has risen by 35-40% in the last three months, along with zinc and aluminium, and this has put medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs) in great jeopardy, especially when they are yet to recover from COVID-inflicted business loss. KASSIA brought this to the attention of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/msmes-in-jeopardy-as-steel-prices-increase/article33203625.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Insurance cases: HC fiat on chargesheets||There is no mandate in law for insurance companies to challenge chargesheets, filed by the police in motor vehicle accident cases, to controvert the contents of chargesheets before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) in the insurance claim case proceedings, said the Karnataka High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/insurance-cases-hc-fiat-on-chargesheets/article33203626.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Pvt. schools to continue holding online classes||Private schools affiliated to the State board, who had threatened to stop online classes from November 30 for students who have not paid fees, have decided to extend the deadline. They will continue the online classes till December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pvt-schools-to-continue-holding-online-classes/article33203627.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,||CM thanks doctors, health workers||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday thanked doctors and health workers in government and private hospitals across the State, who helped Tamil Nadu receive the award for being the best in organ donation in the country from the Centre for the sixth consecutive year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-thanks-doctors-health-workers/article33203538.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Seven districts account for 60% of new cases||Tamil Nadu reported 1,430 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, taking its overall tally to 7,79,046. Seven districts, including Chennai, account for a little over 60% of the new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-districts-account-for-60-of-new-cases/article33203542.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,||‘No side-effects seen during vaccine trial’||None of the participants of the Covishield vaccine trial carried out by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine and the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital have had any side effects so far, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-side-effects-seen-during-vaccine-trial/article33203543.ece
29 November 2020||Chennai,||2,000 ‘mini clinics’||A total of 2,000 ‘mini clinics’ would be launched across Tamil Nadu before December 15, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday. Mr. Palaniswami said every mini clinic would have a doctor, a nurse and an assistant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2000-mini-clinics/article33204082.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The ‘professor’ who runs terrorist networks||There are many facts about Hafiz Mohammad Saeed, the mastermind of the Mumbai 26/11 attacks, that set him apart from other terror chiefs in Pakistan. Unlike the battle worn, gun-toting terrorists wanted for attacks in Afghanistan and India, Mr. Saeed identifies himself as a “professor” of Islamic studies, with two Master’s degrees from Lahore University, and a two-year specialisation at the King Saud University in Riyadh, where, he says, he was inspired by the Saudi Grand Mufti into setting up the now-banned Markaz Dawat wal Irshad (MDI) movement. According to scholar Arif Jamal, author of the book Call for Transnational Jihad, about Saeed and the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), Saeed drew inspiration from the same Salafi sheikhs and groups in the Saudi Kingdom that spurred Al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden, but unlike other pan-Islamist groups, Saeed’s organisations have never targeted Pakistan, and stayed within the lines drawn by its power military establishment. Saeed traces his origins not to the Pukhtoon areas along the Durand line or from Kashmir along the Line of Control, but to a Gujjar family from Haryana which travelled to Pakistan’s Punjab during Partition, on a journey where Saeed says 36 members of his family were killed in India. Saeed’s family of clerics have had international exposure: while Saeed went to Saudi Arabia, his brothers Hafiz Hamid, Hafiz Mastodon and Hafiz Hannan ran Islamic centres in and around Boston, until they were deported back to Pakistan for visa violations by the U.S. government in 2007. While most of Saeed’s “colleagues” in the world of transnational jihad are either dead, missing or on the run, Saeed has managed to evade UNSC designations, American bounties and Indian convictions for more than a decade, addressing public rallies, giving interviews to international media, and threatening attacks. He has been arrested, charged and convicted and then released by Pakistani courts on various terror-related charges, but could always continue his work at the helm of the LeT, and its many offshoots, the Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), Falah-i-Insaniat Foundation (FIF), Tehreek-e-Azadi Jammu and Kashmir (TAJK), and a political party, the Milli Muslim League, all of which have been banned internationally. This month, Saeed, who is currently in prison, was handed two sentences of 10 years each for his role in terror financing, but given his past ability to have court orders overturned, many remain sceptical that he will be brought to justice eventually. Dreams of destruction “Some people don’t evolve. They only ride the crest of passion hoping to realise their dreams of destruction,” wrote Pakistani journalist Aamir Mir about Saeed, in his 2009 book Talibanization of Pakistan: From 9/11 to 26/11 . Mr. Mir was speaking about the fact that despite being banned, and being placed on several terror lists between 1999 and 2008, Saeed continued to hold public meetings, threatening the dismemberment of India. What even Mr. Mir could not have known is that 12 years after the 2008 Mumbai attacks in which 166 people were killed, including six U.S. citizens, and nationals of at least 16 other countries, Saeed still retains a large amount of that immunity. He has never been charged in Pakistan for the 26/11 attacks, and continues to claim he is innocent of the conspiracy to send 10 armed and trained terrorists to wreak havoc on India’s Maximum City. The evidence against Saeed for 26/11 is damning by any measure. Ajmal Kasab, the lone surviving Pakistani gunman in the attack, gave a lucid description during his trial, of how he was motivated by Saeed’s speeches, indoctrinated by the LeT and trained for the attack at camps in Pakistan. Identifying Saeed’s photograph in court, Kasab spoke of how the “Amir” Hafiz Saeed had himself visited the training camps to give his blessings to the group for their attack on “Bambai”, as he referred to India’s financial capital. When Kasab was hanged in 2012, Saeed led thousands in prayer for him, even though the JuD/LeT had disclaimed any knowledge of him in the past. David Headley, the man convicted in the U.S. for the 26/11 conspiracy for his role in scouting locations for the terrorists to attack, also identified Saeed ‘Sahib’ as his mentor since he met him at a terror camp in 2002 and the mastermind of the Mumbai carnage. After Saudi Arabia facilitated the arrest of 26/11 conspirator and LeT commander Abu Jundal (Zabiuddin Ansari) in 2012, Jundal too spoke in court of his meetings with Saeed to plan the Mumbai attacks. And even Pakistan’s Federal Investigations Agency (FIA) chief confirmed details of the LeT plot, the guilt of Saeed’s right hand and associate since 1986 Zaki Ur Rahman Lakhvi in commanding the operation from a control room in Karachi, ostensibly under Saeed’s guidance. Saeed’s impunity from both international scrutiny and Pakistani law is clearly no coincidence. Right from the 1990s, when Saeed himself confessed to training Mujahideen for Afghanistan with the help of “guns from the U.S.”, Pakistan’s military agencies have supported his ventures. Rather than charge him directly for a number of terror attacks in India and Afghanistan, agencies had held him on “preventive detention” or charged him with minor “hate speech” misdemeanours. Over the years, Saeed was able to grow a considerable empire with his headquarters at Muridke, Punjab, and JuD/FiF offices around the country, raising millions of dollars for his work, despite UN strictures. Head Qazi National Security Advisory Board member Tilak Devasher, who was based in Pakistan for many years, writes in his book, Pakistan: Courting the Abyss, that the JuD/LeT was even allowed to set up seven “Sharia courts” in Lahore, Karachi, Islamabad and other cities to “dispense justice” , with Saeed as the “Head Qazi”, chief justice of the courts. In the wake of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) greylisting in 2018, Pakistani government agencies said they had confiscated all Saeed’s properties, but officials quoted by local agencies said Saeed and other JuD leaders continued to use the premises and give sermons on Fridays. He was able to do all this despite a $10 million award announced by the U.S. for his arrest in 2012. Saeed’s response to the bounty was to mockingly ask the U.S. government to give it to him directly in return for a “daily update on his location”. After his arrest in July 2019, Saeed has kept a low profile, and more so after an alleged assassination attempt on his son Talha Saeed in December last year. With long prison sentences announced against Saeed along with all his top aides like brother-in-law Abdul Rahman Makki and JuD spokesperson Yahya Mujahid, speculation is rife that Pakistan’s military establishment is finally wearying off its favourite, and has decided to offload the LeT that has grown into the proverbial albatross around its neck. Or Saeed is being simply kept on hold, and if Pakistan evades a possible “blacklisting” at the dirty money watchdog FATF, which is due to make a final decision in February 2021, the terror-Professor may once again return to his diabolical business.  In Focus  Saeed traces his origins to a Gujjar family from Haryana which travelled to Pakistan’s Punjab during Partition, and on the journey, ‘36 members of his family were killed’ He drew inspiration from the same Salafi groups in Saudi Arabia that spurred al-Qaeda, but, unlike other pan-Islamist groups, his networks never targeted Pakistan He continued to enjoy impunity for his actions until recently when Pakistan came under international pressure from FATF and other organisations   While most of his ‘colleagues’ in the world of trans-national jihad are either dead, missing or on the run, Saeed managed to evade punishment for more than a decade||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-professor-who-runs-terrorist-networks/article33203476.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,||A play in optics between BSY and BJP high command||While the BJP central leadership has put a spanner in the works for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa by putting a stop to his move to recommend the inclusion of all sub-sects of Veerashaiva-Lingayats in the Central OBC reservation list, the Lingayat strongman appears to have made his point in terms of optics. The message Mr. Yediyurappa has conveyed to the community seems to be that while he was eager to ensure additional reservation for them, he was helpless because of the high command’s intervention. It is believed that a “stern message” from Union Home Minister Amit Shah during a phone call on Friday morning stopped Mr. Yediyurappa from making the recommendation to the Centre without consultation. This optics of it all, a section of party leaders believe, might endear him to the vote bank. Playing out in the backdrop of speculation about an imminent leadership change, the one-upmanship has gained political significance. “Given his history of rebellion against the party in 2012 and the support of the Lingayat community he enjoys, he is keen to send out a message to the high command,” a BJP leader said. The matter of inclusion in the Central OBC list — a demand that dates back to 1994 — seems to have now gathered fresh momentum. Sri Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami, head of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha at Kudalasangama, has threatened to take out a padayatra from Kudalasangama to Bengaluru from December 23 if “no positive development” takes place by then. Most of the Chief Minister’s Cabinet colleagues and party leaders were taken by surprise at the reservation proposal on the agenda for the Cabinet meeting and probably alerted the high command about it, sources said. It also came soon after the setting up of a Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation with a generous grant of Rs. 500 crore. Central leaders feared that the reservation proposal might open a Pandora’s box, with similar demands coming from other communities across the country. It would have been a demand difficult to accede and could also antagonise communities currently enjoying the 27% OBC reservation by shrinking their share, observed a party source. Mr. Yediyurappa was quick to place the ball in the high command’s court by saying on Friday that a decision on Veerashaiva-Lingayat reservation would be taken “only after discussions with Delhi”. He also said that Mr. Shah had called him earlier in the day, though he did not explicitly link it to the reservation issue. Counter-narrative “Given the threat of antagonising the Lingayat community in the event of a leadership change, a faction within the party has been trying to create a counter-narrative to Mr. Yediyurappa from within the community,” a leader said. Anointing Laxman Savadi as Deputy Chief Minister and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal openly criticising the Chief Minister are part of this, he claimed. On the other hand, Mr. Yediyurappa has been making his own moves by setting up the development corporation and showing keenness on the reservation issue, said leaders in the know.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-play-in-optics-between-bsy-and-bjp-high-command/article33203644.ece
29 November 2020||Srinagar,||Amid snowfall, 52% turnout in J&K poll||The maiden election to the District Development Councils (DDC), the first electoral exercise in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of its special status last year, recorded a peaceful 52% voting on Saturday, despite the cold weather and a snow cover in many constituencies. “J&K recorded 51.76% polling in phase one. The polling was by and large peaceful in 43 constituencies. Around 3.62 lakh of the 7,00,842 voters — 1.93 lakh men and 1.69 lakh women — voted to choose their representatives,” State Election Commissioner (SEC) K.K. Sharma said. Budgam’s record In the Valley, Budgam district recorded the highest polling at 56.96%, followed by Kupwara at 50.74% and Ganderbal at 48.62%. Pulwama in the volatile south Kashmir recorded 6.7%, Shopian 42.58%, Kulgam 34.35% and Anantnag 43.32%. The capital, Srinagar, recorded 33.76%. Despite the recent snowfall in many constituencies, Bandipora recorded 43.57% and Baramulla 32.51% polling. In the Jammu division, Reasi district recorded the highest polling at 74.62% followed by Rajouri at 70.52% and Poonch at 68.69%. Hundreds of Gurkhas and Valmiki voters, who became eligible for voting since the abrogation of the special status, exercised their franchise in Jammu. Most voters in south Kashmir saw the DDC election as a new layer of easy interface with the administration, while many described them as “decisive to put across people’s sentiment on dilution of Article 35A and Article 370”. “I am voting to keep the BJP away. My vote is for those who promise to return J&K’s special status and talk about a political resolution of Kashmir,” Majeed Khar, a voter at Keller in Shopian, said. The election may be for the third tier of the Panchayati Raj, but ideological issues dominated the campaign, instead of development planks. All the star campaigners of the BJP, including Union Ministers Anurag Thakur and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, ruled out return of the Articles 370 and 35A, while the leaders associated with the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), including Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Sajad Lone, promised the people to work towards the restoration of the pre-August 5 position. This is also the first election where separatists did not campaign for any boycott. Militants also did not issue any threat to voters and candidates online or on the ground. One voter was injured in a minor incident of stone throwing in south Kashmir. “The overall situation remained under control throughout the Kashmir division. There was a minor incident of stone throwing at polling location C.R. Pora in Kulgam district, in which one voter was injured. A First Information Report (FIR) has been registered,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar told The Hindu . Exit polls prohibited The SEC has prohibited any exit polls till the hour fixed for conclusion. “The election authority prohibits the conduct of any exit poll and publishing or publicising or displaying the results of exit polls by means of the print or electronic media or in any other manner in the ongoing DDC polls till the hour fixed for conclusion of poll in the last phase of these elections on December 19,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-snowfall-52-turnout-in-jk-poll/article33203453.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||Maharashtra leads COVID-19 case tally||Over 69 per cent of the 41,322 new COVID-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours were from eight States and Union Territories, with Maharashtra recording the highest number of new infections followed by Delhi and Kerala, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. With 11,57,605 tests conducted in a span of 24 hours, India’s cumulative tests had surged to 13.82 crore, while the number of tests per million population had crossed the one-lakh mark and now stood at 1,00,159.7, the Ministry said. The active COVID-19 caseload of the country is 4,54,940. The Ministry issued a statement saying “69.04 per cent of the daily new cases of COVID-19 are contributed by eight States/UTs i.e. Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Chhattisgarh.” Maharashtra led the tally with 6,185 new COVID cases. Delhi recorded 5,482 cases, while Kerala saw 3,966 infections. Sustained and progressive expansion in testing infrastructure had played a crucial role in the steep rise of testing numbers. With 2,161 testing laboratories in the country, the daily testing capacity had got a substantial boost, the Ministry said.. Recoveries surge Total recoveries had surged to 87,59,969 with 41,452 recoveries being registered in a day in the country, it said. Delhi reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 5,937 newly discharged cases. A total of 4,544 people recovered in Kerala followed by 4,089 in Maharashtra. The Ministry said 78.35 per cent of the 485 case fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours were concentrated in 10 States and UTs. With 98 deaths, Delhi reported the highest number of new fatalities. Maharashtra saw 85 followed by West Bengal with 46, the Ministry said. India’s COVID-19 caseload stood at 93,51,109 and the death toll was 1,36,200, the data updated at 8 a.m. showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-leads-covid-19-case-tally/article33203456.ece
29 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Vigilance conducts searches at State-run KSFE, Minister fumes||Kerala Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Saturday slammed the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) for executing a Statewide surprise search on Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) offices. The VACB anti-corruption drive, code-named Operation Budget, looked at the KSFE’s chit fund (chitty) scheme primarily. According to officials, the VACB reportedly found large-scale irregularities in the availing of cash advance and loans on recurring deposits by chit fund subscribers. It also detected manipulation in the bidding and draw of lots to favour some subscribers over others. An official said the findings were preliminary. Only a detailed forensic audit would reveal the full extent of the violation of norms, including the value evaluation of title deeds as collateral for loans for subscribers who failed to get their chit funds prized but required loans. The VACB also found that some KSFE staff had enrolled themselves in ‘chitties’ and availed themselves of advances at the cost of other subscribers. Dr. Isaac opposed the agency’s debatable finding that the KSFE did not deposit its revenue in the government treasury. “No law says the KSFE should deposit recurring deposits in the treasury. The VACB cannot set the law or arbitrate on what is right or wrong. The Law Department is there for such matters. The KSFE is not afraid of the VACB. It welcomes inspections,” he said. Dr. Isaac also defended the conduct of ‘Pravasi chitties’ whose subscribers are predominantly non-resident Keralites and their families. KSFE Chairman Philipose Thomas welcomed any anti-corruption probe and said the functioning of the KSFE was transparent and above board. It had nothing to hide from probe agencies. He denied the allegation that the KSFE was a repository for black money and illegitimately earned wealth. He said KSFE remittances and deposits were by default referred to the Income Tax Department. Moreover, the Comptroller and Auditor General and the Local Fund Department audited the KSFE independently. Furthermore, it had a robust internal audit mechanism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vigilance-conduct-searches-at-state-run-ksfe-minister-fumes/article33203432.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden’s diplomat-in-chief||Last week, U.S. President-elect Joe Biden nominated long-time aide and adviser Antony Blinken to the post of Secretary of State. For the next four years, Mr. Blinken will, if confirmed by the Senate, lead the State Department and attempt to give shape to Mr. Biden’s ‘America is Back’ vision. Much can be learned about the worldview of this French speaking singer and guitarist (Mr. Blinken has two songs on Spotify and leads a band called ‘Ablinken’) by studying his roots. Several members of Mr. Blinken’s family came to the U.S. as refugees and immigrants — Mr. Blinken has suggested that this has shaped his vision of America. There is also a family history of government service: Mr. Blinken’s father, Donald, was Ambassador to Hungary in the Clinton administration, and his uncle was an envoy to Belgium. His step-father, Samuel Pisar, a Holocaust survivor, worked for the UN and the U.S. government. U.S. leadership It is not surprising then that Mr. Blinken believes that America should lead the world but in strong cooperation with other countries and with robust multilateral organisations. This resonates with Mr. Biden’s own foreign policy view, which Mr. Blinken recently described in three words: “leadership, cooperation and democracy”. The world, according to Mr. Blinken, “doesn’t just organise itself” and when America retreats, another country tries to take its place in a way that does not advance America’s values or there is chaos. In terms of globalisation, Mr. Blinken said in a 2019 interview that a progressive era was needed on a global scale in order to addresses inequality. He spoke of a foreign policy that made sense to domestic constituents. Having spent years of his childhood in Paris, following his family’s move there, Mr. Blinken has ties to Europe that go beyond his ability to speak fluent French. He is expected to recommit America to NATO and has said the U.S. should turn to Europe as an ally of the first, not last, resort. In terms of his views and experience, Mr. Blinken is very much part of the Washington establishment. His positions include leading Mr. Biden’s staff on the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee (a body that played an important role in the signing of the U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Deal). Later, he served as National Security Adviser (NSA) to Mr. Biden (then Vice President) and as Deputy NSA to President Barack Obama. In 2017, Mr. Blinken founded WestExec (“a strategic advisory firm”) along with Michèle Flournoy — a possible candidate for Defence Secretary. As strategic consultants — rather than lobbyists — the firm’s disclosure requirements are less stringent and WestExec has not disclosed its client list. On India With regard to India, Mr. Blinken, like Mr. Biden, supports a view that the Indo-U.S. relationship should be the strongest of partnerships. In the climate change context, he has said — more than once — that no global challenge can be solved without India and the U.S. working together. He has also criticised President Donald Trump’s transactional approach towards India. A few months ago, Mr. Blinken told the Hundson Institute, a think tank, that the Biden administration would engage “frankly and directly” with India on topics such as the government’s actions in Kashmir (the dilution of Article 370 and associated restrictions) as well as legislation and policy related to citizenship. He has also identified China’s growing aggression (including along the Line of Actual Control) as a common challenge faced by the U.S. and India. In July, Mr. Blinken said China was “arguably the biggest challenge” America faces from another nation state, saying the relationship has adversarial, competitive but also cooperative aspects. He said Mr. Trump had helped China advance its own strategic goals by weakening international alliances and creating a leadership vacuum. While Mr. Biden may seek to bring America back to the world, that world has changed significantly in the last few years. This is not lost on Mr. Blinken, who has said the Biden administration would engage with the world not as it was “but as it is and as we anticipate it will become” with “rising powers” and “new actors super-empowered by technology and information, who we have to bring along if we’re going to make progress”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bidens-diplomat-in-chief/article33203474.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The city of the Prince||When Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu flew to Saudi Arabia to meet Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman last week, the location chosen for the secret rendezvous was Neom, the futuristic megacity being built under the Prince’s watch. Saudi authorities denied reports of the historic meeting, but unnamed officials in the Kingdom, Israel and the U.S., told the media that the leaders, in the presence of U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, discussed the possibility of normalising relations between the two countries and the challenges posed by Iran. The planned city along the Red Sea coast is emerging as the new centre of power in the Kingdom as Crown Prince Mohammed, popularly known as MBS, is largely running the government from there. Since the COVID-19 outbreak, he has been chairing the Cabinet meetings from Neom, where a palace has been built, using video links. In September, he hosted Jared Kushner, U.S. President Donald Trump’s son in law, in Neom. MBS unveiled the plan of building a city state on the northwestern coast of the kingdom months after becoming the Crown Prince in 2017. As part of the Vision 2030 plan, which seeks to diversify the Kingdom’s economy and reduce its dependency on oil, the $500-billion ambitious project plans to build a carbon-neutral, technologically advanced city state that can house up to 1 million people. The name Neom, a combination of Greek and Arabic words, means ‘new future’. “The future has a new home,” claims the Neom website. Flying cars, fake moon The Saudi government hired international consultancies such as Boston Consulting Group, McKinsey and Oliver Wyman to draw up plans for the city. According to the documents they prepared, which were leaked to the press, Neom, which is expected to be open for residents by 2025, will have flying cars, artificial rain generated through cloud seeding, a giant fake moon and robot dinosaurs once it is complete. The entire project, coming up on 26,500 square km of land in the Tabuk province (roughly the size of Belgium), is expected to be powered by clean energy resources. The autonomous city will have its own tax and labour laws and judicial system, independent from the existing governing system in Saudi Arabia. The city will have “a progressive legal system compatible with international norms and conducive to economic growth,” claims the website. MBS wants Neom to be “the largest city globally by GDP,” according to the planning documents. The first phase includes the construction of an airport and a resort. The airport has already been built, but Neom doesn’t give any update on the progress of constructions. In 2019, Saudi Arabia floated a company in the name of Neom. The company, wholly owned by the Public Investment Fund, Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund with an estimated asset of $383 billion, is to develop the city’s economic zone. While the initial investments will be made by the kingdom, the city needs large-scale international investments for the project to be completed in the planned scale. But both Saudi Arabia’s finances, which were already in trouble due to low oil prices, and its investment climate took a beating after the pandemic. While construction activities began, Neom ran into another trouble. The region where the city is being built is home to some 20,000 people, mostly from the Huwaitat tribe. Members of the tribe have been living on the Red Sea Coast spread over northwestern Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Egypt’s Sinai for generations. Saudi authorities faced resistance from the local population to taking over their land. Abdul Rahim al-Huwaiti, one of the outspoken critics of the project, had released several videos alleging the authorities were forcibly evicting the local people. In April this year, Abdul Rahim was killed by the police. Saudi authorities said he was killed in a shootout. Several others who were protesting against land acquisition were arrested. Despite the economic woes and controversies, Saudi officials say, Neom remains a top priority of MBS and that they are hopeful of completing the project by 2030. “It’s an attempt to do something that has never been done before,” says the company. The city is being built as a “living laboratory – a place where entrepreneurship and innovation will chart the course for this New Future”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-city-of-the-prince/article33203478.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. will talk to farmers in Burari: Home Minister||The Centre is quite willing to hold talks with farmers’ groups if they are prepared move away from the highway and shift to the designated protest site in Burari, Home Minister Amit Shah said late on Saturday. The farmers’ groups which are demanding a repeal of three agricultural reform laws said they would respond after internal consultations on Sunday morning. Mr. Shah’s statement is the highest official response to the protesters so far, and the first to offer negotiations before the scheduled talks with Punjab unions on December 3. It came after protesters decided to remain parked at the Haryana-Delhi border crossings at Singhu and Tikri, demanding a more visible protest location rather than being shunted off to Burari, in the northwestern corner of the city. Mr. Shah said that the Centre had already offered to talk to the farmers on December 3, but some unions had demanded that the meeting should be held earlier. “I want to assure that Government of India will be ready to talk to you the very next day after you [farmers] shift to Burari ground,” he said. He noted that farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country had been coming to the Delhi borders and have gathered on two major highways since Friday. “Farmers have to suffer a lot because of the cold weather and other commuters are also facing trouble. So, I want to appeal to my farmer brothers that the government has made adequate arrangements for you at Burari where you can continue the protest,” he said, in the official statement. “Food, toilets and medical facilities are available so that the farmers are not inconvenienced. They can protest in a democratic and peaceful manner with the permission of the Delhi Police,” he added Farmers groups say there is need for further internal consultation. “There will be a meeting of the Punjab farm unions at 8 a.m., and then the five-member coordination committee [of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha] will meet,” said K.V. Biju, a leader of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, one of the major farmers alliances participating in the protest. Earlier in the afternoon, the SKM had jointly decided not to shift to Burari on Saturday. “What the Government of India is keen on doing is to defend what it has already done. This is apparent from the fact that the government goes on saying that it will ‘explain’ the benefits to the farmers, without presenting any concrete agenda even once that they are fully ready to go back on what has been enacted,” said the farmers’ statement. Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey, who is acting as Agriculture Secretary until the month-end, told The Hindu on Saturday evening that the ball was now in the farmers’ court. “The government has now made it clear that we are open for talks. Where should these talks happen? Can they happen on the highway?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-will-talk-to-farmers-in-burari-home-minister/article33203451.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||India to host SCO summit tomorrow||India will host the Heads of Government Council meeting of the eight-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on Monday, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not attend the meeting, which will be chaired by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu instead. According to a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs, the Prime Ministers of China, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstan will attend the virtual conference. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has also decided to miss the meeting, deputing his Parliamentary Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Andleeb Abbas, in his place. “It will be the first time that a summit-level meeting will be held under India’s chairmanship, since it gained full membership of the organisation in 2017,” the MEA statement read. “This summit is held annually at the level of Prime Ministers of SCO and deals primarily with the trade and economic agenda of the organisation,” it added. PM in Varanasi Mr. Modi is expected to spend the day in Varanasi, his Parliamentary constituency instead. Officials explained that while the SCO Heads of Government Council consists of Prime Ministers, Mr. Modi had been deputing others for the event in previous years as well, with the External Affairs Minister attending the SCO HoG meets in 2017 and 2018, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh filling in for the PM in 2019. They also pointed out that Mr. Modi had already attended the SCO Heads of State meeting in November, which is normally held at the presidential-level. Mr. Khan, too, had attended the meeting, chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin. One of the reasons, sources cited, is that as parliamentary democracies, the presidential positions in India and Pakistan are “ceremonial” in nature, and the Prime Minister’s position is more equivalent to that of the President in the other SCO member countries. India-Pakistan tensions Moreover, tensions between India and Pakistan, which have played out in previous meetings, may have played a part in Mr. Khan’s decision to decline the invitation from India. During the SCO meeting of the National Security Advisers, NSA Ajit Doval had walked out of the videoconference over his Pakistani counterpart’s decision to use a Pakistani map claiming Indian territories as his backdrop. Significantly, tensions between India and China have not spilled over into the SCO meetings thus far, and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had even held bilateral meetings with their Chinese counterparts during visits to Moscow for the SCO Ministerial meetings in September. Apart from the eight member states, the meeting will be attended by four observer states of the SCO. President of Afghanistan Ashraf Ghani will attend along with the First Vice-President of Iran, the Prime Minister of Belarus and the Deputy Prime Minister of Mongolia. Turkmenistan has been invited as a special guest by India and will be represented by the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers. “By chairing the 19th meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government on 30 November, India hopes to further strengthen greater trade, economic and cultural cooperation within SCO by putting human beings at the centre of SCO activities and to foster greater peace and prosperity in the region,” the MEA statement said, adding that India will present initiatives for overcoming the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-host-sco-heads-of-govt-meeting-modi-imran-to-skip/article33203546.ece
29 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||T.N.’s tally inching towards 8-lakh mark||Kerala reported 6,250 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday from 63,983 samples. The test positivity rate was 9.77% on Saturday, remaining in the 9-11% range seen over two weeks. The official COVID toll rose to 2,196 with 25 more deaths added by the State Health department. Six deaths were reported from Alappuzha, five each from Ernakulam and Thrissur, four each from Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram and one case from Kottayam. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported 812 cases, Kozhikode 714, Malappuram 680, Thrissur 647, Kottayam 629, Palakkad 491, Thiruvananthapuram 488, Kollam 458, Kannur 315, Alappuzha 309, Wayanad 251, Idukki 178, Pathanamthitta 141 and Kasaragod 137 cases. Andhra Pradesh reported 625 new infections and five deaths on Saturday. It was the second lowest single-day tally in five months. In the past day, 49,348 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 1.27%. The overall positivity rate stood at 8.70%. Only three districts reported fresh deaths. Krishna and West Godavari reported two deaths each and Visakhapatnam, one death. Krishna district again topped single-day incidence with 103 cases. The district-level infection data were: West Godavari (93), Visakhapatnam (88), Guntur (68), Chittoor (61), East Godavari (54), Vizianagaram (29), Prakasam (27), Nellore (24), Kurnool (22), Anantapur (21), Kadapa (19) and Srikakulam (16). Karnataka on Saturday reported 1,522 new cases and 12 deaths. Of 24,757 active patients, 384 were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.37%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.78%. Bengaluru Urban district reported 719 cases. With seven deaths reported from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 4,121. Active cases in the urban area touched 18,366. The State’s testing level stood at 1,10,724 samples, including 92,724 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total tests rose to 1,09,14,872. 1,430 cases in T.N. Tamil Nadu reported 1,430 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, taking its overall tally to 7,79,046. Seven districts, including Chennai, account for a little over 60% of the new cases. So far, a total of 7,56,279 persons were discharged after treatment for COVID-19.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/infections-test-positivity-low-in-ap/article33203441.ece
29 November 2020||COLOMBO,||Neighbours agree on intel sharing||India, Sri Lanka and the Maldives on Saturday agreed to expand the scope of intelligence sharing, including terrorism and cyber security, after a meet in which they discussed “common security threats”. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who arrived in Colombo on Friday, called on Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa on Saturday and participated in the discussions with the Indian Ocean neighbours. Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Ahmed Didi arrived in Colombo for the meeting while the Sri Lankan side was represented by Kamal Gunaratne, Secretary, Ministry of Defence. Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena addressed the participants as the chief guest, a tweet from the Indian High Commission said. Mauritius and Seychelles were represented virtually at the senior officials’ level. Revived after six years In a joint statement following the meeting, Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Defence said the 4th National Security Adviser-level trilateral Maritime Security Cooperation meeting — the practice has been revived after a six-year gap — sought to promote meaningful cooperation in the Indian Ocean Region, with focus on common issues pertaining to maritime security. The three countries also exchanged views on common security threats and agreed to broad-base cooperation by expanding the scope to improve intelligence sharing and include issues like terrorism, radicalisation, extremism, drugs, arms and human trafficking, money laundering, cyber security and effect of climate change on maritime environment, according to the statement. Mr. Doval also held bilateral discussions with Ms. Didi and with Sri Lankan officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sri-lanka-maldives-to-improve-intel-sharing/article33203467.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘SC-appointed panel expanding territory’||The Central government has accused the Supreme Court-appointing monitoring committee, set up in 2006 to identify unauthorised structures and check misuse of residential properties in Delhi, of “expanding its territory on its own”. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the “monitoring committee has on its own expanded its own territory and started sealing residential premises without prior notice”. Mr. Mehta faulted the committee for showing the “audacity” to criticise a Supreme Court judgment of August 14. The judgment had concluded that the monitoring committee was acting in excess of its powers. Aug. judgment The 70-page judgment in August, pronounced by a three-judge Bench headed by Justice (now retired) Arun Mishra, had found that the committee had no authorisation to seal private residential premises not used for commercial purposes in the national capital. The Constitution mandates that a person can be deprived of property and right of residence only in the manner prescribed by law, the court had noted. The judgment was based on a challenge to a report submitted by the committee on the sealing of residential buildings in Vasant Kunj and Rajokari. It had said the committee usurped statutory powers while directing the demolition of these buildings. Mr. Mehta said the committee has consistently tried to convey to the court that none of the local bodies do any work and that that they are “hand in glove” with builders. However, Mr. Mehta said, the authorities have already set up a task force. He argued that the sealing of residential buildings was beyond the jurisdiction of the monitoring committee. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, who withdrew as amicus curiae at the end of the hearing, countered that review petitions have been filed against the August judgment. “Unauthorised constructions are a source of pollution. Haphazard growth creates more problems,” Mr. Kumar reasoned. The monitoring committee, comprising K.J. Rao, former adviser to the Election Commissioner, Bhure Lal, chairman of Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, and Major General (Retd) S.P. Jhingon, was set up on March 24, 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-appointed-panel-expanding-territory/article33203951.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI/NEW DELHI,||Vaccine volunteer sues SII, Oxford Group||A 40-year-old volunteer for ‘Covishield’, the candidate vaccine being tested by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), has sued the company for Rs. 5 crore, alleging that the vaccine triggered an adverse reaction, which includes neurological impairment and an inability to get back to the life before being inoculated. He has also demanded, via a legal notice sent to the SII, AstraZeneca and the Oxford Vaccine Group, that the vaccine trial, which is now being tested on 1,600 volunteers in India, be immediately halted. The person’s discharge summary says he was “discharged at request” and was recovering from “acute encephalopathy”. He also had Vitamin B12 and Vitamin D deficiency, and had a probable “connective tissue disorder”. S.R. Ramakrishnan, who was the lead investigator for the Chennai arm of the trial and had treated the patient, told The Hindu that the “subject was now all right”. The doctor directed further questions to the Serum Institute spokesperson. “He recovered very well and we treated him as per protocol and he even came back for a follow-up. All the expenses were borne by the hospital,” he said. The hospital’s institutional ethics committee had given a letter that said the adverse reaction was not due to the study vaccine, and this was also communicated to the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI), the apex regulator, Dr. Ramakrishnan said. He said the recruitment of volunteers for the trial had already concluded but his hospital had not since received any communication from the DCGI. When contacted, an SII spokesperson did not offer additional comment.  The Hindu reached out to the person’s wife, who said her husband had signed up for the trial in the “spirit of public service”. The person was enrolled for the third phase of the human trial at the Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai. She said the multiple “categorical assertions”— made in the participant information sheet — that the vaccine was safe and did not cause serious reactions had “convinced him” that it was “safe”. To be sure, clinical trials are conducted, usually via a three-stage process, to verify if they indeed are safe, result in the desired immune reaction, and are efficacious. Informed consent The volunteer, who signed the ‘Informed Consent Form’ on September 29, 2020, was administered a test for antibodies against COVID-19 to rule out prior infection, and received a vaccine shot on October 1. The Covishield vaccine is a double dose vaccine trial, with some volunteers getting an actual vaccine and some a placebo, 28 days apart. A test 11 days later revealed the presence of antibodies, “proof” that the person had indeed received the vaccine and not a placebo. Ten days after the shot, he complained of a severe headache, followed by vomiting that confined him to the bed for the rest of the day. His wife, according to the legal notice, said there was a total “behavioural change” in her husband and he seemed unaware of his surroundings. “He showed irritation towards light and sound, and was resisting any effort to make him get up from bed,” the notice says. He was taken in an ambulance to the emergency ward of the Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Hospital. The hospital’s discharge summary, which The Hindu has viewed, notes that he was “in an altered mental state” and was “disoriented”. During his hospitalisation from the October 11 to 26, he underwent a CT scan, an MRI and a COVID-19 test, and even his cerebrospinal fluid was examined. The patient’s wife told The Hindu that her husband has not entirely recovered. “We are consulting another neurologist at the Apollo Hospital and his tests confirm dysfunction in his brain. He is recovering slowly and is better than what he was [in October] but he is unable to work as before,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-volunteer-sues-sii-oxford-group/article33203460.ece
29 November 2020||Kolkata,||Political scene heats up in West Bengal||West Bengal witnessed hectic political activity, along with a war of words among political parties on Saturday, a day after Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the State Cabinet. At least six party offices of the Trinamool in Purba Medinipur district were attacked hours after Mr. Adhikari quit. Local party leaders said the supporters of Mr. Adhikari were behind the attacks. At some places, the flags at the party offices were replaced by BJP flags. Mr. Adhikari, who hails from Purba Medinipur, is expected to hold a rally on Sunday at Mahisadal. Trinamool sources said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee would visit Purba Medinipur and address a rally in the district in the first week of December. Senior Trinamool leader Saugata Ray, MP, said, “Doors are still open for talks with Suvendu. I am hopeful of a dialogue between him and the party leadership.” The MP called up to seek details of Mr. Adhikari’s ailing mother. Trinamool MLA Mihir Goswami, who joined the BJP on Friday, met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. Mr. Goswami, who represents the Coochbehar Dakshin Assembly seat, alleged that the Trinamool had become a party of “power-hungry people who are not keen about welfare of the people”. BJP State president Dilip Ghosh said Trinamool MLAs and Ministers had lost faith in the Mamata Banerjee government. “The government has failed in disaster management in the State and now the Chief Minister is busy with the disaster management of the party. Now, such meetings will be more frequent as many have lined up to join the BJP,” Mr. Ghosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/political-scene-heats-up-in-west-bengal/article33203446.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI searches 45 places in coal case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Saturday searched 45 locations in four States in connection with the illegal mining and theft of coal from Kunustoria and Majora collieries in West Bengal’s West Burdwan. One of the accused persons suffered a heart attack and was declared dead at a hospital in Asansol. “The searches were carried out in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Electronic devices, records of financial transactions and about Rs. 41 lakh in cash were seized,” said a CBI official. Both the collieries come under the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL). Massive network Among those named in the FIR registered on Friday is alleged coal mafia leader Anup Maji aka Lala, who had been active for the past several years and had built a huge network with his associates. He is also said to have strong political links. The other accused persons are two ECL general managers, Amit Kumar Dhar (then of Kunustoria area) and Jayesh Chandra Rai (Kajora area); chief of security (Asansol) Tanmay Das; area security inspector (Kunustoria) Dhananjay Rai, who passed away; and security in-charge (Kajora area) Debashish Mukherjee. More officials under lens Unknown officials of the Railways and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) are also under the scanner for facilitating theft and transportation of coal.  The CBI move is said to be a part of the crackdown on the coal mafia in the eastern region by multiple enforcement agencies over the past few weeks. On November 4, the Income-Tax Department conducted searches in the same matter and seized a huge pile of documents, revealing details of transactions related to illegal coal mining and transportation. The Enforcement Directorate is also being roped in. According to the FIR registered by the CBI, the allegation pertains to illegal excavation and theft of coal by criminal elements from the leasehold area of ECL in connivance with the officials of the ECL, the CISF, Railways and other departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-searches-45-places-in-coal-case/article33203458.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Green light for semi-high-speed train line||The Kerala government has informed the NITI Aayog that the 529.45 km semi-high-speed rail SilverLine from Kochuveli to Kasaragod, estimated to cost Rs. 63,941 crore, is “viable and feasible”, and that the cost per kilometre of Rs. 120.77 crore for laying the corridor is “reasonable”. In a 17-page reply to queries raised by the NITI Aayog on the project awaiting Central clearance, the government said the public-private partnership component of the joint venture between the Indian Railways and Kerala would be “improved” and that the “equity cash contribution” of Railways had been brought down from Rs. 7,720 crore to Rs. 2,150 crore. Terming the cost of SilverLine “realistic”, the government said 70% of the alignment traversed “at grade” (the same level) compared with the 100% alignment via viaduct and tunnels of other projects. Among the measures adopted to reduce the cost were alignment through vacant land or least populated villages; 10 stations at the rate of 1.87 in 100 km; stone ballast for 475 km of track; modern technology for designing embankments on soft soil; and pre-cast construction for viaducts and bridges. By going for “at grade” alignment instead of the initial proposal of an elevated corridor, the cost had been brought down from Rs. 91,500 crore to Rs. 63,941 crore. On the concerns of NITI Aayog over cost of land acquisition and displacement, the government said costlier and built-up areas had been avoided. The cost of land along the National Highway and through interior areas was Rs. 18 crore per hectare and Rs. 9 crore per hectare respectively, which was justified. The process of granting administrative sanction for land acquisition had commenced and 80% of land would be acquired within 18 months, and the balance within the construction phase. The detailed project report (DPR) had been prepared. Maximum possible revenue generation would be explored and modes adopted by the Kochi Metro would be looked into. The project was self-sustainable, the government submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/green-light-for-semi-high-speed-train-line/article33203427.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Yediyurappa’s political secretary recovering; case booked||N.R. Santosh, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s political secretary and grand nephew, who is being treated at MS Ramaiah Hospital after an alleged attempt to end his life, is recovering and stable, a statement from the hospital said. He was admitted after he consumed an excess amount of sleeping pills on Friday night. “He may be discharged in a day or two,” the statement said. Meanwhile, the Sadashivanagar police have registered a case against him under Section 309 of Indian Penal Code for “attempt to suicide”. “We have taken up an investigation. We will know the reason behind his action only after we record his statement,” said a senior police official handling the case. Mr. Yediyurappa, who visited him at the hospital on Friday night, said he would look into what had pushed him to take such a step and “help him solve any issues” once discharged. Mr. Santosh’s attempt to end his life has triggered speculations as to what drove him to it. He had played a key role in toppling the the JD(S)-Congress coalition government and bringing Mr. Yediyurappa to power, but had reportedly fallen out with Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra later. However, he made a comeback and was appointed the Chief Minister’s political secretary in May this year. Things went sour again and Mr. Santosh had been asked to relinquish his post, sources said. Mr. Vijayendra, however, has denied these reports and said he had no differences with Mr. Santosh. On the other hand, sources in the Chief Minister’s family pointed out that Mr. Santosh had marital differences and his wife had also approached the police earlier over domestic abuse. However, his wife Jahnavi, speaking to media persons on Saturday morning, denied they had any differences. “He was under tremendous pressure over the recent political disturbances,” she said. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar sought to link this to an earlier incident involving a controversial video. In April 2019, senior BJP Minister K.S. Eshwarappa’s then personal assistant Vinay N.S. had sought protection from the Amrutahalli police alleging threat to his life from Mr. Yediyurappa, as he “possessed documents, a pendrive and CD that could ruin his career”. He had also alleged a few rowdies had tried to kidnap him in 2017 at the behest of Mr. Santosh. Meanwhile Mr. Eshwarappa shot back on being questioned over the issue. “Why are you questioning me over someone’s attempt to end his life? There are over a crore BJP workers in this State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yediyurappas-political-secretary-recovering-case-booked/article33203421.ece
29 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha forms SIT to probe killing of 5-year-old||The Odisha government on Saturday constituted a special investigation team to probe the kidnapping and murder of five-year-old girl in Nayagarh district and requested Orissa High Court to appoint a sitting judge to monitor the probe. The five-member SIT is headed by IG of police Arun Botha and four senior CID officers, a notification issued by the Home Department said. The State government constituted the SIT as per Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik’s announcement in the Assembly on Friday. The team will probe into the case of the girl going missing from her home at Jadupur village in Nayagarh district on Juky 23. The incident came to light four months later when the girl’s parents arrived in front of the Assembly gate on Tuesday. A case was registered at Nayagarh sadar police station. The Opposition BJP and Congress MLAs disrupted the proceedings of the Odisha Assembly for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday over the kidnapping and murder case. The issue was raised in the Assembly by Congress leader Narasingha Mishra as soon as the House assembled for the day. The BJP members reiterated their demand for removal of Agriculture Minister Arun Kumar Sahoo from the Cabinet as his role in providing protection to the main accused in the case is not clear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-forms-sit-to-probe-killing-of-5-year-old/article33203952.ece
29 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Dip and drink, it’s no garden variety tea||Tea in Assam took more than a century to shed its “orthodoxy” and take a granular form. A team of researcher-entrepreneurs has now made it take the shape of a leaf in a teacup. In 2015, childhood friends Upamanyu Borkakoty and Anshuman Bharali formed The Tea Leaf Theory (TTLT), a research-based tea sourcing platform for small organic tea farmers. Their experiments for almost two years have yielded Truedips, a patent-pending technology that helps to compress freshly plucked leaves and tie them in a bunch for unfurling into their actual form in boiling water. In August, they applied for a patent for their technology that had taken off from where another experiment to take the bitterness out of Indian green tea had ended. They launched the product a few days ago through Woolah Tea, TTLT’s post-pandemic retail wing. Woolah is the anglicised version of ulah , an Assamese word meaning happiness. “The specialty tea market has premium and luxury brands. We wanted to build a happy, fun, quirky and contemporary brand in the world of organic teas, and the first step was to ditch the conventional tea bags, most of which release harmful micro-plastic particles when dipped,” Mr. Borkakoty told The Hindu . Brewing a sachet of hand-crafted whole leaves is simple, he said. “One just needs to pour boiling water over the leaves in a cup and let them take their true shape after four and five minutes of dipping. The same bunch can be used for a few cups more by adding boiling water,” he said. The TTLT team had worked on an ancient Chinese technique of producing compressed tea cakes. But it invariably did not leave the leaves intact like Assam’s orthodox tea — leaves rolled into irregular, elongated shape. “The idea was to let consumers see what they sip, the finest quality of two leaves and a bud (unopened leaf at the tip of a branch) in their pristine state, without being encased in potentially harmful tea bags,” Mr. Borkakoty said. Prior to the new technique, TTLT had applied for a patent for a one-second tea that needs a steep investment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dip-and-drink-its-no-garden-variety-tea/article33203463.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||No nod for contempt case against Bhushan||Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal has declined consent to a request to initiate contempt proceedings against advocate Prashant Bhushan for his “ prima facie contumacious” tweets concerning a visit made by the Chief Justice of India to the Kanha National Park in Madhya Pradesh, saying the lawyer later expressed his regret for the error on Twitter. Mr. Venugopal’s letter was addressed to advocate Sunil Kumar Singh, who had complained about Mr. Bhushan’s tweets to the effect that the CJI had committed “an act of impropriety in accepting facilities of the State of Madhya Pradesh during his visit to the Kanha National Park while a case pertaining to the disqualification of certain members of the Legislative Assembly of the State was pending before him”. Mr. Venugopal, in his letter to Mr. Singh on November 8, said the tweets were “wholly unwarranted, improper, devoid of legal basis and prima facie contumacious”. Mr. Venugopal said the CJI was one of the highest constitutional functionaries. The CJI was a State guest, and was entitled to receive protocol facilities and appropriate security. Mr. Venugopal said he was “initially of the mind to grant consent to initiate contempt”, but Mr. Bhushan, learning that a request has been made before the Attorney-General for consent and realising his mistake of connecting the facilities provided to the CJI to the “survival of the government”, tweeted his regret on November 4. On the same day, the disqualification case in the top court was withdrawn by the petitioner, through senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for having become infructuous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-nod-for-contempt-case-against-bhushan/article33203444.ece
29 November 2020||COLOMBO,||Doval, Gotabaya discuss investments||National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who met Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Saturday, discussed key bilateral issues including Indian investments and regional security, in a one-on-one discussion that comes amid a heightening geopolitical contest in the island nation. Following the meeting on Saturday evening, Mr. Rajapaksa tweeted: “Had a fruitful discussion with Shri @Ajitdovalkumar, NSA #India this evening. National Sec, Sec in the Indian Ocean, new Indian investments, continuation of infrastructure proj. & strengthening bilateral relations between #SriLanka & #India were the areas discussed at the meeting.” The meeting was held on the sidelines of the 4th National Security Adviser-level Maritime Security Cooperation discussion among India, Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Mr. Doval’s meeting with President Rajapaksa spanned over an hour, official sources told The Hindu . It assumes significance amid Colombo’s heightened diplomatic engagement with Beijing, focussed on Sri Lanka’s economic recovery since COVID-19 struck, including a request for $1 billion in loans this year. Key terminal project The discussion also comes amid persisting resistance, from some aligned to the Rajapaksa government and from port worker unions, to Indian involvement in developing the East Container Terminal at the Colombo Port that Sri Lanka, India and Japan had agreed to jointly develop, when the former Sirisena administration was in power. India has been keen on getting the project — at the strategically located Colombo Port — going. Mr. Doval called on Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and held talks with Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Ahmed Didi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doval-gotabaya-talk-investments/article33203465.ece
29 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Nod awaited for probe against Chennithala||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) appears to have laid the ground for a preliminary anti-corruption inquiry against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. The Kerala Congress has slammed the move as an election-era political stunt and witch-hunt. The VACB had conducted a ‘confidential inquiry’ into the allegation that the Kerala Bar Hotel Association (KBHA) had bribed Mr. Chennithala and two Congress Ministers in the previous Oommen Chandy government to roll back a proposed bar licence fee hike. Mr. Chennithala was the president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) at the time. The inquiry had also targeted former Excise Minister K. Babu and former Health Minister V.S. Sivakumar. Based on its findings, the VACB has sought the permission of the government to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the accusations. The government would have to seek the consent of Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan to authorise such a move. Mr. Chennithala said the Kerala Loka Ayukta and the court had thrown out ‘baseless charges’ against him and his party colleagues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-awaited-for-probe-against-chennithala/article33203429.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||India to host SCO summit tomorrow||Apart from the eight member states, the meeting will be attended by four observer states of the SCO. President of Afghanistan Ashraf Ghani will attend along with the First Vice-President of Iran, the Prime Minister of Belarus and the Deputy Prime Minister of Mongolia. Turkmenistan has been invited as a special guest by India and will be represented by the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers. “By chairing the 19th meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government on 30 November, India hopes to further strengthen greater trade, economic and cultural cooperation within SCO by putting human beings at the centre of SCO activities and to foster greater peace and prosperity in the region,” the MEA statement said, adding that India will present initiatives for overcoming the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-host-sco-summit-tomorrow/article33203949.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||India to host SCO meet; Modi, Imran to skip||India will host the Heads of Government council meeting of the eight-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation on Monday, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not attend the meeting, which will be chaired by Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu instead. According to a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs, the Prime Ministers of China, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstan will attend the virtual conference. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has also decided to miss the meeting, deputing his Parliamentary Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Andleeb Abbas, in his place. “It will be the first time that a Summit-level Meeting will be held under India’s Chairmanship, since it gained full-membership of the organisation in 2017,” the statement read. “This Summit is held annually at the level of Prime Ministers of SCO and deals primarily with the trade and economic agenda of the organisation.”   Mr. Modi is expected to spend the day in Varanasi, his Parliamentary constituency instead. Officials explained that while the SCO Heads of Government Council consists of Prime Ministers, Mr. Modi had been deputing others for the event in previous years as well, with the External Affairs Minister attending the SCO HoG meets in 2017 and 2018, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh filling in for the PM in 2019. They also pointed out that Mr. Modi had already attended the SCO Heads of State meeting in November, which is normally held at the presidential-level. Mr. Khan, too, had attended the meeting, chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin. One of the reasons, sources cited, is that as parliamentary democracies, the presidential positions in India and Pakistan are “ceremonial” in nature, and the Prime Minister’s position is more equivalent to that of the President in the other SCO member countries. Moreover, tensions between India and Pakistan, which have played out in previous meetings, may have played a part in Mr. Khan’s decision to decline the invitation from India. During the SCO meeting of the National Security Advisers, NSA Ajit Doval had walked out of the videoconference over his Pakistani counterpart’s decision to use a Pakistani map claiming Indian territories as his backdrop. Significantly, tensions between India and China have not spilled over into the SCO meetings thus far, and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had even held bilateral meetings with their Chinese counterparts during visits to Moscow for the SCO Ministerial meetings in September. Apart from the eight member States, the meeting will be attended by four observer states of the SCO. President of Afghanistan Ashraf Ghani will attend along with the First Vice-President of Iran, the Prime Minister of Belarus and the Deputy Prime Minister of Mongolia. Turkmenistan has been invited as a special guest by India and will be represented by the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-host-sco-meet-modi-imran-to-skip/article33203438.ece
29 November 2020||Mangaluru,||Will table Bill on ‘love jihad,’ says BJP leader||Bharatiya Janata Party State president Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Saturday that the State government would push for a Bill to curb “love jihad” in Karnataka in the next Legislative Assembly session. Addressing a Gram Swaraj convention of the party on B.C. Road here, he said the government would also reintroduce the Bill to ban cow slaughter in the State. BJP leaders in the State have been pushing for a law to put a stop to “conversions for the sake of marriage”. The party has also repeated spoken about banning cow slaughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-table-bill-on-love-jihad/article33203650.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition wants PM to speak to farmers||Opposition leaders from across the political spectrum on Saturday targeted the Narendra Modi government for its handling of the ongoing farmers’ protests, with the Congress asking the Prime Minister to talk to the agitating farmers instead of “getting himself photographed at corporate offices”. In a joint statement, senior Opposition leaders of eight political parties, including Sharad Pawar (Nationalist Congress Party), T.R. Baalu (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam), Sitaram Yechury (Communist Party India-Marxist), D. Raja (Communist Party of India) and Manoj Jha (Rashtriya Janata Dal), among others, described the Centre’s response as “akin to waging war against the farmers”. Sharing a photograph of an old farmer facing the baton of a paramilitary/police personnel on his Twitter handle, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said farmers were paying the price for Mr. Modi’s arrogance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-wants-pm-to-speak-to-farmers/article33203454.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||PM takes stock of vaccine development by 3 firms||The company had commenced the Phase 2 clinical trials of its vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D, in August. Zydus Cadila chairman Pankaj Patel recently said the company was aiming to complete the vaccine trial by March 2021, and could produce up to 100 million doses a year. “Visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to know more about the indigenous DNA-based vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadila. Government of India is actively working with them to support them in this journey,” Mr. Modi tweeted. He next visited Bharat Biotech’s manufacturing facility in Genome Valley, Hyderabad, which is now testing ‘Covaxin’, a candidate developed based on an inactivated strain sourced from the Indian Council of Medical Research, which is being tested on 26,000 volunteers. The company said the Prime Minister’s visit “serves as a great inspiration to our team, and further reinforces our commitment towards scientific discovery”. In the final leg of his tour, Mr. Modi visited the facilities of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune. SII, which has partnered with pharma major AstraZeneca and Oxford University, will be applying in the next two weeks for an emergency licence to permit the use of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine, CEO Adar Poonawalla said.  (With inputs from Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-takes-stock-of-vaccine-development-by-3-firms/article33203436.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We are prepared to stay at Delhi border for 6 months’||At the border, a group of young girls from different universities and student bodies in Punjab and Haryana have also joined the movement, and they sing revolutionary songs. Arpan, 29, member of a student body called Bekhauf Azadi, said their songs depicted the plight of the farmers. “These laws affect our families and indirectly affect us… our education,” she said. “My parents haven’t come here and I have come with my group. My parents support me in coming here for the cause because they are also farmers,” said Jaspreer Kaur, 28, a Ph.D scholar from Punjab University. At Singhu, one of the two border points where farmers have gathered (the other being the Tikri border), Hardev Singh Babbar, 40, a farmer from Mohali, ensured that no one crossed over or tried to create nuisance where the police had installed barricades. “They [the police] are there, we are here. Both sides don’t interfere with each other. Everything is peaceful,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-prepared-to-stay-at-delhi-border-for-6-months/article33203435.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Power cuts leave Kashmir’s COVID-19 patients gasping||Kashmir Valley managed the pandemic’s peak earlier this year by nursing hundreds of patients at home. Virtual COVID-19 clinics run through WhatsApp groups helped the affected population recuperate at home, with timely medication and oxygen supply, aided by NGOs. “Home management has become tougher. I advise patients to keep generators handy and lend them to needy people too,” Dr. Nasir Shamas, a physician at Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Hospital and a volunteer at a virtual WhatsApp clinic, said. Doctors at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital in Srinagar also pointed to a different COVID-19 case trend in the winter. “Earlier, cluster cases would come from weddings and funerals, but they are now coming from large families forced to function from a single well-insulated room due to power cuts,” a doctor said. Official figures put the number of active cases at 5,236 on November 27. Hundreds were being treated at home, but government hospitals are again staring at grim patient numbers. “As the domestic oxygen concentrators are not effective enough to maintain saturation of 90% and patients don’t get domiciliary oxygen due to the power situation, they come to government hospitals with complications,” Dr. Qazi Haroon, nodal officer for COVID-19 in the Kashmir Directorate of Health Services, said. Official data say, against the demand of 1,800 megawatts (MW) J&K manages to procure less than 1,100 MW of power and the cuts are the worst in the past one decade. NGOs losing battle NGOs Ehsaas and Athrout Kashmir, at the forefront of supplying oxygen cylinders and concentrators to the needy, see themselves up against a wall. “Due to voltage drop, five of our concentrators broke down. This winter, power cuts have sounded the death knell. An oxygen cylinder does not last for many hours. The situation is grim. We attend to dozens of calls asking for oxygen concentrators,” Yasir Khan, general secretary, Ehsaas, said. Our ‘dial a doctor' initiative, where Kashmiri doctors living abroad help COVID-19 patients free, will also become ineffective without electricity. he said. Bulk cylinders “We are trying to give bulk cylinders to people in need but that won’t suffice. We have seen patients’ situation worsening without oxygen,” Mr. Khan said, whose NGO managed 323 oxygen dependent patients over the past two months. “I think people also need to avoid too many room-heaters. It will save lives,” he added. Athrout Kashmir has helped over 3,500 COVID-19 patients through tele-consultation and by providing oxygen concentrators. Since the pandemic broke out in March, J&K has officially recorded 1.08 lakh patients, and 1,676 deaths. “Around 7,82,712 persons were enlisted for observation, which included 20,275 in home quarantine and 43,432 under home surveillance,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/power-cuts-leave-kashmirs-covid-19-patients-gasping/article33203437.ece
29 November 2020||KOCHI,||ED likely to quiz Pinarayi’s private secretary next week||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is likely to question C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, early next week as part of its probe into the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The agency is expected to serve a notice for the third time on Mr. Raveendran on Monday after he failed to turn up at its office here twice. A day after issuing the notice asking him to appear on November 6, Mr. Raveendran informed the investigating team that he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The ED received a communication from him last week stating that he tested negative. The agency served a second notice on him to appear for questioning on Friday. However, Mr. Raveendran did not turn up after he was admitted at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, citing follow-up treatment. He was reportedly discharged from the hospital on Friday amidst criticism from the Opposition that he was evading interrogation. The agency wanted to quiz Mr. Raveendran following the arrest and subsequent interrogation of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-likely-to-quiz-pinarayis-private-secretary-next-week/article33203433.ece
29 November 2020||Lucknow,||Will oppose conversion Bill, says Akhilesh||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said his party will oppose the State government’s Bill on religious conversions when placed in the Assembly for passage. The State Cabinet earlier this week gave nod to the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 to curb forcible or dishonest religious conversions, including those for the sake of marriage. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel gave assent to the ordinance on Saturday. Now, it will be presented in the State Legislature for passage. Commenting on it, Mr. Yadav told reporters, “The Samajwadi Party is not in favour of any such law. We will oppose it (when it comes to the Assembly).” He also sought to know its relevance when the State has schemes to encourage intercaste and interfaith marriages. “The government does not want to debate on more important issues due to which it brought the ordinance,” he said, alleging that it is creating hatred and chasm in society. The SP president also extended support to the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws. “The betterment of farmers cannot be ensured through laws. It will happen only when the government comes forward and provides them with the right price of their produce,” he said. Mr. Yadav alleged, “No other government has committed as many atrocities on farmers as this government is doing. This treatment is being meted out by those who had promised to double their income.” He also asked when the Centre is going to bring a law to double farmers’ income and provide employment to the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-oppose-bill-on-conversion-says-akhilesh/article33203751.ece
29 November 2020||Lucknow,||Nod for U.P. conversion ordinance||Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel promulgated an ordinance on unlawful conversion days after it was passed by the Yogi Adityanath cabinet, officials said on Saturday. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was cleared by the State Cabinet earlier this week and promulgated on November 27. The ordinance makes religious conversion a cognisable and non-bailable offence, inviting penalties of up to 10 years in prison if found to be effected for marriage or through misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or other allegedly fraudulent means. Violation of the provisions of the law would invite a jail term of not less than one year, extendable to five years, with a fine of Rs. 15,000. However, if a minor, a woman or person belonging to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribes communities was converted through the said unlawful means, the jail term would be a minimum of three years and could be extended to 10 years with a fine of Rs. 25,000. Mass conversions would invite a jail term of not less than three years and up to 10 years and a fine of Rs. 50,000. The court shall also grant compensation payable by the accused to the victim of said conversion, which may extend to a maximum of Rs. 5 lakh, said the ordinance. It says any marriage done with the sole purpose of “unlawful conversion or vice-versa” by a man of one religion with a woman of another religion, “either by converting himself/herself before or after marriage, or by converting the woman before or after shall be declared void”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governor-okays-up-conversion-ordinance/article33203443.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||Pawan Bansal made Cong. interim treasurer||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday appointed former union minister Pawan Bansal an interim treasurer of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) following the demise of Ahmed Patel. Mr. Bansal, who is now in charge of AICC administration, will assume responsibility with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawan-bansal-made-cong-interim-treasurer/article33203447.ece
29 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Shiny stones in Nagaland may be quartz’||The sparkling stones that triggered a ‘diamond’ rush in Nagaland’s Mon district in the last few days could be quartz, a preliminary finding by a team of geologists has revealed. A farmer in the district’s Wanching village on November 25 stumbled upon a crystalline stone while digging a patch. It set off a digging frenzy as people from the village and beyond tried to lay their hands on what they thought were diamonds. The team from the State’s Geology and Mining Department reached the village, about 350 km from State capital Kohima, on Friday night. “According to their preliminary study, the stones are quartz,” Mon’s Deputy Commissioner Thavaseelan K. told The Hindu . “The team is taking samples for further analysis,” he added. Mr. Thavaseelan did not rule out the possibility of a large deposit of the crystals beneath Wanching and adjoining areas. “Almost everyone has a stone,” he said. Quartz is a hard, crystalline mineral composed of silicon and oxygen atoms. Some of the varieties are semi-precious stones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shiny-stones-in-nagaland-may-be-quartz/article33203472.ece
29 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Surveillance scaled up to monitor ‘elusive’ tiger||As part of intensive efforts to monitor the movement of the elusive tiger, the pug marks of which were last spotted in Mondikunta forest area in Aswapuram mandal, the forest sleuths have scaled up surveillance in the Mondikunta forest beat and its adjoining forest fringe areas in Manuguru mandal on Saturday. The pug marks of the elusive tiger were first noticed at a remote tribal habitation near Rangapuram in Gundala mandal over a week ago. Since then, forest sleuths split into several teams started scouring the forest areas straddling the inter-district border with Mahabubabad and Mulugu districts to track its movement. Camera traps have been set up at multiple locations in Kinnerasani wildlife sanctuary limits and other reserve forest areas in the district as part of the stepped-up vigil. An awareness campaign has also been launched by forest staff in the habitations located close to the belt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/surveillance-scaled-up-to-monitor-elusive-tiger/article33203759.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches Rs. 27.86-crore assets linked to former IAS officer Babulal Agrawal||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 27.86 crore linked to former IAS officer Babulal Agrawal in connection with a case of criminal misconduct and cheating. The agency had earlier attached properties valued at Rs. 35.49 crore in the same case. Mr. Agrawal was arrested by the ED on November 9. The ED’s money laundering probe had started on the basis of an FIR filed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Chhattisgarh. It was alleged that Mr. Agrawal and his family members acquired assets disproportionate to income from known sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-rs-2786-crore-assets-linked-to-former-ias-officer-babulal-agrawal/article33203469.ece
29 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Amarinder questions Haryana CM’s decision||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday questioned his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar’s decision not to allow farmers to go peacefully to Delhi when the Centre was ready to talk to them and even the Delhi government had no problem letting them in. “Who is Khattar to come in between? What business does he have interfering in this whole affair?” Capt. Singh asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-questions-haryana-cms-decision/article33203448.ece
29 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||UP journalist charred to death||A journalist working with a Hindi newspaper was charred to death in his house under suspicious circumstances in Balrampur district of Uttar Pradesh, the police said on Saturday. Rakesh Singh, a scribe with Rashtriya Swaroop , and his friend Pintu Sahu died in the fire. Balram-pur SP Dev Ranjan Verma said Mr. Singh’s bedroom in his house in Kalwari village in Kotwali Dehat area caught fire on Friday night. “The incident appears to be suspicious,” said Mr. Verma. The police have detained three persons, including a former pradhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-journalist-charred-to-death/article33203457.ece
29 November 2020||Guwahati,||8 Rohingya arrested in Assam||The police in Assam’s Hailakandi district arrested eight Myanmar-origin Rohingya people, five of them minors, who were said to have entered India illegally from Bangladesh. “The eight were arrested from the house of Md. Yusuf Ali Mazumdar in Mazarpur village on Saturday,” Hailakandi’s Superintendent of Police Pabindra Kumar Nath said. He added that Mr. Mazumdar was absconding. The police said cases under relevant sections of the Foreigners’ Act and Passport (Entry to India) Act were registered against the Rohingya people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/8-rohingya-arrested-in-assam/article33203461.ece
29 November 2020||Thanjavur,||Ph.D. study introduced in Cho’s memory||SASTRA Deemed to be University, Thanjavur, has introduced a full-time Ph.D. programme in memory of the late journalist Cho S. Ramaswamy. The university said applications were invited for the programme on “The Evolution of Indian Media before and after Indian Independence”. The programme is conducted in memory of late ‘Thuglak’ Editor, Cho S. Ramasamy in whose name a Chair — “Cho S.Ramaswamy Chair on Public Policy” had been instituted at the university. Candidates with a recognised post-graduate degree could apply for the programme. Attractive stipend and quality mentorship would be offered to the selected candidates. Interested candidates might send their resume at admissions@sastra.ac.in by December 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/phd-study-introduced-in-chos-memory/article33203468.ece
29 November 2020||IMPHAL,||Security beefed up ahead of Amit Shah’s visit to Manipur||Ahead of the visit by Union Home Minister Amit Shah to Manipur, security has been beefed up in the State. The police said on Saturday that an Intelligence report had been received on movement of insurgents in parts of Imphal East district. A search team has arrested a suspected rebel, H. Ranjit, 45. He had joined the United National Liberation Front in 1997, the police said. In another incident, K. Nanao, 32, an active member of the outlawed Kanglei Yawol Kunna Lup, has been held. One pistol each has been seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-beefed-up-ahead-of-amit-shahs-visit-to-manipur/article33203471.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Launch of SCCL solar plant takes capacity to 55 MW||As part of its plans to establish solar power plants with 300 megawatt renewable energy capacity in the coal belt area, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has inaugurated a 15 MW plant in the Ramagundam-3 area on Friday for captive consumption. Director (Electrical & Mechanical) of SCCL D. Satyanrayana Rao switched on the plant and integrated it with the 132 KV sub-station there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/launch-of-sccl-solar-plant-takes-capacity-to-55-mw/article33203758.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tanks fill up, more water flows into taps||After 2016, more water is flowing into Chennai taps for the past few days because Chennai Metro Water has increased its supply to 830 million litres a day (mld) since November 25. The agency plans to revert to the daily supply shortly as the Chembarambakkam, Red Hills and Poondi reservoirs are almost full to the brim. Chennai’s households were previously supplied with 830 mld during 2016 after a bumper rain from the northeast monsoon in 2015. But the drought in the following year changed the situation, forcing the agency to resort to an alternate day supply. The supply was cut down to 470 mld in June 2017. This year, however, a continuous supply of Krishna water, a good southwest monsoon and heavy rain during Cyclone Nivar have boosted the storage in the reservoirs. The six waterbodies, including the newly created Thervoy Kandigai and the Veeranam tank, have a combined storage of 10 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) against their capacity of 13.2 tmc ft as on Saturday. Senior Metro Water officials said Chennai could be supplied with a sufficient quantum of water through pipelines till the northeast monsoon next year. Water supply was steadily raised from 700 mld to 750 mld in early November and then to 830 mld. “We are now drawing more surface water from reservoirs, including Veeranam, and keeping the other resources as buffers. Only about 20 mld is being drawn from the two desalination plants, and maintenance work is in progress at these facilities,” said an official. As the rain and the inflow have receded, the Water Resources Department reduced the release from the Chembarambakkam and Poondi reservoirs on Saturday. “We are maintaining a discharge of 300 cusecs [cubic feet per second] from Chembarambakkam to have the level at 22 feet and some empty storage space. We are expecting some more inflow during a spell of rain next week,” said an official. Though some amount of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh is being diverted to the Thervoy Kandigai-Kannankottai reservoir, the one at Poondi continues to receive 430 cusecs of Krishna water, apart from the flow from the Kosasthalaiyar. “The flood water flow into the reservoir dropped to 2,763 cusecs on Saturday noon. So, we decided to release only 1,000 cusecs into the Kosasthalaiyar,” said the official. The entire quantum released from Poondi is not draining into the sea. Nearly 486 cusecs is diverted to the Cholavaram lake downstream through the Tamaraipakkam check-dam. “We want to maintain the same flow in the river courses. The Red Hills lake still has some storage space. If it receives another 10-12 cm of rain, the level will reach its maximum,” the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanks-fill-up-more-water-flows-into-taps/article33203917.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A new lake with island parks coming up in city||Several waterbodies have come to life after the city’s southern suburbs received copious rain from Cyclone Nivar. Pallikaranai Anai Eri is one such lake. It is being developed on about 50 acres, with three island parks inside, at a cost of Rs. 11 crore. Before the cyclone, about 60% of the work was completed, and it is already serving its purpose as rainwater has filled it. During a visit last week, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner G. Prakash asked officials to strengthen the embankments of this lake with strong boulders, lay paver blocks on the roads formed, test the water inflow for any micro-organism and complete the work before January 2021. He was accompanied by A. Senthil Kumar, Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency, Chengalpattu District; Thirunavukkarasu and Purusothaman, executive engineers of GCC; and Rajavelu, executive engineer, Water Resources Department, Chengalpattu. Mr. Prakash advised the officials to plant native trees on the periphery of the lake, with beautification of islands, by getting technical inputs from S. Raja Mohamed, a retired Joint Director of the Horticulture Department and a resident of the area. The objective is to restore the waterbody to recharge the ground water table for nearby dwelling places, build ex-situ conservation of native tree species, develop a unique green cover with an aesthetic and therapeutic appeal, reduce the impact of air and noise pollution and dust and prevent soil erosion on the embankment slopes, Mr. Raja Mohamed said. Mountainous Miyawaki Near the lake, a unique ‘Mountainous Miyawaki Forest’ is being developed on the OSR land belonging to the Medavakkam panchayat. This forest will have plants of native habits, bird-attracting fruit trees, such as jamun, cherry and kodukkaipuli, and medicinal plants such as amla and fig and other avenue forest trees with life fencing on the periphery. Work on the formation of rainwater harvesting structure channels connecting to the existing drainage channels is being executed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Silt, rich in organic nutrients, excavated from the nearby Anai Eri has been dumped on this site to make the mountainous structures healthy with undulations, Mr. Raja Mohamed said. Mr. Prakash visited this site, too, and gave inputs, asking the officials to expedite the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-new-lake-with-island-parks-coming-up-in-city/article33203920.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 60% new cases from just 7 districts||Tamil Nadu reported 1,430 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, taking its overall tally to 7,79,046. Seven districts, including Chennai, account for a little over 60% of the new cases. Another 1,453 persons were discharged across the State. So far, 7,56,279 persons have been discharged after treatment for COVID-19. A total of 13 persons died — five in Chennai, four in Coimbatore and one each in Salem, Theni, Tiruvarur and Thoothukudi, taking the overall toll to 11,694. As many as 11,073 persons were under treatment in the State. 13 succumb Of the 13 persons who died, two were aged in the 30s. A 38-year-old woman, who had anaemia, was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on November 25. She died on November 27 due to bilateral bronchopneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and anaemia. A 32-year-old woman with postpartum status was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on November 19. She died on November 26 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, post caesarean section, peripartum cardiomyopathy, viral myocarditis, disseminated intravascular coagulation and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. Two nonagenarians, who had co-morbidities, also succumbed to the infection. Of the 1,430 persons who tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, two persons returned from Bihar. 393 cases in Chennai For the third day in a row, Chennai reported less than 400 cases. As many as 393 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the city followed by 142 cases in Coimbatore. There were 80 cases in Tiruvallur, 78 in Chengalpattu, 70 cases in Kancheepuram, 67 in Salem and 65 cases in Tiruppur. With this, Chennai’s overall count of COVID-19 cases stood at 2,14,577 followed by Coimbatore (48,421), Chengalpattu (47,389) and Tiruvallur (40,812). A total of seven districts reported less than 10 cases each, with Perambalur accounting for the least with one case. In the last 24 hours, 66,063 samples were tested in the State. Till date, a total of 1,19,30,240 samples were tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-60-new-cases-from-just-7-districts/article33203565.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Second Sipcot park to be built in Sriperumbudur||The State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (Sipcot) has obtained environmental clearance from the State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) for developing a Sipcot Industrial Park-II at Vallam Vadagal in Sriperumbudur. According to a Sipcot official, the project, spread over 325.36 acres of land and developed at a cost of Rs. 360 crore, could attract investments to create job opportunities for around 10,000 people. The type of industries proposed here are automobile parts, engineering and fabrication, electronics components, packaging units among other industries. “Enquiries have come in from leading automobile companies for developed industrial plots in this park,” an official said. The first park has over 73 firms, providing employment to 7,373 persons directly and to over 4,260 persons indirectly. India Yamaha Motor Pvt. Ltd. and Yamaha Motor Electronics operate out of this park. A few days ago, the Sipcot obtained environmental clearance from the Union Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change for the development of an industrial park at Manallur and Soorapoondi villages in Gummidipoondi, Tiruvallur. An e-vehicle park is expected to come up here. Till date, Sipcot has developed 21 industrial complexes in 12 districts and seven sector specific special economic zones across Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-sipcot-park-to-be-built-in-sriperumbudur/article33203932.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCB unearths car loan racket||The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of Central Crime Branch (CCB) has detected a racket in obtaining car loans from the branches of public sector banks in the city. Three persons were arrested for allegedly cheating the banks for misrepresentation of facts and for producing forged documents. The gang members had gone absconding for two years after obtaining loans to buy high-end cars by posing as wealthy businessmen. The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing took up investigation on the basis of a complaint from Thillai Govindan, manager of Punjab National Bank, Velachery branch. The names of the accused were given as Mohammed Musamil, 34, T. Ayyathurai, 32, and B. Balvijay, 35, who furnished addresses of posh bungalows in Neelankarai and Muttukadu. Musamil shifted to Chennai a couple of years ago after his textile business in Tirunelveli took hit. The other two joined hands with him to commit the fraud. They approached bank managers through brokers for obtaining loans. The gang submitted forged documents such as proof of income, employment and statement of borrower’s account and obtained loans. The interrogation with the accused revealed that they had approached the then managers of Bank of India, Nungambakkam branch; Vijaya Bank, Egmore branch; Punjab National Bank, Thiruvanmiyur and Velachery branches; UCO Bank, Adyar branch and Indian Overseas Bank, Alwarpet branch, through middlemen. “They forged Income Tax papers to show themselves as wealthy businessmen with huge income. They took posh bungalows on rent and lived there to impress the bank officials who sometimes visited the borrowers. In some cases, the loans were sanctioned without even seeing the borrowers,” said a police officer. In a few instances, they received the loan amount after returning the vehicle to the dealer. After obtaining loans, they paid instalments for a couple of months and later switched off their mobile phones and shifted to another bungalow, the police said. Police seized four luxury cars and arrested the three accused from a posh bungalow in Neelankarai. Additional Commissioner of Police, Central Crime Branch, P.C. Thenmozhi said that bank managers should pay attention and do proper scrutiny of papers before sanctioning loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ccb-unearths-car-loan-racket/article33203922.ece
29 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments on surplus water channels leaves Kolathur areas flooded||Several streets in Baba Nagar and Srinivasa Nagar in Kolathur have submerged in rainwater due to Cyclone Nivar. The residential localities, which were once free of any water stagnation even during heavy rains, have borne the brunt of floods this year because of encroachments of waterbodies and the canals through which rain water used to flow into Retteri. Several streets, including Baba Nagar 4th Street, 5th Street, and 1st, 2nd and 3rd main roads, were flooded with sewage mixed rainwater causing severe hardships to the residents. C.R. Ramakantan, who has been residing in Baba Nagar for more than four decades, said except for the flooding which happened in December 2015, the residents had never faced stagnation of rainwater in their locality. The octogenarian has now been forced to vacate his house after rainwater entered into it and take refuge in his relative’s house nearby. The residents allege the encroachments of the canal located on the Jawaharlal Nehru Salai by the shops and the construction of concrete houses near Dhaddankuppam and Rajamangalam have blocked the free flow of water into the lake. A senior official of the Greater Chennai Corporation said normally the rainwater from Baba Nagar, Srinivasa Nagar and Senthil Nagar, would be flowing into the Kolathur Lake, which then would drain into Retteri through the water channel. The rainwater from Retteri would be released through the Kosasthalaiyar river. Several unauthorised concrete buildings had come up and debris was being dumped in the channels leading to Retteri and Kolathur Lake. This had resulted in the heavy flooding of the residential areas of Baba Nagar, Srinivasa Nagar and Senthil Nagar, the official said. The civic body with the coordination of Highways Department and Water Resources Department was removing encroachments and construction debris dumped on Saturday. The three residential localities would be free of water stagnation on Sunday, the official assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-on-surplus-water-channels-leaves-kolathur-areas-flooded/article33203915.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2,000 ‘mini clinics’ to come up before Dec. 15, says CM||A total of 2,000 ‘mini clinics’ would be launched across Tamil Nadu before December 15, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday. Addressing a video conference meeting of all District Collectors, in which he reviewed the COVID-19 scenario in the State, Mr. Palaniswami said every mini clinic would have a doctor, a nurse and an assistant. Thanking officials for effectively controlling the spread of COVID-19, the CM said the spread of the pandemic was under control in the State. So far, the State government has spent over Rs. 7,525.17 crore (including Rs. 5,300 crore for relief measures) towards controlling the pandemic. A total of 5.22 lakh fever camps were held and over 2.79 crore people were screened in them so far. So far 1.18 crore people have undertaken RT-PCR tests and on an average over 70,000 people are tested on a day, he said. PM lauds State Mr. Palaniswami also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded Tamil Nadu for effectively controlling the spread of the pandemic and further said the State remained a role model to the whole of India. The CM also thanked the PM for his appreciation. Reiterating his appeal to the general public to wear face masks while stepping out, Mr. Palaniswami said COVID-19 was spreading in other States as the precautionary guidelines were not being followed in them. Thought the spread of COVID-19 was being effectively controlled in the State, “it would take some more time for returning to normalcy,” Mr. Palaniswami contended. Deputy CM O. Panneerselvam, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy and senior officials were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2000-mini-clinics-to-come-up-before-dec-15-says-cm/article33203556.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secretary asks Collectors to penalise violators of COVID-19 protocol||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Saturday instructed all Collectors to strictly enforce the use of face mask at public places and ensure physical distancing by penalising violators to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the State. “In recent times, it has been noticed that there is a lack of discipline among the public in the use of face masks and maintaining social distance. Studies and observations in this regard have shown that the mask compliance is less than 30% in our State,” he said in his communication to the Collectors. Endangering safety At many public places, including markets, shopping malls and marriage halls, and at social and religious gatherings, the COVID-19 etiquettes and standard operating procedure (SOP) were not being followed strictly. Persons gathered in large numbers, without wearing masks, at many public places, creating an environment conducive to the super spreader, endangering the safety of others, he said. “Therefore, the Collectors are instructed by the Chief Minister to enforce strict discipline in marriage halls or at such places and, as a deterrent measure, resort to the closure of such premises which are violating the SOP. The individual persons who are not using masks and also the owner of the marriage hall and the parties who are organising the marriages but not observing the SOP should be penalised, if needed, to enforce strict discipline,” Mr. Shanmugam said. Similarly, in shopping malls, workplaces, factories and shops, accountability should be fixed on the owners, he said. “Strict enforcement of the SOP is required in these places through close monitoring. The Collectors should also keep in mind that the ensuing monsoon season and the winter are expected to further trigger the disease spread and may become a big challenge in controlling COVID-19..., as seen in certain other States.” If such measures were not taken, all the gains made so far would be vitiated, he noted, instructing the Collectors to gear up the competent authorities and strictly enforce the discipline at public places, workplaces and all other places. Mr. Shanmugam also appreciated the Collectors for the daily decline in the number of COVID-19 cases due to the concerted efforts made by the Health Department and the district administration. “All the districts should continue their efforts to bring down the number of daily positive cases further by appropriately designing the strategy to contain the disease locally through aggressive, intensive and focussed testing, followed by isolation of persons affected by COVID-19 for treatment. In this regard, Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Thiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Erode and Kancheepuram would require special and sustained efforts,” he said. He said the level of testing should not be scaled down and all districts should strive to bring the positivity rate below 2% through focussed testing. “Krishnagiri and other districts with a positivity rate above 3% should scale up the testing in a focussed manner in the affected areas,” he said. The overall death rate had to be brought down steadily and all districts should strive for zero death rate by adopting the best treatment protocol, Mr. Shanmugam said. The Collectors were advised to focus on post-COVID-19 management by creating awareness among the public of the health complications arising after recovery.  In recent times, it has been noticed that there is a lack of discipline among the public in the use of face masks and maintaining social distanceK. ShanmugamChief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-secretary-asks-collectors-to-penalise-violators-of-covid-19-protocol/article33203559.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Not all fevers are COVID-19, watch out for other ailments: paediatricians||All fevers are not COVID-19 now as paediatricians have been seeing cases of dengue among children in the last few months. Parents should look out for other infectious diseases including vector-borne and water-borne diseases, and seek medical help without delay, they say. Though the number of children affected by dengue was less when compared to last year, paediatricians stress on the need to take precautionary measures. Fever for two to three days along with symptoms of lethargy, reduced activity and vomiting should not be ignored. A senior doctor from Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Egmore, said there were very few cases of dengue now. “There were sporadic cases in August and September. We still see very few cases of dengue. This may be due to closure of schools as dengue is caused by day-biting mosquitoes. In case of fever, parents should not resort to over-the-counter drugs for children. They should rather seek medical help in the nearest health facility. Paediatricians have an eye for dengue. We conduct tests, including complete blood count, immediately, and admit children with suspected symptoms of dengue,” the doctor said. Reiterating the need to stay cautious once the fever starts to subside, the doctor said due to COVID-19, parents brought in children earlier and this has led to early detection of dengue and prevention of complications. J. Ganesh, professor and head of paediatrics, Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, said usually cases of dengue were reported during the months of August-September-October. “This year, our hospital recorded few cases of dengue. The severity of the disease is less too. With the rains now, the usual precautions such as avoiding water stagnation and use of mosquito nets should be followed,” he said. Janani Sankar, senior consultant, Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital, said along with cases of COVID-19 in children, they were seeing dengue, scrub typhus infections and gastroenteritis. “Older children testing positive for COVID-19 have pneumonia like adults, while younger children have multisystem inflammatory syndrome. Now, all fevers are not COVID-19 and parents should look out for all infections. The number of dengue cases are fewer than last year. Nevertheless, we have been receiving children with dengue in the last two months, and the number of cases have gone up when compared to October,” she said. She said dengue was a late epidemic this year as it is usually caused by day-biting mosquitoes but schools remained closed and children were at home. With rains, mosquito breeding will rise, she said, adding, “Ensure that houses and the surroundings are clean. Children are at home and it is important to prevent mosquito breeding. Allow sunlight to come into homes and avoid indoor plants.” Usually, cases of scrub typhus were reported in rural areas, and the hospital received children mainly from bordering districts of Andhra Pradesh. “Now, we are seeing scrub typhus cases from the city. Some children have had fluid accumulation in the lungs requiring intensive care and oxygen support. In the last two months, we have seen more numbers of scrub typhus infections,” she said.  There were sporadic cases in August and September. We still see very few cases of dengue. This may be due to closure of schools as dengue is caused by day-biting mosquitoes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-all-fevers-are-covid-19-watch-out-for-other-ailments-paediatricians/article33203561.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bhavan’s cultural festival begins||The people of Chennai have nurtured Carnatic music, classical dance and its traditions for several centuries, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said here on Saturday. Speaking at the inaugural function of Bhavan’s Cultural Festival 2020, he said, “The objective of this cultural festival is to provide a platform for the budding artists to exhibit their talent as well as bringing together the legends of music and various art forms to perform before the people of Chennai. We are all justifiably proud of the fact that Chennai has been listed in the UNESCO’s Creative Cities Network.” He underscored the need to “...preserve the great cultural heritage of our civilisation, and cultural festivals such as this help to promote an interest in our rich art forms”. He said Carnatic music is revered deeply and learning it helps to reduce stress and hone brain function and listening skills. N. Ravi, chairman of Bhavan’s Chennai Kendra, said Chennai has the distinction of conducting one of the world’s largest music festivals, the December Music Season, and this tradition has continued for nearly a century now. “We appeal to the small and large industries to increase the support for cultural activities, including Carnatic music, Bharatanatyam and other classical dance forms and enrich the social and cultural tradition,” he said. Minister for Tamil Language, Culture and Archaeology K. Pandiarajan said it was revealed that there were nanotubes involved in the making of pottery discovered at Keezhadi. “It is a phenomenal finding...,” he said. Bhavan’s Chennai Kendra vice-chairman Nalli Kuppusamy Chetti and director K.N. Ramaswamy spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhavans-cultural-festival-begins/article33203924.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Put up ‘no helmet-no petrol’ placards, traffic police instruct city fuel outlets||In an effort to create awareness on road safety, Chennai Traffic Police have asked petrol pumps to spread the message by placing placards with the message “no helmet-no petrol”. In a communication, N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, has asked Deputy Commissioners of Police to ask all petrol pumps under their jurisdiction to display the message: “No helmet: no petrol and no seat belt - no petrol” in coordination with the District Supply Officer. The officers have been told to ensure that all petrol pumps display the message. Mr. Kannan said this initiative had been taken as part of creating awareness about wearing helmets and seat belts among two-wheeler riders and motorists in the city to reduce fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/put-up-no-helmet-no-petrol-placards-traffic-police-instruct-city-fuel-outlets/article33203921.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waiting for MoEF approval to open Pulicat sand bar mouth permanently, State tells High Court||Travails faced by the Pulicat fishermen due to frequent closure of the sand bar mouth, a natural opening between the lake and the Bay of Bengal, would end as soon as the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change grants environment clearance for opening the bar mouth permanently at a cost of Rs. 27 crore, the State government has informed the Madras High Court. In a status report filed before Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh, the State Fisheries Department said all other ancillary works such as conducting a public hearing and calling for tenders for construction of training walls to provide permanent stability to the bar mouth had been completed and that the officials were waiting only for the Centre’s environment clearance. The status report was filed through Special Government Pleader J. Pothiraj in response to a public interest litigation petition filed by A. Usha, a resident of Tiruvallur district. It stated that the Pulicat lake, spread across 760 sq. km., was the second largest brackish water lagoon in the country. The lake acts as a flood water buffer for River Arani in Tamil Nadu and Kalangi as well as Swarnamuki Rivers in Andhra Pradesh before discharging the it into the Bay of Bengal during the rainy seasons. Post monsoon, the bar mouth helps in flow of lake water into the Bay of Bengal during low tides and flow of sea water into the lake during high tides. “This exchange of water happens due to gravitational forces exerted on the earth by the moon and sun,” M. Murugesan, Executive Engineer, Fishing Harbour Project Division, Chennai said in the report and added that the frequent mixture of fresh water with sea water helps in the growth of brackish water species in the lake. Prawns were the main source of sea food caught from the lake followed by mullets, green crab, jelly fish and fin fish. Nevertheless, fishermen dependent on the lake for their livelihood, were put to hardship due to frequent closure of the bar mouth due to sediment drift during non-monsoon seasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waiting-for-moef-approval-to-open-pulicat-sand-bar-mouth-permanently-state-tells-high-court/article33204044.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM thanks health workers for making T.N. the best in organ donation||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday thanked all the doctors and health workers in government and private hospitals across the State, who helped Tamil Nadu receive the award for being the best in organ donation in the country from the Centre for the sixth consecutive year. “Even during the COVID-19 pandemic in Tamil Nadu, special guidelines were framed and 97 organs were harvested from 27 organ donors,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement. So far, 8,245 organs were received from 1,392 donors in the State. He also said an insurance cover of up to Rs. 25 lakh was being provided to the poor in government and private hospitals under the Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. The government also provides immunosuppressants free of cost for transplantees. Mr.Palaniswami recalled the bilateral hand cadaveric successful transplantation for a patient in 2018 in Stanley Medical College which was the first-of-its-kind procedure in the country. Listing out the efforts taken by the government, the Chief Minister said the State had seen a people’s movement emerging towards organ donation. During the 11th Indian Organ Donation Day on November 27, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey took part in the virtual event. Tamil Nadu Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan took part in the event through video conferencing.   The State has seen a people’s movement emerging towards organ donation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-thanks-health-workers-for-making-tn-the-best-in-organ-donation/article33203557.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No side effects seen in participants of vaccine trials, says Health Minister||None of the participants in the Covishield vaccine trial carried out by the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine and the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) have had any side effects till now, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. In a reply to a question on reports that a participant in the phase-3 Covishield trial conducted at the Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER) has sent a legal notice to the Pune-based Serum Institute of India alleging an adverse event, he said the department would examine the issue. “The safety of the vaccine is being tested by the DPH and the RGGGH, while its immunogenicitiy is evaluated at the private university. There have been no complaints and no side effects among the participants in the trial carried out by the DPH and the RGGGH. They had received the first dose of the vaccine and are under our observation. None of them have had any side effects,” he told reporters shortly after inaugurating a 120-bed ward at RGGGH on Saturday. Clinical trials of Covishield vaccine were launched at the RGGGH and the SRIHER with the Director of Public Health appointed as the principal investigator. An official of the DPH said as per protocols, SRIHER should directly inform the Serum Institute of India in case of adverse effects in any of the participants. “We have received no official information from them,” he said. As preparation for the vaccination trials, the Health Minister said two to three preliminary discussions, including one on cold chain activity, were held. New ward at RGGGH Mr. Vijayabaskar said in a first of its kind in the country, a 120-bed ward for patients, who had co-morbidities and tested positive for COVID-19, has been established at the RGGGH. “This includes the departments of nephrology, urology, oncology and cardiology,” he said. RGGGH has treated a total of 26,762 COVID-19 patients so far. From 10 beds, the number of beds has increased to a total of 1,498. “The hospital accounts for a recovery rate of 94%. There have been cases of late referrals from private hospitals, and were treated at RGGGH,” he said. A total of 600 patients who were on regular haemodialysis and tested positive for COVID-19 underwent dialysis at the hospital. He cautioned the public not to be complacent due to the declining trend of cases in the State. “The cyclone, rains, winter, overcrowding due to festivities and relaxations in restrictions are challenges for the Health Department. It is important to wear masks and maintain physical distancing,” he said. The Minister added that the government would consult with legal experts on the Supreme Court’s “interim order” not permitting reservation for in-service doctors in super speciality medical courses for the academic year 2020-21. Earlier, the State had issued an order announcing 50% reservation for service doctors in super speciality courses. Among others, R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, and E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-side-effects-seen-in-participants-of-vaccine-trials-says-health-minister/article33203563.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Video of SI catching phone thief goes viral||The swift action of a sub-inspector in nabbing two men accused of stealing mobile phones, who were on a motorcycle, received wide appreciation following a video which went viral on social media. City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal tweeted, “It’s not a scene from any movie. But the real life hero SI Antilin Ramesh single handedly chasing and catching a mobile snatcher riding a stolen bike. Follow up led to arrest of three more accused and recovery of 11 snatched/stolen mobiles.” On Friday morning, A. Antilin Ramesh, 35, attached to the Cyber Crime Cell, Madhavaram, was on his way to work. He spotted a duo riding a motorcycle that did not have a number plate and the lid of the fuel tank was broken open and closed with a plastic cover. Growing suspicious, the sub-inspector tried to overtake them, but the duo sped away sensing trouble. During the dramatic chase through a narrow street, the pillion rider jumped from the vehicle and escaped. The SI left his bike at the side of the road, and chased the other suspect on foot, and caught him even as he attempted to flee. The name of the arrested person was given as Arun, 20. Gang busted He was part of a gang which was staying at a rented house and snatching mobile phones and gold chains. Based on his confession, three of his associates — Mukesh, Vignesh and Naveen, who were staying in a lodge on Ellis Road near Chepauk, were nabbed within 45 minutes. Also, 11 mobile phones which they had snatched in various parts of Chennai over the last two days were recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-of-si-catching-phone-thief-goes-viral/article33203912.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK charge against Cong. baseless’||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Saturday said the AIADMK is making a baseless allegation that the UPA government was responsible for implementing NEET. He pointed out that the decision taken by the Congress government in Puducherry to issue an order for implementing 10% reservation in medical education, forced the AIADMK government here to follow suit. “People won’t forget, the delay in decision making by the Governor,” he said. Mr. Alagiri said while that was the fact, the AIADMK was blaming the Congress and DMK for NEET. He also noted that when NEET legislation was passed in Parliament on August 5, 2016, the AIADMK which had 37 MPs in the Lok Sabha and 13 in the Rajya Sabha did not vote against it. While Jayalalithaa, the then Chief Minister, managed to get one year exemption from NEET, the current Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami has not been able to get further extension, Mr. Alagiri noted. He also pointed out that it was comforting that 405 students from government schools had become eligible for MBBS and dental admission this year, when compared to only 6 seats last year. However, Mr. Alagiri noted that the education system in the State in the last 10 years has to be blamed for only 405 government students becoming eligible for medical admission out of the 3,400 seats. The AIADMK government had to take the blame for failing to stop the BJP government from implementing NEET, he added.  The AIADMK government has to take the blame for failing to stop the BJP govt. from implementing NEET K.S. AlagiriTamil Nadu Congress Committee president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-charge-against-cong-over-neet-baseless/article33203613.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized from house, office of sub-registrar||The sleuths of the Department of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption(DVAC) have seized Rs. 4.86 lakh unaccounted cash from the sub-registrar of Alandur. According to a release based on credible information that the officials of Sub-Registrar Office, Alandur, at Nanganallur, have been indulging in corruption, DVAC special investigation cell officials along with inspection cell officers conducted a surprise check at the office and seized Rs. 77,000 seized from the sub-registrar. Searches were conducted in the residence of the sub-registrar and Rs. 4,09,200 cash was seized. Totally, Rs. 4,86,200 in cash was seized, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized-from-sub-registrar/article33203913.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Solution for inundation’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday that a permanent solution would be taken to resolve water inundation issues being faced by residents of Velachery, Mudichur, Varadarajapuram and Tambaram areas. During his speech in the video conference meeting of Collectors and senior officials, Mr. Palaniswami said he has instructed officials to find a permanent solution to the issue. Officials were involved in draining inundated areas in Greater Chennai Corporation, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solution-for-inundation/article33203566.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New Housing Secretary||The State government on Saturday named IAS officer D. Karthikeyan as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Department, replacing incumbent Rajesh Lakhoni.  Commissioner of Archives Mr. Lakhoni was transferred and posted as Commissioner of Archives and Historical Research, according to a G.O. issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. Mr. Lakhoni is going on a Central deputation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karthikeyan-named-housing-secretary/article33203621.ece
29 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized||The sleuths of the Department of Vigilance and AntiCorruption(DVAC) have seized a sum of Rs. 4,86, 200 unaccounted cash from the sub-registrar of Alandur after a raid in his house and office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized/article33204017.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central team to visit T.N., Puducherry||The Centre on Saturday deputed an inter-ministerial team to visit Tamil Nadu and Puducherry this week to undertake an on-the-spot assessment of the situation in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. The Central team led by Joint Secretary in the Union Ministry of Home Affairs Ashutosh Agnihotri is expected to arrive in Chennai on Tuesday, officials said. The team would have officials from the departments of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Road Transport and Highways, Finance, Power, Rural Development, Fisheries and Water Resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-to-visit-tn-puducherry/article33203616.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fees high, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the steep hike in the fees for students of Rajah Muthiah Medical College in Annamalai University and Perundurai Government Medical College was condemnable and the increase had shattered the dream of students benefitted by reservation. In a statement here, he said it was “atrocious” that while counselling had been done based on the admission for government colleges, the students had been asked to pay the amount fixed for private colleges. “After fixing the fee at Rs. 4 lakh, the government has increased it to Rs. 5.44 lakh in Rajah Muthiah Medical College. The amount fixed for Perundurai Medical College is Rs. 3.85 lakh. The government’s decision has raised doubts whether these colleges are run by the government,” he said. Since they had been declared as government colleges, it was only fair to collect the fee fixed for the government medical colleges, Mr. Stalin said. He also wanted the government to increase to Rs. 8 lakh from Rs. 2 lakh the family income for getting post-metric scholarship.  Fee fixed for government colleges applicable to them too||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reduce-fee-in-rajah-muthiah-perundurai-medical-colleges-stalin/article33203623.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nagapattinam gets the first CNG retail outlet in State||The State’s first compressed natural gas (CNG) outlet has been commissioned in Nagapattinam by Torrent Gas at a retail outlet being run on behalf of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) at Porvacheri. It was in 1993 that CNG became available in New Delhi. The rest of the country followed suit and most other States have the variant. Torrent has tied up with GAIL for supply of CNG through Torrent Gas-owned city gate station in Thirumarual village near Nagapattinam. The company has also tied up with IOCL for use of their retail outlets to start more CNG outlets. One more CNG station co-located with Indian Oil outlet, Kumarappa Enterprises, Nagapattinam, is likely to be commissioned shortly. R. Sitharthan, vice-president (operations), Torrent Gas, said two more CNG stations would commence operations in four months and a total of 12 would come up by March 2022 in the region. He said CNG, priced very competitively when compared to petrol and diesel,was a very clean fuel. The retail selling price of CNG in Nagapattinam would be Rs. 60 a kg. At this price, CNG users would be able to save up to 53% of their expenses on petrol and up to 41% on diesel. Asked about CNG-enabled vehicles, he said already a few cars in the region had converted to CNG. “More vehicles are undergoing the change. Retrofitters already have kits for cars. As far as autorickshaws are concerned, the State government has to grant permission for such retrofitting. One private manufacturer already has a variant ready and has displayed it,” Mr. Sitharthan added. Torrent Gas has been authorised by Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) to provide CNG and Piped Natural Gas (PNG) in Karaikal and Nagapattinam districts.  CNG users can save up to 53% of their expenses on petrol and up to 41% on diesel  R. Sitharthan Vice-president (operations), Torrent Gas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nagapattinam-gets-first-cng-retail-outlet-of-state/article33203549.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Keto, vegan not balanced diets, says NIN director||Ketogenic and vegan diets do not satisfy the balanced nutrition requirements of people and the Indian Council of Medical Research — National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) does not recommend it, said its director R. Hemalatha. Responding to a question after delivering the ‘Prof. M. Viswanathan Gold Medal Oration’ for the year 2020 through a virtual conference on the topic ‘How India should eat,’ she said that the keto diet focused on high consumption of fat and may not be good for health in the long run. Similarly, she said those following a vegan diet will lack the necessary vitamin B12 and amino acids. “They may have to resort to vitamin B12 supplements. However, it may be difficult to get the required amino acids,” she said. Highlighting that NIN recommended a balanced diet from diverse and locally available sources, Dr. Hemalatha said it ideally included milk and occasional consumption of meat. Stressing on the need for a balanced diet, she said that while some people resorted to a high-protein diet for building muscles, the proteins will be processed and utilised properly by the body only if it was taken along with carbohydrates and fats. Stating that Indians were increasingly consuming more HFSS food (High in fat, salt and sugar) that will aggravate the country’s already huge burden of non-communicable diseases, she argued that policy interventions were needed to change this trend. “Unhealthy, non-essential, highly processed food are easily available and intensively marketed as opposed to healthy food,” she said. She said that COVID-19 has brought a renewed interest among the public to eat healthy. “We get a lot of queries these days. This situation must be used to create awareness.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keto-vegan-not-balanced-diets-says-nin-director/article33203562.ece
29 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSME engineering units want Centre to make changes in GST||The Central government should support micro and small-scale engineering units, which are in need of financial assistance now, by making changes in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) applicable for these units, say the MSME owners here. The government should extend 2 % interest subvention to micro and small-scale units that make GST payments on time. The industries should be allowed to take input tax credit of all the GST amount paid towards construction of industrial sheds. Further, GST for machining and labour charges of engineering job order works should be brought down to 5% from the existing 12%, which is a long pending request from micro sector units. The GST should be fixed at 5 % for all the products and purchases of micro sector units. It is feasible now as all units with less than Rs. 5 crore turnover are registered as micro units in UDYAM portal, according to the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations. In a pre-budget memorandum to the Central government, the Federation said further said that the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) loans, under the Atma Nirbhar Bharath scheme, covered only the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) who already had loan facilities. There are thousands of micro sector units, who have never received any sort of financial support from banks. A separate scheme to fund these struggling micro sector units, with lowest interest rates should be announced. The government must ensure timely payment of bills to the MSMEs from corporate and large companies. With delayed payments, the MSMEs face cash crunch. The government should come out with a law as in Germany and Taiwan to blacklist companies that do not make payments to MSMEs in 30 days. With fluctuating raw material prices affecting the MSMEs, the government should take steps to stabilise the prices. It should ensure that prices of raw materials, such as steel, copper, and aluminium, used by the engineering sector MSMEs, remain stable, the Federation said. It also suggested setting up of marketing centres of industrial products in all major cities, in which the MSMEs can own an outlet or an office to market their products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-engineering-units-want-centre-to-make-changes-in-gst/article33203618.ece
29 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Transport dept. to continue random checks of buses||The Transport Department officials will continue to conduct random checks in Coimbatore to ensure all private buses are adhering to the COVID-19 standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the State government. Official sources said that complaints of a few private buses not adhering to the precautionary measures, such as wearing of masks and ensuring personal distancing inside the buses, have surfaced in the city. Motor vehicle inspectors from the Regional Transport Offices along with the police and Corporation officials will carry out the random checks at various points in the city. The random checks will also be done for Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation buses, the sources said. With the COVID-19 cases on the decline in the district, all private bus operators have been instructed that the drivers and conductors adhere to the SOPs. If any buses were caught violating the precautionary measures during the random checks, they will either be let off with a warning or a check report will be issued, according to the sources. V. Duraikannan, president of Coimbatore District Bus Owners’ Association (South), said that around 80 to 85 % of all the private buses adhere to the SOPs while some bus operators might have been careless in terms of implementing the precautionary measures as the COVID-19 cases are declining. “We are continuously giving instructions to them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transport-dept-to-continue-random-checks-of-buses-in-coimbatore/article33203594.ece
29 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Encroachment on Selvachinthamani Tank removed||The Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday removed encroachment on Selvachinthamani Tank bund. The Corporation sources said the civic body removed Veera Muniappan temple and a structure that housed an idol, which the local residents claimed was Madurai Veeran. Eviction opposed It was not a smooth demolition drive as the residents had opposed the eviction drive. Corporation Town Planning Officer for eviction S. Ravichandran along with police personnel talked to the residents and as the latter continued their opposition, brought down the structures after safely removing the idols. The Corporation had more than a month ago demolished three temples, which again were built on the tank bund. Alternative land The sources said the opposing residents had sought alternative land to construct temples to house the idols but the officials did not yield to their demand. The officials had told the residents that the idols would be in the civic body’s possession and that they could collect those any time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachment-on-selvachinthamani-tank-removed/article33203941.ece
29 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP demands cancellation of parole for Al Umma chief Basha||BJP Coimbatore Urban District president R. Nandhakumar petitioned Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan on Saturday demanding the cancellation of parole granted to Al Umma chief S.A. Basha, who was convicted in the 1998 serial bomb blasts case. In his petition, he accused Basha of speaking to the media in violation of parole orders. A video was doing the rounds on social media platforms where Basha said that he was out in parole and spoke about the organisations that helped the public during cyclone Nivar. Police sources said that the 73-year-old Basha was granted parole from November 25 to December 9 and that he cannot leave his residence during this period. He is serving life imprisonment at the Coimbatore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-demands-cancellation-of-parole-for-al-umma-chief-basha/article33203595.ece
29 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nivar weakening reason for minimal damage: Kanimozhi||The State saw minimum impact of Cyclone Nivar because it weakened while crossing the coast and not because of the State government’s steps, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam women’s wing secretary and Member of Parliament K. Kanimozhi said here on Saturday. “The government has not learnt its lesson from the last cyclone, which had caused extensive damage in Chennai. Even though it had not cleaned waterways, the impact of Cyclone Nivar was minimal because it weakened while crossing the coast. And, if there were to be another cyclone, the impact will be severe,” said Ms. Kanimozhi, who arrived here on way to Salem to start a campaign tour of the Kongu belt. The DMK had begun its campaign for the 2021 Assembly elections long ago and was effectively countering the false propaganda of the AIADMK-BJP combine on digital platforms, Ms. Kanimozhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nivar-weakening-reason-for-minimal-damage-kanimozhi/article33203580.ece
29 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation gets two quarries to dump debris||Coimbatore Corporation would soon start dumping construction and demolition waste in the two abandoned quarries that the district administration had allotted, Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said. The Corporation had a month ago written to the administration seeking allotment of a few quarries to dump the waste. This came after its project to build a construction and demolition waste recycling plant did not take off and members of the public dumped the waste on vacant plots in various parts of the city. Mr. Pandian said based on the civic body’s request, the administration had allotted the first quarry near Madukkarai and the second quarry at another location. The Corporation would soon fence the area around the quarries, installed closed circuit television cameras and post security personnel. Meanwhile, it was looking at streamlining the collection within the city. Zonal sanitary officers and sanitary inspectors of wards would be the nodal officers for collecting the waste, which could either be from a centralised collection point for each of the five zones or right at the demolition site. The Corporation would collect the waste on a specific day of every week, say Wednesday, and only on written approval from the sanitary officer or inspector concerned, the security at the quarries would allow dumping. And, the Corporation would send the details of demolition to the sanitary officers and inspectors concerned as the civic body was the authority for approving of demolition. From the section concerned, the officers and inspectors would get the site number, address and also the applicant’s phone number for follow-up, the Commissioner said and added that as a part of the construction and debris waste management steps, the Corporation would also clear the debris dumped along side roads and pubic places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-gets-two-quarries-to-dump-debris/article33203591.ece
29 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen seek restoration of fishing rights in Kumarasamy Tank||Coimbatore Vatta Meenavar Kooturavu Sangam, (a fishermen cooperative union), has urged the Coimbatore Corporation to not stop fishing in Kumarasamy (Muthannan) Tank and remove the board announcing the ban. The union, represented by its president M. Balamurugan, petitioned the Corporation recently saying the District Collector had granted it fishing rights for four years, till 2023. Smart Cities Mission The union members, based on the permission, fished in various tanks in the city without hindering the lake development work that the civic body had taken up under the Smart Cities Mission. But on November 26, the union said, its members came across a board on Kumarasamy tank bund that read that the Corporation had banned fishing and it would handover to the police those who violated the order. They were shocked to find the board as they had paid the required charges for 2020 to the Public Works and Fisheries departments. Therefore, the Corporation should remove the board, it demanded. A few members of the union said that the Corporation would restore their fishing rights as they represented their grievance to Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian, who assumed them that the civic body would also remove the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-seek-restoration-of-fishing-rights-in-kumarasamy-tank/article33203939.ece
29 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Isha Insight’ programme inaugurated||Founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev inaugurated the ‘Isha Insight’ business leadership programme which was held virtually on Friday. Hari Menon, Chief Executive Officer of online grocery store Big Basket, participated in the virtual conference, a release said. According to a press release, he said that the company hired 12,300 persons within 16 days during the COVID-19 lockdown to grapple with the sudden loss of workforce. Mr. Vasudev participated from the United States in the inaugural event. ‘Isha Insight’ is a three-day programme which was first organised in 2012 and its ninth edition will conclude on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-insight-programme-inaugurated/article33203943.ece
29 November 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Two killed and eight injured in accident||Two women workers were killed on the spot and eight others, including two autorickshaw drivers, were injured when two autorickshaws were knocked by a goods vehicle at Jallipatti Pass near Kodai Road in Ammayanayakanoor police station limits here on Saturday. The police said here that 13 workers from Kamalaapuram near Sakkayanaikanoor here were returning home after working under the MGNREGA scheme. They hired two auto rickshaws. As the vehicles were approaching the Jallipatti Pass, the drivers were waiting to cross the four-lane. At this juncture, a goods vehicle, which was proceeding to Madurai from Dindigul, collided against the autorickshaws. In the impact, the autorickshaws hit two cars which were moving on the four-lane. The accident claimed the lives of two women, who were identified as Saraswathi (55) and Subbulakshmi (38). Autorickshaw drivers - Raja (31) and Jayapal (32) - and eight others suffered injuries. They have been admitted to a hospital for treatment. The police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-and-eight-injured-in-accident/article33203584.ece
29 November 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Traffic hit for four hours as boulders fall on Kodaikanal-Palani stretch||Widespread rain on the ghat section along the Kodaikanal and Palani stretch resulted in the fall of huge boulders that blocked vehicular movement for about four hours on Saturday. Following a complaint from local villagers that boulders had fallen on the road near Kombaikadu, the Highways engineers rushed to the spot in the morning. Initially, two-wheelers alone could cross the section as the boulders had blocked the carriage space, they said and added that after about four hours, the boulders were cleared and traffic resumed around 4 p.m. The Highways engineers said that they have temporarily cleared the boulders, but cautioned the motorists to keep a vigil while passing the ghat section. “Due to heavy rainfall in the interior forest region, the soil has become loose and slippery. As a result, the boulders rolled off the hills,” they said. Essential commodities such as milk, meat and vegetables could not be moved to the hill station in the morning, a villager at Kombaikadu said. A police officer who was supervising at the spot said that incessant rains over the last few days in Kodaikanal hills had forced many tourists to postpone their trips due to the inclement weather. This had in a way helped as there was thin traffic movement on the ghat section. Forest department officials said that they were also monitoring the north-east monsoon as pockets like Pachalur, Thandikudi and Pandrimalai in the district experienced heavy rains in the last 24 hours and water was flowing into Kudaganaru. A private hotelier in Kodaikanal said that tourist flow was thin since Thursday as Cyclone Nivar had forced people from Bangalore and Chennai to postpone their travel plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-hit-as-boulders-fall-on-kodaikanal-palani-ghat-road/article33203577.ece
29 November 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Two women killed||Two women workers were killed on the spot and eight others, including two autorickshaw drivers, were injured when two autorickshaws were knocked by a goods vehicle at Jallipatti Pass near Kodai Road in Ammayanayakanoor police station limits here on Saturday. The police said here that 13 workers were returning home after working under the MGNREGA scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-killed/article33204012.ece
29 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Announcement on reduced syllabus in a week: Minister||Minister for School Education K.A.Sengottaiyan on Saturday said that announcement on reduced syllabus for the academic year would be announced in four to five days. “A report would be submitted to Chief Minister on Monday on the syllabus which has been reduced. A decision would be taken on topics which would be taught online,” he told reporters. On the committee studying the National Education Policy, he said, “The feedback is being received from the public and educationalists and the Centre itself is planning to implement it only by 2023.” On DMK president Stalin’s criticism of the government’s cyclone relief measures, Mr.Sengottaiyan said the Opposition leader had served as Mayor for five years while his father was the Chief Minister. “It is amusing that he was not aware of these issues then,” he added On whether party’s coalition with the BJP would increase vote bank of the AIADMK, the Minister said it was in the hands of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/announcement-on-reduced-syllabus-in-a-week-minister/article33203615.ece
29 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Minister honours medical aspirants||Minister for Environment K.C. Karupannan honoured government school students from the district who were recently offered MBBS seats under the 7.5% horizontal quota by the State government. According to a release, Mr. Karuppanan honoured five students from Kavundampadi Girls Higher Secondary School and P.Mettupalayam Government Higher Secondary School. He offered the students a memento and a stipend of Rs. 20,000. According to a release, 22 students have been selected under the quota in Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-honours-medical-aspirants/article33203606.ece
29 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Foam floats in Sellur tank||Residents living near Sellur tank were in for a shock when they discovered froth and foam floating in the tank on Saturday morning, following the heavy rains witnessed in the district on Friday night. Abu Bakkar of Neer Nilaigal Pathukappu Iyakkam said that residents started noticing a huge quantum of foam floating in Sellur tank from the early hours of Saturday. Fire and Rescue Services personnel reached the tank to spray water to subside the foam. "The foam was around four feet in height when we went to spray water on the foam," said a personnel. A Public Works Department official said that following the heavy downpour on Friday night, many tanks in the city were filled. "Likewise, the chain of tanks that supplies water to Sellur tank got filled. The Sellur tank had a surplus on Saturday after a gap of four years," he said. Most of these tanks have been contaminated with untreated household sewage and drainage. "In many areas, the households directly discharge the sewage into the nearby water bodies due to the lack of a proper underground drainage system. Hence, the contaminated sewage that flowed from all these tanks led to the formation of froth," he said. Concurring with this viewpoint, Mr. Abu Bakkar said that all these tanks were earlier used for irrigation purposes. "With rapid urbanisation, the agricultural lands have turned to houses and residences," he said. Water hyacinths, an invasive aquatic weed, thrives on the Sellur tank, said Mr. Abu Bakkar. "Apart from untreated sewage, construction debris and medical debris is also dumped inside the tank," he alleged. Mr. Abu Bakkar stressed on the need to remove encroachments to restore the tank to its original capacity. The Madurai Urban Congress Committee President V. Karthikeyan, who visited the spot, said that though the AIADMK had claimed to clean the tank and give a facelift, during the 2016 electioneering, the froth and foam only showed that they have failed in their promise to the people. At least now, the Corporation, which has been giving high hopes of making Madurai into a Smart City, should ensure that the tank was free from encroachments, he said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foam-floats-in-sellur-tank/article33204014.ece
29 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Farmers are misguided’||Persons with vested interests are misguiding the farmers against the laying of underground gas pipeline of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) at Kambur village in Melur block of Madurai district and the landowners are not directly opposing the gas pipeline, according to officials of IOCL. K. Srinivas, Deputy General Manager of IOCL, Madurai, along with S. Saravanan, Deputy Collector, addressed mediapersons here on Saturday to explain the recent project undertaken by the IOCL in the region. Mr. Srinivas said that the Central government was aiming to increase the usage of Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) in the country. D. Ajith Kumar, Manager (Constructions), IOCL, said that a project which envisages the supply of LNG from the IOCL's terminal at Ennore to other parts of the State is currently under way. A pipeline which will run for around 1,425 kilometres will supply LNG from Ennore to Bengaluru; and also to Thoothukudi via Madurai. In Madurai, the pipeline will be laid for 56 km across 26 villages in Melur and Madurai East blocks. Currently, work is under way in six villages in Melur block. However, the farmers in Kambur village of Melur block protested against the laying of a gas pipeline in farmlands with fully grown paddy crop and chased contractors who came for digging trenches to lay the underground pipeline. "The farmers were misguided that a road will be laid inside the farmlands and that wells would be constructed. We explained in detail to the farmers about the project and the safety standards that were followed in laying of the underground gas pipeline. But, a few people with vested interests are misdirecting the farmers," said Mr. Srinivas. The IOCL had already laid a 680-km-long pipeline in 2005 from Manali to Kappalur in Madurai. The officials obtained a Right of Use for these lands by paying compensation in 2005. "The new gas pipeline will be laid along the existing pipeline and an enhanced compensation will be paid to the farmers this time too,” said Mr. Srinivas. LNG is an environment friendly, less expensive and a safer alternative. Distribution of LNG through pipelines is a viable and economical option, he added. “The pipelines are being laid by following the highest safety standards. There will be proper systems present to regularly undertake maintenance of the pipeline and to rectify issues immediately,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-misguided-on-laying-underground-gas-pipeline-say-officials/article33204019.ece
29 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Mullaperiyar project will solve water shortage in city’||The completion of Mullaperiyar drinking water project in the next three years will solve drinking water shortage in Madurai city, said Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan. He was addressing the inaugural session of Confederation of Indian Industry's (CII) virtual water conclave 2020 on smart water and waste water management on Saturday. The Commissioner said that the majority of drinking water to the city is supplied through Vaigai pipeline 1 and 2, and through riverbed sources. "Although norms prescribe that 135 litres per capita per day (lpcd) of water must be supplied to the residents, it has not been possible to achieve this target owing to water shortage. But, the completion of Mullaperiyar drinking water project will bring an additional 125 mld of drinking water to the city," he added. The civic body was taking steps to harness rainwater by desilting waterbodies, clearing inlet and outlet channels. Work is also under way to rejuvenate the 33 ooranis (ponds) under the purview of the civic body. The rainwater harvesting structures present in all buildings are being monitored by the Corporation through an application and notices are issued to buildings that do not have RWH structures, said Mr. Visakan. RWH structures have been constructed in more than 300 low-lying spots in the city, which has helped to avoid water stagnation, he added. Hari K Thiagarajan, Chairman, CII, Tamil Nadu, stressed the need for an integrated and multi-dimensional approach towards water management. He said that a smart city must have good rainwater harvesting infrastructure, wastewater management system and availability of drinking water. N.K. Ranganath, Grundfos Water ambassador, APREG, Grundfos India Private Limited, highlighted the importance of wastewater management. He said that all the stakeholders must work towards water management. S. Mohan, Chairman, International Water Association (India) and professor at Indian Institute of Technology, Chennai, said that the focus must be on decentralised waste water management. Sathish Devadoss, Chairman, CII- Madurai zone, and S. Rajamohan, past Chairman of CII- Madurai zone, and S. Chandran, secretary, International Water Association (India), also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mullaperiyar-project-will-solve-water-shortage-in-city/article33204016.ece
29 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||19 new cases in Thoothukudi and 12 in Tirunelveli district||Madurai recorded 29 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 19,664. A total of 19 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 232. Virudhunagar district recorded 17 new cases and nine patients were discharged on Saturday. With this, the total number of positive cases increased to 15,873 and the total number of patients discharged till date rose up to 15,560. The number of active cases slightly increased to 87 even as the death toll remained at 226. Theni reported 11 new cases after which the tally moved to 16,577. There were 13 discharges from the hospitals. A 46-year-old male patient died due to the virus. Kanniyakumari saw 29 fresh cases of COVID-19 taking the tally to 15,675. The hospitals discharged 23 people. Thoothukudi reported 19 new cases and the tally stood at 15,652. There were 10 discharges from the hospitals. A 67-year-old woman patient died due to the virus. Tirunelveli had 12 new cases and the total tally was 14,809. The number of people discharged from the hospitals was 23. Dindigul saw 23 new cases taking the tally to 10,252. The hospitals discharged eight patients after treatment. Tenkasi had 12 new cases and the tally moved to 8,056. There were six discharges from hospitals. After adding 10 new cases, Sivaganga’s tally rose to 6,290. The hospitals discharged 13 people. Ramanathapuram, which continued to remain at the bottom of the table in southern districts, saw three new cases taking the tally to 6,200. The hospitals discharged six people. The central districts recorded a slight increase in fresh cases of COVID-19 compared to the previous days. A total of 138 patients tested positive. The region recorded one death - a 49-year-old man suffering from diabetes succumbed to the infection in Tiruvarur, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-new-cases-in-dindigul/article33203575.ece
29 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers being misguided about Kambur pipeline: IOCL||Persons with vested interests were misguiding farmers against the laying of underground gas pipeline of the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) at Kambur village, Melur block, Madurai district. Landowners were not directly opposing the gas pipeline, said officials of IOCL here on Saturday. K. Srinivas, Deputy General Manager of IOCL, Madurai, along with S. Saravanan, Deputy Collector and competent authority of IOCL’s project, addressed mediapersons to explain the project. He said the Centre was aiming to increase the usage of liquefied natural gas (LNG) in the country. D. Ajith Kumar, Manager (Constructions), IOCL, said a project which envisaged the supply of LNG from the IOCL’s terminal at Ennore to other parts of the State was currently under way. A pipeline which will run for around 1,425 km will supply LNG from Ennore to Bengaluru; and also to Thoothukudi via Madurai. In Madurai, the pipeline will be laid for 56 km across 26 villages in Melur and Madurai East blocks. Currently, work is underway in six villages in Melur block. However, farmers in Kambur village of Melur block protested against the laying of a gas pipeline in farmlands with fully-grown paddy crop and chased away contractors who came to dig trenches to lay the underground pipeline. “The farmers were misguided and thought that a road would be laid inside the farmlands and that wells would be constructed. We explained in detail to the farmers about the project and the safety standards that were followed in laying of the underground gas pipeline,” said Mr. Srinivas. The IOCL had already laid a 680-kilometre-long pipeline in 2005 from Manali to Kappalur in Madurai. The officials obtained a Right of Use for these lands by paying compensation in 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-being-misguided-about-kambur-pipeline-iocl/article33204043.ece
29 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Many streets remain waterlogged||Several low-lying streets of Kattabomman Nagar in Sellur were waterlogged on Saturday, following the heavy downpour witnessed in the city on Friday night. The residents of Kattabomman Nagar said that excess water from the nearby Panthalkudi channel overflowed onto several nearby streets from the early hours of Saturday. P. Kamali, a resident, said that few households locked their homes and temporarily left to other areas because of the stagnant water. A Corporation official said that excessive water was flowing through the Panthalkudi channel, which carries the surplus from the Sellur tank to the Vaigai. "Our efforts in removing stagnant water from the Kattabomman Nagar turned futile as water is continuously overflowing from the Panthalkudi channel. We are hoping for the water flow to reduce in the Panthalkudi channel," be said. City Engineer S. Arasu said that the water stagnation issue in that area will be addressed immediately. "But, in majority of the low-lying areas the rainwater receded by 45 minutes," he added. The district recorded an average rainfall of 33.16 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday. Mettupatti recorded the highest rainfall of 92 mm. The downpour also destroyed several acres of paddy crop in Karuppayurani and nearby areas, said S. Dharmaraj, a farmer from Karuppayurani. A senior official from the Public Works Department said that several tanks in the city had a surplus following the heavy downpour. The traffic movement across Kalpalam bridge and the alternative road laid for Kuruvikaran Salai causeway was restricted due to water overflowing on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-streets-remain-waterlogged/article33203571.ece
29 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Give jobs to differently abled sportswomen’||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice to the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought government jobs for Madurai-based differently abled sportswomen, Deepa and Sangeetha who have won 84 medals. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered notice to the State in the PIL petition filed by J. Rajakumari Jeevagan, the founder and Chairperson of the GMS foundation, a forum that works for the welfare of differently abled persons. The petitioner said that the sportswomen from Madurai were without any source of income. The government should provide them with a permanent job, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-jobs-to-differently-abled-sportswomen/article33203568.ece
29 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up special courts for differently abled persons’||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice to the Centre and the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to set up special courts to try offences against the differently abled, in each district as per Section 84 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered notices in the public interest litigation petition filed by R. Manibharathi from Madurai. The petitioner said special public prosecutors must be appointed to these courts. The petitioner said that these special courts should have all infrastructures, modern equipment and experts for effective participation of the differently abled persons in the justice delivery system. Further, the petitioner pointed out that as per Section 12 of the Act, appropriate governments shall ensure that differently abled persons can exercise the right to access courts, tribunals, commissions, authorities or any other body having judicial, quasi judicial or investigative powers without any discrimination based on disabilities. Section 13 of the Act states that the governments should ensure that differently abled people have rights equally with others, that included to own or inherit property and control financial affairs, he said. The petitioner said that the special courts should have been set up within six months of the Act, but even after four years, it is yet to become a reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-special-courts-for-differently-abled-persons/article33204018.ece
29 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 126.80 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 786 cusecs and a discharge of 1,555 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 60.86 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,526 cusecs and a discharge of 1,269 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,711 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Mettupatti 92, Peranai 70, Andipatti 64.2, Madurai city 35, Sothuparai dam 30, Kallandhiri 18.2, Vaigai dam and Viraganoor 17 each, Thaniamangalam 16, Idayapatti 15, Veerapandi 13.6, Pulipatti 12.4, Melur 9, Shanmuganathi dam 9.7, Melur 9, Chittampatti 7.2, Uthamapalayam 7.1, Kodaikanal 6.2, Manjalar dam 6, and Periyar dam 4.4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33203579.ece
29 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM hits back at Rangasamy||Hitting back at the Opposition leader and AINRC chief N. Rangasamy for his criticism of his government, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday said political leaders who were “silent” for the last four-and-a-half years have now started issuing statements with Assembly elections in mind. In a virtual press conference, the Chief Minister said: “Where was Mr. Rangasamy for the last four-and-a-half years? He never met people and remained silent on all issues. Now, he is making statements with elections in mind. People know how our government functions with all difficulties.” Despite not having any support from the Union Government and “obstructions” created by the Lt. Governor, the government was able to initiate several schemes and complete development works. ‘Praised by Centre’ “Even the Centre has acknowledged the work done by the government in containing the spread of novel coronavirus. Recently, the Centre appreciated the government for handling Cyclone Nivar crisis,” the Chief Minister said. The Opposition leader was making critical statements without understanding the situation, he charged. On Cyclone Nivar relief measures, the Chief Minister said the initial estimate pegged the loss at Rs. 400 crore, he said.Mr. Narayanasamy said he had written to the Prime Minister and Home Minister to release Rs. 100 crore as interim relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-hits-back-at-rangasamy/article33204038.ece
29 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 46 new COVID-19 cases, no deaths||The Union Territory recorded 46 new COVID-19 cases from screening 2,904 persons on Saturday. As per data released by the Health Department on Saturday morning, of the new admissions, 21 are from Puducherry region, 18 from Mahe and remaining 7 in Karaikal region. No deaths were reported during the period, he said. The active cases stood at 519 with 194 undergoing treatment at government hospitals in four regions and remaining under home isolation. In Puducherry region, 83 patients are at Jipmer and 69 at IGGMC. The government has so far tested 3,97,419 people for the COVID-19, the data revealed. The overall tally is 609 deaths, 519 active cases, a cumulative total of 36,902 cases and 35,774 patients treated and discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-46-new-covid-19-cases-no-deaths/article33204040.ece
29 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Floods: AIADMK leader slams govt.||AIADMK secretary (West) Om Sakthi Sekar on Saturday flayed the government for its failure to prevent flooding at Indira Gandhi Square despite spending crores of rupees. Mr. Sekar told presspersons here that the government had claimed to have spent several crores of rupees on flood mitigation measures at the signal. But the situation remained the same as was seen during the Cyclone Nivar, he said. Mr. Sekar said the government should take steps to obtain 50% of seats from private medical colleges for sponsoring students under CENTAC quota. If the government was serious in its stand on getting seats from private medical colleges, they should start counselling only after obtaining 50% seats, he said. The former MLA urged the government to carry out the assessment of rain damage. The Central assistance was not received in the past during natural calamities as enumeration was not done in a systematic manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/floods-aiadmk-leader-slams-govt/article33204042.ece
29 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Four areas in U.T. bear the brunt of cyclone||While most of Puducherry remained unaffected by rain under the influence of Cyclone Nivar, residents of Chellan Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Venkata Nagar and adjoining places faced hardship for several hours after stormwater mixed with sewage entered their house on the night of November 25. Although there were minor inundations in other parts of the town on the same night, the ordeal of these residents in the four residential areas was worse. The ground floor of houses in these four residential areas submerged damaging the household articles, groceries and vehicles. Jincy M. Ashok, a doctor with a private clinic in the town and a resident of Chellan Nagar, said water began entering the house around10.30p.m. “Within two hours, there was knee-deep water in the ground floor. We went to the first floor managing whatever items we could take along. Since we had two floors, we could manage but think about people in the locality with only ground floor.” Her husband A. Jeevan, who is doing a doctorate in anesthesia at a private medical college, said his two cars, motorcycles and electronic equipment got damaged. “I had to spend around Rs.6,000to service one car. The house and sump were filled with slush,” he said. Leo Fernandez, who runs a mechanic shop, said the shop was filled with water for a day. The engines of motorbikes were damaged. S. Manohar, a resident of Rainbow Nagar who works in a private firm, said it was the same story every monsoon. Successive governments had given several assurances in the past but there was no improvement, he said. M. Narayanasamy, president of Makkal Mandram, said the first, second, third, fifth, eighth, ninth, thirteenth and fifteenth streets of Krishna Nagar were inundated. “It has become an annual affair. The only solution is to demolish a few houses built on a drain in Rainbow Nagar. The planning authority had issued notice to the house owners but action had not been taken,” he said. Treasurer of Chellan Nagar-Raja Rajeswari Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association R. Annamalai said even two months ago a representation was given to clear drains and manholes in the area. But nothing was done. Had the authorities cleaned the drain passing in front of Venketa Nagar Park, people would not have faced such difficulty. He said at least before the next cyclone formation, the drain should be desilted and the government should desilt a channel that passes through Karuvadikuppam, Mr. Annamalai added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-areas-in-puducherry-bear-the-brunt-of-cyclone/article33204037.ece
29 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Man held for selling travel agency cars||The Grand Bazaar police on Saturday arrested a person for selling cars hired from others claiming that he was operating the vehicles for a reputed institution. The police gave the name of the accused as Rajasekharan, 47, a native of Cuddalore. While staying in Rainbow Nagar, he hired five cars from a travel agency at Reddiyarpalayam and two others from another place in the name of the institution. He sold the cars for Rs. 35 lakh. On the basis of a complaint filed by the travel agency owner, a case was registered and the accused was arrested, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-selling-travel-agency-cars/article33203609.ece
29 November 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Roads turn death trap in Rajapalayam||Rain has wreaked havoc in Rajapalayam where municipal administration has failed to keep up its promise of re-laying 54 identified roads that had been dug up for underground drainage and drinking water projects. At least three vehicles got stuck in the loose soil in different parts of the town in the last one week. On Saturday, a brick-laden trailer of a tractor was trapped on the Ganapathiyapuram Road that had been dug up for UGD work. “Fortunately, no one was injured as no one was near it when both the wheels on the right side slipped into the pit,” said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) town secretary, B. Mariappan. A truck got stuck on Chathirapatti Road few days back and last week a private bus was trapped at Ponnagaram. “Every day someone or other keeps falling from motorbikes or while wading through the puddles on the road,” said K. Subramanian (73), who lives on Mudangiyar Road. People are putting up with the inconvenience for the past three months. But, many have fractured their limbs after falling down, he complained. During dry days, the passing of vehicles on the mud filled road rakes up heavy dust. “Many shops have lost business due to this menace,” the elderly man said. R. Karuppasamy complained of official apathy. “If every road in the town is dug up how can people move safely,” he asked. Unfinished work The officials have failed to keep their promise to relay 54 roads on which laying of pipelines for both UGD and drinking water projects have been completed, Mr. Mariappan complained. After the town residents supported by various political parties staged a protest on October 6, the officials identified 54 roads for relaying. Black topping has been provided only on TP Mill Road. “But, on some of the roads, the work has been stopped with spreading of gravel. Two months have passed, but nothing concrete has happened,” he said. The work that was started after Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajendra Bhalaji, inaugurated it, has not been completed. He sought the Rajapalayam municipality to expedite the work on at least important roads like Mudangiyar Road, Madasamy Koil Street Road and Ganapathiyapuram Road on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-turn-death-trap-in-rain-ravaged-rajapalayam/article33203570.ece
29 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Anti-dengue measures to be intensified in Salem||The Department of Public Health is planning to intensify anti-dengue activities on a par with COVID-19 containment measures in the district. With a decrease in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district, the department is planning to concentrate on dengue and take necessary disease control measures. According to officials, similar to COVID-19, officials have planned to increase tests for dengue as well. R.Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, said, “Samples for dengue tests are being collected along with COVID-19 swab samples from persons complaining of fever or joint pain.” Compared to the corresponding period last year, few dengue cases were being reported this year. “About 400 cases were reported in November last year. While only 153 cases were reported this year,” he said. Dr. Selvakumar said that plans were on to intensify tests and screening in the Corporation areas. On an average, 25 samples were being collected a day for dengue tests. He added that about 600 domestic breeding checkers and 120 trainee health inspectors were on the field as part of dengue control measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-dengue-measures-to-be-intensified-in-salem/article33203602.ece
29 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic hits sale of earthen lamps||Artisans involved in the production of earthen lamps in the district are unhappy as their business is dull this festive season. Following the COVID-19 lockdown relaxation, the artisans were hopeful of reviving their business. They invested money and made lamps in large quantities. However, with people not evincing interest in buying lamps, they feared that they would not be able to cover the input cost. O.S. Sathish Kumar, an artisan, said “Each potter had invested up to Rs. 50,000 and were hopeful that things would improve during this festive season. Compared to last year, the sales is low. While the stock got cleared during the festival last year, we doubt whether we would be able to recover what we had invested this year. Each lamp is sold for Re.1 and public are buying only in smaller quantities.” Mr. Kumar attributed the drop in sales to the COVID-19 restrictions in place in the temples. A. Murugan, president of an artisan association here said, “Over 20,000 people in the district are involved in the production of lamps. They spent nearly three months to manufacture the lamps. Only less than 75% of lamps have been sold.” The artisans are hoping that the government would extend financial support to bail them out of the current situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-hits-sale-of-earthen-lamps/article33203605.ece
29 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Retired forest officer, wife sentenced for graft||The special court for the trial of cases under Prevention of Corruption Act here sentenced a retired officer and his wife to three years of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh each in a disproportionate assets case. According to police, Judge V.P.Suganthi sentenced N. Mohan, former Mettur Range Forest Officer, and his wife Chitramani under Vigilance Act for accumulating wealth to the tune of Rs. 26.79 lakh beyond income. The Court also ordered confiscation of three properties owned by the convicts in Salem City and to seize a fixed deposit amounting to Rs. 1.06 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-forest-officer-wife-sentenced-for-graft/article33203601.ece
29 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Potential linked credit plan released for Salem||District Collector S.A. Raman on Friday released the district’s potential linked credit plan for the financial year 2021-22. According to a release, the NABARD has assessed the credit potential for the district at Rs. 7,976.82 crore. There has been an increase of 4.97% from current financial year, which was Rs. 7,598.87 crore. NABARD District Development Manager A. Bhama Buvaneswari said in a release that the plan was prepared with the theme ‘collectivisation of agricultural produce for enhancing farmers’ income’. Officials said that the credit potential for agriculture has been estimated at Rs. 6,004.77 crore and for MSMEs at Rs. 920.90 crore . Credit potential for export, education and housing put together has been estimated at Rs. 832.43 crore and that of social infrastructure involving bank credit and renewable energy at Rs. 218.74 crore, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/potential-linked-credit-plan-released-for-salem/article33203603.ece
29 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage protest||The residents of Karipatti panchayat staged a protest in front of the Collectorate here on Saturday demanding steps to stop a private telecommunication firm from erecting a mobile phone tower in the area. The residents alleged that a private telecommunication firm was planning to set up a tower next to Salem-Attur service road. The radiation from the tower would adversely affect the elderly and children residing in the neighbourhood, the protesters alleged. They said that protests would continue until necessary steps were taken to stop the firm from erecting the tower.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-stage-protest/article33203600.ece
29 November 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Adhere to pandemic guidelines to contain the virus: Collector||The district administration would be forced to seal marriage halls, cinema houses and super markets, which failed to adhere to the guidelines laid down by the State government in view of the pandemic, said Collector K. Senthil Raj here on Saturday. Presiding over a meeting on the need to contain the virus more vigorously, he said that pandemic had curbed normal life and as a result economy had suffered. After weighing all the pros and cons, the Government had relaxed certain rules in the curfew imposed due to contain COVID-19. “But this does not mean that the public can move around without adhering to the guidelines”, Dr Senthil Raj said. The meeting was attended by Superintendent of Police S. Jeyakumar, Corporation Commissioner Jeyaseelan, Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran and representatives from various trade associations among others. During the meeting, the Collector said that the public had to be educated continuously about the ills of not wearing masks or maintaining physical distancing and using sanitisers. He said that officials from the Corporation, Municipalities and Taluks would inspect marriage halls and cinema houses. He urged the stakeholders to cooperate with the official machinery and make the district COVID-19 free. Towards this objective, the public had to be sensitised and any lapse or apathy would lead to a second spell of the pandemic, he warned. Any lapse may force the officials to seal the premises - be it cinema house or marriage hall or super markets, he reiterated. To avoid any such unpleasant actions, he urged the stakeholders to cooperate with the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adhere-to-pandemic-guidelines-to-contain-the-virus-collector/article33204087.ece
29 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Market cleared of encroachments||A day after Gandhi Market reopened after a gap of about eight months, the Corporation on Saturday carried out an encroachment eviction drive around it. The encroachments have been cleared and street vendors are not allowed to sell in the area, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu . Encroachments within the market complex have also been removed. “Many shopkeepers had extended their business area by encroaching the frontage in the form of makeshift structures using casuarina poles that protruded into the circulating area. As it created congestion in the market, they were also removed,” he said. The shopkeepers have been warned not to dump garbage as a proper solid waste management system is in place. They have also been instructed to follow the COVID-19 protocol on personal distancing, wearing of face masks and regular wash of hands. “Corporation officials will do the rounds and penalise erring shopkeepers,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. The civic body conducted a cleaning drive in the market by clearing garbage and desilting stormwater drains. “Since the market remained locked for so many months, the maintenance work was warranted,” an official said. Not all happy Meanwhile, a section of residents and authorities expressed their displeasure over reopening of the market, though temporary. S. Sekaran, president of Citizen’s Forum, said the government was favouring vendors because they required their support for the upcoming Assembly elections. “They listened to the traders and did not represent the needs of the 10 lakh residents of the city,” he said. Mr. Sekaran said the retail vendors can be allowed to sell at the market but the wholesale traders must be shifted out. “They have used taxpayer money to construct the new market and must ensure that the facility is utilised,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhi-market-cleared-of-encroachments/article33204080.ece
29 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three transwomen booked for sexual assault in Tiruchi||The No. 1 Tollgate police on Friday registered a case against three transwomen for alleged sexual assault of a transsexual boy. According to the complaint given by the 14-year-old boy from Theni, Sathya and Aparna of Tollgate had met him at a bus stop in Dindigul a few days ago. In his complaint, the boy said, “They took my phone number and convinced me to live with them as they would fund my sex-reassignment surgery. On November 25, convinced by their promise, I went to their house in Tiruchi.” The boy was allegedly forced to consume alcohol and was subjected to sexual assault and forced into prostitution. A day after, on information, Suji, another transwoman from Tiruchi, with the guidance of Gopi Shankar, a representative of the National Council for Transgender Persons, preferred a complaint with the Tollgate police but they refused to entertain it. However, on Friday, following the intervention of Z. Annie Vijaya, Deputy Inspector-General, Tiruchi range, the police registered a case against Sathya, Aparna and Sonali under Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Reacting to the development, Mr. Gopi claimed that it was a rare case in which the Transgender Persons Act had been invoked in the country. This case should be a warning for people attempting to harm non-binary children, and for parents who ignore them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-transwomen-booked/article33203552.ece
29 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||138 fresh cases reported in central districts||The central districts on Saturday recorded a slight increase in fresh cases for COVID-19 compared to the previous days. A total of 138 patients tested positive. The region recorded one death - a 49-year-old man suffering from diabetes succumbed to the infection in Tiruvarur -, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Two districts - Nagapattinam and Thanjavur - reported a slight increase in cases while reporting 31 fresh cases each for the viral infection. Patients in both districts were isolated cases or were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Tiruvarur reported 23 fresh cases, many of whom were primary contacts. In Tiruchi, 21 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Meanwhile, seven patients who had been undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. As on Saturday, there were 149 total active cases in the district - 69 were in home isolation and 80 were home quarantined following hospitalisation and treatment. Pudukottai reported a sharp decline with 12 fresh cases. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. In Karur too, only 11 new cases were reported. The patients hailed from Tozhilpettai, Kulithalai and Velayutham Palayam. Ariyalur reported a further drop in cases with only eight fresh cases, and in Perambalur only one patient tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/138-fresh-cases-reported-in-central-districts/article33203554.ece
29 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||Water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.38 feet on Saturday against its permissible level of 120 feet. The inflow was 7,704 cusecs and the discharge nil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33203551.ece
29 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Lockdown did not have major impact on child marriages in Tiruppur district’||The COVID-19 lockdown did not have a major impact on the number of child marriages in Tiruppur district, according to the data released by Childline on Saturday. The annual data for number of interventions by Childline from January to October in Tiruppur district was released on Saturday by Executive Director of Centre for Social Education and Development (CSED) C. Nambi. According to this, Childline intervened in 82 child marriages in the 10-month period. Coordinator for Childline (Tiruppur) S. Kathirvel said that Childline intervened in 118 child marriages in 2019. The interventions include the child marriages stopped as well as the inspection by officials based on complaints received after completion of child marriages. In April and May, the first two months where the lockdown regulations were at its strictest, Childline intervened in only three and seven child marriages respectively. “Usually, the maximum number of cases will be reported in these two months as the schools will be closed for summer holidays,” Mr. Kathirvel said. On the contrary, there was a spike in June where Childline intervened in 16 child marriages in Tiruppur district. The subsequent months saw between seven and 10 interventions by Childline every month. Cases of child labour were less in the 10-month period except for the months of July and August, where 67 children were rescued from private spinning mills in Tiruppur district, he said. Between January and October, Childline intervened in 707 cases regarding violation of child rights in Tiruppur district, majority of which (504 cases) were received through the distress calls received in the helpline 1098. Mr. Kathirvel said that during the lockdown period, Childline also received many calls through 1098 seeking relief materials, which were redirected to the concerned authorities. The Tiruppur Childline officials observed events for child rights’ awareness under the Childline Se Dosti programme from November 13 to 27. Childline, a 24x7 nationwide helpline for children in distress, can be reached at 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-did-not-have-major-impact-on-child-marriages-in-tiruppur-district/article33203611.ece
29 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two sentenced to life imprisonment||The Dharapuram Additional Judicial Magistrate on Friday sentenced two accused in a 2016 murder case to life imprisonment. A release from the Tiruppur District Police said that Murugan (57) and Dandapani (52) were arrested on charges of murdering Balan (44) on April 30, 2016 due to a property dispute within the limits of Kundadam police station. The accused were remanded in judicial custody in 2016 and were awarded life imprisonment along with a fine of Rs. 10,000 each on Friday, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment/article33203946.ece
29 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two get life term in murder case||The Dharapuram Additional Judicial Magistrate on Friday sentenced two accused in a 2016 murder case to life imprisonment. A release from the Tiruppur District Police said that Murugan (57) and Dandapani (52) were arrested on charges of murdering Balan (44) on April 30, 2016 due to a property dispute within the limits of Kundadam police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-get-life-term-in-murder-case/article33203599.ece
29 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested for sexual assault||The Tiruppur North All Women Police arrested a 20-year-old man on Friday on charges of sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. The police said that the youth was allegedly in a relationship with the victim. He was booked under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-arrested-for-sexual-assault/article33203945.ece
29 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||In full flow, Palar spreads cheer||While Vellore and Katpadi residents are happy about the Palar being in full flow after three years, river conservation activists want more check dams to improve groundwater level and want authorities to stop discharge of effluents into the river. The rain triggered by Cyclone Nivar in catchment areas of tributaries like Ponnai, Mallatharu, Agaram and Koundinya in Andhra Pradesh brought copious flows into the Palar. “Many people gathered on Polur Subramanian Bridge and Katpadi Old Bridge to witness water gushing through the Palar river,” said Sivadasan, a police constable. According to Public Works Department (PWD) officials, around 6,000 cusecs of water is flowing through the Palar in Vellore. “There has been an inflow of close to 15,000 cusecs of water from various tributaries like Mallataru, Ponnai, Koundaniya and Agaram,” said an official from the Vellore district administration. He said that due to this flow, groundwater will improve. “We still have rains during the northeast monsoon and if the flow is retained, the groundwater level will improve,” said the official. Ambalur Ashokan, member of the committee, Rivers of Ecology, Vellore district, said that this flow would have washed away the garbage dumped by tanneries, the municipal corporation and village panchayats on the river bed. “Now, groundwater is available only at a depth of 1,500 feet. If we build more check dams and retain water, we will be able to get water at 300 feet,” he said. Palar A.C. Venkatesan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Association Coordination Committee, said that many treatment plants were letting out untreated and semi-treated sewage into the Palar. “This should be stopped immediately,” he said. He said a check dam should be constructed across the Palar to divert water into smaller streams. “Earlier, it used to flow naturally, but now that does not happen due to sand mining. The supply channels to these rivers should be desilted,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-full-flow-palar-spreads-cheer/article33204033.ece
29 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||NDRF locates marooned woman by using drone||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescued a 55-year-old woman, who was stuck in her house located in the middle of the Koundinya river bed, in waist-deep water, in Gudiyatham on Saturday morning. The team used drones to locate her and then rescued her using inflatable boats. According to Sheikh Mansoor, Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO), Gudiyatham, Ellamal, 51, lives with her husband Muniappan in an elevated surface in the middle of Koundinya river. They have a pigsty. With 11,000 cusecs of water released from Mordana dam, the river was in spate. “Much before water was released, Muniappan went to the nearest village leaving his wife at home. When he returned, he found that his house was cut off and water was gushing in the river,” the RDO said. He then approached the local administration and explained the situation. “The Fire and Rescue Services tried for a few hours, but could not rescue her,” he said. Vellore Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram called the NDRF and a 16-member team, headed by inspector R.C. Ola, reached Gudiyatham on Friday evening. “They used drones to check her condition. She was stable and had cooked food with some grains she had. So we decided to rescue her on Saturday morning,” said Mr. Mansoor. On Saturday morning, the NDRF team used boats and ropes and managed to rescue her. According to officials, they had evacuated most of the houses, but Ms. Ellamal had refused to move. She said that she did not know that water would be released. “We don’t have a house and my husband also cannot work due to his poor health,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ndrf-rescues-marooned-woman/article33203610.ece
29 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||34 test positive in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,278 with 34 new cases reported on November 28. While 18,782 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 165. The district’s death toll is 331. In Ranipet district, six new cases were reported taking the tally to 15,576. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,218 with eight new cases on Saturday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 17 new cases were reported, taking the number of cases to 18,586. Out of this, 18,195 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 116.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34-test-positive-in-vellore/article33204041.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports four deaths, 142 cases||Salem district reported 67 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. According to health officials, 27 of these cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits and nine patients returned from Namakkal, Erode and Chennai. The medical bulletin said a 59-year-old man died at a private hospital in Salem. In Namakkal, 38 cases were reported. According to officials, 10 patients returned from Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Karur, Erode and Salem. Erode reported 44 cases. Seven persons tested positive in the Nilgiris. The total number of cases so far is 7,357, and the toll 41. The district administration said 158 people were undergoing treatment. Coimbatore district on Saturday reported four deaths and 142 fresh cases, which took the overall cases tally to 48,421 and the toll so far to 611. Three women, 51, 38 and 32 died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), and a 72-year-old man died at the ESI Hospital, the media bulletin said. Out of the 48,421 cases, 46,991 have recovered and 819 are active cases. On Saturday, 60 patients from the district were discharged upon recovery from infection. Tiruppur district reported 65 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, raising the overall tally to 15,238. No deaths were reported on Saturday. Out of 15,238 cases, 14,456 have recovered and 574 are active cases. The district has reported 208 deaths so far. Ninety-five patients were discharged from various hospitals on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-one-death-67-cases/article33203597.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Taking precaution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taking-precaution/article33203620.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival of lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-of-lights/article33203582.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bay system to reach T.N. coast by December 2||The system may have more influence in the southern districts, yielding even an extremely heavy rainfall of over 24 cm at one or two places, he said. “There would be more clarity on the movement of the system and rainfall intensity on Sunday. Chennai, too, has a chance of rain next week,” Mr. Balachandran said. The IMD has forecast a relatively dry weather over the city till Monday, with a maximum temperature of 30 degrees Celsius. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday, interior districts recorded moderate to heavy rain. Mettupatti in Madurai district received the day’s highest of 9 cm. The State’s seasonal rain since October 1 remains deficit by 14%, though the rain from Cyclone Nivar helped to bridge a wider gap. The next system is expected to wipe out the shortfall in the southern and interior districts, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bay-system-to-reach-tn-coast-by-december-2/article33203547.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inspector suspended||Anitha, Inspector of Police, Chekkanoorani, was placed under suspension after she was arrested on bribery charge on Thursday night. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range), S. Rajendiran, ordered her suspension on Friday. The Inspector was arrested after she was caught red-handed while demanding and accepting Rs. 30,000 bribe money from one Nallathambi for dropping two names from the chargesheet in a 2017 hurt case. The order was served to her in jail on Saturday.   Three unidentified persons robbed M. Sundaramahalingam (28) of Vadipatti of a mobile phone and a two-wheeler on Samayanallur to Thenur Main Road on Friday. The police said that when the victim stopped the bike to attend call of nature, the accused came there, robbed the valuables and fled from scene. Samayanallur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-suspended/article33203572.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TH29_CITY_CINEMA||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2020, Chennai Open-Air Live Programme up to 19.12.2020 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre (Ministry of Culture, Government of India) at Bhavan's Rajaji Vidyashram Campus, No.6, Kilpauk Garden Road, Kilpauk, Chennai-600010. Today at 6.00 pm : Vocal concert by Trichur Brothers (Sri Srikrishna Mohan & Sri Ramkumar Mohan) with Sri Sayee Rakshith (Violin), Sri Trichur R. Mohan (Mrudangam) and Dr. Nerkunam S. Sankar (Kanjira). Tomorrow : Dr. O.S. Arun (Bhajan Sandhya). Programme supported by: Sriram Group, Ramco Cements & Ramco Industries, AVA Cholayil Health Care (Medimix), Larsen & Toubro, Seshasayee Paper & Boards, MGM Health Care, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Kauvery Hospitals, Nalli Silks, Sri Krishna Sweets, Sri K.V. Rangaswamy (L&T), Dhanvantari Nano Ayushadi, Newry Properties & Indian Oil Corporation . Children below 12 years are not allowed. Admission subject to following S.O.P, (Temperature check, Hand Sanitizing. Wearing Mask and Distance Seating). Drive-in facility available. Limited seats on First-cum-First-Served basis. NO TICKETS. Also Watch Live: http://krishnansons.com/ bhavans-art-festival-2020. MISCELLANEOUS  Sri Vidyatheertha Foundation (Regd) Ph: 97899 99160 / 63825 34599 103rd Jayanthi Satsangh of Jagadguru Sri Abhinava Vidyatheertha Mahaswamigal, 35th Jagadguru Shankaracharya of Sri Sringeri Sharada Peetham, from Saturday 5th to Sunday 13th December daily at 5.30 pm via Microsoft Teams App. Every day Bhajans by leading artistes. Swami Vidyashankara Saraswathy, Sri Vidya Narasimha Ashram, Nerur, Tamil Nadu, will deliver a series of discourse on Vedanta. For attending the Satsang please register via WhatsApp 73387 99415 / 97899 99160.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/th29citycinema/article33203928.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jayadeva to facilitate management of heart attack cases at taluk level||To avoid delay in providing diagnosis and treatment to heart attack patients in rural areas, the State-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences is set to start a heart attack (ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction -STEMI) management project at taluk level. To be taken up under the Union Health Ministry’s National Health Mission (NHM) coordinated Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) programme, this STEMI India project will be initiated in 40 taluks of three Jayadeva divisions — Bengaluru, Mysuru and Kalaburagi — which will be the hub hospitals. Institute director C.N. Manjunath said the NHM had approved a sum of Rs. 2.3 crore for the project. Doctors in taluk hospitals and primary health centres, who are the first point of contact for patients in rural areas, will be trained to diagnose heart attack cases at the earliest and start initial treatment within the golden hours. The project will run on a hub-and-spoke model, he said. Nearly 25% of deaths in India are owing to cardiovascular diseases, the most common of which are heart attacks. “As heart attack treatment is time-dependent, the main objective is to diagnose at the earliest and initiate treatment. For every 30 minutes delay in initiating treatment for heart attack, the death rate is likely to increase by 7%. This project will significantly reduce mortality rate,” Dr. Manjunath said. Medical kits Under the project, each taluk (spoke) hospital will be provided with a heart attack management kit that includes an ECG machine, defibrillator, pulse oximeter, and a mobile phone. The moment an ECG is taken, it is transferred to the divisional Jayadeva hospital for a confirmed diagnosis through the cloud system. “This will also alert the hospital about the patient’s visit. If the designated taluk hospital is within 30-40 km of the divisional hub (Jayadeva) hospital, the patient will be transferred directly to the hospital in a ‘108’ ambulance,” he said. “In distant taluks where travel time is going to take more than one hour, the patient will be provided thrombolytic therapy for dissolving clots. This will help the patient buy 24 hours time. Meanwhile, after a few hours the patient will be transferred to the hub hospital for angioplasty. Otherwise, during a heart attack, angioplasty should be performed within the first six hours,” the doctor explained.  Symptoms Severe chest pain – the chest can feel like it is being pressed or squeezed by a heavy object Pain can radiate from the chest to the jaw, neck, arms, and back Burning sensation in the centre of the chest, often mistaken for gastritis Profuse sweating, vomiting Shortness of breath Feeling weak or light-headed or both||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jayadeva-to-facilitate-management-of-heart-attack-cases-at-taluk-level/article33203897.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. to amend taxi aggregators rules based on Centre’s guidelines||The State government is set to prepare new rules to regulate taxi aggregators such as Ola and Uber in keeping with the new Motor Vehicle Aggregators Guidelines – 2020 brought out by the Centre on November 27. The government had introduced the ‘Karnataka on demand transportation technology aggregators’ rules in 2016, which will be revised. “There are several new points mentioned in the Centre’s guidelines, which we will incorporate. The new set of rules is likely to come in a month or two, after deliberations,” said a senior official with the Transport Department. The Central guidelines, for instance, state that the base price be fixed for a distance of 3 km. However, in 2018, the State government had fixed taxi fares based on the price of the vehicle, while the base fare was fixed for the first 4 km. “We have to take a call on how fares should be fixed for subsequent kilometres. A provision has been made for collecting a maximum surge charge of 1.5 times, while our rules allow up to 2x. This has to be looked into,” the official added. Another issue that officials will have to discuss is the provision for apps to charge a cancellation fee that is 10% of the total fare not exceeding Rs. 100. The State government will have to rethink its stand on pool rides, which has been a contentious issue. While the Transport Department has been opposing pool rides on the grounds of safety of passengers especially women, the Central guidelines are in favour of them. As per the new guidelines, aggregators may provide pooling facilities to riders whose details and KYC are available, and who shall be travelling along the same route. “Female passengers seeking to avail of ride pooling shall also be provided the option to pool only with other female passengers,” read the guidelines. When asked about this, department officials were circumspect. “Allowing pool rides requires deliberations and various aspects need to be looked into before legally allowing pool ride,” said the official.  Non-transport vehicles In the past, the department had booked cases against operators providing a platform for private cars owners using their vehicle for commercial purposes by offering carpooling services. However, the new guidelines state that to reduce traffic congestion and automobile pollution, “non-transport vehicle pooling may be provided by aggregators unless prohibited by the State government”. Officials said they would deliberate on this but maintained that allowing non-commercial vehicles to provide such services would be a challenge when it comes to ensuring passenger safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-to-amend-taxi-aggregators-rules-based-on-centres-guidelines/article33203890.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No need for insurance firms to question chargesheets in accident cases: HC||There is no mandate in law for insurance companies to challenge chargesheets, filed by the police in motor vehicle accident cases, to controvert the contents of chargesheets before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) in the insurance claim case proceedings, said the Karnataka High Court. “...if the insurance companies are saddled with burden of challenging the chargesheets filed throughout the country without there being no clear legal mandate to do so, their work would be seriously crippled and they would not be able to do their insurance business without enhancing their premium, thereby further burdening the ever-suffering owners of motor vehicles,” the High Court said. A Division Bench comprising Justice S. Sunil Dutt Yadav and Justice P. Krishna Bhat delivered the verdict while declining to accept the contention of claimants that MACT could not have accepted the claim of the insurance company that the particular vehicle was not involved in the accident contrary to the chargesheet as the company had not challenged the correctness of the chargesheet before the High Court. “Is not still the standard of proof one of preponderance of probabilities? Is a mere chargesheet, which in this case is shown to be deficient in truth, sufficient to tip the balance only on the premise that insurance company has not dipped deep into its pockets to challenge the chargesheet - what with the toxic nexus between the black sheep among the police, medical professionals and touts of every kind masquerading the field that has become a notorious fact of life,” the Bench observed. On claimants’ dependence on a 2011 judgment of the High Court, the Bench said the 2011 verdict has not laid down law that in all cases, where chargesheets were filed, MACTs are required to act upon the same unless insurance companies question the same and obtain writ of mandamus. In the present case, the court agreed with MACT’s finding from the evidences that the vehicle named in the chargesheet was planted, by the younger brother of the deceased, in collusion with the parties after 103 days of accident as the vehicle belonged to the younger brother himself and when none had seen the actual vehicle involved in the accident as the complaint had described it as ‘unknown vehicle’.  If insurance companies are saddled with burden of challenging the chargesheets filed throughout the country without there being no clear legal mandate to do so, their work will be seriously crippled and they will not be able to do their insurance business without enhancing their premium, thereby further burdening the ever-suffering owners of motor vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-need-for-insurance-firms-to-question-chargesheets-in-accident-cases-hc/article33203659.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two inscriptions dating back to 14th and 18th centuries unearthed at Rajanukunte||A team of history buffs, which includes a BMTC bus driver and a retired Kannada professor, has discovered two inscriptions, one dating back to the Hoysala kingdom during the 14th century and the other to the Wadiyar rule in the 18th century, near Rajanukunte, Doddaballapur. Both the inscriptions pertain to land grants in the erstwhile ‘Yelahanka Nadu’. The local villagers have initiated steps to conserve them. K. Dhanapal, a driver and tour guide on BMTC’s Bengaluru Darshana, has been an epigraphy enthusiast who has discovered and helped conserve several inscriptions in the erstwhile Yelahanka Nadu, including a rare 9th century inscription discovered at Jakkur. He came across the two inscriptions in October. “I got information about an inscription stone at a temple in Kadatanamale village,” he told The Hindu . K.R. Narasimhan, a passionate epigraphist who led the study team, said the inscription was actually found around five years ago. The villagers had put it on display for the public, half buried in concrete. 14th century Kannada “Recently, we led an effort to unearth the inscription and read it. It’s dated 1310 AD, during the reign of Hoysala king Veera Ballala III. The inscription is written in 14th century Kannada, easily understood even today, and has 18 lines. It says Kameya Dandanayaka, son of Ponnanna Dandanayaka, the prime minister of Veera Ballala III, ruling over Elahakka Nadu, has donated all the land of Kadatanamale for the welfare of the people of the village,” he explained. The inscription stone was found in the Kambada Anjaneya temple in which the sanctum sanctorum has a pillar on which there is an engraving of Anjaneya. “The pillar is a Garuda kamba, usually placed outside a large temple. Now, only a portion of the pillar remains, which has become a temple in itself. This site probably had a large temple in the 14th century,” Prof. Narasimhan speculates. The inscription refers to Yelahanka as Elahakka Nadu. “Over 50 inscriptions have been found in this region that date back to the Hoysala period, especially to the reign of Veera Ballala III. When studied together, they show this particular king had taken keen interest in the development of this region,” Prof. Narasimhan said. “Earlier inscriptions dating back to the Chola period refer to this region as Ilaippakka Nadu.” While the team was at Kadatanamale, they were tipped off about a similar inscription near a sweet water well at Arakere, a neighbouring village. Mr. Dhanapal said, “That inscription too was half-buried next to a well, and many of its lines had been erased. As we unearthed the inscription, we realised it was probably cut in two, and this was only one part of it. Despite an extensive search, we could not find the other half.” Prof. Narasimhan said, “The second inscription dates back to 1750 AD, to the time of Wadiyar rule. It is also a land grant, but since the inscription is incomplete, we do not have the details.” Villagers at Kadatanamale and Arakere have come together to conserve these inscription stones. “The government and the villagers need to preserve these inscriptions in these villages, with a plaque educating visitors of their contents and significance,” Mr. Dhanapal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-inscriptions-dating-back-to-14th-and-18th-centuries-unearthed-at-rajanukunte/article33203886.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC says SC/ST commission has no power to entertain pleas for restoration of land||The High Court of Karnataka has held that the Karnataka State Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Commission has no power or jurisdiction in law to entertain a petition for restoration of lands granted in favour of people from SC and ST communities. The Deputy Commissioner is the appellate authority to challenge the orders passed by the Assistant Commissioneron claims by SC/ST persons under the provisions of the Karnataka Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act, 1978, and not the SC/ST commission, the court held. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while deciding on a petition filed in 2013 after a chequered history of litigation between two individuals over land granted under the provisions of the 1978 Act. Jayappa of Shivamogga district, after not getting a favourable order before the competent authorities under the provisions of the 1978 Act, had filed a petition before the commission challenging an order passed by the Assistant Commissioner in favour of one Ganganna, who then knocked on the doors of the High Court in 2013 challenging the proceedings before the commission. “A reading of the provisionsof the 1978 Act would lead toan unmistakable interpretation that the functions entrusted to the commission are in the nature of investigation and examination of various safeguards provided to SC and ST communities. The provisions of this Act do not clothe the Commission with such powers as to entertain a petition filed by agrantee seeking restoration of land and to investigate the matter,” the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-says-scst-commission-has-no-power-to-entertain-pleas-for-restoration-of-land/article33203646.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Register FIRs for serious cases; don’t direct victims to e-portal’||Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has ordered all police stations to file first information reports (FIRs) for serious crimes with no exceptions. This comes in the wake of a rise in the number of incidents of police personnel directing victims of theft, robbery, and attention diversion to the e-portal where they can file complaints online. However, the e-portal was launched for petty cases such as loss of documents, ID cards, etc. In a memo issued on November 24, Mr. Pant said that under no circumstances should police personnel advise complainants to register serious cases online. Cases which are cognisable in nature should be treated with utmost seriousness… A proper FIR should be registered and regular investigation should be taken up, stated the memo. According to senior police officials, the number of cases on the e-portal is rising with an average of 50,000 new cases registered in a year. “Though the portal was launched to reduce the burden on personnel and make it unnecessary for people to visit the station for minor complaints, it is being grossly misused,” a senior police official said. No proper follow-up He acknowledged that the portal can be faulty with no proper follow-up. “Its function has been reduced to getting a receipt or an acknowledgement for online complaints. In such a situation, we cannot have victims of serious crimes being directed to the portal,” the official added. A retired police official said it was common practice among the police to discourage people from insisting on an FIR. “This is to reduce the number of cases registered and the workload at their police station,” he said.Another police officer said this would affect review procedures. “While on the one hand we are forced to register FIRs for every complaint, the same officers will pull us up for accountability at review meetings. We will be questioned on the number of FIRs registered, along with progress, detection, and recovery rates,” said the police officer. The police on ground are not too happy with the memo, citing staff shortage and routine work as deterrents. “Station house officers are not only responsible for the law and order situation in their respective jurisdictions, but also office administration and other work assigned to them on a regular basis,” the officer added. Others expressed concern over how this will affect their performance reviews. “A police personnel’s performance is based on detection and maximum recovery along with the conviction rates. If we don’t get a conviction on a theft case, for instance, it will be a mark against us. The review committee formed to study acquitted cases sends a report to senior officers against the investigating officer seeking action. Many times, the magistrate will write a letter to senior police officers against the investigating officer for not filing a chargesheet on time and also for lapses in the investigation,” said the police officer, adding that it is to escape this that police are directing complainants to the e-portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/register-firs-for-serious-cases-dont-direct-victims-to-e-portal/article33203893.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MSMEs in jeopardy as steel prices increase||The price of steel has risen by 35-40% in the last three months, along with zinc and aluminium, and this has put medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs) in great jeopardy, especially when they are yet to recover from the COVID-inflicted business losses. Industry body KASSIA on Thursday brought this to the attention of the government and urged for intervention either by subsidising the prices or imposing price control, in order to ensure prices are reigned in. “This sudden spike in prices has made it impossible for MSMEs to meet confirmed orders and they are in serious danger of losing exports markets to competitors,” said K.B. Arasappa, president, KASSIA. The government must step in to ensure steel is supplied at a competitive price to consuming small industries, he demanded. Steel is the basic raw material for many micro and small enterprises in the manufacturing sector and the price hike has put a large number of them under distress. “This has come up on them as though the COVID-related disruptions were not bad enough. KASSIA would like to urge the government to urgently intervene in the matter so that the steel consuming small industries are saved from closure,” added Mr. Arasappa. Confirming the price scenario, Basant Poddar, mentor, Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (South), said there has been a spurt in the price of steel as construction activities resumed post monsoon. “There was nothing happening for several months because of the pandemic. There is a pent up demand. Also things are slowly picking in the infrastructure, railways, residential and rural housing spaces. This has pushed up demand for steel and therefore prices went up now,” he said. In addition to that, the prices of raw material - coking coal and iron ore - too have gone up, Mr. Poddar added. In spite of being the second largest steel producer, India’s per capita steel consumption is dismally low at 72 kg as against a world average of 225 kg, while it is 590 kg in China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/msmes-in-jeopardy-as-steel-prices-increase/article33203657.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||6 of Nigerian family held for duping people||The Whitefield police have arrested a 25-year-old Nigerian, his wife, and four of his relatives in Delhi for allegedly duping people online. The accused — Bright Mudakashi, his wife Devain Madukashi, and their relatives Emanuel Vasama, John Alex, Ejiju Madukashi, and Maria Emanuel Madukashi — were nabbed in Delhi on November 24, and produced before the city court. “Using fake profiles, the prime accused, Bright, would pose as a successful white-collar professional on marriage portals and social media platforms to befriend people. After gaining their trust, he cheated them,” said a senior police official. The police seized four laptops and 10 mobile phones from the accused. An analysis of the gadgets found that they had made transactions in 58 banks accounts, of which 28 were international accounts. In one such case, he allegedly approached a private firm employee on shaadi.com, and introduced himself as Raj Kishore, a civil engineer based in Malaysia. After the two “got to know each” other by chatting online and on the phone, he proposed that they get married. “The accused communicated with the woman using a foreign SIM to make her believe that he was living in Malaysia. They would chat regularly on WhatsApp. In this way, he got her to trust him before proposing to her,” said the police official. On November 2, the accused sought her help to get a consignment delivered from another country to him, for which he needed money urgently. He promised to return the money to her without delay. Believing him, the woman transferred Rs. 24.5 lakh to the account which he gave her. However, soon after receiving the money, he stopped taking her calls, and disconnected his phone, following which the woman approached the Whitefield police. Based on her complaint, the police tracked down Bright to Uttam Nagar, New Delhi. According to the police, his wife and relatives were also part of the scam. “Inquiries have revealed that Bright and his family have duped 10 people using different SIM cards,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6-of-nigerian-family-held-for-duping-people/article33203894.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,522 new cases, 12 deaths registered in State||The State on Saturday reported 1,522 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,82,608. With 12 deaths, the toll rose to 11,750. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 2,133 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,46,082. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.37%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.78%. Bengaluru Urban reported 719 cases, taking its tally to 3,68,604. With seven deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,121. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 18,366. As many as 1,10,724 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 92,724 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1522-new-cases-12-deaths-registered-in-state/article33203905.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private college lecturers sore over leave policy||Lecturers in many private colleges who have been reporting to work are up in arms against their management’s decision to not provide special leave if they test positive for COVID-19. Colleges instead are asking lecturers to use their casual leave or their earned leave during their isolation period. Teaching staff also pointed out that colleges have also not specified the quarantine policy if they have to isolate themselves in the instance of a primary contact testing positive. A lecturer in Bengaluru said the university had told their staff that their leaves can be “adjusted” if they contract COVID-19. “We get around 10 days leave for medical reasons and we have been told that we can utilise this. However, a mere 10 days will not be sufficient. If we need more than 10 days, we have been told that we can use our other leaves,” she said. An associate professor of a private college affiliated to Bengaluru Central University said they have been instructed to return to work after quarantine of three to four days if a primary contact tests positive. “We have been told we can get a week’s leave if we are tested positive and will have to work from home after that. The leave policy needs to be spelled out very clearly and should not be ambiguous. Most of us step out of homes only to come to college. If we contract the virus in the process, colleges need to treat this more sensitively,” he said. In govt. colleges The situation appears to be better in government colleges. T.M. Manjunath, president, Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Association, said lecturers can use 14 days of special casual leave if they contract COVID-19. “If a lecturer needs more time to recover, they can always submit documents and extend their leave,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-college-lecturers-sore-over-leave-policy/article33203901.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Complete construction of 43,000 houses: Minister||With many housing projects proposed for lower income groups languishing owing to land acquisition and other problems, Housing Minister V. Somanna has instructed officials of the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Ltd. and contractors to complete all projects in the next one year. The corporation has taken up the task of constructing 43,867 houses on 300 acres in various parts of the Bengaluru. But contractors have not been able to develop housing projects owing to various technical issues, including land acquisition and disputes in courts. The Minister told officials of the corporation to provide support for construction of the houses. Seven contractors, who participated in the meeting, expressed their grievances over the execution of the projects. In some projects, the contractors have not been able to execute the projects owing to lack of support from officials, the Minister said at a meeting called to review the progress of housing projects. The Minister told the Managing Director of Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Ltd. to visit the project sites next week and monitor execution of work. 36,000 applications Housing Department has received 36,000 applications seeking houses. Houses would also be distributed for eligible beneficiaries under the MP and MLA quotas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-construction-of-43000-houses-minister/article33203902.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man caught at KIA smuggling gold paste in his underwear||Officials with the Air Intelligence Unit of the Customs caught a man at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) attempting to smuggle 1.73 kg gold paste valued at Rs. 87.56 lakh. It was concealed in a pocket which was stitched to his underwear. The accused, aged 36, landed at KIA from Dubai onNovember 27 evening. Following passenger profiling, the man whose identity has been kept confidential, was intercepted at the airport over suspicion of smuggling and questioned, said officials. Customs officers conducted a search of his baggage and frisked him. They found pouches inside two pairs of briefs he was wearing. According to investigators, the crude hold was in the form of paste. Gold estimated to be over Rs. 87.56 lakh was seized and the suspect was booked for smuggling and subsequent evasion of Customs duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-caught-at-kia-smuggling-gold-paste-in-his-underwear/article33203891.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. schools to continue holding online classes||Private schools affiliated to the State board, who had threatened to stop online classes from November 30 for students who have not paid fees, have decided to extend the deadline. They will continue the online classes till December 15. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said they would wait for the State government to address their concerns. The school managements want the government to issue orders to allow them to collect the second-term fees. “We want the government to send a stern message that parents should pay the fees for the current academic year,” he said. Private school managements claim they are unable to pay teachers their salaries as less than 30% of the parents have paid the fees. Some managements have alleged non-payment of fees for the earlier term as well. However, parents say that schools should show some leniency and extend the deadline as many people have lost their jobs or are struggling with reduced incomes. Some parents have argued that the cost of running a school and that of merely conducting online classes is not the same, and thus school managements should reduce their fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-schools-to-continue-holding-online-classes/article33203652.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Public outreach initiative||City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, along with S. Murugan, Additional Commissioner (East), kicked off the public outreach programme ‘Janasamparka Divasa’ at Pulakeshinagar police station on Saturday. The programme, which is aimed to build bridges between the police and citizens, saw around a hundred residents visit the station on Saturday morning. A resident complained about the drug addicts’ menace around Ulsoor lake, especially in the evening, following which Mr. Pant directed the police to intensify patrolling. “Such initiatives are the need of the hour. This way, the police can get feedback from people, interact with them and improve policing,” said Mr. Pant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-outreach-initiative/article33203895.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four held with 400 leopard claws||The Chennammanakere Achukattu police have unearthed a wildlife trade racket and arrested four people who had gunny bags filled with over 400 leopard claws among other illegal articles. The accused — Karthik, 40, Prashanth, 28, Pramila, 40, and Sai Kumar, 22, — were arrested while waiting for their clients. Apart from the leopard claws, the police recovered claws of tigers (six), pangolins (seven), and sloth bears (three) as well as two skins, one each of a blackbuck and a jackal. The accused are from the Hakki Pikki tribe at Pakshirajpura, near Hunsur. “The area is near the Nagarhole tiger reserve. We suspect that they are part of an illegal network of poachers,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-held-with-400-leopard-claws/article33203908.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Sakala Saptaha’ at BWSSB||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) is organising ‘Sakala Saptaha’ from November 30 to December 5 to create awareness among people about nine services of the board that come under the Sakala scheme. Details of the nine services are available at the subdivision offices concerned of the maintenance zone. People can also visit the BWSSB website www.bwssb.gov.in for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sakala-saptaha-at-bwssb/article33203887.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vice-chairman of TKM retires||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Saturday announced the retirement of Shekar Viswanathan, vice-chairman and whole-time Director for over seven years. Mr. Viswanathan superannuates after a career of over 20 years with TKM and the Toyota Group in India. Masakazu Yoshimura, MD, TKM, said, “Mr. Viswanathan has been one of the strongest pillars for TKM fostering its growth in India.” In his farewell message, Mr. Viswanathan said he is awaiting the day when India will make and sell more than 12 million cars per year from the current 3 million cars, “as Indian engineers’ supervisors and workmen have shown themselves to be on a par with world standards.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vice-chairman-of-tkm-retires/article33203656.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Congress seeks probe||Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar has demanded a probe into the alleged suicide bid by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s political secretary and grand-nephew N.R. Santosh. “This is not a small issue. It needs to be investigated properly by an independent agency,” he said. He claimed that a confidential video, which had been passed on to Delhi leaders from an MLC and a Minister, had hurt Mr. Santosh recently. “That MLC and the Minister both were blackmailing the CM and others,” he claimed. KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed said, “Mr. Santosh helped a lot to form this government… He had taken MLAs to Mumbai and Delhi. It is a really serious issue. The people of the State want to know how this happened.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-congress-seeks-probe/article33203647.ece
29 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure enough beds for others’||The National Medical Commission stated that medical colleges, which have been converted into designated COVID-19 hospitals, should have sufficient beds for other patients as well. A senior official in the Department of Medical Education said: “By the end of December, we hope the number of non-COVID-19 patients returns to the earlier strength, if we do not see a second wave.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-enough-beds-for-others/article33203651.ece
29 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||No leadership change: Ashok||B.S. Yediyurappa will complete the current term as Chief Minister and the party will go for the next elections under his leadership, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said on Saturday. At a press conference in Channarayapatna, the Minister said there was no question of a change in the leadership in the State. “The reports of change in the leadership are all baseless. Opposition leaders are spreading them. We will not worry much about such things”, he said. The Minister said the party would be conducting Gram Swarajya conventions across the State to strengthen the party’s base in villages. Through the conventions, the party would be reaching the schemes launched by Narendra Modi-led Central Government to the rural areas. Further, Mr. Ashok exuded confidence that the BJP would widen its base in Hassan as well. The party had won Sira and R.R.Nagar seats in by-elections for the first time. “We are winning where we had never won in the past. And, strengthening our base in Hassan is not a difficult task for the party”, he said. Answering a question on the alleged suicide attempt by Chief Minister’s political secretary N.R. Santosh, Mr. Ashok said he did not have details of the incident. “I returned from Delhi late in the night on Friday. I will collect details”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-leadership-change-ashok/article33203720.ece
29 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Road underbridge in Hubballi to be ready by December-end||The road underbridge near Sri Krishna Kalyana Mantapa in Hubballi is proceeding as per the timeline and is expected to be completed by December-end, Railways officials have said. The officials conveyed this message to general manager of South Western Railway Ajay Kumar Singh during his inspection of the track doubling work, which is under way between Unakal and Hubballi railway stations on Friday. The doubling of the track in the stretch between Dharwad-Navalur-Unkal (17 km), which is part of the Hospete-Tinaighat-Vasco da Gama track doubling project, was completed last month and the remaining work between Unkal and Hubballi (4 km) is in progress. On Friday, Mr. Singh inspected various works on the stretch. During the inspection of the new station building and track doubling work at Unakal, Mr. Singh asked officials to expedite ballasting on priority. Mr. Singh also inspected the work in progress at the Hubballi Station Yard. He told officials that during the linking of track in Hubballi yard, care should be taken to relax speed restrictions from Gadag main line and from Bengaluru main line. Expressing satisfaction over the progressof the work, Mr. Singh asked them to complete the same within the stipulated time. The work of doubling of track between Hubballi West railway station to Hubballi station involves remodelling of Hubballi station yard, where it is planned to build the world’s longest railway platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-underbridge-in-hubballi-to-be-ready-by-december-end/article33203633.ece
29 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Kateel should be hospitalised for ‘drugs money’ statement: DKS||Taking exception to BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s statement that the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah was running the government from ‘drugs money’, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar suggested admitting Mr. Kateel to a hospital as he was behaving in an incoherent manner. Speaking to presspersons in Karwar on Saturday before proceeding to Sirsi for a Congress function, Mr. Shivakumar said that if in any way the Siddaramaiah government was run by drugs money, why had no FIR been registered against it so far? “Few small actors have been jailed. I was also part of that government and some who were with us then are now in the present BJP government. Let Mr. Kateel get cases registered against all,” he said, adding that Mr. Kateel should behave in a manner in tune with the position he holds. Regarding the reported change of leadership in BJP, he said that he would not comment on internal matters of BJP. “It is left to them to retain or change anyone. Those who migrated to BJP from Congress will do what BJP wants them to do and they will also experience what we experienced”, he said. On the reported suicide attempt of the CM’s Parliamentary Secretary Santosh, Mr. Shivakumar said that according to him, a video clip was the reason for the extreme step. He said that he had received information regarding Santosh passing on a personal video clip to an MLC and Minister three months ago. Mr. Shivakumar said that he had received information regarding the MLC and the Minister together blackmailing the Chief Minister and Santosh. “But there is something very secret involved. There is no meaning in the government conducting an inquiry,” he said. ‘To divide’ Later speaking to presspersons in Sirsi, Mr. Shivakumar said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s work was to divide society by constituting boards and corporations based on language and communities. He said that maintaining unity in society was the agenda of Congress while BJP would divide and rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-should-be-hospitalised-for-drugs-money-statement-dks/article33203635.ece
29 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KLE Foundation Day programme held||Legal Advisor to Chief Minister and former MLC Mohan Limbikai has said that dedication towards their service helped teachers in enhancing the knowledge of the students and guiding them along the correct path. Speaking at the KLE Foundation Day programme at JT.. College in Gadag recently, he said the founders of KLE Society continue to inspire teachers and students alike. Presiding over the function, S.V. Sankanru, MLC, recalled the contributions of the seven founders known as ‘Saptarshis’ towards education in North Karnataka. Principal P.G. Patil and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kle-foundation-day-programme-held/article33203636.ece
29 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Belagavi LS ticket based on winnability: Eshwarappa||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said that there was no Kuruba, Lingayat, Vokkaliga, or Brahmin community in the BJP. Speaking to presspersons in Belgavi on Saturday, Mr. Eshwarappa said that the State and Central leaders would discuss and choose a candidate who would appeal to the masses and had the potential to win in Belagavi Loksabha byelection. Responding to the demand for party ticket for the Kuruba community, he sought to know how many of the Kuruba candidates given ticket by the Congress had won the election. “During my tenure, I gave party tickets to three candidates. Should we give party tickets to those who will lose deposits? We don’t know whether we will give the Belagavi Loksabha ticket to a Kuruba, Lingayat, Vokkaliga or Brahmin candidate but definitely not to aMuslim candidate,” he said. He explained that as Belagavi was a Hindutva centre, there was no question of giving party ticket to a Muslim candidate. To another query, he said that former Chief Minister Siddarmaiah had lost his image. “We have already seen what happened in R.R. Nagar and Sira ssembly bypolls. In fact, if he had not won in Badami, then he would not be in politics at all. He has to show that he is politically alive, and so keeps on issuing one or the other statement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-ls-ticket-based-on-winnability-eshwarappa/article33203630.ece
29 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Girl found dead at home||A college student, who was reportedly depressed after her friends died in an accident over a month ago, was found dead in her house on Friday night. She has been identified as Neha Patil, 19, a resident of Paraswadi at Keshwapur in Hubballi. She lost four of her friends near Siddapur in Uttara Kannada district over a month ago when their car was washed away in an overflowing stream. After the accident, she preferred to be alone all the time, according to family members. She reportedly left behind a note. The Keshwapur police have registered a case.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-found-dead-at-home/article33203631.ece
29 November 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘Art of Reporting’ released||Chancellor of the Sharnbasva University Sharnbaswappa Appaji released the book Art of Reporting by senior journalist and Head of the Journalism and Mass Communication Department in the university T.V. Sivanandan at Dasoha Mahamane in Kalaburagi on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion Dr. Appa said that the book is an outcome of Mr. Sivanandan’s vast experience in the world of journalism and a must for all the students of the print and electronic media. It will help students of journalism and mass communication of different universities and institutes of higher education to learn the basics of journalism, working of newspaper and electronic media organizations. Dr. Appa said that the book importantly basic knowledge of how to write a news story and the importance of background material. It provides tips to budding journalists and those who are starting out in the world of journalism on how to conduct themselves at press conferences and how to report the proceedings in the Assembly and Parliament. “ Art of Reporting will be a worthy handbook not only for students but to all the budding journalists who enter the profession,” Dr.Appa added. Senior journalist and Rajyotsava awardee M. Madan Mohan have written a foreword and the book has been published by Shadakshariswamy Diggaonkar Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/art-of-reporting-released/article33203638.ece
29 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers to regain privilege rights over kumki land||Wooing farmers ahead of the coming elections to gram panchayats, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Saturday that the State government has decided to grant privilege rights to farmers over kumki land in the State. Addressing the gram swarajya convention of the party at B.C. Road, the DK MP said elected representatives of the party are committed to protecting the interests of farmers. MLAs and MLCs of the coastal belt had met in Bengaluru to discuss the aspects of granting kumki rights to farmers before the government’s decision. The kumki, kana and bane lands are the ones adjacent to the farmland owned by farmers who had the right to use fodder, wood, and forest produce grown or available there. The right had been conferred in the pre-Independence era. Later, the complete rights of farmers over that land was withdrawn. In August 2019 the BJP MLAs from the coastal belt had appealed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to take necessary steps to grant farmers their ‘privilege rights’ over kumki, kana and bane lands in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu districts. The MLAs had said that the State government led by Jagadish Shettar in 2013 had issued a draft to amend Land Revenue Rules to grant ‘privilege rights’ to farmers. Later, the government had invited objections to the same. Since then, the matter has been pending before the government. Speaking at the convention on B.C. Road Mr. Kateel said that the government has also taken a decision to grant cashew lease rights to farmers in the coastal belt. He said the government would announce a separate sand extraction policy applicable to the coastal belt. With this, sand will be made available to people in the jurisdiction of all GPs in the belt. Mr. Kateel said that the government has taken a decision to grant 25 houses to poor in the jurisdiction of each gram panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-to-regain-privilege-rights-over-kumki-land/article33204022.ece
29 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nine arrested on charge of murdering fisherman||The Barke police arrested nine people for their alleged involvement in the murder of 28-year-old fisherman Indrajit in Bokkapatna here on November 25 at midnight. The police identified the accused as Mokshit, Ullas, Ashik, Rakesh, Goutham, Koushik, Nithin, Jagadish alias Talvar Jagga and Sharan. All the nine are residents of Bolur. Indrajit, a history-sheeter in Mangaluru South Police Station in 2015, was hacked to death following aheated exchange at a party in Karnal Garden Ship Repair Yard area. In a press release, the police said Jagadish had harboured a grudge against Indrajit as he was associated with the gang from Mankistand that murdered Jagadish’s son Sanjay six years ago. In order to take revenge, Jagadish joined the other accused to allegedly murder Indrajit, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-arrested-on-charge-of-murdering-fisherman/article33204024.ece
29 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Timings advanced||The timings of Train 06517 KSR Bengaluru – Mangalore Central Express Special have been advanced between Sakleshpur – Mangaluru Junction with immediate effect. The train which leaves Hassan at 12.45 a.m. will arrive/depart at Sakleshpur- at 2.35 a.m./2.45 a.m.; Subrahmanya Road at 5.35 a.m./5.40 a.m.; Yedamangala at 5.54 a.m./ 5.55 a.m.; Kabaka Puttur at 6.23 a.m./6.25 a.m.; Bantwal at 6.54 a.m./6.55 a.m.; Mangalore Junction at 7.30 a.m. / 7.40 a.m. It reaches Mangalore Central at 8.45 a.m., a release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/timings-advanced/article33204023.ece
29 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Water dues: Mysuru Corporation may soon issue notice to defaulters||Even as drinking water dues continue to mount and appeals from the cash-strapped Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) for clearing the dues go unheeded, the MCC is now mulling over slapping notices on the defaulters for clearing at least some portion of the dues if not fully. Surprisingly, many government institutions, including the gram panchayats which are now part of the city and get bulk water supply from the MCC, owe dues to the tune of crores of rupees because of non-payment since over a decade. The MCC has started the process of computing the exact sum of dues owed by the government bodies besides making a final assessment of the total outstanding from domestic, commercial and industrial connections though the outstanding dues approximately were around Rs 150 crore. The government institutions alone owe nearly Rs. g40 crore to the MCC. Notices may soon be issued to the defaulters as the MCC’s revenue had been hit due to COVID-19 pandemic and there are also appeals from various trade bodies for tax waiver citing the pandemic. Besides water dues, non-payment of property tax has also worried the MCC which had recently carried out a drive for its recovery. The MCC owes over Rs 100 crore to the contractors who had carried out various development works. If the taxes remain unpaid, works would get affected because of non-payment of bills, the officials argue. The MCC is also planning to approach the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj to prevail upon the GPs for clearing the dues. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said the GPs that get bulk water supply from the MCC for subsequent distribution in their limits had been seeking revision of rates since they argue that raw water was being supplied to them unlike the filtered water supplied to the connections within the city. Their argument was that same rates for filtered and unfiltered water should not be charged, he said, adding that the MCC had been supplying water to the GPs from nearly three pumping stations since past 15 years. “The issue on the rates could be sorted out if the GPs come forward to clear the dues which had been accumulated since a long time. Otherwise we may have to approach their mother department if the dues continue to remain unsettled,” Mr Hegde said. In one of the council meetings last year that debated about the water bills dues, the council was told that unpaid water bills had accrued to the tune of Rs 169 crore. This included Rs 88 crore that was carried forward to the MCC’s account after the Vani Vilas Water Works (VVWW), an arm of KUWSSB, was identified to manage water distribution here on behalf of MCC. The government institutions alone owe Rs 39.32 crore of water bill dues to the MCC. The MCC has claimed to have been doing letter correspondences with the institutions for “one-time” payment of dues but the dues have continued to mount. The gram panchayats owe Rs 19 crore water dues. The MCC has also written to the State government seeking its nod to waive off interest accrued on the principal amount of water tax for one-time settlement of dues. This will help the MCC get more revenue and also benefit the consumers as they get relief from paying the interest. “So far, there is no decision on the interest waiver,” the MCC commissioner said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-dues-mysuru-corporation-may-soon-issue-notice-to-defaulters/article33203731.ece
29 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Welcoming visitors to the ‘Coorg Village’||A project to develop and showcase a typical Kodagu village at Raja Seat in Madikeri, to promote the local culture and traditions besides making available crafts, spices and other commodities for which Kodagu is known, is now ready for launch. The new attraction, called “Coorg Village”, is part of the expansion of tourism facilities in and around Raja Seat, a major tourist destination in Madikeri. The area below Raja Seat is being developed with new facilities and one such facility is the “Coorg Village” that has around 15 stalls where the products for which Kodagu is famous would be made available for the tourists. The new attraction is expected to be launched in the next few days as the stalls had been allotted to the government and institutions supported by the government for selling authentic commodities of Kodagu. Also, the pond at Raja Seat has been renovated and garden had been developed around it, making it an ideal place to relax. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy has directed the officials to complete the pending works at the earliest. Assistant Director of Tourism Raghavendra said the project is almost done and the stalls had been allotted to the government institutions and agencies so that only through them the products are marketed. No private players are allowed at the village and only certified products such as honey, spices, coffee and other products for which the “coffee land” is well-known would be made available. This initiative is expected to help tourists get authentic commodities. since it is a government-funded and government-backed project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/welcoming-visitors-to-the-coorg-village/article33203725.ece
29 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Decentralised waste water treatment system developed||A new system of decentralised waste water treatment installed at a school in the drought-prone Chamarajanagar district holds out promise for reducing dependence on freshwater sources for secondary use. The system, developed by researchers at the Centre for Sustainable Technologies, Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), Bengaluru, is functioning at Berambadi Primary School. A release issued by IISc. said the research team operated the greywater treatment system for a year and monitored the different physiochemical and biological characteristics of the greywater at the entry and exit points. “The performance of every treatment stage was quantified in terms of removal efficiencies (REs) of turbidity, Total Suspended Solids (TSS), nitrate, total phosphorus, Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), and faecal coliforms (FC),” said the release. 667 litres treated daily Overall, the system showed high REs – more than 90% for most of the parameters. About 667 litres of greywater were treated daily using the system, saving around 1,80,000 litres of water annually, the release added. The IISc. said a new study, published in the Journal of Water Process Engineering and carried out in collaboration with researchers in the U.K., shows how the system has, over the past year, enabled the reuse of waste water and reduced dependence on freshwater resources. “We have demonstrated for the first time that decentralised waste water treatment systems can be economically put into practice in a rural setting,” according to Lakshminarayana Rao, Assistant Professor at CST and a senior author of the paper. The authors have suggested that such a robust waste water management system can be replicated in both rural and urban settings after taking into consideration various factors such as space limitations, baseline greywater quality, and daily flow rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decentralised-waste-water-treatment-system-developed/article33203906.ece
29 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rectifying ‘inconsistent’ bills||The Mysuru City Corporation has offered to rectify any discrepancies in the water bills if the consumers approach it with details. Instead of remedying any inconsistencies in the bills, they cannot delay payment citing those discrepancies, it argued. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said there were some issues over the bills generated when the distribution was being modernised here some years ago. Citing such cases, the consumers cannot delay clearing the dues accrued all these years. They should come forward to get the issues resolved, paving way for one-time payment of the bills. “If there were inflated bills issued in the past, they can be rectified if the consumers approach the MCC with relevant details. The MCC is ready to attend to such cases,” he replied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rectifying-inconsistent-bills/article33203721.ece
29 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Wakf board asks bank to exclude property from e-auction||The Karnataka State Board of Auqaf has written to Canara Bank to drop the portion of wakf property situated in Udayagiri in Mysuru from properties listed for e-auction on November 30 against the recovery of loan liabilities amounting to Rs. 32.73 crore due from Rifah Ul Muslimeen Educational Trust. In a letter dated November 25, the Chief Executive Officer of the Board said the property measuring 159.5 ft x 300.42 ft (47,916.99 sq ft) in Site No. A (Municipal Khata No. A-1 to A-14) Mahadevapura Main Road in Udayagiri is registered as Wakf property. Order Following an order issued by the then administrator of Karnataka State Board of Auqaf in November 2017, the then Chief Executive Officer had issued a Certificate of Registration on January 30, 2018, declaring the aforesaid property as Waqf as per section 40 of the Waqf Act 1995. According to an auction sale notice issued by the bank on October 27, the description of one of the immovable assets listed for e-auction is all the piece and parcel of the property bearing site no. A Municipal khatha No. A-1 to A-14 situated on Mahadevapura Main Road in Udayagiri measuring 500 ft X 170 + 150/2. The CEO of the Board has urged the bank to “issue a modified e-auction notification in the interest of justice”. Protests The Board’s letter to the bank comes after protests by certain organisations in Mysuru against the auction of the property and the affairs of RMET, which runs a string of 14 educational institutions in the City, and an appeal by former Minister and Congress MLA representing Narasimharaja Assembly constituency in Mysuru Tanveer Sait urging the Board to immediately intervene in the matter and halt the auction. Mr. Sait said the RMET had obtained a loan amounting to Rs. 8.75 crore during 2008-09, but due to non-payment of the dues, the liability had risen to an amount in excess of Rs. 32 crore. He said bank should drop its move to take possession of the pledged Wakf land and instead consider recovering its dues by other means including from the properties owned of the trustees of RMET, who were responsible for taking the loan. Mr. Sait has also called for a probe into the affairs of RMET, which had earlier pledged about 2 acres of Wakf land in Eidgah in Mysuru. The bank had dropped the move to take possession of the land in Eidgah after the Karnataka State Board of Wakf had intervened in 2015. Already criminal proceedings in a case filed against RMET in this connection was pending before the Wakf Tribunal, Mr. Sait said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wakf-board-asks-bank-to-exclude-property-from-e-auction/article33203729.ece
29 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru- Mangaluru flight from December 11||The Mysuru-Mangaluru flight service scheduled to commence from December 10, will now begin from December 11 and ticket bookings are now open. Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, will operate the flight four days a week – Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday – and this will be the 7th city to be connected under UDAN’s regional connectivity scheme from Mysuru. The Mysuru airport director said Flight 9I 532 will depart from Mysuru at 11.20 a.m. and reach Mangaluru at 12.30 p.m. In the return direction, Flight 9I 533 will depart from Mangaluru at 12.55 p.m. to arrive in Mysuru at 1.55 p.m. Daily services Mysuru has daily flight services operating to Chennai, Hyderabad, Goa, Kochi, Bengaluru and Belagavi while it will be four days a week for Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-mangaluru-flight-from-december-11/article33203722.ece
29 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ponnampet taluk office inauguration today||The taluk office of the newly -formed Ponnampet Taluk in Kodagu will be inaugurated at Ponnampet town on Sunday by Minister for Revenue R. Ashok at 11 a.m. Meanwhile, MLA and former Speaker K.G. Bopaiah has said that Rs. 25 lakh had been released for immediate functioning of the office. The government has released the amount for giving a start to the administration of the newly-formed taluk. The government has issued an order for the appointment of 12 posts, including tahsildar, first division assistant, food inspectors and second division assistant. It also given its nod for outsourcing the staff necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ponnampet-taluk-office-inauguration-today/article33203726.ece
29 November 2020||MYSURU/MANDYA,KARNATAKA||Officials told to gear up for Sakala drive||Mandya Additional Deputy Commissioner V.R. Shailaja on Friday said a drive is being launched from November 30 to December 19 in the State for immediate clearance of unresolved applications and appeals submitted under Sakala. The scheme was launched to provide time-bound services to the public under the Karnataka Sakala Services Act, 2011. At a meeting with officials from various departments in Mandya to brief them about the steps taken in the district in view of the drive, she said 1,025 services had been brought under Sakala in 98 departments. The public needs to be informed and educated about the services available under Sakala and how they could be utilised. The “Sakala Sapthaha” drive will be carried out department-wise in a bid to complete the process within the time limit. All pending applications and appeals pertaining to the departments of revenue, urban development, food and civil supplies and transport have to be cleared from November 30 to December 5. Likewise, all pending applications in the departments of rural development and panchayat raj need to resolved from December 7 to 11 and all pending files of all other departments under Sakala would be disposed from December 14 to 19. The public can also bring to the notice of the officials of the respective departments about applications that remain unresolved even after the specified time limit. The officials will be asked to take steps for settling all appeals during the drive. The new applications had to be received and disposed only through Sakala since there are reports of ‘zero’ applications which were not received under Sakala. Ms. Shailaja said the new applications submitted during the drive had to be cleared within the stipulated period and told the officials to spread awareness about it. All departments had been told to display boards about the drive on their office premises and also set up helpdesks giving information on the services available under Sakala. Four teams of officers would be set up for monitoring it, and the deputy commissioner will visit the offices to verify the steps taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-told-to-gear-up-for-sakala-drive/article33203728.ece
29 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Free training for aspirants of competitive examinations for 45 days in Yadgir||Rachoti Veeranna Vidya Samsthe is organising free training for candidates appearing for competitive examinations for 45 days, S.S. Devarkal, secretary of the samsthe, has said. He was addressing a press conference on the school premises in Yadgir on Saturday. Mr. Devarkal highlighted the importance of conducting these trainings and said Yadgir was among the districts in Kalyan Karnataka region that was still relatively backward in the education sector. “With the intention to provide better and quality education, we started the educational institution 12 years ago and have crossed many milestones with good results in board examinations every year,” he said. Mr. Devarkal said: “We decided to start free training centres under the late Sri Veerabhadrappa Devarkal Foundation for those appearing for exams like TET, NET, SET, KPSC, UPSC, banking, and others.” The institution has appointed education experts from Bengaluru and Kalaburagi to guide the candidates. Mr. Devarkal said training will be free of cost and the candidates will be provided examination-related books and other material with a fully-quipped library for preparation. Candidates can call on 9449849043, 9686770005, or 9343834639 to register. Kalama Devarkal and C.M. Neelange, president and vice president of the institution; Basanagowda Patil, Sankeerna, Veeru Devarkal, Suresh Neelange and Suresh Hawaldar, principal were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-training-for-aspirants-of-competitive-examinations-for-45-days-in-yadgir/article33203643.ece
29 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Home Minister assures detailed inquiry on alleged suicide attempt||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that police will conduct detailed a inquiry on the alleged suicide attempt of the Chief Minister’s Political Secretary Santosh and the reasons behind the incident will only be revealed after the completion of this inquiry. Mr. Santosh is recovering at a private hospital in Bengaluru. Mr. Bommai was speaking with reporters in Raichur on Saturday after chairing the review meeting. While reacting to a question, he said that further inquiry will also be conducted if KPCC President D.K. Shivakumar provides videos. The party high command and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will decide about the extension of the Cabinet, he said. The renovation project of the police station at the cost of Rs. 100 crore was on. Construction of new buildings and providing facilities would get top priority. It is aimed to construct 11,000 police residential quarters before 2025, he said. Including Raichur, every district will soon get FSL laboratories as presently the State has only five such laboratories, he added. Special team Mr. Bommai said that the responsibility of prevention of women trafficking was given to the Women Police Stations and a special team would be formed to crack such cases. He assured to verify the proposal by the Water Resource Department, if any, seeking a separate security force to ensure proper flow of water through all canals including Tungabhadra Left Branch Canal to reach the tail -end lands, when he was apprised on the problems of tail-end farmers not getting canal water to their crops properly for various reasons. Earlier, the Home Minister conducted the review meeting. Shivaraj Patil, Shivanagowda Naik, MLA’s, Basavanagowda Byagawat, former MLA, Ramanand Yadav, Trivikram Joshi and others were present.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-minister-assures-detailed-inquiry-on-alleged-suicide-attempt/article33203640.ece
29 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||DC pushes for expediting work on power sub-station||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has directed officials of Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) to complete the establishment work of power sub-station at Kadechur- Badiyal Industrial Area in Yadgir district expeditiously. Addressing the officials at a single-window committee meeting in Yadgir on Friday, Dr. Ragapriya said that the government had acquired more than 3,000 acres of land to develop the industrial area ensuring jobs to unemployed youth. However, the very intention of establishing the industries in the areas was not fulfilled for various reasons, she pointed out. The DC further said that now pharmaceutical companies have come forward to establish their units. Thus, it was the duty of the concerned board to provide basic facilities primarily electricity to the proposed units. Therefore, officials should complete the power sub centre establishment work immediately ensuring supply of power to them, she directed. She also asked the officials of KIADB to establish Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETP) in the area. Manik V. Raghoji, Joint Director of District Industries Centre, spoke about the government’s order on revised guidelines over sanctioning the proposals of new industries and distribution of required lands to them. Dr. Ragapriya suggested that he get a sanction of the new proposals submitted before the committee after thorough verification of the applications seeking lands. Subhash Naik, Deputy Development Officer of KIADB, R. Devika, Joint Director of Agriculture Department, Raghavendra, Deputy Director of Horticulture Department, Venkatesh, Environmental Officer, Rekha Myageri, Assistant Director of Industrial Department, M.A.Salim and Representatives of Chamber of Commerce were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-pushes-for-expediting-work-on-power-sub-station/article33203642.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||N.R. Santosh recovering; suicide bid case booked||However, he made a comeback and was appointed the ChiefMinister’s political secretary in May this year. Things went sour again and Mr. Santosh had been asked to relinquish his post, sources said. Mr. Vijayendra, however, has denied these reports and saidhe had no differences with Mr. Santosh. On the other hand, sources in the Chief Minister’s family pointed out that Mr. Santosh had marital differences and his wife had also approached the police earlier over domestic abuse. However, his wife Jahnavi, speaking to media persons on Saturday morning, denied they had any differences. “He was under tremendous pressure over the recent political disturbances,” she said. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar sought to link this to an earlier incident involving a controversial video. In April 2019, senior BJP Minister K.S. Eshwarappa’s then personal assistant Vinay N.S. had sought protection from the Amrutahalli police alleging threat to his life from Mr. Yediyurappa, as he “possessed documents, a pendrive and CD that could ruin his career”. He had also alleged a few rowdies had tried to kidnap him in 2017 at the behest of Mr. Santosh. Mr. Eshwarappa shot back on being questioned over the issue. “Why are you questioning me over someone’s attempt to end his life? There are over a crore BJP workers in this State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nr-santosh-recovering-suicide-bid-case-booked/article33203654.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||MBBS examination in Karnataka postponed||Faculty and students in medical and dental colleges have to undergo RT-PCR COVID-19 test at government authorised laboratories or swab collection centres. Colleges and institutions have been told to adopt a blended approach to teaching, one that includes both online and physical classes. However, colleges have been told to focus on practical classes for now. The NMC has also stated that colleges in all States should reopen before or on December 1, as further delay would lead to a null year, which could result in non-availability of 90,000 doctors five years later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mbbs-examination-in-karnataka-postponed/article33203655.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A Herculean task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-herculean-task/article33203899.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Golden graduates||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/golden-graduates/article33203649.ece
29 November 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Tigress elusive, cub still weak||The condition of a tiger cub found separated from its mother near the Mangaladevi temple inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR) continues to be weak. It was put under the care of two forest veterinary surgeons on Saturday at a temporary shelter set up near the temple. The Forest Department staff spotted the female cub on the temple premises on November 21. Anoop K.R., field director, Project Tiger, Kottayam, said the search for the mother tigress continued on Saturday. Image captured The Forest Department placed camera traps near the place and the image of a tigress was captured. However, officials do not know whether it is the cub’s mother. Mr. Anoop said tigresses did not abandon cubs unless the mother was dead or separated from the cub when attacked by a male tiger. “The cub is exhausted and dehydrated,” he added. The cub had not had its mother’s milk for three days when it was spotted. It had drunk water from a small pond nearby as was evident from the pugmarks. Mr. Anoop said a joint search for the tigress would be extended to the Meghamala Wildlife Sanctuary in Tamil Nadu as the cub was spotted on the border area. Officials said the cub could not be released in the forest in the present condition. The cub is being treated as per the guidelines of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tigress-elusive-cub-still-weak/article33203698.ece
29 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Areca nut price soars, but farmers have nothing to cheer||The decline in areca nut yield in the district owing to climatic changes and disease has triggered a sharp increase in its price. The spot price for tender areca nut touched Rs. 136 a bag (60 kg) in Wayanad on Thursday as against Rs. 98 a bag during the corresponding period last year. The areca nut harvest usually begins by the first week of November and continues till February end. Owing to heavy rain that lashed the district this year, areca nut trees have been infected with fruit rot disease or “mahali” and yellow leaf disease. So, the arecanut production in the district is likely to drop sharply. According to the farming sources, the production will decline to 60% to 70% this season. The scanty arrival of the commodity owing to a sharp decline in yield and the huge demand for the produce in the market, especially in Karnataka, was the major reason for the sudden spurt in the price of the produce, market sources said. As the gap between demand and supply widens in the coming months, there will be a further increase in price, sources said. However, the news of price rise has not brought cheer to the farmers in the district owing to the drastic decline in production. Many of the farmers have suffered heavy losses this year due to the diseases affecting the crop and the palm, George Mathew, an areca nut grower at Panamaram, said. “We are not expecting much benefit from the increase in prices. More than 80% of the produce in my five-acre plantation was damaged. Though the price has escalated, farmers in the district will not benefit much,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/areca-nut-price-soars-but-farmers-have-nothing-to-cheer/article33203668.ece
29 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||164 cadets pass out of Naval Academy||In a spectacular passing-out parade held at the Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala , on Saturday, 164 trainees comprising Midshipmen (99th INAC and INAC-NDA), Cadets of the Indian Navy (30th Naval Orientation Course Extended) and two trainees from the Sri Lankan Navy passed out with flying colours, marking the culmination of their ab initio training. The parade was reviewed by General Manoj Mukund Naravane, Chief of the Army Staff, who awarded medals to meritorious Midshipmen and Cadets on completion of the ceremonial review. Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, Commandant, INA, was the conducting officer. The President’s Gold Medal for the INA’s B.Tech course was awarded to Midshipman Ankush Dwivedi. The Chief of the Naval Staff Gold Medal for the Naval Orientation Course (Extended) was awarded to Cadet Cedric Cyril. While the CNS Silver medal for INAC B.Tech course was given to Midshipman Harshil Kerni, the FOC-in-C South Bronze Medal for INAC B.Tech course was awarded to Midshipman Jesin Alex, the FOC-in-C South Silver Medal for NOC (Extended) was given to Sub Lieutenant Shubharth Jain and the Commandant INA Bronze Medal for NOC (Extended) was bagged by Sub Lieutenant Khushal Yadav. General Naravane congratulated the cadets on the occasion. He re-emphasised the core values of duty, honour, and courage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/164-cadets-pass-out-of-naval-academy/article33203678.ece
29 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Surge in COVID-19 cases likely after elections, say officials||Health officials in Ernakulam are anticipating a surge in COVID-19 cases in the wake of the campaign for the upcoming local body elections. “All precautions are being taken, but since campaigning and polling constitute such a massive exercise, we cannot rule out a possible surge in cases of infection,” said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Meanwhile, officials are not hazarding a guess on whether the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) at Kalamassery can be opened up to non-COVID patients after the elections. “It depends on the prevalence of cases then,” they said. With the active case load falling in the district, around 90 patients are admitted at the MCH, a tertiary care facility which has the capacity to treat around 300 COVID-19 patients. Cases have been falling recently, but the elections will be like a test, he said. “If cases do not rise after the elections, then we might be able to say that the spread was controlled,” Dr. Numpeli said. If adequate precautions are taken while campaigning, a large surge in cases can be avoided, though an increase is expected after the elections, said Dr. N.K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer. “Attempts to enforce the COVID-19 protocol have been strengthened. At a time like this when the campaigning is on, the focus is on protecting people with comorbidities, pregnant women, and the elderly who might develop serious cases of infection. Reverse quarantine is crucial,” he said. Facilities and bed capacity in both government and private hospitals had already been augmented, and they will be adequate even in the event of a surge, he added. The test positivity rate for Ernakulam had fallen from 11.6% in the week between November 9 and November 15, to 9.6% between November 16 and November 22. The case load has fallen from 12,192 cases on October 28 to 8,471 cases on November 27. “So far, we have noticed compliance with norms, like canvassing without entering homes, or campaigning with smaller squads of five people each,” Dr. Numpeli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-in-covid-19-cases-likely-after-elections-say-officials/article33204006.ece
29 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Left looks split in Ponekkara division over candidate||While the CPI(M) district leadership maintains that the Kerala Congress (Mani) candidate, Dhanesh Mathew Manjooran, will remain the official LDF candidate in the Ponekkara division of the Kochi Corporation, CPI(M) workers at the local level are backing a party worker who filed his nomination as an Independent. CPI(M) workers have refused to support Mr. Manjooran with the controversy surrounding him, said an area committee member who did not want to be named. Mr. Manjooran, a government pleader, was arrested in 2016 on the charge of attempting to molest a woman. Having abandoned Mr. Manjooran’s campaign, party workers are canvassing for P.V. Shaji, a member of the local committee of the party. “With the support of local workers, LDF votes in the area are likely to go to Mr. Shaji,” the committee member said. Another local committee member said that party workers had hoped that Mr. Manjooran’s nomination would be withdrawn before November 19, but when that was not done, they decided to back Mr. Shaji. CPI(M) district secretary C.N. Mohanan said that Mr. Manjooran was the LDF’s official candidate from Ponekkara. “The KC(M) was asked to field another candidate. But they refused to do so and insisted on the same candidate contesting despite the opposition to his candidature. Since the seat was allotted to them, there was nothing we could do about it,” he added. Babu Joseph, KC(M) district president, said that the party would write to the CPI(M) leadership to expel their rebel contesting in Ponekkara. “The CPI(M) insisted on taking Kadavanthra away from us this time, a seat we have been winning for several years. Replacing a candidate after a party decision has already been made is difficult,” he said. Mr. Manjooran is the Ernakulam mandalam committee president of the KC(M). Besides Ponekkara, the KC(M), a new LDF ally, has been allotted Thoppumpady and Konthuruthy. Meanwhile, the Congress is hoping to cash in on the rift between CPI(M) workers and the KC(M) candidate. The LDF won in 2005, followed by the UDF in 2010. The LDF bagged the seat again in 2015. Pious Joseph, the Congress candidate, had represented the division in the 2010-15 council. “Work done during my term as councillor is likely to work in my favour this time. Besides, people have very little clarity on who the LDF candidate from the division is,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/left-looks-split-in-ponekkara-division-over-candidate/article33204003.ece
29 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||UDF has no ‘rebels’, only ‘multiple official’ candidates||United Democratic Front (UDF) sympathisers in Division 14 of the Muvattupuzha Municipality are a confused lot. There seems to be two candidates contesting in the symbols of the Congress and the Kerala Congress (Joseph), each claiming to be the official candidate of the UDF, threatening to split potential votes to the benefit of the Left Democratic Front (LDF). “Kerala Congress (Joseph) candidate Valsa Paulose had been an active LDF worker for the last more than three decades, having worked against the UDF all along. Local Congressmen could hardly accept her as our candidate,” said N. Ramesh, executive committee member, Congress block committee, Muvattupuzha, who felt that despite efforts to persuade her to withdraw from the fray, it was unlikely. Joice Mary Antony, the young candidate fielded by the Congress, believes that the split, if any, will be among the LDF, considering Ms. Paulose’s long LDF background. “The confusion arising from the presence of two UDF candidates is only restricted to some very small pockets. The division is a largely a Congress sympathetic one and should see me through,” said Ms. Antony. However, a belligerent Ms. Paulose, who openly admits to having switched sides from the LDF to the Kerala Congress (Joseph) on being denied ticket, contemptuously rejects the notion of a ‘friendly contest’, making it beyond doubt that her fight is to win and nothing short. “I am known to everyone in this division thanks to my association with the Kudumbashree for over two decades now,” she said. A senior Kerala Congress (Joseph) leader accused the Congress leadership of violating the spirit of the alliance and entering into a dubious nexus with Marxists in many divisions. Meanwhile, the LDF camp remains jubilant over the infighting in the UDF and is confident of wresting back the seat, which had traditionally backed it before losing it last time. “We already had an upper hand here, and the lack of unity in the UDF will only help our cause,” said M.A. Saheer, CPI(M) Muvattupuzha area committee member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-has-no-rebels-only-multiple-official-candidates/article33204011.ece
29 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 812 cases||Ernakulam district recorded 812 new COVID-19 cases, the highest figure in the State on Saturday. Four health workers have tested positive and the source of infection of 199 people could not be traced. Thrikkakara registered 36 cases of the infection, while Paipra, Rayamangalam, Thripunithura, and Sreemoolanagaram recorded over 20 cases of the infection each. The recoveries on the day stood at 451, and the active case load is 8,823. A total of 7,503 samples were sent for testing. As many as 26,594 people remain in quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-812-cases/article33204007.ece
29 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||NHAI moots elevated highway||An elevated six-lane highway is being considered on the 15-km-long Aroor-Thuravur National Highway corridor, which forms part of the 220-km Kozhikode (Ramanattukara)-Thuravur stretch that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has shortlisted for widening as a six-lane corridor flanked by service roads on either side. The proposal was mooted by the NHAI considering the high cost of land acquisition on the stretch, which is heavily built up on either side. Else, the market price and 100% solatium will have to be given to land owners, a cumbersome and time-consuming process. It has been estimated that a flyover over the existing four-lane NH can be built at a cost of Rs. 1,300 crore. The cost of acquiring land too works out to as much. A tender has been floated to ready a DPR for the six-lane project, official sources said. On why the NHAI did not consider the demand from NGOs who are on the warpath against a second round of eviction on the 22-km Moothakunnam-Edappally stretch, for an elevated highway, they said that the 30-metre-wide land that had been acquired over two decades ago had already been frozen by the State government and the NHAI. Else, the DPR consultant should suggest it as a feasible and cost-effective alternative. The pros and cons of an NH alignment will be compared every 100 metres, the sources said. Six-lane stretch On the urgent need to widen the Ramanattukara-Thuravur stretch into six-lane, they said any NH stretch must be widened to four-lane when the daily passenger car units (PCUs) cross 20,000. “The stretch is currently used by over 40,000 PCUs every day, and the number of vehicles is going up, for which at least a six-lane highway, flanked by service roads is needed. This will lessen commuting time from Kozhikode to Kochi from six hours to three hours. Besides, it will lessen accidents, fuel consumption, and pollution. Home to over a crore of vehicles, Kerala needs sustainable highways,” they said. Sadly enough, most parts of the Moothakunnam-Edappally NH are not two-lane, they added. It has to be seen how the NHAI will tackle the burgeoning traffic on the 16-km-long Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass stretch, where one lakh PCUs cross junctions like Vyttila and Kundannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nhai-moots-elevated-highway/article33204004.ece
29 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||LDF hopeful of another clean sweep in Kollam||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is expecting do a repeat of its clean sweep in Kollam just like 2015, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretariat member and former Raja Sabha MP K.N. Balagopal here on Saturday. “Last time the LDF won the Kollam Corporation, district panchayat, all four municipalities, all 11 block panchayats, and a majority of the grama panchayats. This year, we have launched an intensive campaign and the front also has more allies, including RSP(L) , Kerala Congress (B), Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani, and Loktantrik Janata Dal,” he said while speaking at Janavidhi-Thaddesheeyam 2020, a discussion series organised by Kollam Press Club. Farmers’ protest Pointing at the ongoing farmers’ protests, he said the polls were happening at a critical time. “The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government is systematically eroding all values of democracy. Left has become all the more relevant in the current situation as the only option to restore the essence of democracy and people know that.” Dismissing the rebel threats as stray incidents, he added that while the front accepted the setback faced in the Parliament elections, the trend would reverse in the upcoming elections. “The people chose LDF in the byelections that followed, that too in all UDF bastions. The public know who will stand with them.” Favourable conditions He also observed that the LDF government’s people-centred policies and development projects had generated a political climate favouring the front. “The efforts of the State machinery to check the spread of COVID-19 had garnered much appreciation across the globe. Local bodies have been in the forefront of the fight and the public know how the system was efficiently functioning during the pandemic,” he said. He added that the front was looking forward to a very positive political verdict. “This time, youth representation is very high as you will find many 21-year-olds among the candidates. Women were fielded in many general seats,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-hopeful-of-another-clean-sweep-in-kollam/article33203699.ece
29 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited for Keltron courses||The Keltron Kollam Knowledge Centre has invited applications for its various vocational courses. Advanced Diploma in Digital Media Designing and Animation Film Making, Professional Diploma in Logistics and Supply Chain Management, Professional Diploma in Retail and Logistics Management, Certificate Course in Advanced Graphics Designing, and Certificate Course in Graphics and Visual Effects are the courses offered. For details, contact the centre at Shankar Towers, Apsara Junction, or call 9567422755, 9847452727.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-keltron-courses/article33203697.ece
29 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Metropolitan to be felicitated today||The Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam diocese of the Mar Thoma Syrian Church of Malabar is organising a ceremony to felicitate Theodosius Mar Thoma, the newly enthroned Metropolitan, on November 29 at St. Thomas Mar Thoma Church, Thevally. Diocesan Episcopa Joseph Mar Barnabas will preside and Zacharia Mar Anthonios Metropolitan, Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, Kollam diocese, will be the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metropolitan-to-be-felicitated-today/article33203700.ece
29 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam posts its highest daily tally||Marking a new high in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases reported on any single day, as many as 629 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday. As per estimates, 623 persons contracted the virus through local contact while six cases had come from outside the state. The test positivity for the day was 11.6%. The fresh cases also included 67 children and 96 persons aged above 60 years. With 54 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Changanassery with 34 cases. Mundakkayam and Madappally reported 32 and 31 cases each. Kottayam’s recoveries With 512 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,233 active cases while 15574 persons are under observation Kollam reported 458 new cases of COVID-19 and 298 recoveries on Saturday. While 454 patients contracted the infection through local contact, there were three cases with no known source and one health worker. Cases with no known source include a 47-year-old Kottarakara resident, 30-year-old Mayyanad resident, and 59-year-old Mylam resident. A 27-year-old Adichanallur resident is the health worker who tested positive. Active cases in Kollam The district currently has 16,523 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,55,195. While 3,137 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 1,14,711 primary and 9,823 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present the number of active cases in Kollam is 4,372. Alappuzha logged 309 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. It also recorded six COVID-19-related deaths. The new cases include 303 patients who contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another four persons remains unknown. One health staff and a person who came from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 309 cases, 39 were reported from Aroor, 33 from Alappuzha and 17 from Cherthala. Meanwhile, 231 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 6,659. 141 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 141 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Of the new cases, 125 persons contracted the virus through local contact. The infection source of 31 persons were yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 19 cases while Konni registered 11 cases. With 164 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,885 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-posts-its-highest-daily-tally/article33203705.ece
29 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||CSI bishop steps down||Thomas K. Oommen, former moderator bishop of the Church of South India (CSI), on Saturday stepped down as 12th bishop of the Central Kerala diocese of the church. A statement by the Church said Bishop Oommen, who turned 67, was stepping down from the Diocese on his reaching the retirement age. He was elevated as bishop on March 5, 2011, and was actively involved in social and environmental issues. During his nine-year tenure as bishop, Rev. Oommen was elevated to the position of deputy moderator and then as moderator bishop of the Church. As president of the Kerala Christian Abstinence Committee, he led protests against the government’s policy of allowing more bar hotels in the cover of a High Court verdict. Against alcohol He also played a role behind a decision by the CSI Central Kerala Diocesan Council that those consuming alcohol were not eligible to run for office in the Church. Only those who issued an affidavit against consumption of alcohol could run for the local committee and council of the Church. As chairman of the CSI Ecological Committee, he issued pastoral letters calling for the implementation of a green economy and implementation of the Gadgil Committee report. Born to an agrarian family at Thalavady in Pathanamthitta on November 29, 1953, Rev. Oommen took his undergraduate degree in divinity from Leonard Theological College, Jabalpur, and the Doctor of Ministry degree from San Francisco Theological Seminary. He was ordained deacon in 1982 and was made presbyter the next year. At a function organised to felicitate the bishop in Kottayam on Saturday, Theodosius Mar Thoma, Metropolitan of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, said Bishop Oommen was a person of universal humanity who rendered loving service to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csi-bishop-steps-down/article33203702.ece
29 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS meeting||A balance sheet discussion meeting of the Nair Service Society, slated to be held at the NSS headquarters in Changanassery at 11.30 a.m. on November 30, will be held through videoconferencing in view of the COVID-19 regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-meeting/article33203703.ece
29 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Recoveries outpace fresh cases in Kozhikode||The number of recoveries was much higher compared with fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district on Saturday, when 1,187 people were cured of the infection and 714 tested positive for the virus. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 673 of the fresh cases were locally acquired infections. The source of infection of 24 persons was not known. A total of 6,616 people were tested and the test positivity rate was 10.79%. The number of active cases slumped to 6,629. Kozhikode Corporation had the highest number of locally acquired infections at 129. Feroke (45), Kunnamangalam (37), Kayanna (28), and Changaroth (24) were some of the other clusters. In Wayanad A total of 251 people, including two health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,338. Local transmission All the patients were infected through local contact. As many as 145 people recovered on the day. The district has so far reported 10,508 COVID-19 cases, while 8,741 people recovered. As many as 8,913 persons are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recoveries-outpace-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article33203677.ece
29 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Imbibe values, NIT-C graduates told||Punctuality, integrity, professional competence and a yearning to serve society are the virtues required for a successful engineering career, E. Sreedharan, former managing director of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, said here on Saturday. Addressing the graduands at the convocation of the National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NITC) conducted online, Mr. Sreedharan said that his 67 years of professional life had taught him that mere technical knowledge would not make a person a responsible and useful engineer. “Your technical brilliance must be matched with a passion for good values, a majestic character combined with a spirit of service,” he said. He said that the main reason why India could not emerge as a developed nation even after 73 years of Independence was the steep decline in values and principles for which this country was very famous for till a few hundred years ago. Mr. Sreedharan told the young engineers, “Your professional success will not be measured in terms of the high positions you occupy nor the compensation packages you get, nor indeed the wealth you create for yourself. Your professional success will be measured by what changes you are able to make to improve the standard and quality of life of your fellow citizens”. “The most important responsibility that you face as an engineer will be to protect the environment. This is very much significant as we find that out of the 20 most polluted cities of the world, 12 are in India. Engineers and scientists owe a responsibility to society and to the entire nation to preserve the environment and they need to stand firmly against environmental degradation”. Gajjala Yoganand, Chairman, Board of Governors of NIT-C, observed that students played a significant role in building nation and it was important to encourage students to be bold, courageous, innovative, and proactive. Earlier, P.S. Sathidevi, director-in-charge, highlighted the achievements of the institute in the academic year 2019-20. The convocation, conducted online, saw 1,491 graduates receiving their degrees. They included 866 B.Tech., 46 B.Arch., 353 M.Tech., 10 M.Plan., 42 MCA, 35 MBA, 50 M.Sc., and 89 Ph.D degrees. T. Bharath Bhushan Reddy of the Computer Science and Engineering branch secured the highest CGPA (9.59/10) among all the outgoing B.Tech students of the institute. He was awarded the “Bapana Gold Medal” and “Dr. Allesu Kanjirathingal memorial award”. Among the M.Tech students, Jijy Renj C.F. from the Thermal Sciences stream of Mechanical Engineering and Pavithra T. from the Industrial Power and Automation stream of Electrical Engineering bagged the Bapana Gold Medal with a CGPA of 10 out 10. Registrar Lt. Col. (Rtd.) Pankajakshan K. and Dean (Academic) Dr. Saly George oversaw the convocation ceremony in the virtual mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/imbibe-values-nit-c-graduates-told/article33203670.ece
29 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kathakali Day||The 31st anniversary of Thodayam Kathakali Yogam and National Kathakali Day will be celebrated on Sunday at Padmasree Kalyana Mandapam at Thali, Kozhikode. M.V. Shreyams Kumar, MP, will open the event while present Mayor Thottathil Raveendran will be the guest of honour. The annual Thodayam awards will be presented to Kottakkal Devadas, Kalamandalam Rajasekharan, Mathur Govindan Kutty, and Kottakkal Madhu during the event that will be held in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol. Kathakali performances Nalacharitham (fourth day) and Balivijayam will be held later, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kathakali-day/article33203671.ece
29 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Railway retiring rooms to resume service||The online booking of railway retiring rooms at Kozhikode railway station, which has been remaining suspended for over eight months, is likely to be reopened by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation on December 1. Cleaning work is in progress now to make it available for booking on the official IRCTC portal. There are five retiring rooms, including the air conditioned ones, at the Kozhikode railway station. It is available at an affordable rate between Rs. 400 and Rs. 600. The facility continues to be a relief for many long distance passengers. Though booking will be reopened, there will be restrictions on the number of persons allowed considering the COVID-19 situation. The rooms will be allotted to the guests only after proper health screening and complying with the COVID-19 protocol. Considering the public request, a proposal to revise the existing 12-hour service to 24-hour service has been placed before the IRCTC authorities. According to officials, the extension of stay time is likely to attract more booking and better revenue. Now, passengers who want to extend their stay for more than 12 hours have to repeat the booking process again on the portal with some additional charge, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railway-retiring-rooms-to-resume-service/article33203672.ece
29 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Dy.SP’s ‘victims’ unite at Walayar||A meeting of persons who had been allegedly victimised and denied justice by Dy.SP M.J. Sojan in various cases have resolved to fight it out together until the police officer is punished. The meeting held at Walayar, near here, on Saturday expressed solidarity with the parents of the Walayar girls fighting for justice. Calling themselves as “victims of Sojan”, the group said they would stand united to ensure that the Walayar girls got justice.  Support promised Two minor sisters were found dead in mysterious circumstances at Walayar, and a POCSO ( Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court here rejected the rape-murder case, exonerating all the accused, for want of solid evidence. Mr. Sojan was the officer who investigated and framed the chargesheet. The parents of the girls are seeking justice for them. The “victims” met the parents of the girls and assured their support in the fight for justice. Among them were Valsala, widow of Narayanan Nair who had been killed allegedly by Sojan; her brother Krishnankutty; Balakrishnan alias Preman, a witness in the murder case; and Rani Maria, mother of Praveen, an accused in the Walayar case who committed suicide after having been allegedly tortured by Sojan. They said they would launch an agitation demanding expulsion of Mr. Sojan from service and initiation of legal proceedings against him. Neethi Sura Samiti chairman Vilayodi Venugopal presided over the function. Rights activist C.R. Neelakandan introduced the guests. V.M. Marsan welcomed the gathering. Dalit activist Saleena Prakkanam delivered the keynote address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dysps-victims-unite-at-walayar/article33203789.ece
29 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||491 cases in Palakkad||As many as 491 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Saturday. Officials said that 293 of them had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. However, the source of infection could not be traced in 188 cases. Among the new infections were four health workers and six who came from across the borders. District officials said that 379 infected persons recovered from the disease in Palakkad on Saturday. The number of people currently under treatment for COVID-19 in the district rose to 4,997 on Saturday. It was 4,775 on Thursday. Most of those under treatment are under observation at their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/491-cases-in-palakkad/article33203787.ece
29 November 2020||The Hague,KERALA||Kerala history from Dutch archives||A treasure trove of information contained in Dutch historical archives of the 17th century will be brought to light for the first time through a unique Cosmos Malabaricus project, which is under the consideration of the Indian and the Netherlands authorities. The objective of the project is to make already digitised Dutch archival material accessible to the widest possible audience through translation and publication of summaries in English, the Indian embassy here said in a statement. The records contain a treasure trove of information on the political and military organisations of the period, dynastic developments, economic matters, social and religious aspects of Kerala during the 1643-1852 period. The material is written in classical Dutch language of the 17th century and is available in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and the Netherlands. It is a treasure trove and will be of immense value to scholars and people in general, an official said. The seven-year collaboration to shed light on the history of Kerala using archival material pertaining to the Dutch East India Company was discussed at an online discussion held on Friday at the initiative of the Indian embassy. The project aims to train young scholars in both countries in classical Dutch to transcribe, translate, and edit a selection of these sources and produce publications. The project also follows on an agreement concluded between the National Archives of the Netherlands and the Kerala State Archives for the digitalisation of Dutch records in Kerala during the State visit of King Willem-Alexander and Queen Maxima of the Netherlands to India in October 2019. A MoU is under discussion between Leiden University, Kerala Council for Historical Research, Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit Studies, National Archives of the Netherlands, and the State Archives Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-history-from-dutch-archives/article33203715.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No change in allotted symbols: SEC||There will be no change in the symbols assigned to candidates in the fray for the local body polls in December, State Election Commissioner (SEC) V. Bhaskaran made it clear on Saturday. Neither will there be any changes in the listing order of the names of candidates in the ballot, Mr. Bhaskaran said, citing the relevant sections of the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and the Kerala Municipality Act. The matter had come to the fore recently after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) objected to the allocation of 'rose' as symbol to Independents who were namesakes of BJP candidates in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Complaint As these candidates were listed next to BJP candidates, voters would be confused by the similar names and symbols (rose and lotus), the BJP had complained to the Commission, demanding the replacement of the rose symbol and a change in the listing order of candidates. The official statement on the Commission's decision on Saturday did not specifically mention the BJP complaint or any other petition it received in this regard. The Commission pointed out on Saturday that both Acts prescribed the Malayalam alphabetical order for the listing of the candidates. Similar names Which means, people with the similar names would be listed next to each other. In this matter, the Lok Sabha and State Assembly elections are governed by Section 38(2) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which dictates that the names would be listed in the order of recognised political parties, and other candidates.This provision is, however, not present in the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and the Kerala Municipality Act, Mr. Bhaskaran said. This being the case, the Commission cannot allow the demand that the listing order be changed, he said. The Commission also made it clear that the symbols are assigned by the returning officers. Once the allocation is made, they cannot be withdrawn or replaced with another. The list of symbols are published by the Commission through a gazette notification.The complaints were received after the publication of the list of symbols with the names of the candidates on November 23. In such a situation, symbols cannot be withdrawn or replaced, Mr. Bhaskaran said. BJP to move HC The BJP would move the Kerala High Court against the Commission's decision, BJP Thiruvananthapuram district president V. V. Rajesh said. He added that the issue would be highlighted strongly in the BJP campaign. The allocation of symbol and the listing order cannot be seen as a coincidence, he said, attributing the entire issue to a conspiracy hatched by the CPI(M) to defeat the BJP unfairly.“It is obvious that the voters would be confused. This is tantamount to cheating them,” Mr. Rajesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-change-in-allotted-symbols-sec/article33204076.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Neyyar Dam police station squabble: ASI suspended||Assistant Sub-Inspector Gopakumar, formerly attached to the Neyyar Dam police station, has been suspended with immediate effect for his misconduct towards a complainant and his daughter which, an internal inquiry concluded, was ‘unbecoming of a police officer and amounted to abuse of authority.’ Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Thiruvananthapuram Range, Sanjaykumar Gurudin, who conducted the probe, also ordered an oral inquiry against him. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Neyyattinkara, has been entrusted with the inquiry. Man missing case Mr. Gopakumar was involved in a squabble with Sudevan, a resident of Pallivetta, on November 24 after the latter had gone to the police station purportedly in connection with a man-missing case relating to his elder daughter’s disappearance few days ago. With a video clip that captured the incident going viral on social media, State Police Chief Loknath Behera transferred the officer to the Kerala Armed Police 5thBattalion in Kuttikkanam, Idukki, and instituted the inquiry. Erred During his inquiry, the DIG found Mr. Gopakumar of having erred on multiple counts. While finding the ASI’s claim that he was provoked unjustifiable, Mr. Gurudin found him to be insensitive while dealing with the complainant. The inquiry also found his involvement in the issue unwarranted, considering Mr. Gopakumar had not been assigned with the man-missing case. While Neyyar Dam Sub-Inspector Saju was entrusted the particular investigation, the ASI had apparently returned to the police station after another inquiry shortly before the incident unfolded. The DIG also found the police officer to have erred by failing to wear his uniform while on duty. The inquiry found that Mr. Gopakumar was not involved in any inquiry that would have required to be in civil dress. While echoing the State Police Chief’s view that the incident has tarnished the image of the Kerala Police, Mr. Gurudin said the ASI’s attitude is detrimental to the upkeep of discipline in the force. Separate inquiry The DIG is expected to expected to conduct a separate inquiry into the conduct of other officials, including Mr. Gopakumar’s seniors, who apparently failed to deter him from misbehaving with the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neyyar-dam-police-station-squabble-asi-suspended/article33204070.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special teams formed to distribute postal ballots||The district administration will deploy 300 officials for the distribution of special postal ballot papers to electors who are COVID-19 patients or in quarantine for the December 8 local body polls. This includes 150 Special Polling Officers (SPO) and 150 Special Polling Assistants (SPA). The Police Department will assign 150 police officers for their security cover. Each team consists of one SPO, one SPA and a police officer. Eighty-three teams are tasked with the distribution of the special postal ballots at the block panchayat level for the three-tier panchayats. Parassala (five teams), Perumkadavila (8), Athiyannoor (5), Nemom (13), Pothencode (6), Vellanad (11), Nedumangad (10), Vamanapuram (6), Kilimanoor (8), Chirayinkeezhu (5), Varkala (6). One team each has been assigned for the Attingal and Varkala municipalities. Five teams each will distribute the ballots in the Nedumangad and Neyyattinkara municipalities. Forty teams will be assigned the task in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits, which have a high number of COVID-19 patients and quarantined electors. A training session for the SPOs was held at the Collectorate on Saturday. The initial certified list of special voters, prepared by designated health officers, will be ready by 3 p.m. on Sunday. Special ballots are issued on the basis of the certified list. The process of preparing the lists will continue till December 7. The State Election Commission had on Thursday issued special guidelines for enabling COVID-19 patients and people in quarantine to vote using postal ballots. Eighteen items including PPE kits will be issued to the polling officials who are assigned the task of distributing the special ballots. This includes the special ballot, the declaration form, a form containing instructions for the voter, paper covers, application form, pen, gum, white papers, ink pad, register, facemasks, gloves, sanitiser and file board. Historic decision The decision to issue special postal ballots to COVID-19 patients and electors in quarantine will find a place in history, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. She was addressing a training session for SPOs here. Calling a first-of-its kind process, she said that, in essence, the polling officers themselves will be functioning as the polling booths. The session was led by ADM V. R. Vinod and Deputy Collector (Election) John V. Samuel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-teams-formed-to-distribute-postal-ballots/article33204075.ece
29 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Solar case resurfaces on poll eve||The shadow of the “solar case” that bedevilled the previous Oommen Chandy government appears to have received a new lease of life as electoral politics seem to turn intensely personal in the run-up to the local body and Assembly elections in Kerala. The scandal reared its head again at a United Democratic Front election meeting at Thalavoor in Kollam on Saturday. One of the speakers, Saranya Manoj Kumar, a former confidant now at odds with K.B. Ganesh Kumar, MLA, triggered a television news cycle by accusing his former party leader of using the woman accused in the solar case as a cat’s paw to tarnish the Congress. Mr. Manoj also alleged that Saji Cherian, MLA, who was then the district secretary of the CPI(M) in Alappuzha, had aided Mr. Ganesh in the “conspiracy”. Mr. Cherian has denied the accusation. The woman had told the judicial commission that probed the economic offence that she was sexually exploited for getting the imprimatur of a set of ruling Congress leaders for her business venture. The commission had given weightage to a letter she had penned in police custody in 2013. The judge concluded that demanding sex for official favours was illegal gratification and, hence, a crime. He recommended investigation into the victim’s grievance. Mr. Manoj had alleged that Mr. Ganesh had “used” the “explosive letter” to get back at the Congress leadership for not reinstating him in the Oommen Chandy cabinet after he was forced to step down following a marital dispute. In 2016, the government ordered a probe against persons named by the alleged victim. In October 2018, the Crime Branch took cognisance of the complaint and opened a criminal inquiry against Mr. Chandy and others. The alleged victim has vehemently refuted Mr. Manoj’s insinuations. Mr. Chandy said truth was inexorable. The MLA was yet to respond to the charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-case-resurfaces-on-poll-eve/article33203712.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Virtual workshop for student filmmakers||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy in collaboration with Global Media Makers and Film Independent, Los Angeles, is organising a Virtual Workshop on Creative Producing and Pitching for student filmmakers from India. The virtual workshop will be held over two blocks of sessions between December 1 to 3 and December 8 to 10 for three hours per day. The workshop aims to provide the participants who are the final year students of Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute, Kolkata, K.R. Narayanan National Institute of Visual Sciences, Kottayam, and L.V. Prasad Film and TV Academy, Chennai, the opportunity to workshop their pitch, discuss their projects and receive feedback from mentors and peers. The workshop will also provide an overview of US independent film development strategies and explore how these practices can be applied in their countries. The virtual workshop will be led by U.S. and Indian industry professionals, including Tatiana Kelly, Producer, Serena Films, Jim Young, Producer, Animus Films, Miriam Joseph, Producer and Bina Paul, Editor. Launched in 2016, Global Media Makers is a mentoring initiative by Film Independent in partnership with the US Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Film Independent is a non-profit arts organization that helps filmmakers make their movies and builds an audience for their projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-workshop-for-student-filmmakers/article33203706.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hassan flays LDF’s flagship missions||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) will disband the four missions instituted by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government if it came into power, UDF convener M.M. Hassan has said. Participating in Vottukaryam, a meet-the-press programme organised by the Kesari Memorial Journalists’ Trust here on Saturday, Mr. Hassan accused the government of encroaching upon the powers of Panchayati Raj institutions through the implementation of its flagship missions – LIFE, Haritha Keralam, Aardram and General Education Protection Campaign. “The irregularities in the flat project in Wadakkanchery is a prime example of the corrupt activities that were undertaken under the garb of development,” he said. Toilets The senior Congress leader said that the UDF will evolve a dedicated mission to establish public toilets that were inadequate in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hassan-flays-ldfs-flagship-missions/article33204071.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||488 new cases in capital, 365 recover||Thiruvananthapuram’s COVID-19 case graph went up by 488 on Saturday. With 365 people recovering from the illness, the number of active cases in the district stood at 4,548. The COVID-19 death toll mounted to 544 as the pandemic claimed four more lives in the district. The deceased were an 82-year old woman who hailed from Puthukulangara, a 75-year old man who hailed from Manacaud, a 66-year old woman who hailed from Poonthura and a 65-year old man who hailed from Vilappilsala. 10 health workers Ten health workers were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, sources said. The district administration placed 1,935 people under quarantine, taking the number of people being supervised for COVID-19 symptoms to 28,553.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/488-new-cases-in-capital-365-recover/article33204073.ece
29 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,250 cases reported in State||Kerala reported 6,250 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 63,983 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 5,93,957. Test positivity rate in the State was 9.77% on Saturday and has been remaining steady in the 9-11% range for the past two weeks or more, indicating that the disease transmission level in the community, while remaining relatively low, is stable. Recoveries reported on the day were 5,275. The active case load in the State now stands at 64,834. The official COVID toll of the State rose to 2,196 when 25 more deaths were added on to the list of deaths deemed as COVID deaths by the Health Department. Six of these deaths were reported from Alappuzha, five each from Ernakulam and Thrissur, four each from Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram and one case from Kottayam. Of the 6,250 new cases reported on Saturday, 6,158 cases are locally acquired infections, while only 92 were cases which had a history of travel outside the State. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 812 cases, Kozhikode 714, Malappuram 680, Thrissur 647, Kottayam 629, Palakkad 491, Thiruvananthapuram 488, Kollam 458, Kannur 315, Alapuzha 309, Wayanad 251, Idukki 178, Pathanamthitta 141 and Kasaragod 137 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6250-cases-reported-in-state/article33203711.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU induction programme||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University will conduct a six-day-long induction programme commencing November 30 for students who have been admitted for BTech and BDes programmes this year. Academicians including Manish Jain of IIT Gandhinagar, IIM Calicut Director Debashish Chatterjee, Digital University Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath, former Kerala University Vice Chancellor B. Ekbal, Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment executive vice-president K.P. Sudheer and former DGP (Prisons) Alexander Jacob will interact with students. The programme, which will be organised on videoconferencing platform V-Console, will be held on all days until December 5. The sessions will also be telecast live on the university’s official Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-induction-programme/article33203673.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man’s body found, hunt on for friend||The Vithura police have registered a murder case after discovering the putrefied body of a 55-year old man dug inside a house on Saturday. The police identified the deceased as Madhavan of Pathamkulichapara along the Vithura-Peppara road. His body was found buried in his friend Thajudeen’s house nearby. The police have commenced efforts to locate Thajudeen’s whereabouts. The police were alerted by some Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme workers who detected stench emanating from the house. They also found blood stains on the windows and door. According to the police, the duo have not been seen since Thursday. Strengthening the possibility that the crime took place on the same night, Thajudeen’s neighbours claimed to have heard a loud noise from the area that possibly suggested a fight among the duo. While Madhavan was on the run after being booked for allegedly harassing a woman, Thajudeen too has been involved in another criminal case.The body has been kept at the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mans-body-found-hunt-on-for-friend/article33204072.ece
29 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vigilance seeks communication records||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau is scheduled to file an application in court seeking the interrogation records of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Customs had arrested Mr. Sivasankar in connection with their investigations into the UAE gold smuggling case. The VACB was investigating Mr. Sivasankar in connection with the LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent contract to provide housing for the poor at Wadakkancherry. It was likely to seek information on the mobile and WhatsApp communication between smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigilance-seeks-communication-records/article33203713.ece
29 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Revival of northeast monsoon from December 1||Kerala’s southern districts and Idukki can expect heavy rainfall from December 1 with a low-pressure area that has taken shape in the Bay of Bengal promising a revival of the northeast monsoon. The India Meteorological Department has put these districts on orange and yellow alerts on December 1 and 2. Pathanamthitta and Idukki have been put on orange alert on December 1 given the likelihood of heavy to very heavy rainfall. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Kottayam have been issued yellow alerts and can expect heavy rainfall. Orange alert has been issued for Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam and yellow alert for Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Idukki on December 2. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in isolated places in north Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revival-of-northeast-monsoon-from-december-1/article33203717.ece
29 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PSC postpones departmental tests||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) has postponed the departmental tests scheduled to be held on November 30 and December 3 owing to the deployment of officials for election duty, according to an official press release issued here on Saturday. The fresh dates will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-exams-postponed/article33203707.ece
29 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Results published||The results of the first and second semester exams of the HDC and BM course conducted by the State Cooperative Union in September and October have been published. The results can be viewed on www.scu.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/results-published/article33204077.ece
29 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||647 cases in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded 647 COVID-19 cases on Saturday while 405 patients recovered from the disease. There are 6,410 active cases in the district and 100 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far, 58,307 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in the district and 51,344 patients have recovered. According to the official statistics, 636 patients, including three health officials, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. They include 79 people above the age of 60 and 42 children below the age of 10. There are 4,220 people under home care. As many as 197 people were admitted in the hospital for COVID-19 treatment on Saturday. As many as 6,890 samples were collected for the test on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/647-cases-in-thrissur/article33203786.ece
29 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thiruvambadi Devaswom secretary dead||Thiruvambadi Devaswom secretary M. Madhavan Kutty died at a private hospital here on Saturday. He was 78 and was under treatment for cancer. One of the main organisers of Thrissur Pooram for half-a-century, he was an office-bearer of the Thiruvambadi Devaswom for the past 42 years. He retired as Professor of Mathematics from UC College, Aluva, in 1997. Whenever there were challenges for the conduct of Thrissur Pooram, in the form of restrictions in parading of elephants or conduct of fireworks, Prof. Madhavan Kutty took the lead in solving the issues amicably, Pooram organisers recall. From the conduct of Pooram exhibition to the last ritual of Upacharam Chollal, he was an active presence in all the rituals. He played a key role in developing Sandeepani School under Thiruvambadi Devaswom. He was also patron of the Thrissur Railway Passengers Association. He was a good orator too. Prof. Madhavan Kutty’s mortal remains were kept for the public to pay homage at the Thiruvambadi Devaswom office and later cremated at Paramekkavu Shanti Ghat. He is survived by wife and daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvambadi-devaswom-secretary-dead/article33203783.ece
29 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Resignation of Kerala Varma Principal accepted||The Cochin Devaswom Board has accepted the resignation of A.P. Jayadevan, Principal of Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur. Following his resignation, the charge of Principal has been given to Vice Principal R. Bindu. Prof. Jayadevan submitted his resignation in protest against the appointment of Dr. R. Bindu, former Mayor and wife of CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, as Vice Principal. The board appointed Dr. Bindu, associate professor and head of the English Department at the college, as Vice Principal on October 30 and the appointment had sparked a controversy. It had been alleged that such an appointment was illegal. According to the appointment order, the Vice Principal has the responsibility to implement the decisions taken by the governing body. Prof. Jayadevan, in his resignation letter, alleged that he was not aware of the Vice Principal appointment and sharing of responsibilities would create confusion in running the college. He would continue as teacher at the college. Accepting his resignation, the board said the resignation had led to unnecessary controversies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resignation-of-kerala-varma-principal-accepted/article33203709.ece
29 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Chennithala seeks Vigilance investigation||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has demanded a Vigilance investigation into the alleged malpractices in the construction of a school building at Chembuchira. While interacting with media persons here on Saturday, Mr. Chennithala criticised the departmental inquiry ordered by the Education Minister. “The building was constructed using Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board money and the local area development fund of the MLA. So there should be a Vigilance probe,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-seeks-vigilance-investigation/article33203784.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Probe into school building lapses||Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath has directed General Education Secretary A. Shajahan to inquire into the construction activities at Government Higher Secondary School, Chembuchira, Thrissur, and submit a report. This follows allegations of malpractice in the construction of a new building at the school, located in the Minister’s constituency, Puthukkad. Serious malpractices were found in the construction of the building, built using Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board funds to the tune of Rs. 3 crore and Rs. 87 lakh from the MLA fund. Plastering has been coming off the walls and roof in many places. As malpractices were detected, the school authorities have asked the contractor to stop work. According to local people, many of the classrooms were leaking in the recent rain. Meanwhile, a statement from KITE-Infra on Saturday said that in connection with complaints related to the construction, the government of India undertaking WAPCOS Ltd. that is monitoring the work had submitted an interim report to KITE (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education). A seven-member team led by former Local Self-Government Deeeearment engineer Sajikumar had conducted the inspection on behalf of WAPCOS. The team found that the structure of the building, including concrete work, was strong and safe after a rebound hammer test and other checks were conducted. Not up to the mark However, the plastering in the toilet block and stair room was not up to the mark. As soon as the problems in plastering were detected, a notice was issued, the team found. Plastering samples were also collected for tests. Wherever problems were detected with the plastering, RCC (reinforced cement concrete) columns and beams were tested for stability and found to be safe. Statement The statement from S. Chandrakumar, coordinator (Technical), KITE-Infra, said the structure was strong, and a part of the building was used for conducting class the past academic year. Though problems detected early this month with the plastering were not related to the structural strength, a detailed investigation into the reasons for it and strict action against those responsible for the lapses had been ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-school-building-lapses/article33203716.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pedestrians at risk||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pedestrians-at-risk/article33203675.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fighting fit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fighting-fit/article33203719.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Thorough clean-up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thorough-clean-up/article33203791.ece
29 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sand now a precious commodity in Anantapur||Continuous rains during south-west monsoon till October-end and also heavy rains during the third week of November due to Cyclone Nivar has led to a scarcity of sand in Anantapur district making it a precious commodity with a lorry full of sand costing anywhere above Rs. 30,000 depending on the urgency and location of delivery. While the current daily demand is between 4,000 tonnes and 5,000 tonnes, the supply is only between 2,000 tonnes and 3,000 tonnes. The most dependable reaches with good quality sand with an estimated over 5 lakh tonnes of reserves in the Chitravathi Balancing Reservoir backwaters has gone out of reach due to the State government’s decision to impound 10 tmcft of water against the 4.5 to 5 tmcft being stored for the past decade. In all, 16 lakh tonnes of sand was excavated and despatched to the consumers in the past several months after the new sand policy of booking sand online came into existence. “The most productive ones were four reaches in Uppalapadu which now have to be dredged if we need sand, but a proper dredging operation would cost close to Rs. 20 lakh, which might not be economical,” Assistant Geologist and District Sand Officer Konda Reddy told The Hindu . All the sand available in the Patta lands is exhausted and even the quantity stored at Bukkarayasamudram is used only for plastering, and some large part of it is said to be of terrible quality and hence no takers for that. Currently, the excavation is being done at very small reaches in minuscule quantities, but that does not happen without a quality check, says Mr. Konda Reddy. New reaches identified The District Sand Committee has identified 13 new reaches with a yield probability of 6 lakh tonnes and has written to the Central agencies for environment clearances. Once received, the reaches would be thrown open for excavation. Currently, only five out of 12 reaches in Patta lands are functional, and one open reach in Pamidi is working after a gap due to some local dispute over excavation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sand-now-a-precious-commodity-in-anantapur/article33203506.ece
29 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan’s silence over FIR against activists questioned||The All India Democratic Women's Association (AIDWA) has questioned the silence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy over the FIR filed against human rights activists at two places in the State in the Vakapalli rape case. Invoking Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against those, who had been supporting the 11 survivors to depose freely before the SC, ST Special Court in Visakhapatnam, was an autocratic behaviour, association all India treasurer S. Punyavathi said. She asked whether the government considered tribals human beings, and if the tribal woman survivors of rape had any right to get help for an injustice allegedly committed by one of the State arms. She said it was ridiculous to brand a set of people as “influencing” the Vakapalli rape survivors to depose falsely against the accused police personnel. She demanded immediate withdrawal of FIRs against the HRF activists in A.P. and Telangana and leaders of other Dalit groups. At a time when the BJP government at the Centre and its Chief Ministers in States like Uttar Pradesh were silent on Hathras and Unnao cases, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy should stand as an example and provide justice to the Vakapalli rape survivors, she opined. Ms. Punyavathi, who was in Hindupur and Anantapur to participate in the nationwide strike organised by trade unions affiliated to Left parties, said while the district administration was making tall claims about the successful implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, a field-level check at Bukkarayasamudram in Anantapur district showed that many did not receive the payslips for the past four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagans-silence-over-fir-against-activists-questioned/article33203502.ece
29 November 2020||AVANIGADDA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor found murdered in Avanigadda||A doctor, K. Srihari Rao (65), was found murdered in his house here on Saturday. The body was found in a pool of blood in his bedroom. He was running Lakshmi Nursing Home in the town. The assailants reportedly managed to turn off the CCTVs and allegedly committed the crime when the doctor was alone at home. Clues team and sniffer dog teams were pressed into service. Senior police officials visited the house which is in the same building that houses the nursing home. Police are enquiring if any nursing staff and night watchman were on duty at the hospital, and took a few suspects into custody for questioning. “We are investigating on financial, family disputes and other angles,” said Avanigadda Circle Inspector B.B. Ravi Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctor-found-murdered-in-avanigadda/article33203781.ece
29 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police solve bank heist case||The Guntur Rural Police claimed to have cracked the sensational bank heist at Nadikudi in Dachepalli mandal, where Rs. 77 lakh was stolen on the night of November 21. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni said two persons, both first-time offenders, have been arrested on charges of breaking the cash chest of SBI, Nadikudi branch, and making away with the cash. The accused, Kidari Prasad (21) and Vinaya Prasad (37), natives of Miryalaguda, reportedly confessed to the crime and told police that got the idea to rob the bank by watching videos on websites. They had selected a bank located in the inner lanes of the town. “The police have recovered the entire cash stolen intact, and with the help of technological interventions, we have arrested two persons. We are not disclosing the modus operandi of the crime and the details of the investigation, as this could lead to others taking a clue about the crime. We are surprised at the ease in which the accused had access to the inside of the bank and we have asked the bank personnel to take more safety precautions,’’ said Mr. Gunni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-solve-bank-heist-case/article33203422.ece
29 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCV tobacco farmers affected by Nivar seek bailout package||The Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) has urged the Central government to bail out the cyclone-affected Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco farmers by announcing adequate relief package. FAIFA general secretary P.S. Murali Babu said that the FCV tobacco farmers had experienced losses of more than Rs. 6,000 crore with a drop in production from 325 million kg in 2014-15 to 210 million kg in 2019-20. The situation further worsened due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Just when the farmers were trying to recuperate from the losses, the heavy rains under the influence of Cyclone Nivar just after the plantation dampened their prospects, he said. About 40% of the crop in the 30,000 hectares under cultivation in the traditional tobacco growing regions (Prakasam and Nellore) was impacted due to submergence. Heavy rains The heavy rainfall had shown significant impact on the crop in the State. Farmers would have to go for fresh plantations in the areas where restoration of crops was ruled out, he added. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), in the FCV tobacco growing districts, the rainfall ranged between 150 mm and 200 mm across all the major villages in the last 36 hours. Rainfall received ranged between 50 mm and 100 mm in the West Godavari region. The data illustrates the impact of Cyclone Nivar on the FCV and burley tobacco crops across Andhra Pradesh. FAIFA national spokesperson Yashwanth Chidipothu said the rains turned out to be a bane for FCV and Vinukonda burley farmers of Prakasam and Guntur districts. The region has been experiencing downpour since November 25. “Freshly sown samplings, which are less than 60 days old, in 10,000 hectares have been impacted adversely. The impact is so severe that the assessment of damage to the leaf and infrastructure is still in progress. In the burley-growing regions of Guntur and Prakasam districts, harvesting commenced in more than 7,500 hectares, resulting in complete loss of leaf in curing barns. Due to rains and heavy winds, 5 million kg in curing is exposed to rotting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fcv-tobacco-farmers-seek-bailout-from-centre/article33203628.ece
29 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Campaign on Covid-19 launched in Guntur||A 50-day public campaign on COVID-19 was launched on Saturday, even as the local administration expressed its concerns over a second wave of infections in winter. The campaign will be continued till January 15. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that all stakeholders would be covered in the campaign including NGOs, media professionals and government line departments. On Saturday, the number of positive cases were 68 and the rate of positivity is coming down after nearly six months. “Even as the number of positive cases is coming down, we shall not let our guard down and we will still follow the protocol of social distancing, use of sanitisers or hand wash frequently and wearing of masks,” said Mr. Ananda Kumar. The Collector held a video conference with municipal commissioners and YSR Kranthi Patham personnel. On Monday, a meeting with media professionals would be held, followed by a campaign with the Education Department on Tuesday, Skill Development personnel on Wednesday, with Panchayat Raj Department on Thursday and the municipal administration on Friday. The campaign would also cover autorickshaw drivers, public transport utilities etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/campaign-on-covid-19-launched-in-guntur/article33204094.ece
29 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan pays tributes to Phule||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday paid rich tributes to Mahatma Jyotirao Phule on his death anniversary at his camp office. The Chief Minister garlanded the portrait of Jyothirao Phule and paid tributes to the social reformer. At the Party Central office, YSRCP leaders offered floral tributes to Phule and said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been empowering weaker sections like never before. Adviser to the Government (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said the Chief Minister had been striving to fulfil the ideologies of Phule. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Ch. Venugopal Krishna, Gummanuru Jayaram, Party State Secretary L Appireddy, MLAs Parthasarathy, Jogi Ramesh, K Ramachandra Reddy, and senior leaders Boppana Bhavakumar, S.V. Mohan Reddy, Sivarami Reddy and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-pays-tributes-to-phule/article33203760.ece
29 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy crop bears the brunt in Kurnool, Anantapur districts||Cyclone Nivar left large areas of agricultural crops inundated, but it has provided a respite on Saturday with no significant rain recorded in either Kurnool or Anantapur districts. Paddy farmers were the worst hit in both the districts. While the average rainfall in Anantapur district from 8.30 a.m. on Saturday till 4 p.m. was 1 mm, it was 0.6 mm in Kurnool. Kurnool District Collector G. Veerapandian said that 28 mandals were affected in the district. One house was completely damaged and 127 were partially damaged. In all 31,302 hectares of crops were damaged as per preliminary survey, of which 22,114 hectares were paddy in Kurnool district. Horticulture crops, mostly banana and chilly, in 766.35 hectares were damaged. Farmers lost 193 sheep and 160.4 km of the road surface was damaged. There was no evacuation needed and no human life was lost, but 67 electricity poles were damaged. In Anantapur district, the damage to agricultural crops was in 1,733 hectares (including 1,607 hectares of paddy), and the total loss due to rain was estimated at Rs. 7.07 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-crop-bears-the-brunt-in-kurnool-anantapur-districts/article33203504.ece
29 November 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industries Minister promises liberal aid to flood-hit people||Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Saturday assured the flood-affected people that the State government would liberally provide financial assistance to all of them. The Minister, who visited the marooned Veeralagudipadu village, near Sangam, by a boat, gave a patient hearing to the woes of the people who were affected by the floods triggered by the Cyclone Nivar. “We have not seen such a huge water flow in the Penna in the recent past,” said the villagers, who were yet to come to terms with the enormous loss to their crops due to the cyclone, which also caused severe damage to their houses and snapped power supply. Asking the officials to complete enumeration of the loss to the crops and property quickly, the Minister promised them that he would arrange for compensation speedily. Breach to tank The Minister, who also visited Nagulavellaturu village tank, which had suffered a breach, said a permanent solution would be found to the problem that had arisen following inadequate maintenance. Mr. Goutham Reddy, while visiting, among other places, Billupadu and Kalayapalem, noted that the district had suffered worst-ever floods. The Penna had a peak inflow of 4.5 lakh cusecs in the wake of heavy rains in the catchment areas in the last few days triggered by the cyclone, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/industries-minister-promises-liberal-aid-to-flood-hit-people/article33203768.ece
29 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers review flood situation in Nellore, Prakasam districts||There seemed to be no end to the woes of the people of South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, who were already reeling under the impact of Cyclone Nivar even as the weather system weakened into a well-marked low pressure area on Saturday. Farmers of Nellore and Prakasam districts, who suffered crop loss in over 1.40 lakh hectares, were in for more trouble with the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting more rain from December 1 under the influence of a fresh system brewing in the Bay of Bengal. CM pats Collector Meanwhile, Nellore district Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu came in appreciation from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for effectively handling the situation arising out of heavy rain and floods and preventing loss of human lives in the district. After an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas, the Collector explained the Chief Minister that the rains had caused a loss of Rs. 998.05 crore in the district. Putting the loss suffered by the farmers at Rs. 788.66 crore, the Collector said that 299-km of roads, two bridges, 18 scours, and 94 irrigation tanks were damaged causing a loss of Rs. 217.39 crore. Over 17,000 people, including 5,800 in Nellore city, were in relief camps as the low-lying areas and those close to the banks of the Penna were inundated. “The intensity of the downpour has come down in the catchment areas,” Somasila reservoir Superintending Engineer N. Krishna Rao said while putting the inflow at 1.45 lakh cusecs. Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar coordinated the relief operations in the flooded areas in Nellore city, while his Cabinet colleague and Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy travelled by a boat to reach the marooned villages in Chejerla and Sangam mandals affected by the peak inflow of 4.5 lakh cusecs from the reservoir. “The government is fully prepared to face the two more weather systems forecast,” Mr. Goutham Reddy said. In Prakasam district, where Nivar damaged crops in more than one lakh hectares, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy reviewed the situation along with Education Minister A. Suresh. Power restored Power supply in the affected areas had been restored on a war-footing, the Energy Minister said, adding that farmers who lost crops would be provided financial assistance by December-end. District Collector P. Bhaskar said standing crop in 1.06 lakh hectares was damaged – paddy in 15,949 hectares, black gram in 20,712 hectares, red gram in 12,378 hectares, cotton in 16,759 hectares, bengal gram in 14,043 hectares, chilli in 6,077 hectares and vegetables in 620 hectares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-review-flood-situation-in-nellore-prakasam-districts/article33203508.ece
29 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help desk for women opened at PS||The Prakasam police on Saturday put in place a help desk exclusively for women at Ballikurava police station. The new two-room facility was created as part of the implementation of ‘Dasa Sutras’ during COVID-19 times for the benefit of women complainants who come all the way from remote villages to air their grievances. The facility has been designed to receive the women who come with their children with numerous problems, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said after inaugurating the facility. Mr. Kaushik said women staff should be appointed as receptionist in the police station so that the complainants, especially women, felt free. The SP then interacted with the women police and Village Women Welfare Secretaries and inquired about problems encountered by them. The SP also reviewed the progress of investigation into incidents of crime and wanted the personnel to ensure visible policing to nip such incidents in the bud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/help-desk-for-women-opened-at-ps/article33203510.ece
29 November 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials scout for place on G Hill to install YSR statue||Officials of the Polavaram project and the AP Green and Beautification Corporation on Saturday visited the G Hill located near the project site, and searched for a suitable place for installation of the statue of the former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. Polavaram Chief Engineer B. Sudhakar Babu, Superintending Engineer M. Nagi Reddy and AP Green and Beautification Corporation Managing Director M. Chandra Mohan Reddy were among others who scouted for the site. “A huge statue of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy will be installed on the G Hill on the borders of West and East Godavari districts and near the project. A report will be submitted to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the height of the statue and beautification of the hill,” the officials said. NABARD officials’ visit Meanwhile, NABARD Assistant Regional Manager, AP, P. Ramalakshmi, technical consultant S.N. Raju, and other bank officials visited the Chintalapudi Lift Irrigation project, and Polavaram and Guddigudem projects to know about their status and progress of works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-scout-for-place-on-g-hill-to-install-ysr-statue/article33203695.ece
29 November 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||District officials roll out plan to distribute COVID-19 vaccine||On November 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a meeting with the Chief Ministers of various States, advised them to prepare a roadmap and establish cold chains for effective distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had asked all the District Collectors to prepare a detailed plan and form a task force at the district-level. Visakhapatnam District Collector Vinay Chand and District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar have created a 17-member task force, to oversee the smooth distribution of the vaccine in the district. The District Collector will be the chairman of the task force and the District Immunisation Officer Jeevan Rani will be the member-convenor. The other members include officials such as Principal, Andhra Medical College, Superintendent of King George Hospital, DMHO, DEO, Commissioner GVMC, Commissioner VMRDA, a senior officer from city and district police, minority welfare officer, WHO representative in the city and representative from UNICEF and UNDP. As per the vaccine roll out plan, to begin with, the vaccine will be first administered to the frontline health workers, followed by 60 plus senior citizens and children, said Dr. Sudhakar. According to him, initially the vaccine will be administered to 3% of the population or frontline health workers. “We have already finalised a list of health workers, which includes doctors, paramedics and nurses, from the Andhra Medical College side. As of now we have listed about 3,000 names from AMC and other eight teaching hospitals under AMC,” he said. It is learnt that DMHO also has been told to finalise a list of health workers both from private and government hospitals, and the work is on. According to Dr. Jeevan Rani, the initial requirement is about a lakh of vaccine doses. At present, the immunisation department has a refrigeration facility of about 16.5 cubic metres. “The State government has sanctioned another 40 cubic metre refrigeration facility, for which the civil work has already begun. Once this is ready, we will be able to stock a lakh of vaccine doses at any given time,” she said. According to her, the vaccines need to be stored in a regulated temperature between 2° and 8° Celsius, and the existing and the new one that is coming up has the facility. Going by Dr. Jeevan Rani’s vaccine storage temperature specification, it is understood that the vaccine developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca, is suited for the district or the State, as the storage temperature for this vaccine is 2° to 8° Celsius. Vaccines developed by Pfizer and BioNtech require a storage temperature of -70° Celsius and Moderna’s vaccine requires -20°C and Sputnik needs storage temperature of -18°C. With many questioning the effectiveness of the vaccines, Dr. Sudhakar said that even 70% effectiveness is good enough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-officials-roll-out-plan-to-distribute-covid-19-vaccine/article33204052.ece
29 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD owns 7,753 acres of farm and non-agricultural land||The TTD board of trustees on Saturday released a White Paper with regard to its landed properties spread across the country. According to the document, TTD owns about 1,128 assets in the form of both agricultural and non-agricultural lands aggregating 8,088.89 acres. However, after disposal of certain properties spread over 335.23 acres between 1974 and 2014 which fetched it Rs. 6.13 crore, the TTD is now left with 7,753.66 acres, the document stated. Briefing the media, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said that as part of its efforts to usher in more transparency in the administration, the management had also resolved to make the details of the residual properties spread over 7,753.66 acres available on its official website. Other resolutions Other important resolutions include revival of the much acclaimed ‘Kalyanamastu’ programme aimed at conducting mass marriages for the benefit of the poor, providing of gold plating to Dwajasthambham, Bali Peetam and Mahadwaram at Tirumala temple, undertaking repairs to Gali Gopuram situated half-way on the Alipiri footpath leading to the hill town, improvement of cottages meant for ordinary devotees at a cost of Rs. 29 crore, construction of an additional hostel block at SV Bala Mandir in Tirupati (Rs. 10 crore), holding negotiations with nationalised and scheduled banks to fetch more interest rates on its cash deposits, gold plating to Surya Prabha Vahanam at the temple of goddess Padmavati in Tiruchanur using 11.766 kg gold besides providing Rs. 10,000 advance to Annamacharya artistes who are left without any schedule due to the pandemic. Temple in T.N. The board also endorsed the proposal of member trustee Kumara Guru who came forward to donate four acres of land and Rs. 10 crore for the construction of a temple of Lord Venkateswara at Vulundur in Tamil Nadu. As part of its efforts to convert the town into a green and pollution-free place, the board also resolved to address a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy seeking permission for operating electrical buses on the ghat road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-owns-7753-acres-of-farm-and-non-agricultural-land/article33203769.ece
29 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaikunta Dwara darshan for 10 days at Tirumala||The TTD has resolved to keep the Vaikunta Dwaram open for 10 days in the larger interests of pilgrims. The board of trustees that met here on Saturday under the chairmanship of Y.V. Subba Reddy took a unanimous decision in this regard. Accordingly, the Vaikunta Dwaram will be kept open from December 25 to January 3. The Vaikunta Dwaram is the passage in the inner-most sanctum sanctorum of the temple of Lord Venkateswara and is generally opened for two days in a year on Vaikunta Ekadasi and Dwadasi. Lakhs of devotees throng the temple to have the darshan of the presiding deity on both days. There has been a growing demand from pilgrims to extend the Vaikunta Dwara darshanam for at least 10 days. Wide consultations The board discussed the issue during its meeting last December but resolved to take the opinion of pontiffs as it is a sensitive issue. After consultations with over 26 religious leaders of various peetams and mutts during the past eight months and all the prominent seers belonging to Vanamamalai, Ahobila, Andavan, Kanchi, Sringeri, Parakala and Vyasaraja Mutts giving the nod to the proposal, the authorities finally placed the subject before the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaikunta-dwara-darshan-for-10-days-at-tirumala/article33203770.ece
29 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchayat Raj institutions key to tackling COVID: Aiyar||Former Union Minister for Panchayat Raj, Mani Shankar Aiyar, lauded Panchayat Raj institutions for playing a crucial role in keeping the COVID-19 pandemic under control. In his inaugural address at a national webinar organised by the Tirupati-based Academy of Grassroots Studies and Research of India (AGRASRI) on the eve of its 20th anniversary, Mr. Aiyar said the role played by the PR institutions in curbing COVID-19 was no less important than that of Central and State governments, keeping in mind their grassroots level reach and representation of over 65% of the Indian population. Mr. Aiyar spoke on the theme of ‘Empowerment or disempowerment of the PR institutions in rural India: Agenda for reform’, wherein he regretted that many State governments had not yet devolved the three Fs (functions, functionaries and finances) to the PR institutions, considered a main step towards realising the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi. He recalled the reformative steps initiated during the regimes of Rajiv Gandhi and P.V. Narasimha Rao to bring governance to the doorstep of the public. Mr. Aiyar also appreciated AGRASRI founder and director D. Sundar Ram for providing a platform to discuss the percolation of power, rights and funds at the field-level. Eminent experts, including former V-C of Indira Gandhi National Open University M. Aslam, Pragna Bharati chairman T. Hanuman Chowdary, Institute of Social Sciences chairman George Mathew, Participatory Research in Asia president Rajesh Tandon, Kerala Institute of Local Administration former director P.P. Balan, and Doordarshan former Director-General R.A. Padmanabha Rao participated as speakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panchayat-raj-institutions-key-to-tackling-covid-aiyar/article33203514.ece
29 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Digital award for Tirupati dairy||Shreeja Mahila Milk Producer Company Limited, a Tirupati-based milk dairy and the first in the country to be owned by women, has recently bagged the ‘Milk Producers’ Digital Award 2020’ from the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) on November 26, celebrated as National Milk Day. The company was the first to make 100% digital payments to the milk producers, thus promoting transparency, ensuring financial security and improving livelihood opportunity for women. The board has also announced special awards to three milk producers,Y. Subbaratnamma of Merlapaka, Kalavathi of Nellithippa (V.Kota mandal) and G. Usharani of Anupu. The dairy’s Chief Executive Jayatheertha Chary said the digital initiative helped farmers during critical situations like demonetisation and the current pandemic. The company with Rs. 537 crore turnover procures a whopping 4.5 lakh litres of milk daily from 90,000 women of Chittoor, Nellore, Anantapur and Kadapa districts through 3125 functional milk pooling points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/digital-award-for-tirupati-dairy/article33203512.ece
29 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rise in liver ailments causes concern||Though not as much in the news as cardiac arrest or renal failure, liver ailments are significantly on the rise in the country, which however remain eclipsed due to lack of awareness on preventive or timely intervention. End-stage liver disorders like cirrhosis, liver cancers, liver damage and liver failure are being widely reported in India due to viruses like Hepatitis A, B, C, excessive alcohol intake, environmental pollution, and an unbalanced diet. “Though fatty liver cases are generally pervasive, it is an indication of pre-existing diseases or conditions like Hepatitis B, uncontrolled diabetes, thyroid or cholesterol,” explained N. Selvakumar, senior consultant liver transplantation surgeon at Apollo Institute of Liver Sciences, Chennai. Dr. Selvakumar said that unlike other organs like eye or heart, a lot of superstition and misinformation is associated with liver transplantation. He expressed concern over patients consulting multiple specialists in a bid to avoid surgery, but finally ending up on the operation table at an advanced stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rise-in-liver-ailments-causes-concern/article33203513.ece
29 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPDCL pegs loss at Rs. 5 crore||The Southern Power Distribution Company of AP Limited (APSPDCL) has assessed the losses suffered due to havoc wrought by Cyclone Nivar at Rs. 5 crore. The Chittoor, Nellore and Kadapa districts, which were the worst-hit, fall under the company’s purview. Discom CMD H. Haranath Rao led a team of officials to Kadapa district to inspect damaged poles, snapped power lines and damaged transformers. Mr. Rao said 151 teams would take up restoration work on a war-footing. As many as 501 sub-stations, 261 feeders, 534 poles (all 33 kv), 944 feeders, 3,010 poles (both 11 kv), 2,813 LT poles and 890 transformers were damaged. People were told to stay away from snapped power lines and alert ‘1912’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spdcl-pegs-loss-at-rs-5-crore/article33203766.ece
29 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu wants prolonged Assembly session for discussing key issues||Ahead of the winter session of the State Legislative Assembly from November 30, Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu conducted a virtual TDLP meeting on Saturday and insisted that the session should be held for at least 10 days to facilitate a serious discussion on key issues directly related to the welfare of the people of the State. Addressing the party MLAs and MLCs, Mr. Naidu said problems abound the State. Incapable of addressing them, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government had created new problems. These serious issues had to be discussed and solutions thrashed out in the Legislative Assembly and the Council. Being in the Opposition, it was the duty of the TDP to question the government on its failures, he said. He said Mr. Jagan had failed in governance and had pushed the state into deep crisis. Due to inefficient handling of the cyclone, villages were marooned, crops in vast stretches were damaged and houses destroyed. Mr. Naidu said natural disasters could not be stopped, but there were ways to minimise losses. In the TDP rule, the government worked relentlessly during such times through real time governance. After a scientific study of the problem, the government used to alert all the departments concerned and they worked in perfect coordination to mitigate the losses, he said. The TDP president alleged total law and order breakdown in the State. He said the government was resorting to vindictive politics and people lived in fear of being targeted for no fault of theirs. He said the court of law itself had said that the rule of law was missing here. Mr. Naidu accused the Chief Minister of formulating policies for his own selfish gains, be it sand policy or liquor policy. He said: “The 18-month misrule of Jagan Mohan Reddy government is replete with failures and his policies are detrimental to the interests of the people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-wants-assembly-session-to-be-prolonged/article33203762.ece
29 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan rule has burdened people with Rs. 70,000-cr. tax: Yanamala||TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Saturday said the common man was burdened with hefty taxes in the YSR Congress Party rule. The senior TDP leader said the Jagan Mohan Reddy government had imposed fresh taxes to the tune of Rs. 70,000 crore after he assumed power. Alleging abuse of taxpayers' money, he said a vast part of it was being pocketed by the ruling party leaders. He said people were paying through their nose hefty electricity bills, water charges, property tax, drainage cess, RTC bus fares and seigniorage fee on sand. Besides an annual hike of 5% on water charges, an additional burden of Rs. 800 crore was thrust on people by increasing land value in urban areas and another Rs. 161 crore on account of hike in professional tax. A 15% hike in property tax put a burden of Rs. 8,000 crore, he said. Fuel price hike Mr. Ramakrishnudu said welfare was the last priority of the government. A levy of 10% VAT on CNG was to net a revenue of Rs. 300 crore and increase in the rates of petrol and diesel added a financial burden of Rs. 600 crore. The prices of petrol, diesel and CNG had been increased five times under the YSRCP rule, he said, adding that the ‘mindless’ increase in fuel prices had put a burden of Rs. 1,800 crore. Green tax He also mentioned the transport tax resulting in a burden of Rs. 400 crore, a seven-fold hike in green tax and another Rs. 2,000 crore load on account of RTC bus fare hike. Talking about other taxes and tariffs, he alleged that the government’s decision to fix meters to agricultural motors had ended the sham of free supply of electricity to the farm sector. Prices of vegetables and essential commodities soared as brokers, in connivance with ruling party leaders, ruled the roost, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-rule-has-burdened-people-with-rs-70000-cr-tax-yanamala/article33203771.ece
29 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More trouble in store for farmers||Cyclone Nivar has caused extensive damage to the standing crops in 11 of the 13 districts in the State. According to preliminary estimates available with the Department of Agriculture, crops weighing 5,35,475 tonnes in 2,14,420 hectares have been damaged, inflicting a loss of Rs. 1,064.83 crore on the farmers. But the bad news is not yet over for the farmers. Reports indicating yet another cyclonic storm in succession may compound their woes further. “After Nivar, another cyclonic circulation is said to be brewing in the Bay of Bengal, which may cause further damage to the crops,” said Arun Kumar, Commissioner, Department of Agriculture. Several places in the State witnessed torrential rains of more than 200 mm, resulting in eight deaths so far and loss of property in vast stretches. Damage to crops Mr. Kumar said that ready-to-harvest paddy crop was damaged in vast stretches. “We can minimise the damage if there are no more rains as water will recede in the next few days. But the threat of another cyclone may further mount the burden of losses on the farmers,” he said, explaining that a detailed enumeration of crop loss would be possible only after the rains stopped. Wherever there is more than 30% damage, the farmers would be eligible for input subsidy as per the National or State Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF, SDRF) norms. Mr. Arun Kumar said that 90% of the damaged crop comprised paddy, while black gram and red gram, besides some extent of cotton cultivation, also bore the brunt of Cyclone Nivar. ‘Guntur farmers worst-hit’ “Farmers of Guntur district have taken the biggest hit. They have started sowing late for the kharif and the crop has now come for harvest. They would have gone for harvesting in the next few days,” he said. Now that a major part of the crop got lodged in rainwater, the farmers might have to wait for sunshine for the crop to dry and postpone harvesting till the second week of December, he observed. Farmers, meanwhile, were keeping their fingers crossed, hoping for an end to their distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-fear-more-trouble/article33203772.ece
29 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC reduces cargo tariff as part of rate revisions||As part of revising the rates of its cargo services at regular intervals, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has reduced the rates charged by its logistics wing. A statement issued by RTC Deputy Chief Manager (Vijayawada zone) K. Srinivasa Rao, on Saturday, said that as per the revised rates, the RTC would now charge only Rs. 1,000 for transporting cargo weighing 1 tonne within a distance of 100 km, while transporting cargo weighing 500 kg within 100 km would cost only Rs. 500 only. The minimum weight of the cargo should be 500 kg to be able to avail the RTC logistics service. If the cargo weight is 3 tonnes, a separate vehicle would be allotted without charging any extra money. Cargo sector agents interested in working for APSRTC for a 5% commission can contact district coordinators Kavitha (9381243835) for Guntur district, Prasad Reddy (7382904936) for Krishna district, Madhav (9949052004) for West Godavari and zone coordinator Prasad (7382903920). Assistant Traffic Managers (Commercial) may also be contacted. For Guntur district, call Kumar (7331147265), A.V. Rao (7331147264) for Krishna district and Sarma (7331147263) for West Godavari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-reduces-cargo-tariffs/article33204095.ece
29 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speaker sets ball rolling on legislature sessions||Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam and Legislative Council Chairman Md. Ahmed Shariff have instructed the officials to take steps in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol for the smooth conduct of the winter session of the legislature beginning from November 30. They have also directed that tight security be arranged to avert any trouble. Addressing the senior officials at the Assembly on Saturday, Mr. Seetharam instructed the police to be careful in identifying the members of the Council and the Assembly and in facilitating their entry into the House. He ordered that all arrangements be made properly to ensure that the sessions were held without any hitch. Security Officer on Special Duty (intelligence) Sasidhar said several meetings had already been held on the provision of security on the Assembly premises. Rehearsals were organised on the movement of VVIP convoys, he added. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and Government Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy were present. Guntur Rural SP Vishal Gunni said no protests would be allowed in and around the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speaker-sets-ball-rolling-on-legislative-sessions/article33203765.ece
29 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Kreeda Puraskaralu given to 46 sportspersons||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz on Saturday presented YSR Kreeda Puraskaralu to 46 sportspersons from the district here. The awardees were given a cash prize of Rs. 1.25 lakh for first place winners, Rs. 75,000 for second place winners and Rs. 50,000 for third place winners in various sports events and appreciation certificates. A total of Rs. 19.09 lakh towards cash prize was issued. Vacant posts Mr. Imtiaz said that the awardees were selected as per the Kreeda Puraskaralu, an initiative by the State government to encourage sportspersons. He said that there were 97 vacant posts in the district under sports quota and that they would be filled soon. Mini-stadium About the sports infrastructure development, Mr. Imtiaz said construction of a mini-stadium at Atkuru at at cost of Rs. 1.2 crore had been completed and it would be opened soon. He said a multipurpose indoor stadium is planned in Vidyadharapuram of the city and designs were sent to the State government for approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-kreeda-puraskaralu-presented-to-46-sportspersons/article33203774.ece
29 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||9,207 apply for jobs in FSL||Officials of the State-Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) have said that 9,207 persons applied for 58 Scientific Assistants (Physical, Chemical and Biology/Serology) posts in Andhra Pradesh Forensic Science Laboratory. (APFSL). SLPRB issued a notification on November 1 for filling up 58 Scientific Assistants (Physical, Chemical and Biology/Serology) posts in APFSL.In all, 5,911 male and 3,296 female candidates applied for the posts. A written test will be conducted on December 6 (Sunday) from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Guntur, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada, Tirupati and Kurnool. Candidates are requested to download their hall tickets from Nov.30 to Dec.5, by logging on towww.slprb.ap.gov.in, said SLPRB chairman Harish Kumar Gupta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9207-apply-for-jobs-in-fsl/article33203780.ece
29 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Funds for Law Nestham scheme okayed||The government on Saturday sanctioned Rs. 2,73,60,000 for paying Rs. 5,000 each as stipend to junior advocates for August, September and October under ‘YSR Law Nestham’ scheme. According to separate G.Os. issued by Secretary (Legal and Legislative Affairs and Justice) V. Sunitha, Rs. 93.50 lakh would be paid to 1,870 junior advocates for August and Rs. 91.0 lakh to 1,826 junior advocates for September and Rs. 88.80 lakh to 1,776 junior advocates for October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/funds-sanctioned-for-law-nestham-scheme/article33203777.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 militia members surrender||Five militia members of the banned CPI (Maoist) surrendered before the district police at Chintapalle in the district on Saturday. With this, the total number of surrendered militia members in Chintapalle region in November increases to 13. The surrendered persons were identified as M. Matsyaraju (26), K. Sanyasi Rao (40), K. Hari (35), M. Bhagat Ram (25) and K. Poornachander (26), hailing from various villages in Chintapalle mandal. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, ASP Vidhya Sagar Naidu said that the civic action programmes being organised by district police and CRPF, in association with ITDA, were gaining trust of tribals. He said that arrest of ACM Gemmelli Kamesh alias Kukumpudi Hari and several other hardcore militia since the last five months served as a warning to all the Maoist supporters in the area. “The militia members promised that they will not repeat such activities and lead a peaceful life,” the ASP said. Assistant Commandant CRPF, GK Veedhi, Devendra Naidu, said that CRPF will continue its efforts to support the district police in serving people. Assistant Commandant CRPF, Sileru, M.L. Naidu, and Inspector of GK Veedhi police station Muralidhar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-militia-members-surrender/article33204048.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies in road accident||A 55-year-old woman died on the spot and her son was severely injured in a road accident on NH-16 near Lankelapalem here on Saturday morning. According to police, the accident occurred when M. Chittamma, a resident of Bonangi village in Parawada mandal, along with her son, was going on a bike. An oil tanker allegedly hit them near the petrol bunk. The accident reportedly occurred when they were heading to Pharmacity, Parawada, where Chittamma was working as a labourer. The body was shifted to the government hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-in-accident/article33204049.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakha Utsav, Bheemili Utsav likely to be cancelled this year due to COVID-19||Two annual events — Visakha Utsav and Bheemili Utsav — used to be organised in November and December in the district, are likely to be cancelled this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With the possible second wave, the officials have not taken any decision about the festivals till now. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that conduct of the annual tourism events may not be possible due to the pandemic situation. “Keeping in view the public safety and to prevent possible spread of coronavirus, the events may not be conducted this year,” he added. Last year, Bheemili Utsav was conducted in November 2019. Visakha Utsav was organised in December, while Araku Utsav was held in February 2020. The officials say that conduct of the events is also unlikely in the first quarter of the new year. Losses of Rs. 15 crore According to a senior official from Tourism Department, the tourism sector from Visakhapatnam region has suffered loss of nearly Rs. 15 crore due to the COVID-19. Several tourism projects were also stopped due to lack of funds. After reopening of tourist spots for visitors from September 6, the sector has been gaining strength. Tourists from Odisha, West Bengal and other districts in the State have started to visit the district. “Last Sunday, about 5,000 tourists visited Borra Caves and hotels in Agency region saw 100% occupancy. It is highly impossible to organise festivals in the next six months. If there was any such plan, Bheemili Utsav might have been organised by now,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakha-utsav-bheemili-utsav-likely-to-be-cancelled-this-year-due-to-covid-19/article33204104.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure likely to intensify||The well marked low pressure area over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining West central Bay of Bengal has reduced to a low pressure area on Friday night and became less marked on Saturday morning. The associated cyclonic circulation has also become less marked. But under the influence of cyclonic circulation over East Equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining south Andaman Sea, a low pressure area has formed over South Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of Southeast Bay of Bengal and Equatorial Indian Ocean and the associated cyclonic circulation extends up to mid tropospheric levels. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression during the next 48 hours and likely to intensify further thereafter. It is likely to move nearly westwards and reach south Tamil Nadu coast around December 2. Under its influence, heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely to occur over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh during December 1 to 3 and over Rayalaseema between December 2 and 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-likely-to-intensify/article33204096.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three persons arrested, 250 spurious liquor bottles seized||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested three persons who were allegedly manufacturing and selling adulterated liquor, here. The police seized around 250 liquor bottles of 180ml quantity, which when tested found to be unfit for human consumption. The arrested were identified as N. Tirumala (48), K. Srinivas (47) and Sagar Kumar Sahu (29), all residents of Berhampur, Odisha. Addressing a press conference here, ADCP (SEB) V. Ajitha said that on November 25, the SEB teams have arrested two persons, Tirumala and Srinivas, while they were allegedly transporting spurious liquor in a vehicle. The SEB teams found that it was being manufactured at Berhampur and one Sagar Kumar Sahu was involved. Three police teams with SEB (Visakhapatnam City), SEB (Rural) and SEB (Srikakulam) were formed. With the support of Odisha police, the SEB teams conducted raids on a godown at Berhampur and busted the racket. The police found used liquor bottles, labels, caps, spirit and a few others in the godown. Police said that another accused who is said to be involved in the case is missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-persons-arrested-250-spurious-liquor-bottles-seized/article33204047.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister takes stock of rain damage||Municipal Minister Botcha Satyanarayana took stock about the damages caused by the recent rains in the GVMC limits due to the impact of cyclone Nivar here. He also asked them to restore electric poles, water connections and others which were affected due to the rains. He took part in a video conference with all the Municipal Commissioners, including GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, here on Saturday. Mr. Satyanarayana asked the officials to take measures to prevent outbreak of seasonal diseases. He asked them to start preparations for the house distribution programme. He asked them to continue taking strict action against unauthorised constructions in the city. He also asked them to utilise funds and complete development works in the municipal schools as part of Nadu-Nedu works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-takes-stock-of-rain-damage/article33204103.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA, traders stop construction of wall||Tension prevailed for some time when Visakhapatnam east MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu along with his supporters staged a dharna protesting against construction of a compound wall at a site from where some shops were removed recently, as they were reportedly constructed on encroached land of the Irrigation Department. Mr. Ramakrishna Babu, along with some traders whose shops were demolished at the site, stopped the construction of the compound wall for a brief period. The MLA questioned the AU and GVMC authorities for constructing the wall, as there was status quo order given by the court. He said no construction should be taken up till December 11 as per the court order. He said 20 families were eking out a living for several years at the place but the authorities acted in an inhuman manner. The police who arrived tried to pacify the agitating people. However, officials left the place as Mr. Ramakrishna Babu and others were firm on stalling the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-and-traders-stop-construction-of-compound-wall/article33204053.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Support welfare schemes, Collector urges bankers||District Collector V. Vinay Chand appealed to bankers to extend their support to the welfare programmes initiated by the State government. The Collector had a meeting with officials from various banks, DRDA, MEPMA, UCD and a few other departments. He said that the district should stand first in the State in implementing welfare programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/support-welfare-schemes-collector-urges-bankers/article33204102.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MoU signed||Officials from HPCL have entered into an MoU with the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) to sanction Rs. 1 crore as part of their Corporate Social responsibility (CSR) activities. The HPCL will help in procuring pushcarts for sanitary works, plastic crushing machines and providing three types of dustbins to the BPL families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mou-signed/article33204100.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag reports 88 new COVID cases, 1 death||The district reported 88 fresh COVID-19 infections and one death in the last 24 hours, as on Saturday night. This takes the tally of infections to 58,628 and death toll to 507. As many as 104 persons who were undergoing treatment have recovered from the coronavirus. The number of recoveries and active cases is 57,147 and 974 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-reports-88-new-covid-cases-1-death/article33204050.ece
29 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beware of fake job notifications: KGH official||Officials from King George Hospital (KGH) said that a picture of job notification going viral on social media regarding job openings for staff nurses and lab technicians was fake. KGH Superintendent of P. Mythili said that the KGH issued its last recruitment notification during July and the recruitment process was completed. No job notification was issued after July 25, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beware-of-fake-job-notifications-kgh-official/article33204045.ece
29 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Booth-level committees soon: Cong.||Vizianagaram District Congress Committee president Saragada Ramesh Kumar on Saturday said that the party will appoint booth-level committees in all villages ahead of local body elections. General body meeting Addressing a party general body meeting here on Sunday, he said that many youngsters were keen to join Congress and they would be included in booth-level committees. He said that the decision to fix electricity meters to pump sets would be a big burden on farmers and they would teach a lesson to YSR Congress Party in the ensuing elections. Party senior leaders Sunkari Satish and Dola Srinivas were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/booth-level-committees-soon-cong/article33203511.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second lowest single-day tally of new infections recorded in State||The State reported 625 new COVID infections and five deaths in the past 24 hours ending Saturday morning. It was the second-lowest single-day tally in the past five months. The tally increased to 8,67,063 and the toll reached 6,981. Meanwhile, 1,186 patients recovered in the past day. The recovery rate increased to 97.86% and the death rate remains at 0.81% with a total of 8,48,511  recoveries so far. At present there are 11,571  active cases in the State. The number of samples tested inched close to one crore as it reached 99.62%. Only 49,348 samples were tested for COVID in the past day and their positivity rate was 1.27%. The overall positivity rate was 8.70%. Krishna tops list Only three districts reported new deaths in the past day. Krishna and West Godavari reported two deaths each while Visakhapatnam reported one death. The remaining 10 districts saw no deaths in the past day. Also, Krishna district has once again topped the single-day tally with 103 new cases. It was the only district with more than 100 new cases and for the first time in months, 12 districts reported new cases in two digits. The district-wise new infections are as follows: West Godavari (93), Visakhapatnam (88), Guntur (68), Chittoor (61), East Godavari (54), Vizianagaram (29), Prakasam (27), Nellore (24), Kurnool (22), Anantapur (21), Kadapa (19) and Srikakulam (16). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,206), West Godavari (92,261), Chittoor (83,579), Guntur (72,746), Anantapur (66,654), Prakasam (61,427), Nellore (61,366), Kurnool (60,208), Visakhapatnam (58,116), Kadapa (54,278), Srikakulam (45,436), Krishna (45,257) and Vizianagaram (40,634), according to the health bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-lowest-single-day-tally-in-state/article33203764.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. sees zero COVID-19 deaths||Active COVID-19 cases declined further in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as more patients recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. Nellore and Prakasam districts continued to register zero deaths during the period. The death toll remained unchanged at 1,072 with Prakasam district accounting for 577 deaths and Nellore district for 495 deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Saturday night. Fresh cases Fifty-one fresh cases took the overall COVID-19 case count to 1,24,359 in the region. With 106 patients getting cured of the disease in the last 24 hours, the active cases dipped further to 1,113. So far, 1,22,669 patients have recovered in the region. With 24 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases rose marginally to 62,932 in Nellore district alone. The caseload came down to 701 as 69 patients recovered during the period. In Prakasam district, only 27 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 60,438. With 37 patients recovering from the virus, the number of active cases dipped further to 412. While 186 patients underwent treatment in hospitals, 226 patients underwent home treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-sees-zero-covid-19-deaths/article33203509.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keeping the chill at bay||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keeping-the-chill-at-bay/article33204099.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bane for farmers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bane-for-farmers/article33203779.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Camel ahoy!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/camel-ahoy/article33203517.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC awaits aid to deliver promises to commuters||Ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, bus passengers underscored that the government must ensure that the civic body and the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation work more closely to provide a hassle-free experience. On the one hand, while TRS made a mention of an elevated Bus Rapid Transit System in its manifesto and the BJP promised free travel in city buses to women, there is an urgent need to strengthen the transport juggernaut which has been marred by losses in pre-COVID times, dwindling fleet strength and loss of revenue during the lockdown. Among suggestions made by transport experts is that GHMC and TSRTC be on the same page while identifying bus shelters. “Both corporations should have the bus user in mind while identifying areas to construct bus shelters. Two examples are Mehdipatnam and Dilsukhnagar. The footfall here is high and the bus shelters there are inadequate. Secondly, the bus shelter near the Khairtabad RTA office is good. But the footfall at Lakdikapul, just a short distance away, is much higher. There are around 100 buses per hour which pass here. Therefore, the need of bus shelters there is acute,” says transport researcher G.S.R. Chaitanya. Onus on GHMC Both Mr Chaitanya and TSRTC officials pointed out that it is the GHMC which is in-charge of sanctioning and maintaining bus shelters. They said one of the factors that drives the setting up of bus shelters is revenue by means of advertisements. “On a few occasions, we brought to the GHMC’s attention that bus shelters may not be required at a particular location due to less traffic or footfall. However, it is ad revenue which takes the front seat. This is largely responsible for determining location. Other reasons which hinder bus shelter installation include objections of property owners close to proposed bus shelters,” a senior TSRTC official familiar with the issue said. Researchers point out that while free bus rides are the prerogative of governments, there is a need to increase fleet strength. Data obtained by means of the Right to Information Act shows that TSRTC’s Greater Hyderabad zone (GHZ) has a fleet size of around 2,900 buses. This, when compared to the Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), is about half. According to the BMTC’s website, its fleet size is 6,460. Since both cities are approximately of same size in terms of population, there is a need to increase the number of buses in the GHZ. On the contrary, the number of buses in the city has dropped. In 2014-15, it was 3,811 while in 2019-202, the number stood at 2,982. While the BMTC added around 2,000 buses to its fleet since 2015-16, TSRTC was able to add only 250. While an elevated Bus Rapid Transit System is a welcome move, options like bus priority lanes are less expensive alternatives. “Cities such as Bengaluru and Ahmedabad have the central lane dedicated to buses. This can be done on roads in Hyderabad with three lanes, in areas near the Inner Ring Road such as Chandrayangutta, Midhani and L.B. Nagar,” a transport expert said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-awaits-aid-to-deliver-promises-to-commuters/article33203978.ece
29 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rulers in Delhi are shaken by my policies, says KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday argued that the rulers at the Centre were literally shaken by the questions he had raised over their hegemony on the States and their ‘failure politics’ for country’s development. “That is why they want to stop me here targetting the GHMC elections,” he claimed and warned that he was not the one to be cowed down. “Is it wrong to question and come out with alternative poltics?” he asked as he referred to BJP leaders from across the country joining the GHMC election campaign. KCR said the two national parties had failed in adopting new path to country’s development when was education and health to all and no hunger. New thinking and new path was needed and he was ready to give a direction with innovative thinking. Targeting Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who is campaigning in the city, he asked whether Telangana needed to learn from Uttar Pradesh, which was at 28th place in per capita income figures while Telangana was the 5th in the country. Similarly, Maharashtra was in 10th place and its former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis criticised Telangana’s development. “Let us teach them a lesson in the GHMC elections,” he said. Referring to the disinvestment in public sector undertakings (PSUs) and profitable enterprises, the Chief Minister questioned why an organisation like Life Insurance Corporation was being sold to private players. Similar efforts were on in Indian Railways, one of the world’s largest networks and the BHEL. “I am going to unite the nation against these policies and I will be with the those employees,” KCR said even as he argued that the Central government was discriminating against Telangana. “When the city was flooded the Prime Minister did not sanction even a rupee despite my letter seeking assistance while the same was extended to Bengaluru and Ahmedabad.” Political maturity of the TRS government was unparalleled, he said while recalling how the speeches filled with fire during the statehoold movement were instilling confidence among people that this government could deliver. Hyderabad was a matured city and the TRS government believed in matured democratic practices and not divisive policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rulers-in-delhi-are-shaken-by-my-policies/article33203989.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to be part of national single window system on EoDB||Telangana will be one of the first states to be integrated with the national single window system conceived to improve the ease of doing business (EoDB), a senior official in the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) said on Saturday. Addressing a virtual conference on ‘Districts of Telangana: The New Growth Engines of Tomorrow’ organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, Additional Secretary to DPIIT Sumita Dawra said this pointing to how Telangana was part of a GIS-enabled land bank system initiative and stood to benefit. “Telangana is one of youngest and fast growing states which has a good reputation in EoDB,” she said. The State has added 130 parks in the GIS-enabled land bank system because of which investors anywhere in the world will be able to see these parks, industrial information system, logistics and the plots available, she added. Referring to the production-linked incentives introduced in 10 sectors by the Centre, to enhance manufacturing capacity and exports under Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, she urged district administrations to look at the sectors that best suited the districts and explore the benefits of the scheme. Telangana is one of the best in terms of handholding measures for attracting investments, she added. Invest India vice president Dushyant Thakor said Telangana government is very progressive and doing good in terms of EoDB and quality investments by focusing sector wise strategically. There were 761 projects available from Telangana on India Investment Grid (IIG), an initiative of the Centre to showcase investment opportunities across States and sectors. Projects from Warangal urban, Karimnagar and Mahboobnagar figure in the list. Director-Logistics in the State government Rajender Reddy said that district level committee has been formed to figure out suitable products from districts and work on those with export potential. Industry leaders, including CII Telangana chairman Krishna Bodanapu and EEPC chairman Mahesh Desai spoke, according to CII release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-makes-great-strides-in-eodb/article33203996.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Non-issues on TRS, BJP, MIM agenda’||The people of Greater Hyderabad would never forgive TRS, BJP and MIM for neglecting the real problems of people and instead, highlighting non-issues during the GHMC election campaign, including indulging in polarisation of voters on communal lines, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said on Saturday. Participating in road shows in Banjara Hills, Serilingampally and other divisions in GHMC, he faulted Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Minister K.T. Rama Rao, Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay, MIM president Asaduddin Owaisi and other leaders of TRS, BJP and MIM for running the GHMC election campaign on non-issues. “These parties did not discuss even a single problem concerning the common people. In addition to the civic problems, people were badly hit due to COVID-19 lockdown and the recent heavy rains and floods”, the TPCC president said, adding that people were expecting specific assurances and a plan on possible solutions to their problems. However, the three parties came out with irrelevant narratives instead of speaking about people’s grievances, he alleged. Stating that the Congress was the only party that raised people’s issues and also proposed possible solutions in its manifesto, Mr. Uttam Reddy said his party never believed in polarisation or other tactics to win elections. Rather, it always adopted a straight approach to resolve issues concerning people, he added. There had been allegations and counter-allegations on matters which were in no way connected with people, he said. With both the State Election Commission and local police taking no action, rovocative speeches were delivered at will with no fear of law. A few want to change the name of the city and a few others insulted great leaders of the past, although the issues had nothing do with the GHMC election, the TPCC president said. Stating that TRS, BJP and MIM were seeking votes just to win the GHMC election, he said Congress was asking for votes only to resolve people’s problems. He advised the electorate not to get carried away by fake promises being made by the BJP and TRS leaderships and said he is “hopeful people will reject the bogus theories of TRS, BJP and MIM and vote for the Congress.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/non-issues-on-trs-bjp-mim-agenda/article33203966.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Asaduddin’s best foot forward||It is overcast, with a nip in the air, and business establishments in Karwan area are about to open for the day. Amid the sparse vehicular traffic on a Saturday morning, there is a flurry of activity near the Old Tappachabutra Police Station, courtesy All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi’s campaign trail. Along with Karwan legislator Kausar Mohiuddin, he is canvassing on foot for Karwan division candidate M. Swamy Yadav. Mr Owaisi begins his paidal daura (canvassing on foot) in a neighbourhood near Tappachabutra. He is joined by party workers in droves. He criss-crosses the area, mic in hand, taking large strides, and goes door to door, interacting with residents. “Peace be with you. Please pray for us. Please vote for Majlis,” he says in his booming voice. And as he moves from house-to-house, he assures the electors that his party and the candidate would work for the people, amid the din of ‘ ghar, ghar Majlis’ slogans. He shakes hands, allows youngsters to click selfies with him and proceeds to interact further with residents at their doorstep or in their homes. As he moves towards Jhirra, young pharmacist Rajeshwar Reddy expresses displeasure over the civic infrastructure in the area. “This is a socialist country, sir. There are problems here. We got one of the streetlights fixed with our own money. There is an issue with the road here. Public representatives have been non-responsive,” Mr Reddy rues. Mr Owaisi assures him that his concerns will be addressed and special interest will be taken to solve problems in his area. “Irrespective of whether you vote for us or not, I assure you that I will get your work done,” he signs off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asaduddins-best-foot-forward/article33203976.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS govt. will collapse after GHMC polls: Bandi Sanjay||Telangana BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Saturday predicted the “collapse of the TRS government after the GHMC elections” and claimed the ruling party “MLAs will revolt” against the leadership. "Police officers parroting Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao's efforts to scare the citizens from voting should realise this government is not permanent. People are with us and it is certain BJP will come to power to put an end to the corrupt family rule and establish a government working for the poor," he said, during his public meetings at Ramnagar, Gandhinagar and other places. Flanked by senior leaders K. Laxman and Jitender Reddy, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief extolled the citizens to "vote without fear" and support his party to bring about a change in the city development and progress. "The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) always stands by the people rain or shine unlike TRS leaders. Those questioning the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others to the city should tell us why CM KCR did not step out even once from Pragati Bhavan or his farm house to console the affected families when the city faced the recent deluge," he said. He went on: "His farmhouse is a short distance away from Bharat Biotec firm manufacturing the COVID-19 vaccine. What stopped him from visiting the facility? TRS leaders are not interested in vaccine since they do not want vaccine to come out as their connivance with the corporate hospitals in charging hefty bills for COVID-19 treatment will be exposed," he claimed. The party was committed to delivering free vaccine when it was unveiled and provide free treatment for those infected if elected to power. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation got a revenue of Rs. 6,000 crore and if necessary, funds would be sourced from the Centre for the city’s development. The Bharatiya Janata Party leader said he was scared of cases foisted against him and was ready to fight for the cause of the people “till his last breath”. “I am not scared of death and I already told my family about this," he said. Those talking of Telangana self-respect should answer why so many farmers and students were committing suicides during the TRS regime, he added. Kishan road show In a separate road show in Secunderabad, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said CM KCR had the right to seek vote only if he had fulfilled a single promise made in the previous elections. "Where was he when 15 lakh people were suffereing from floods? What happened to his assurance of changing the city landscape? Telangana State has not been formed to benefit the KCR and Owaisi families," he said and appealed for support for his party as it would implement its manifesto in toto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-govt-will-collapse-after-ghmc-polls/article33203982.ece
29 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MCEME holds webinar on AI||In its efforts to increase the footprint of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the Indian Army and reap its benefits, the Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME) held a webinar on “Artificial Intelligence Based Prescriptive Maintenance for the Armed Forces” on Saturday. Discerning readers will know that the Army’s Training Command based out of Shimla is responsible for the Indian Army’s doctrines and training and research development initiatives in all fields. “MCEME has been in the news for advancing the cause of technical research and education even amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and was the proud recipient of the Golden Peacock National Award for Training,” an official release said. The college has made contributions in the field of technical education and meaningful research for the troops fighting on the borders. Some of the notable advances made by MCEME in this niche domain of Artificial Intelligence include fielding a number of AI based field army oriented innovations as well as filing for intellectual property rights for the same. The webinar was flagged off by General Officer Commanding in Chief Army Training Command, Lt Gen Raj Shukla. It was attended by people from academia and industry, delegates from the Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force as well as scientists and leaders from various defence laboratories. “It provided a rare opportunity to all wherein all major stakeholders got together on a common platform and discussed new ideas for a roadmap for effective AI based Prescriptive Maintenance implementation in the Indian Army demonstrating MCEME’s resolve towards ensuring that the Make in India initiative sees success and it emerges as a dominant player on the AI landscape,” it said. The webinar was conducted over three sessions with focus on the relevance of Artificial Intelligence based Prescriptive Maintenance for the Indian defence forces. Speakers spoke eloquently and in great detail on how the next wave of Artificial Intelligence could revolutionise traditional maintenance paradigms in defence and civil domains. While the second session saw discussions on use of Internet of Things to enable AI use in prescriptive maintenance, the third session explored the effects and benefits to be derived from the use of cloud technology in prescriptive maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mceme-organises-webinar-on-ai/article33203994.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC Act defied in naming poll staff||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) Commissioner’s authority over the employees of Central government institutions in terms of commissioning their services for the conduct of civic polls remains shrouded in ambiguity, even as several such employees appointed as presiding officers and polling officers have already attended training classes. Election duty orders have been issued in the name of GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, who is also designated Election Authority by the State Election Commission, to employees of several Central government organisations, including research institutions. Apart from teachers of Kendriya Vidyalayas, several scientists from research institutions, some of who are in directorial and secretarial positions, are in receipt of the orders, to their utter bemusement. According to reliable sources, even scientists in the grades ‘A’ and ‘B’ from the defence research organisations and atomic energy facilities have not been spared of the election duty, which severely hampers their operations. Those who have not attended the training classes have been served show cause notices, they informed. However, the Election Authority’s jurisdiction remains questionable over the Central government employees when it comes to GHMC elections, they point out. “The orders do not contain any reference Act or authority under which the GHMC Commissioner was appointing us for GHMC elections, which should have been mentioned if the signing authority is not our superior under the departmental flow chart,” shared a scientist. Clarity in Act Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act, 1955, which speaks about the conduct of the corporation elections, specifically mentions that the State government should deploy State government and corporation employees for the purpose. The Act, in its Section 10, enjoins the State government to provide the State Election Commission with such staff as may be necessary for the elections. “On the request of the State Election Commission, the State Government shall place at the disposal of the Commission such staff of the State Government and the Municipal Corporations for the purpose of conduct of elections under this Act,” says sub-section 4. For the purpose of elections the State Election Commission may delegate his powers to such officers as he may deem necessary, which in this instance, is the GHMC Commissioner. “Since the Central government departments are unaware of these facts, the Commissioner is taking advantage and threatening us to attend duties. We are under the impression that since State government employees are against the ruling party at the Centre, the latter wants to use Central manpower, and the Commissioner is acting to suit their interest,” an employee alleges. ‘No limiting provision’ Sought for his version, Mr.Lokesh Kumar responded in a single sentence, saying there is no such ‘limiting’ provision. He refrained from saying under which provision the orders were issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-act-defied-in-naming-poll-staff/article33203972.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two children killed as car crashes into lorry||Two children were killed and eight others escaped with injuries after the car they were travelling in crashed into a stationary lorry, which broke down on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway at Nandigama in Rangareddy district late on Friday night. The victims, Uksana Adil Khan (13) and Faizan Mahabub Khan (7), died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital. According to Nandigama police of Cyberabad, the accident took place around 12.30 a.m., when the victims were returning to Hyderabad after visiting their relatives at Shadnagar. They were residents of Talabkatta. Adil Khan, who was driving the car, failed to notice the stationary lorry on the highway, and rammed his vehicle into it. Lorry driver flees Police said that the lorry driver, who fled from the spot, did not turn on the parking lights. The ill-fated car went underneath the lorry and Adil suffered injuries. The victims, who occupied the rear seat, suffered severe injuries and died while undergoing treatment. A case was registered under Section 304-A (negligence causing death) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the lorry driver and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-children-killed-as-car-crashes-into-lorry/article33203997.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Polling stations illegally moved, alleges candidate||Allegations have surfaced about unauthorised shifting of certain areas from one division to another for GHMC elections. Independent contestants from the Ramnagar division have pointed out that five polling stations have been shifted from Ramnagar division to Musheerabad division without any notification. The polling stations numbered from 29 to 33, all within the St.Pious School building, were part of the Ramnagar division in 2016 elections, but have been moved to Musheerabad this time round, alleged Krupavaram G., an independent contestant from Ramnagar. These stations represent several areas such as Medarbasti, Gemini Colony, Shastri Nagar, Pochammagudi, Bakaram and others, he said. “They include over 5,000 voters, a number that could change the fate of the contestants,” he noted. While such adjustments are to be only carried out under the delimitation exercise, no such exercise has been undertaken before elections, hence it is illegal, he contends. “All mainstream political parties kept silent about this in the circle- level meeting. We independents had no voice,” he said. Enquiries with Election Authority D.S.Lokesh Kumar about the issue did not yield any response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/polling-stations-illegally-moved-alleges-candidate/article33203973.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||End ‘FFPL’ rule in GHMC, says Sambit Patra||People of Hyderabad now have the opportunity to put an end to the ‘FFPL’ - Family & Friends Private Limited firm of KCR and Owaisi by voting for the BJP in the GHMC polls, said national spokesperson Sambit Patra on Saturday. At a press conference in the party office, Mr. Patra charged that "a single family" and "their friend" have been holding sway in the city "throwing the development aside. Everyone is aware of it and this is the discussion in every part of the twin cities" as both parties have been treating the capital as their personal fiefdom, he said. "If you vote for Congress, the vote will go for TRS and if you vote for TRS, it is a vote for Majlis. The current political battle for a development oriented BJP Mayor or a communal & divisive Majlis Mayor," he maintained. The BJP leader ridiculed the TRS and Majlis claim of being political adversaries. "How can they deny an alliance when they raised the slogan of 'Car, saaru, padaharu (16)' during the Parliament polls?. The car is soon going to get punctured, Saaru will confine himself to the farmhouse and they will have 'zero' seats," he prophesied. In the last six years, the progress was visible in KCR family and Pragati Bhavan while the poor had to fend for themselves. "You have to wait for 50 years if promised two-bedroom houses have to be built for all eligible applicants," said Mr. Patra. He, alleged that encroachments mostly by the TRS and Majlis party activists has led to recent floods in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/end-ffpl-rule-in-ghmc-sambit/article33203983.ece
29 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Why haven’t police booked those who called me Jinnah?’||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday sought to know why the police have not booked cases against those who referred to him as Jinnah. Mr Owaisi was speaking at a public meeting in Karwan where he said that not booking cases reflects poorly on the police. “I am a Member of Parliament who represents the city, and I am being called Jinnah! If you do not take action, then our work will get affected and people will question you,” Mr Owaisi said, and pointed out that the police should be equidistant from all parties. He also asked what the police would do if he indulges in name-calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He said his only concern in the run-up to the GHMC elections is adherence to model code of conduct and maintaining a peaceful situation in city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-havent-police-booked-those-who-called-me-jinnah/article33203980.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Polling, relief agents from within ward allowed: SEC||The State Election Commission (SEC) has permitted all the contesting candidates in the GHMC 2020 elections or their election agents that they may appoint polling/relief agents who are voters of the same ward from where the candidate is contesting. In a circular issued by SEC on Saturday, its Secretary M. Ashok Kumar said the guidelines with regard to the appointment of polling and relief agents have been modified as per the direction of the High Court. In its guidelines issued on November 21, the SEC instructed that the polling and relief agents shall be residents and electors of the concerned polling areas only. Meanwhile, the SEC has also directed all political parties and candidates taking part in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections to conclude their election campaign in all forms by 6 p.m. on Sunday, November 29, including public meetings, road shows, processions, display of any election matter in the electronic and print media or any other forms of communication such as music concerts, theatrical performance and entertainment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/polling-relief-agents-from-within-ward-allowed-sec/article33203981.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amit Shah campaign today||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will be arriving by a special flight at the Begumpet airport to campaign for the party here on Saturday morning. General secretary Bhupender Yadav and OBC president K. Laxman will receive him and take him to the Bhagyalakshmi temple at Charminar. Later Mr. Shah will be participating in a road show from Warasiguda Chowrastaa to Hanuman temple at Sithaphalmandi. He will arrive at the party office later in the afternoon and leave for Delhi in the evening, according to party sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amit-shah-campaign-today/article33203984.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||753 more COVID cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded 753 COVID cases on Friday, taking the total to 2,68,418. While 41,991 samples were put to test, results of 695 were awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients died. The new 753 cases include 133 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 78 from Medchal Malkajgiri, and 71 from Rangareddy. While there was no case reported from Narayanpet, one person tested positive in Jangaon. Of the 41,991 people who were examined on Friday, 39,197 opted government health facilities and 2,794 got tested in private labs. From March 2 to November 27, a total of 53,74,141 samples were tested and 2,68,418 were detected with coronavirus. Out of the total positive cases, 10,637 were active cases, 2,56,330 have recovered, and 1,451 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/753-more-covid-cases-in-telangana/article33203998.ece
29 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pandit Jasraj Sangeet Samaroh from today||Pandit Jasraj’s 48th Pandit Motiram Pandit Maniram Sangeet Samaroha will be held on November 29 and 30 at the open air amphitheatre, Centre for Culture Resources and Training (CCRT), Madhapur. Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary, Industries, said that for the past 47 years without interruption, Pandit Jasraj ji hosted the Sangeet Samaroha in Hyderabad, and this year it is being hosted without him. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, only 200 members will be permitted. The festival will be telecast live on Facebook and YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pandit-jasraj-sangeet-samaroh-from-today/article33204060.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||App to locate polling booth||GHMC has designed a special app for voters to check the location of their polling station. The Android app titled ‘Know Your Polling Station’ is embedded within the My GHMC app as an option, and when the voter enters name and chooses the ward, it produces a voter slip and polling booth location on Google Maps. Instead of name, the voter may also enter the EPIC number and the ward name, a statement from GHMC informed. Voter slips are also being distributed in hard copy across various locations, it said. Through another statement, GHMC listed several documents which may be carried in lieu of the electoral photo identity card as ID proof while voting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/app-to-locate-polling-booth/article33203974.ece
29 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BRF||The Telangana LPG Distributors’ Association president Mellacheruvu Venkateshwara Rao of Guttala Bazaar in the town has been appointed as a member of the Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee (DRUCC), Hyderabad Division, South Central Railway, Secunderabad, for a term of two years from December 1, 2020. Orders to this effect were issued by the Railway Board. Mr. Rao is also the chairman of the famous Sri Vasavi Kanyaka Parameswari temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33204066.ece
29 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘BJP will face defeat’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would face defeat in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections to be held on December 1. Participating in a programme to admit some BJP activists into the party on Saturday at Patancheru, Mr. Harish Rao said that people were opposing divisive politics and rejecting those parties preaching division among the people. "Hyderabad is developing as global city and investors are looking at our capital. It is our responsibility to save the conducive atmosphere in the city. BJP has been repeatedly announcing surgical strike against Hyderabad and inciting religious tempers. Decide yourself what you want a peaceful city or city with Curfew," he told the voters. MLA G. Mahipal Reddy, former MLAs Ch. Prabhakar, Satyanarayana and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-will-face-defeat/article33204062.ece
29 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||brf||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy has directed officials to focus on the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony at Mutrajpally and provide all facilities. In a review meeting held with officials here on Saturday, Mr. Venkatarami Reddy said that plots’ allotment, providing Mission Bhagiratha water, drainage, roads, street-lighting and other issues must be looked into and should be addressed immediately. District Revenue Officer B. Chennaiah, Revenue Divisional Officer Ananta Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33204001.ece
29 November 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Four arrested for registration with fake documents||Suryapet town police on Saturday arrested four persons for illegal transfer of property by forgery and impersonation. Police said Shaik Khaja Bee, a resident of Ambedkar Nagar, with the help of a mediator, an impersonator, and a Mee Seva supervisor had created fake documents of a property and registered it. According to the police, an aggrieved C. Krishnamurthy, the original owner, had submitted a petition that his property was in the name of Shaik Khaja Bee. The incident came to light when Mr. Krishnamurthy had visited the municipal office to pay the property tax. Investigation found that the accused woman paid Rs. 40, 000 to Yalagandhula Karunakar for the duplicate documents, produced another person Bolle Sridhar to impersonate the original owner and with the help of a Mee Seva supervisor Bandla Rajesh, altered the Aadhaar credentials, and completed the registration at the sub-registrar’s office. All the four persons were booked on the charges of forgery, impersonation and cheating, and remanded in judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-arrested-for-registration-with-fake-documents/article33204059.ece
29 November 2020||Tirumala,TELANGANA||Devotee from Telangana dies of heart attack||A devotee identified as Lakshmaiah (53) from Ranga Reddy in Telangana on Saturday allegedly suffered a heart attack and collapsed on the floor here. He was immediately rushed to TTD Aswini Hospital where he was declared as brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/devotee-from-telangana-dies-of-heart-attack/article33203999.ece
29 November 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Two Rachakonda constables suspended||Two constables of Choutuppal of the Rachakonda commissionerate were suspended on Saturday, reportedly over allegations of demanding money from a complainant. According to a police statement, constables R. Chandrasekhar and K. Lingaswamy were alleged to have demanded money in a case, and following a complaint by the aggrieved an inquiry was initiated against them. Based on a report by Bhongir DCP, CP Mahesh Bhagwat placed the officials under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-rachakonda-constables-suspended/article33204058.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Poll frenzy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poll-frenzy/article33204069.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||People’s voice||This time, the Election Commission has allowed senior citizens above 80 years to cast their votes through postal ballot for GHMC elections. It was a welcome move, until the package for postal ballot was received. One of the conditions is attestation of self declaration form by a stipendiary honorary magistrate. This is a cumbersome exercise for senior citizens, not just in COVID times but otherwise too. Hope the powers that be drop this condition, because the voter has already submitted his/her details and address proof online. Kumar Shastri, Moula Ali   I would like to draw the attention of Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao to opening up of government participation in real estate. Why are only private parties coming up with new ventures? Why is the TS Housing Board given a silent burial? HMDA and TSHB should also come out with new ventures, satellite townships with connectivity to Outer Ring Roads, for MIG and LIG, categories. When this happens, the public can have access to litigation, LRS and hassle-free plots. Development would be as per norms. J. Samson Cornelius,  Ameerpet   I would like to appeal to the municipal authorities to ensure disabled-friendly public transport systems, especially in the city buses as there are only two seats and there is no mechanism to board the bus. There are no facilities like ramps or special toilets for them at the bus stops. B. Vijaya Bhargavi, Vidyanagar   This is to bring to the authorities’ notice the encroachment of footpaths on both sides of the road leading to Shanti Sarovar from Indranagar, Gachibowli. This road is very busy as it leads to Central government Quarters, Shanti Sarovar, Gopi Chand Academy and connects to Financial District. It is becoming very difficult for motorists to drive as children run onto the roads from the huts and get hit. Nagendra Babu, Gachibowli   To enable pedestrians to safely cross the road, the authorities are supposed to provide zebra crossings marked with broad white stripes. This is absent at most junctions in our twin cities. It has to be done on a war footing to save the lives of pedestrians. N. Sri Vrinda, Kukatpally   As twin cities are expanding their limits beyond outskirts on national highways, there is an absolute need to construct subways and FOBs for the safety of pedestrians in view of heavy vehicular traffic on all roads. I.V. Prabhakara Rao, Vanasthalipuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/peoples-voice/article33203970.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Aid to fire victims||Mythri Foundation, a Gummadidala-based NGO, has extended an assistance to a family which had lost shelter in a fire. House of Kavali Ranemma at Bontapalli was reduced to ashes in a fire recently. Chennamshetti Uday Kumar, president, Mythri Foundation, donated a rice bag and new clothes to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aid-to-fire-victims/article33203991.ece
29 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Farmers camp under flyover at Ghaziabad-Delhi border||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union occupied the space beneath the flyover at the Ghaziabad-Delhi border on Saturday. They were protesting against the three farm laws and demanded that minimum support price be made mandatory by law. Prepared for the long haul The farmers parked tractors, trolleys and cars beneath the flyover. Rugs were spread, speakers were put up, hookahs were lit and preparation were being done to cook food at the site. Earlier, they broke barriers at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border and entered Delhi on Saturday afternoon. Despite heavy security presence along the way, the Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and Ghaziabad Police allowed them to proceed towards Delhi. Delhi Police had given them permission to go to the Burari ground but the farmers wanted to go to Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Maidan. Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the breaking of barriers was “symbolic”. He said there was no point going to Burari and that they would hold a sit-in dharna under the flyover and “wait for their farmer brothers from different districts of western Uttar Pradesh to join them to move further”. “I expect a call from the government on Sunday but we are ready for the long haul,” he said. He also asked the administration to provide them mobile lavatories. Wait and watch “We told them that we would escort the farmers to the Burari ground but they refused. We also allowed them to take a couple of tractors with them but they decided to wait at the border. They broke the barrier inside the Uttar Pradesh border,” said Jasmeet Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Eastern District), who was negotiating with farmers till late evening. “The situation is under control. We are in touch with our counterparts in Uttar Pradesh,” he added. As the farmers decided to stay beneath the flyover, he said, their presence did not affect the flow of traffic. While the U.P. Police officials present on the ground said there was no permission to hold a protest beneath the flyover, they seemed in no mood to remove the protesting farmers. Vijaypal Ghopla, a 74-year-old farmer from Meerut said this government felt that it was offering a mithai (farm laws). “We don’t want it and wouldn’t allow you to shove it down our throat. The farm laws have been designed to help a few corporates control the agriculture, sector,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-camp-under-flyover-at-ghaziabad-delhi-border/article33203743.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||AAP govt. provoking farmers: BJP||The BJP on Saturday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and the Congress of provoking thousands of farmers from Punjab to travel to Delhi. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the Kejriwal-led government was engaged in “hospitality of farmers” at Nirankari Ground but did not make any arrangements to test them for COVID-19. “The Kejriwal government has put the lives of farmers in danger of catching COVID just to serve their political interest,” he said.  Delhi farmers Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri accused the city government of ensuring that Delhi’s farmers were the most exploited of their lot in the country. “If a farmer buys a tractor, he is given a commercial vehicle licence and has to pay a road tax of Rs. 24,000. They are forced to pay separate charge for fitness, pollution, insurance etc. What has the Kejriwal-led government actually done for Delhi’s farmers?” he said. Mr. Gupta claimed that “anti-national and anti-Prime Minister” slogans were being raised in Delhi, and alleged that this was being supported by the AAP government to spread an “atmosphere of fear”. Mr. Bidhuri said that contrary to Mr. Kejriwal’s promise of paying 50% over minimum support price (MSP), Delhi’s farmers were not even being given the equivalent amount of MSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-govt-provoking-farmers-bjp/article33203735.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Burari ground remains largely empty||Nirankari ground in Burari, where Delhi Police has allowed farmers to protest, was largely empty on Saturday with only a few groups sitting at the site. “We are here to support the farmers who have gathered from different States. We will go to the border from here if they do not come here,” said Charanjeet Singh from Faridkot, who reached Delhi on Saturday with his group. At the entrance of the ground, a poster reads: “ Aam Admi Party desh ke kisaanon ka hardik swagat karti hai (Aam Admi Party welcomes farmers)”. Delhi Police drones fly overhead. Facilities such as a medical camp, COVID-19 enquiry camp, langar provisions, water, toilets, and more have been put in place. “In case of rain or wind, concrete tents are being put up and will be prepared by Saturday night,” said a worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/burari-ground-remains-largely-empty/article33203739.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hindu College alumni to help needy students||In view of financial constraints being faced by students due to the ongoing pandemic, the Hindu College alumni association said that members will provide annual study grants to needy meritorious students. In a statement issued by the Old Students Association (OSA), the Hindu College said that students, whose annual family income is below Rs. 5 lakh, will be provided with a one-time study grant to cover their annual college fees, up to Rs. 20,000/ OSA president Ravi Burman said, “For long term we are planning on setting up an ‘OSA-Principal P.C. Verma Study Grant Fund’, which will disburse the annual college fees to selected needy students every year. The modalities of disbursement are being finalised. The students will be selected on a need-cum-merit basis.” “We appeal to the distinguished alumni of the college and seek their support in this endeavourto provide the much-needed relief to needy students. Alumni can send cheques or making donations on the online portal,” added Mr. Burman. Students who wish to apply for the grant were asked to submit their application along with family income certificate to the college administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hindu-college-alumni-to-help-needy-students/article33203740.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Denied bidi, three men stab labourer to death||A 49-year-old labourer was allegedly stabbed to death by three men in south-east Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh after he refused to give them a bidi (thin cigarette), the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said the deceased was identified as Siddique, who was from Malda in West Bengal, and the accused as Mohammad Faizan (20), Mohammad Usman (22) and Jaheer Mansoori (20). The police said that the victim had been working as a labourer at one Nadeem’s house in Shaheen Bagh and the two had become good friends. On Thursday evening, when Nadeem and Siddique were sitting on the banks of the Yamuna and smoking, three men arrived and asked them for a bidi . When the duo refused, the men started abusing and thrashing them. Siddique and Nadeem tried to run away but the men chased them down and thrashed them again. Some people then intervened and managed to save the victims. The three accused, however, managed to catch the duo again, and took skewers from a nearby shop and stabbed Siddique. He was declared brought dead at a nearby hospital. CCTV footage helped police in identification and arrest of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/denied-bidi-three-men-stab-labourer-to-death/article33203744.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT seeks report on ‘illegal’ water extraction||Following a plea alleging illegal extraction of water in Mangolpuri here, for commercial purposes, the National Green Tribunal directed the district administration to take immediate steps and furnish an action-taken report on the same. Noting that the Tribunal had earlier sought a report from the Delhi Jal Board and Deputy Commissioner, North-West district, Kanjhawala, a Bench headed by NGT chief Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “While no report has been received from the Deputy Commissioner, a report has been received from DJB to the effect that SDM Kanjhawala has been asked to carry out inspection, but due to COVID-19 the same could not be done.” “We direct the SDM Kanjhawala to positively furnish a factual report,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngt-seeks-report-on-illegal-water-extraction/article33203741.ece
29 November 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality in Delhi drops to ‘poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram and Noida deteriorated to the ‘poor’ category on Saturday, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air quality of the national capital is expected to further deteriorate to the ‘very poor’ category on Sunday. “The AQI is forecast to marginally deteriorate and will be in the ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. It is likely to further deteriorate and ‘very poor’ category is forecast for December 1,” said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The AQI of Delhi was 231 on Saturday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 204 and 233, respectively. Delhi had experienced the best AQI in months on Friday, when the air quality was in the ‘moderate’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-in-delhi-drops-to-poor-category/article33203736.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW rescues child marriage victim in Delhi||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Saturday said that a 16-year-old girl, who was being forcefully married off by her family, had been rescued from Kalyanpuri here. DCW officials said that following an anonymous tip-off, the Commission constituted a team and reached the address shared by the complainant. “The team found that a wedding function was being held with several guests in attendance. The family was initially hesitant to share her age proof when a Delhi police team arrived, and after they produced documents, it was found that she was a minor,” a DCW official said. The girl has been sent to a shelter home following legal proceedings and will be presented before the child welfare committee, officials said. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, “It is very shameful that even in cities like Delhi, child marriages are taking place. Strongest action should be taken by Delhi Police in the matter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dcw-rescues-child-marriage-victim-in-delhi/article33203737.ece
29 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to compensate fishermen||The Odisha government has decided to compensate fishermen for the loss or damage of nets if gharials get entangled during fishing in the Mahanadi river. The decision was taken recently after instances of fishermen killing gharials coming to the fore. For close to five decades, the State government has been involved in conservation of three crocodile species by establishing rearing centres — Tikarpada for gharial in Angul, Ramatirtha for muggers in Mayurbhanj and Bhitarkanika for saltwater crocodile in Kendrapara district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-to-compensate-fishermen/article33203754.ece
29 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. hits out at Haryana CM||Congress leaders of Haryana and Punjab on Saturday hit out at Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, accusing the State government of adopting an oppressive stance against farmers during the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. Haryana Congress president and former Rajya Sabha MP Kumari Selja said the BJP-led government in Haryana did not have the courage to support the suffering of farmers in front of the Central government as the party’s State leadership was afraid of its high command. She also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the farmers’ protest. “Prime Minister does not have enough time to listen to the farmers and say anything about their suffering, why?” Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar condemned the registration of FIRs against farmers by the Haryana government and demanded immediate quashing of all such cases. He said food growers of the country were on warpath for their rights. Taking strong exception to a remark by Mr. Lal that “the protesting farmers were only from Punjab”, Mr. Jakhar said farmers from across the country are protesting against farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-hits-out-at-haryana-cm/article33203753.ece
29 November 2020||GURUGRAM/CHANDIGARH,||Punjab, Haryana CMs trade barbs||The Chief Ministers of Haryana and Punjab hurled accusations at each other on Saturday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal said it was “unfortunate” and “condemnable” to see how people were furthering their political agenda in the name of farmers and appealed to the protesters to ask their representatives to hold talks with the Centre as this was the “only solution”. He said the ongoing farmers’ march was mainly backed by political parties of Punjab, and added that he had been trying to contact Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh regarding the stir for the last three days but got no response. “I personally made several calls to the Punjab CM but every time the request was denied,” claimed Mr. Lal. The Punjab government is clearly responsible for the farmers’ protest as the office-bearers of the Punjab CMO are leading the agitation, said Mr. Lal, while thanking the farmers of Haryana for not taking part in the protest. ‘Police showed restraint’ Appreciating Haryana Police for dealing with the march, Mr. Lal said the police showed restraint and did not use any force. The State police only tried to stop the farmers from unjustifiably marching towards Delhi in such large numbers, he added. Capt. Amarinder questioned Mr. Lal’s decision not to allow farmers to go peacefully to the national capital when the Centre was ready to talk to them and even the Delhi government had no problem letting them in. “Who is the Haryana CM to come in between? What business does he have interfering in this whole affair?” said the Punjab CM, while accusing Mr. Lal of making baseless allegations that he was instigating the farmers and provoking them to agitate. “I am a nationalist to the core, I run a border State and will never do anything to create law and order problem of any kind,” he said, adding that for 60 days the farmers were blocking Punjab’s railway tracks, causing over Rs. 43,000 crore in losses to the State, without any problem. “I will not take this nonsense from Lal. Don’t I have better things to do than to incite farmers?” he said, adding that “sometimes they say it is Khalistanis who are managing the protests and sometimes they accuse me of doing it… let them make up their mind.” The Punjab CM categorically declared that no political party was involved in the protests, which were a “spontaneous reaction of the farmers who were fighting for their future”. Capt. Amarinder also dismissed Mr. Lal’s claim that Haryana farmers were not part of the ‘Dilli Chalo’ agitation. He said Punjab’s intelligence showed that as many as 40,000-50,000 farmers from Haryana had joined the march to Delhi, which even the Centre’s intelligence reports would have borne out. “He [Mr. Lal] does not know what is happening in his own State and he is telling me what to do in my State!” said Capt. Amarinder. ‘Will not speak to Lal’ He also said that Mr. Lal was lying about trying to call him. “But now, after what he [Mr. Lal] has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers, I will not forgive him,” said Capt. Amarinder. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda interacted with farmers holding dharna at Tikri border to know their well-being at Bahadurgarh’s Sector 9 Mor. Mr. Hooda demanded that the government should not delay holding talks with the farmers in view of the cold conditions and arrange for their food, lodging and medical care in case the talks were put off till December 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-haryana-cms-trade-barbs/article33203755.ece
29 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan slashes COVID-19 test rate for private labs||The Rajasthan government on Saturday fixed the rate for RT-PCR diagnostic test for COVID-19 infection conducted by private laboratories at Rs. 800, slashing it by Rs. 400. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the rate had been reduced from Rs. 1,200 following a drop in the prices of test kits. Mr. Gehlot made the announcement while inaugurating a 70-bed COVID-19 ICU at the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Hospital here. He said the increase in the number of positive cases was observed during the last few days because of higher number of tests, while the COVID-19 management had proved “very effective”. The Chief Minister said the medical infrastructure had been strengthened throughout the State for ensuring prompt screening and treatment of the infected persons and the RT-PCR testing facility was now available in every district. He also dedicated new testing laboratories in six towns on the occasion. Death rate 1% “The death rate due to infection in Rajasthan is below 1%, which is one of the lowest in the country,” Mr. Gehlot said, adding that the recovery rate was also encouraging. He called upon the people not to hide the infection at any stage, because any delay in the treatment could make the disease fatal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-slashes-covid-19-test-rate-for-private-labs/article33203756.ece
29 November 2020||Mumbai,||State ignoring farmers, dragging feet on Maratha quota: Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday accused the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of ignoring the plight of farmers in the State and failing on the Maratha reservation issue. Mr. Fadnavis said the MVA government, which completed a year in office on Saturday, had failed to provide financial aid to farmers. “The Thackeray government has failed to provide financial assistance to farmers. The government has completely ignored their plight. Cotton, soybean crops got destroyed due to pest attack, but no help was provided to farmers,” Mr. Fadnavis said at a press conference. The State government has miserably failed on the Maratha reservation issue as well, Mr. Fadnavis alleged. “Some ministers are deliberately making contradictory statements on the Maratha reservation issue. They are doing so to cover up the government’s failure. This government is deliberately dragging its feet in the Supreme Court,” he said. The BJP leader also said he had not seen any chief minister in Maharashtra, other than Uddhav Thackeray, who threatened the Opposition “so much”, and said his recent interview to Saamana (the Shiv Sena mouthpiece) did not befit the constitutional post he held. Mr. Fadnavis further said, “The Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court’s recent decisions are enough to underscore the constitutional breakdown in the State.” He was apparently referring to the Supreme Court’s decision to extend journalist Arnab Goswami’s interim bail, and the Bombay High Court’s observation that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s action of demolishing a part of actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow was illegal and smacked of mala fide intention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-ignoring-farmers-dragging-feet-on-maratha-quota-fadnavis/article33203690.ece
29 November 2020||Mumbai,||MiG-29K crash: search on for missing pilot||A search is still on for the missing pilot of a MiG-29K fighter aircraft of the Indian Navy that crashed into the Arabian sea, a Western Naval Command spokesperson said on Saturday. “More surface and air assets have joined the search for missing pilot Cdr Nishant Singh,” the spokesperson said. The jet had taken off from aircraft carrierINS Vikramaditya, and went down at 5 p.m. on Thursday, officials had said. One pilot of the aircraft had been rescued, Indian Navy officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mig-29k-crash-search-on-for-missing-pilot/article33203688.ece
29 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Testing error: NMMC suspends nodal officer||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Friday suspended Dr. Sachin Nemane, the nodal officer in-charge of conducting antigen tests, following a data entry error. NMMC chief Abhijit Bangar said there was “no mala fide intention behind the error, but action had to be taken to send out the message that even small mistakes won’t be tolerated”. The move comes following allegations by Maratha Kranti Morcha activists that the names of people who had not been tested for COVID-19 were listed as having tested negative on the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) website. The NMMC chief said, “Antigen tests are done at all health centres and reports are forwarded to the ICMR. Officials maintain an Excel sheet of the people tested. If a person tests positive, the details of their relatives are entered for contact tracing.” He added, “However, many people hesitate to give these details. When a person tests negative, the details of the kin are entered as ‘NA’, but the operator marked them as ‘negative’. When we checked the testing kits, the names matched with the inventory. If there was mala fide intention, the operators could have recorded fake names of family members.” Mr. Bangar said the phone numbers and addresses of all the family members were correctly entered and there was no intention to cheat the State government. He said the activists gave the names of deceased relatives after taking the antigen tests. Therefore, when their reports were published, such names were also included. Mr. Bangar said, “The mistake is only with respect to the relatives of ‘negative’ patients. The kin of ‘positive’ patients have been tested.”  There is no mala fide intention behind the error, but action had to be taken to send out the message that even small mistakes won’t be tolerated Abhijit Bangar NMMC Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/testing-error-nmmc-suspends-nodal-officer/article33203691.ece
29 November 2020||Pune,||NCP legislator Bharat Bhalke passes away||Three-time Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA from Solapur, Bharat Bhalke, died at a private city-based hospital on Saturday while undergoing treatment for post-COVID-19 complications, said medical authorities. According to sources, the MLA had tested positive on October 30, but was discharged after recovery. He was moved to Pune on November 9 after being diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome. “He was re-admitted on November 9 after suffering from fever and cough…his condition deteriorated on Friday and he was on ventilator support,” said a source. Bhalke (60) was an MLA from the Pandharpur-Mangalvedha constituency in Solapur district. He, along with his political rival, Sudhakar Paricharak, was an influential figure in the regional politics of Solapur and that of the temple town area of Pandharpur-Mangalvedha. Paricharak, too, died three months ago following COVID-19 related complications. He was in his eighties. A former wrestler, Bhalke had trounced Paricharak as an Independent in the 2009 Maharashtra Assembly elections, and again in the 2014 polls when he contested on a Congress ticket. He had beaten his rival again in the election last year. Like Bhalke, Paricharak, a four-time legislator, had frequently changed his political colours as well — winning the 1985 and the 1995 Assembly elections on a Congress ticket, and the 1999 and 2004 polls as a member of the NCP. He had finally joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the 2019 State Assembly polls. Bhalke’s 2009 Assembly election triumph as a Left front-backed candidate was particularly notable as he had defeated former deputy chief minister and sugar baron Vijaysinh Mohite-Patil, an NCP stalwart. A vocal advocate of the Maratha quota, Bhalke had resigned from the Assembly in 2018 when he was a Congress MLA. Pawar offers condolences NCP chief Sharad Pawar, who had visited the Pune hospital on Friday evening, where Bhalke was admitted to enquire about his health, expressed shock at the legislator’s death. “The untimely demise of Bharat Bhalke is shocking. With his passing, we have lost an efficient and people-oriented leader from Pandharpur,” tweeted Mr. Pawar, expressing condolences to the Bhalke family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ncp-legislator-bharat-bhalke-passes-away/article33203692.ece
29 November 2020||TEHRAN,||Iran’s Supreme Leader, President vow revenge over slain scientist||Iran’s Supreme Leader on Saturday called for the “definitive punishment” of those behind the killing of a scientist linked to Tehran’s disbanded military nuclear programme, a slaying the Islamic Republic has blamed on Israel. Israel, long suspected of killing Iranian scientists a decade ago amid tensions over Tehran’s nuclear programme, has yet to comment on the killing on Friday of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh. However, the attack bore the hallmarks of a carefully planned, military-style ambush. The slaying threatens to renew tensions between the U.S. and Iran in the waning days of President Donald Trump’s term, just as President-elect Joe Biden has suggested his administration could return to Tehran’s nuclear deal with world powers from which Mr. Trump earlier withdrew. In a statement, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called Fakhrizadeh “the country’s prominent and distinguished nuclear and defensive scientist”. Mr. Khamenei said Iran’s first priority after the killing was the “definitive punishment of the perpetrators and those who ordered it”. He did not elaborate. ‘N-programme to go on’ Speaking to a meeting of his government’s coronavirus task force earlier Saturday, President Hassan Rouhani blamed Israel for the killing. Mr. Rouhani said that Fakhrizadeh’s death would not stop its nuclear programme, something Mr. Khamenei said as well. Iran’s civilian nuclear programme has continued its experiments and now enriches uranium up to 4.5%, far below weapons-grade levels of 90%. But analysts have compared Fakhrizadeh to being on a par with Robert Oppenheimer, the scientist who led the U.S.’ Manhattan Project in Second World War that created the atom bomb. “We will respond to the assassination of Martyr Fakhrizadeh in a proper time,” Mr. Rouhani said. Friday’s attack happened in Absard, a village east of the capital that is a retreat for the Iranian elite. Iranian state television said an old truck with explosives blew up near a sedan carrying Fakhrizadeh. Targeted killings The attack comes just days before the 10-year anniversary of the killing of Iranian nuclear scientist Majid Shahriari that Tehran also blamed on Israel. That and other targeted killings happened at the time that the so-called Stuxnet virus, believed to be an Israeli and American creation, destroyed Iranian centrifuges. Those assaults occurred at the height of Western fears over Iran’s nuclear programme. Tehran long has insisted its programme is peaceful. However, Fakhrizadeh led Iran’s so-called AMAD programme that Israel and the West have alleged was a military operation looking at the feasibility of building a nuclear weapon. The International Atomic Energy Agency says that “structured program” ended in 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/irans-supreme-leader-president-vow-revenge-over-slain-scientist/article33203415.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||How China is controlling COVID-19||That China has broadly returned to normalcy, with people coming back to work in June and July, students returning to schools and colleges in August, and a surge in domestic tourism during the October national holiday that almost matched pre-pandemic levels, has been greeted abroad with a mixture of scepticism and incredulity. How did a country of 1.4 billion people, where the COVID-19 pandemic first began in the city of Wuhan in December, manage to suppress local outbreaks and return to some form of normalcy by the summer, barring a few small clusters that have been quickly extinguished? In August, images of a crowded waterpark of revellers in Wuhan and of crowds thronging a beer festival in Qingdao went viral — striking images of a return to normalcy that did not, however, put paid to persisting conspiracy theories online, convinced that China is either suppressing news about domestic outbreaks or has been quietly administering some secret cure unbeknownst to the rest of the world. The explanation behind China’s recovery is, however, slightly more mundane. That the outbreak began in Wuhan — and spread rapidly in December and January even as local officials covered up the scale of the outbreak until late January — is one unsurprising reason for the scepticism surrounding China’s COVID-19 recovery, as is the rather improbable official national COVID-19 data, according to which the country has only recorded around 86,000 cases and 4,600 deaths. Leaving aside China’s famously unreliable official statistics — which almost certainly undercount the total number because many hundreds of cases and deaths were most likely not recorded during the early outbreak in Wuhan, a time when local authorities were covering up cases and hospitals were overwhelmed by a new virus and without the means to test every case — there is no evidence to suggest there are currently thousands of cases or hidden outbreaks. This is backed up by, among other things, the return to normalcy, opening of schools, the boom in domestic travel, the current situation in hospitals, and not to mention, independent accounts from foreign reporters based in China. Locking down How China managed to prevent the outbreak in Wuhan and Hubei province from spreading across the country in the early part of the year was one key factor in its COVID-19 battle. A stringent lockdown of the entire province of Hubei — which lasted from January 23 to April 16 and was initially doubted as an effective strategy by public health experts — coupled with an equally stringent national lockdown throughout February that lasted, in some provinces, until March — was one key measure that bought the authorities time. Cases in all of China outside Hubei would peak by late February because of tight restrictions that stopped all domestic travel and travel into China, essentially bringing all movement, and spread of the infection, to a grinding halt. Crucially, it wasn’t only about locking down. In parallel with the lockdown period was the implementation of the world’s most expansive test and trace system that allowed authorities to stay ahead of the curve, with a suffocating approach that eventually helped bring cases through local transmission down to zero in most of China by the summer. China by no means is COVID-19- free, but has been able to ensure low numbers since the summer by sustaining a suffocating “zero infection” approach to small clusters that have been reported since, brought either through imported cases from overseas or, as in the case of Beijing in June, through contaminated imported seafood. This approach, combining mass testing and contact tracing, was applied in Beijing in June, in Dalian the following month, in Qingdao in October, and more recently, in Tianjin in November. In Qingdao, the entire city was tested — 10.92 million in five days — after infections were reported at a local hospital, blamed on improper disinfection linked to an imported case. The city’s daily testing capacity was around 2,000 in February. It has been ramped up to 2.6 lakh as of today. One common approach was pooled testing, that uses 10 samples for a single test. Chinese public health experts also hail the unheralded role of contact tracing — in part enabled by technology and mandatory health apps, but also made possible by the largely forgotten but equally crucial legwork of tens of thousands of healthcare workers and volunteers — in allowing China to stay ahead of the COVID-19 curve. China has also been stringent on international travel, not only continuing to limit the number of flights, but among few countries mandating 14 days quarantine for every international traveller at government-designated hotels. China has also been very selective in organising repatriation flights and discouraged those overseas from returning, an approach that has been criticised by Chinese citizens and students stranded abroad, including many in India. Masking up Enforcing near-universal mask use has been another important measure, made possible not just in China but in much of East Asia by raised public awareness, helped by memories from the first SARS epidemic in 2002. Mandatory and universal mask use, Chinese experts say, has been crucial in containing the spread. Indeed, China’s latest cluster in Tianjin was found to have been caused by a man not wearing a mask, who spread the virus to eight people. Some of China’s stringent “zero infection”— targeted strategies, such as enforced centralised quarantine even for asymptomatic cases, restrictions on international travellers, and the mass testing of entire cities, may be unpalatable measures that democratic governments may find difficult to enforce. They have, however, been broadly backed by the public in China, so much so that when a recent cluster emerged in Tianjin, there were calls online from elsewhere demanding Tianjin residents be barred from travelling. At the same time, other simple but effective measures such as getting people to mask up properly and spreading the right message on mask use right from early February, were critical and invaluable, even if those messages have yet to filter through in much of the rest of the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/how-china-is-controlling-covid-19/article33203409.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||What does the killing mean for Iran?||Theassassination of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, a top Iranian nuclear scientist and a brigadier general in the elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, on the outskirts of Tehran on Friday has triggered a new crisis in West Asia. It is the most high profile killing of an Iranian regime figure since theassassination of General Qassem Soleimaniin January this year by the U.S. in Baghdad. Fakhrizadeh, according to the U.S. and Israel, had overseen Iran’s nuclear weapons programme in the 1990s and early 2000s, and remained a key figure in the country’s nuclear programme and the Defence Ministry. Iranian media reported that gunmen opened fire at Fakhrizadeh’s car while he was driving through Absard, a small town located some 65 km east of Tehran. The killing comes at a crucial time for Iran. There are hopes that Joe Biden, the next American President, would return to talks, ending months of “maximum pressure”, a policy adopted by the outgoing President Donald Trump, which took both countries to the brink of war after the killing of Soleimani. Iran had also increased its stockpile of low-enriched uranium beyond the limits set by the 2015 nuclear deal in recent years. Iran started violating the terms of the nuclear deal after President Trump unilaterally pulled the U.S. out of the agreement in May 2018. The loss of Fakhrizadeh, at a time when Iran is taking steps to expand its nuclear programme, either as a strategy or as a bargaining chip, is a clear setback to its plans. Who killed the scientist? Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zariff has said there are “serious indications” that Israel was involved in the attack. American media have quoted U.S. intelligence sources as saying that the attack was carried out by Israel. In the past 10 years, at least six Iranian scientists [Massoud Ali-Mohammadi, Majid Shahriyari, Fereydoun Abbassi-Davani, Darioush Rezai, Mostafa Ahmadi-Roshan and Fakhrizadeh] were killed in bomb and gun attacks in which Israeli hands were suspected. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had called out Fakhrizadeh in a press conference in 2018. “Remember that name, Fakhrizadeh,” he said, when he presented a photograph of the nuclear physicist. The attack comes weeks after President Trump reportedly sought options to bomb Iran before he leaves office on January 20. He was dissuaded by his aides, according to an NYT report. Later, Mike Pompeo, the U.S. Secretary of State, travelled to Israel and held talks with Mr. Netanyahu. Mr. Pompeo and the Israeli Prime Minister then flew to Neom, the megacity being built in Saudi Arabia, and held talks with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, in the first direct talks between the top leaders of Israel and the Kingdom. It’s hardly a secret that Israel, Saudi Arabia and the Trump administration would want to stop the Iran nuclear deal being revived, which could lead to the lifting of sanctions on Iran and leave the Islamic Republic stronger. When the leaders met in Neom, there were speculations that something was brewing in West Asia. Then came the attack on Fakhrizadeh. Limited options Iran has threatened to “strike as thunder” in retaliation. But Iran’s options against Israel appear to be limited, unless Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shia militia-cum-political party, is ready to attack northern Israel from its bases in southern Lebanon. What Iran can do, which it demonstrated in 2019 after Trump reimposed sanctions, is to target oil tankers in the Strait of Hormuz or oil installations in the Sunni monarchies across the Gulf. But Iran did not opt for an all-out war even after Soleimani was killed. Its response was limited to targeting U.S. bases in Iraq and even that came after enough warnings so that the U.S. could take precautionary measures to protect its soldiers. Iran was under pressure Now the question is what would Iran do if it wants to avenge the death of Fakhrizadeh. In recent months, Iran has come under great pressure as U.S. sanctions wrecked its already bleeding economy, Israeli covert and overt operations raised questions about the efficacy of its security apparatus and regional realignments posed new geopolitical risks. It lost a master strategist when Soleimani was killed. A mysterious explosion damaged a centrifuge assembly hall at its main nuclear site, Natanz, earlier this year. In Syria, Iranian assets and militias came under repeated attacks from Israeli jets in recent months, when Vladimir Putin’s Russia, an Iranian ally that practically controls Syria’s airspace, looked away. And now, it has lost a top nuclear physicist. Iran faces a growing dilemma. If it doesn’t retaliate in the wake of repeated provocations, there would be questions, both inside and outside the country, about its ability to protect the regime’s top leaders or take counter-measures against what it calls “terrorism”. If it takes any major retaliatory step, it could escalate the conflict, providing room for Israel and the Trump administration to take rapid military measures, which would cut off the diplomatic path for the Biden administration to take the U.S. back to the nuclear deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/what-does-the-killing-mean-for-iran/article33203419.ece
29 November 2020||Beijing,||China’s first domestically made nuclear reactor goes online||China has powered up its first domestically developed nuclear reactor — the Hualong One — a significant step in Beijing’s attempts to become less dependent on Western allies for energy security and critical technology. The reactor, which was connected to the national grid on Friday, can generate 10 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity each year and cut carbon emissions by 8.16 million tons, according to China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC). “This marks China breaking the monopoly of foreign nuclear power technology and officially entering the technology’s first batch of advanced countries,” CNNC said in a statement. Nuclear plants supplied less than five percent of China’s annual electricity needs in 2019, according to the National Energy Administration, but this share is expected to grow as Beijing attempts to become carbon neutral by 2060. Reducing its dependence on Western allies in critical high-tech sectors such as power generation is a key goal in Beijing’s “Made in China 2025” plan. Billions of dollars in state subsidies have been given to Chinese companies to speed the process — a move that has angered China’s trade partners and sparked a protracted trade row with Washington. Work on the Hualong One reactor started in 2015 and there are currently six other reactors under construction at home and abroad, state-owned plant operator CNNC said. The Hualong One, deployed at a plant in east China’s Fujian province, will be put into commercial use by the end of the year after undergoing tests. China has 47 nuclear plants with a total generation capacity of 48.75 million kilowatts — the world’s third highest after the U.S. and France. Beijing has invested billions of dollars to develop its nuclear energy sector in recent years as it struggles to wean its economy from coal. Thirteen nuclear plants are under construction, more than in any other country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-first-domestically-made-nuclear-reactor-goes-online/article33203410.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||IS militants kill 4 Christians in Indonesia||Islamic State-linked extremists killed four people in a remote Christian community on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi, authorities said Saturday, with one victim beheaded and another burned to death. The group of sword-and-gun wielding attackers ambushed Lembantongoa village in Central Sulawesi province on Friday morning, killing several residents and torching half a dozen homes, including one used for regular prayers and services, police said. No arrests had yet been made and the motive for the attack was not immediately clear. But authorities pointed the finger at the Sulawesi-based East Indonesia Mujahideen (MIT), one of dozens of radical groups across the Southeast Asian archipelago that have pledged allegiance to IS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/is-militants-kill-4-christians-in-indonesia/article33203413.ece
29 November 2020||Nasiriyah,||6 dead as rival protesters clash in Iraq||Death toll from clashes among rival protesters in Iraq’s southern city of Nasiriyah rose to six dead, medics told AFP on Saturday. Violence erupted on Friday after supporters of Shiite cleric Moqtada Sadr stormed an anti-government protest camp. Anti-government activists accused Sadrists of shooting at them and torching their tents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/6-dead-as-rival-protesters-clash-in-iraq/article33203417.ece
29 November 2020||Addis Ababa,||Addis Ababa, Nov 28, 2020 (AFP) -||Heavy shelling rocked the capital of Ethiopia’s Tigray region on Saturday as the city of half a million braced for an all-out offensive by government forces against its dissident leaders. Ethiopia’s military has “started hitting Mekele with artillery”, the local government said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/addis-ababa-nov-28-2020-afp/article33203412.ece
29 November 2020||Islamabad,||ADB approves USD 300 mn policy-based loan to cash-strapped Pakistan||The Asian Development Bank has approved a $300 million policy-based loan to Pakistan to help promote macroeconomic stability in the cash-strapped country. The announcement came a week after Pakistan secured $800 million worth of debt freeze deals from 14 members of the G20.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/adb-approves-usd-300-mn-policy-based-loan-to-cash-strapped-pakistan/article33203416.ece
29 November 2020||Vatican City,||Vatican City, Nov 28, 2020 (AFP) -||Pope Francis on Saturday installed 13 new cardinals, including the first African-American — Archbishop of Washington, Wilton Gregory — to hold the high rank, further expanding the pontiff’s impact on the group that will one day elect his successor.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/vatican-city-nov-28-2020-afp/article33203872.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Q2 manufacturing rebound puzzles economists||The turnaround in India’s manufacturing sector, which rebounded from a 39.3% contraction in GVA (gross value added) in the April-June quarter to clock 0.6% growth in the second quarter, has left economists scrambling to reconcile conflicting official data and trying to square with the latest GDP estimates that suggest the economy fared better-than-expected. India’s GDP contracted by 7.5% over the July-September period, official data released on Friday show, beating most estimates, including a ‘nowcast’ in the RBI’s November monthly bulletin that had projected an 8.6% decline in the last quarter. While services continued to suffer from the COVID-19 pandemic’s impact, the industrial sector’s contraction narrowed to just 2.1% in the second quarter, after shrinking by a steep 38% in the preceding three-month period. Most of the gains were attributable to the improved performance in manufacturing. “Though the whole press release [on GDP estimates] is full of surprising numbers, the most astonishing number is the positive growth in manufacturing,” SBI group’s chief economic advisor Soumya Kanti Ghosh observed in a research report titled ‘Q2 GDP shows surprising resilience: Is it good enough to last?’. “Despite being the worst affected sector in Q1 due to the lockdown, it is quite puzzling how manufacturing turned itself around,” he wrote. “The IIP manufacturing and manufacturing GVA growth are highly correlated [almost 0.9] and this correlation collapsed in Q2 when IIP manufacturing declined by 6.7% [average of July, August and September] while manufacturing GVA grew by 0.6%,” Mr. Ghosh wrote. Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA, urged caution on reading too much into the manufacturing sector recovery. “While manufacturing volumes had continued to contract, the GVA of this sector posted a marginal 0.6% growth in Q2, on the back of aggressive cost-cutting measures, a pared down wage bill and benign raw material costs,” she said. Informal sector haze “The extent of the recovery in the performance of the informal sectors in Q2 remains unclear, and we caution that trends in the same may not get fully reflected in the GDP data, given the lack of adequate proxies to evaluate the less formal sectors,” Ms. Nayar added. While Mr. Ghosh agreed cost cuts may have helped boost corporate GVA, SBI Research had found small firms were more aggressive with 10-12% cuts in employee costs. “This could turn a potential headwind in future in terms of a drag on consumption.” The manufacturing growth needed to be viewed in the context of the low year-earlier base, said India Ratings and Research principal economist Sunil Kumar Sinha. Manufacturing GVA had contracted by 0.6% in July-September 2019. “From the supply side while most of the sectors have done as expected and continue to be in contractionary mode, the surprise of the pack is manufacturing,” he said. The National Statistical Office (NSO) stressed that its GDP estimates were affected by the lockdown curbs. “Other data sources such as GST, interactions with professional bodies were also referred to for corroborative evidence and these were clearly limited,” the NSO noted in its release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/q2-manufacturing-rebound-puzzles-economists/article33203395.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India is key to IBM’s pursuit of a $1 trillion hybrid cloud opportunity’||With India accelerating its ‘digital’ initiative, IBM is striving to put the country on the global innovation map by leveraging the power of technologies like artificial intelligence, cloud and cognitive computing says Viswanath Ramaswamy , VP - Cloud & Cognitive Software & Services, IBM India/South Asia. Edited excerpts:  What are the changes IBM India may go through to align itself with the company’s newly accelerated global shift towards cloud computing and AI? We are redefining our future as a hybrid cloud platform and AI company. Over the last few years, we have built a solid foundation for hybrid cloud. IBM’s hybrid cloud platform generated more than $24.4 billion of revenue over the last 12 months. In Q3, our cloud and data platforms grew by 20% led by Red Hat. So you will see our focus on hybrid cloud and AI intensify further. As we look forward, the case for hybrid cloud is clear. Clients see two-and-a-half times more value in a hybrid cloud approach versus a public only. It is a tremendous opportunity valued at $1 trillion, with most of the enterprise opportunity ahead of us. Our approach, platform-centric, is differentiated by Red Hat OpenShift, which is our market-leading open platform. It’s a vast software portfolio modernised to run cloud-native, and our services expertise that drives platform adoption and meets clients “where they are” on their cloud journeys. In August, IBM committed $1 billion into a cloud ecosystem initiative for over the next three years. In the last six months, IBM has further strengthened its long-term relationships with the GSIs community in India and globally. In India/South Asia, we will continue to drive a razor-sharp focus on our strategy imperatives. Why is computing increasingly being shifted to the cloud and how much of it will be hybrid? In India, 17% of organisations’ IT spend is allocated to cloud at present and they plan to increase the share of spend on hybrid from 42% to 49% by 2023, as per an IBM IBV study. The majority of their cloud budgets are being allocated to hybrid cloud platforms even as their public cloud spend is set to reduce from 50% share today to 43% by 2023. Yet, today, only 20% of the workloads have moved to the cloud, while the other 80% are mission-critical workloads that are more difficult to move. This leaves us with a massive untapped opportunity wherein hybrid cloud is positioned to become a dominant force for driving digital transformation for enterprises. Organisations are looking at moving to cloud beyond computing capabilities that it can offer. Enterprises want cloud that has industry expertise to cater to mission-critical processes, offers enterprise grade security, compliance and governance, the ability to build and run anywhere with consistency, the ability to be able to automate, predict and modernise workflows and leverage the latest innovations. For instance, Bharti Airtel, is adopting an open cloud architecture for all network and containerised workloads. Do you face serious competition from AWS, Microsoft and Google in India/South Asia as well, and what’s your strategy to take them on? IBM is the number one hybrid cloud platform and AI company. Our cloud business is much more expansive than competitors, because it includes capabilities others don’t have and reflects the actual cloud buying patterns of enterprise clients. Our cloud business includes both: as a service — infrastructure, software, platform and process — and hardware, software and services that enable enterprise clients to design, build, operate and integrate private, public and hybrid clouds. The point is that the overall enterprise cloud marketplace is not defined by what providers are trying to sell, but by what clients are buying. Hybrid cloud is swiftly becoming the dominant force driving change in the industry as organisations realise that a ‘one-cloud-fits-all’ approach doesn’t work. The acquisition of Red Hat has significantly strengthened our position as the leading hybrid cloud provider in the market. This definitely gives us an edge over our competitors as with Red Hat we have transformed our portfolio to give clients the unique ability to build mission-critical applications once and run them anywhere. How will the recent ‘corporate split’ unlock additional growth in India, a key geography for IBM both as a market and as an employee base? The announcement further strengthens and deepens our focus on hybrid cloud and AI. We are excited about the path ahead. This is all about unlocking value for our clients and for the ecosystem. We have been present in India for several decades and this partnership will only grow stronger as India accelerates its digital transformation. Technology is playing an important role in India’s journey to become an AatmaNirbhar Bharat and we are supporting the country’s needs for state-of-the-art technology solutions. We are spearheading innovation through our labs: systems, software, services and client innovation centres in India. IBM Research India is at the forefront of exploratory and applied research in AI, blockchain and hybrid cloud. IBM’s cloud technology is supporting companies in India accelerate business growth and build resilience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-is-key-to-ibms-pursuit-of-a-1-trillion-hybrid-cloud-opportunity/article33203392.ece
29 November 2020||Chennai,||‘Make-it-Yours’ keeps Royal Enfield on the go||Royal Enfield’s Make-it-Yours (MiY) software platform has helped generate between 80% and 90% of demand for all its products, said CEO Vinod Dasari. “A buyer can use the MiY platform to choose, for example, from among 5,00,000 permutations and combinations, to order the Meteor model. So much so that, you can design your own motorcycle and we would put your name on it and ship it out to you,” he added. Normally, that promise would have been kept within 48 hours of such a booking, but unanticipated demand for the Meteor — introduced earlier this month — has meant customers go through a waiting period. Mr. Dasari, who joined the motorcycle maker from Ashok Leyland in April 2019, has committed to introducing one new model every quarter over the next five years. He said Royal Enfield would significantly ‘enhance its products’ and offer a range to meet different aspirations of customers within the mid-segment market, pursue growth outside of India, and focus on the aftermarket business. “Over the next few years, we plan to offer new variants, models and even new platforms on which new bikes would be built,” he said. “Second, our network growth has been faster outside India; we built a plant in Argentina, we are building one in Thailand. Third, there is huge opportunity in accessories, spare parts, and after-sales service that we are tapping,” the CEO added. Lockdown impact Local lockdowns driven by the COVID-19 pandemic had impacted the company’s supply chain. To a query, he said less than 5% of Royal Enfield’s supplies came from China. He pointed out that the company’s Studio Store concept, introduced 18 months ago, had found favour with its rural clientele. “During the pandemic, demand pull-up from tier 3 towns was faster than from tier 2,” Mr. Dasari said. “Our Studio Store takes one-tenth the cost and space needed for our usual store format, but comes with the same retail identity as existing dealerships and with the entire portfolio of motorcycles, in addition to service and spares,” he added. In October, the company saw a 7% decline in total sales from a year earlier to 66,891 units. Of these, exports accounted for 4,033 units. In September, the motorcycle maker had shown marginal year-on-year growth of 1% in total sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/make-it-yours-keeps-royal-enfield-on-the-go/article33203397.ece
29 November 2020||COIMBATORE,||Coimbatore start-up installs ATRS at 2 airports||SJK Innovations, a Coimbatore-based start-up, has installed Automatic Tray Retrieval Systems (ATRS) at two airports in the country and is looking at similar projects in India and other Asian countries. Managing Director Suraj Shantakumar said the company had installed the system at security checks in terminal 3 of Delhi airport for domestic departures. At Coimbatore airport, the company commissioned the system recently on a proof-of-concept basis to showcase the solution, which is used at cabin baggage checking points. The entire system has been designed, engineered, and assembled by the company. SJK supplies the hardware and software, installs, and maintains them. “The investment is primarily for working capital as the ATRS are developed according to the layout at each airport. We will continue to invest in research and development of the solution,” he said. “Apart from catering to the Indian market, we will focus on Asian markets,” he added. The company is looking at developing and providing technology-driven material handling solutions in sectors such as agriculture, logistics and e-commerce, apart from aviation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/coimbatore-start-up-installs-atrs-at-2-airports/article33203393.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unilateralism is hurting global economy: Prabhu||India’s Sherpa to the G7 and G20 Suresh Prabhu has said that the growing tendency among nations to frame inward-looking policies and spurn multilateralism is a recipe for a greater disaster for the global economy that is already hobbled by the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Prabhu said it was imperative that Italy, Indonesia and India, which will be assuming the G20 Presidency over the next three years, impress upon other G20 members, the need to revive multilateralism in order to boost prospects of meeting the world’s immediate challenges of providing COVID-19 vaccines universally along with healthcare coverage, reviving the global economy and mitigating climate change. “The global economy is under threat — now clearly because of the pandemic — but it was already slowing down before that. Denial of multilateralism is also one of the reasons economies slowed down more,” Mr. Prabhu said at a conference hosted by RIS and the CII titled ‘Future Roadmap for Global Economic Recovery: Reflections on G20 Riyadh Summit and Beyond’. ‘Smaller digital world’ “Now, look at the paradox that is emerging: technology will make the world smaller, digital economy will make it even more integrated, at the same time, we are not accepting this reality by turning our back to it… already, there is a clearly discernible trend towards unilateralism, so multilateralism which should be the guiding principle for dealing with such issues, becomes a casualty,” he warned. “A lack of multilateralism is going to create more challenges in dealing with global issues — whether it’s economy, healthcare or climate change. If you want to revive the economy, you cannot do so by turning inwards, but by integrating with the rest of the world with transparent and democratic rules-based mechanisms,” Mr. Prabhu said, stressing the need to ensure that multilateral bodies such as the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the United Nations (UN) remain relevant. Conceding that even the UN and WTO must be asked to change with the changing times, he said that outright denial of multilateralism, however, is ‘not just a folly, but a definite recipe for more disasters to come’. “We will have to work together pro-actively during the G20 leadership of Italy, Indonesia and India. The three ‘I’s will have to remind the rest of the world that you cannot develop the world by only saying ‘I’. You have to say ‘We’. The G20 has the responsibility and obligations not only to those who are present in the room, but also those that are not in the room,” Mr. Prabhu concluded. India will assume the presidency and host the G20 summit in 2023, while Italy and Indonesia will steer the presidency in 2021 and 2022, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/unilateralism-is-hurting-global-economy-prabhu/article33203399.ece
29 November 2020||Sydney,||No time to lose, India needs A-game rightaway||India’s battered bowling unit will have little time to regroup and limited resources at its disposal in a desperate bid to perform a redemption act and save the ODI series against a turbo-charged Australia in the second game here on Sunday. Points to ponder It wasn’t just about the margin of defeat — 66 runs — but the manner in which Australia exposed India’s vacant cupboard of all-rounders that will give Virat Kohli and Ravi Shastri numerous points to ponder. Hardik Pandya’s 76-ball 90 was at best a good innings. Also, Pandya will not be bowling anytime soon. So with no back-up all-rounders or a Plan B in place, India will have to execute Plan A perfectly. That leaves Kohli with bowlers who can’t bat and a top-order where none can bowl. With Australia’s top three — captain Aaron Finch, David Warner and Steve Smith — hitting the straps right away, Jasprit Bumrah and company will have to give a better account of themselves on a strip that promises to be a belter. It is highly unlikely that India’s combination will change unless both Yuzvendra Chahal and Navdeep Saini are declared unfit. The duo conceded 172 runs between them and the wiry wrist-spinner did leave the field after sustaining an injury. Natarajan available Saini, on the other hand, has back spasms and T. Natarajan has been inducted in the 50-over squad as cover. In case they are ruled out, Shardul Thakur and Kuldeep Yadav are available. For Australia, it is possible that highly-rated all-rounder Cameron Green will be rewarded with an ODI cap as Marcus Stoinis picked up a side strain during the first game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-time-to-lose-india-needs-a-game-rightaway/article33203522.ece
29 November 2020||Kolkata,||Definitely in the race for Tokyo Olympics: Saina||Indian badminton star Saina Nehwal said on Saturday she was definitely in the race for the Tokyo Olympics, but before that she has to get back to her rhythm and win tournaments. The 2012 London Olympics bronze medallist, who has slipped to 22nd in the Badminton World Federation’s Tokyo Olympics qualification rankings, has recently struggled with niggles and is likely to return to action in next year’s Asian Tour. “I know Olympics is everyone’s focus. It’s something very big, but before that you have to think about so many tournaments. I’ve to get back to my rhythm and win against the players who are in the top-20,” Saina said at a virtual media interaction hosted by the Indian Chamber of Commerce. “There are two-three months of training before that. You have to be perfectly fine and play seven-eight tournaments... only after that will I think about the Olympics. Yes, I’m definitely in the race. I want to do well and I’m working hard for that.” A big fan of tennis superstar Roger Federer, the 30-year-old Saina felt that if the Swiss ace, Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Serena Williams can go strong at not so a young age, she too can.  “I can see great examples in Djokovic, Federer, Nadal, Serena doing so well. I’m a fighter and I will get back. When he can do it, why can’t I?” said Saina. “I admit that there were times when I felt I had to ‘stop playing’ and ‘I can’t win any more.’ But then I thought I could push it. I love to fight. What will I do sitting at home? This is my life, this is my job,” she said. The former World No. 1, who recently pulled out of the Denmark Open that reopened the international calendar after the COVID-19 break, said she can become the best in the world again. “I’m doing well. Injuries play a big role in a career and unfortunately that happened to me. As of now, I feel good. I can do it, I can be the best in the world. It’s always been there in my head. I’ve to overcome my niggles. There is definitely an improvement. “Let’s how I play. I want to see how badly I lose, if I’m not capable of playing any more,” said Saina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/definitely-in-the-race-for-tokyo-olympics-saina/article33203661.ece
29 November 2020||Brighton,||Klopp rants about Liverpool’s fixture schedule||Jurgen Klopp launched into a furious tirade about Liverpool’s fixture schedule after Pascal Gross’s controversial late penalty rescued a dramatic 1-1 draw for Brighton at the Amex Stadium on Saturday. Klopp’s side took the lead through Diogo Jota’s second half strike after Brighton’s Neal Maupay had missed a penalty in the first half. But Liverpool was stunned in stoppage time when Andrew Robertson’s challenge on Danny Welbeck was ruled a penalty after Stuart Attwell used VAR to overturn his initial decision. Gross converted from the spot, leaving Klopp sarcastically applauding the officials at the end of a disappointing week for Liverpool after its shock Champions League defeat at home to Atalanta. Bait spurned Liverpool captain Jordan Henderson claimed Welbeck told him it wasn’t a penalty, but Klopp would not take the bait when asked if he disagreed with the decision. “You try to create again, on my cost, a headline, because that’s how it is. If I say now it was not... the ref whistled it,” Klopp said in a fractious exchange with a BT Sport interviewer. “Don’t look like this, you try, always, all the time. Today I say it was a penalty, you are not happy with that answer, so keep your answers to yourself.” Slender lead Liverpool went back to the top of the table as a result of its draw, but the champion is just one point ahead of previous leader Tottenham. Tottenham would regain pole position if it avoids defeat at Chelsea on Sunday, while the Blues will go top if they win the London derby. It was one of those days for Liverpool, which also saw goals correctly disallowed by VAR for offside against Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane. There was more bad news for injury-ravaged Liverpool as James Milner was forced off in the second half. Milner’s injury provoked Klopp’s rant during his post-match interview as he repeated his recent complaints about Liverpool featuring in the early Saturday match after playing in the Champions League just three days earlier. Taking potshots Asked if Milner had a hamstring problem, Klopp took aim at television schedulers and Sheffield United manager Chris Wilder, who has criticised his counterpart over his desire to allow five substitutions instead of the current three. “Yeah, congratulations. You work for them yeah? Hamstring, surprise, and Brighton had injuries but ask Chris Wilder how we can avoid that,” Klopp said. “I don’t know how often I have to say it, you picked the 1230, not you personally, but you did it, us on 1230, between now and December and New Year, one more Wednesday.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/klopp-rants-about-liverpools-fixture-schedule/article33203663.ece
29 November 2020||Hyderabad:,||Highly Acclaimed vs. Victory Parade||Highly Acclaimed and Victory Parade should fight out the finish of the Kinnerasani Plate (Cat. I), the chief event of Sunday’s (Nov. 29) races here.  BHONGIR PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.15 p.m.: 1. Green Turf (8) Surya Prakash 61.5, 2. Exclusive Art (6) B. R.Kumar 61, 3. Days Of Reckoning (12) A.A. Vikrant 59, 4. Aibak (Ex:Troubadour) (9) Gaurav Singh 58.5, 5. California Beauty (14) Irvan Singh 57.5, 6. Elmira (3) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 7. Kimberley Cruise (2) Deepak Singh 57, 8. Lifetime (16) Ajeeth Kumar 56.5, 9. Forever Splendour (17) Suraj Narredu 55, 10. Golden Forza (4) Kiran Naidu 55, 11. India Gate (7) P. Sai Kumar 55, 12. Let It Be Me (10) G. Naresh 55, 13. Thunder Road (13) Ajit Singh 55, 14. Look Of Love (11) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 15. N R I Flame (1) Gaddam 54.5, 16. Hip Hop (18) C.P. Bopanna 53.5, 17. Big Day (15) Jitendra Singh 53 and 18. A Hundred Echoes (5) Afroz Khan 50.  1. FOREVER SPLENDOUR, 2. GREEN TURF, 3. LOOK OF LOVE   ELUSIVE HERO PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.45: 1. Best Buddy (2) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Bourbon (1) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 3. Chhota Chetan (3) P. Sai Kumar 56, 4. Greek’s Ace (12) Gaurav Singh 56, 5. Gurbaaz (11) G. Naresh 56, 6. Indian Glory (4) Md. Ismail 56, 7. November Rain (6) Kuldeep Singh 56, 8. Allah Rakhi (10) Ajit Singh 54.5, 9. City Of Bliss (9) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 10. Golden Amaris (7) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 11. Hard To Toss (5) A.A. Vikrant 54.5 and 12. Total Darc (8) Afroz Khan 54.5.  1. BOURBON, 2. NOVEMBER RAIN, 3. BEST BUDDY   VEGAVATHI PLATE (Div. II), (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 2.15: 1. Guiding Force (10) Kiran Naidu 61, 2. Top Link (1) Santosh Raj N R 60.5, 3. Ruletheworld (11) Surya Prakash 57.5, 4. Miss Marvellous (8) G. Naresh 57, 5. Max (7) Afroz Khan 56, 6. Ashwa Arjun (5) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 7. Dunkirk (9) Irvan Singh 54.5, 8. Flamboyant Lady (3) Nakhat Singh 53.5, 9. Mr. Shanghai (6) Jitendra Singh 53, 10. Private Empire (2) Akshay Kumar 53 and 11. Horus (4) B.R. Kumar 50.  1. DUNKIRK, 2. PRIVATE EMPIRE, 3. RULETHEWORLD   AMOROUS WHITE PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.45: 1. Mark My Day (14) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Spicy Star (4) Mukesh Kumar 60, 3. Whiskey Martini (6) Ashad Asbar 58, 4. Super Act (13) Kuldeep Singh 56, 5. Ajmal Birju (2) Gopal Singh 55, 6. N R I Touch (11) Irvan Singh 54.5, 7. Alta Vita (15) A.A. Vikrant 54, 8. Eagle Bluff (12) Abhay Singh 54, 9. Shanu Shanu (5) P. Sai Kumar 54, 10. Sweet Melody (10) B.R. Kumar 54, 11. That’s My Star (7) Md. Ismail 54, 12. Super Angel (8) Akshay Kumar 53, 13. Balma (9) Gaurav Singh 52.5, 14. Kenya (16) Afroz Khan 52.5, 15. Moringa (1) R.Laxmikanth 52 and 16. Turf Winner (3) G. Naresh 52.  1. SUPER ANGEL, 2. SPICY STAR, 3. N R I TOUCH   BHONGIR PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Monte Rei (11) Ajit Singh 61.5, 2. Bedford (7) Kiran Naidu 59, 3. Gusty Note (8) A.A. Vikrant 59, 4. Lacrosse (13) Akshay Kumar 58, 5. Kapell Bruke (15) Deepak Singh 57.5, 6. Four One Four (17) Afroz Khan 57, 7. Red River (2) Jitendra Singh 57, 8. Secret Command (6) Santosh Raj N R 55.5, 9. Attica (12) Abhay Singh 55, 10. Blink Of An Eye (16) Ashad Asbar 55, 11. Blue Cruise (3) B.R. Kumar 55, 12. Sea Wolf (9) G. Naresh 55, 13. Win Vision (4) Kuldeep Singh 55, 14. Golden Lace (Ex: Vlatava) (1) P. Sai Kumar 53.5, 15. Lightning Fairy (10) Md. Ismail 53.5, 16. Vallee Ikon (18) Gaddam 53.5, 17. Classy Dame (14) C.P. Boanna 53 and 18. Princess Shana (5) R. Laxmikanth 53.  1. LACROSSE, 2. FOUR ONE FOUR, 3. BEDFORD   KINNERASANI PLATE (1,200m), rated 80 and above, (Cat. I), 3.45: 1. Victory Paradise (11) Deepak Singh 63. 2. Phenomenal Cruise (10) A.A.Vikrant 62, 3. Highly Acclaimed (8) Surya Prakash 61.5, 4. Moondancer (9) Mukesh Kumar 61, 5. Nayadeep (5) Jitendra Singh 60.5, 6. Exclusive Blue (6) Suraj Narredu 59, 7. Rikki Tikki Tavi (4) Gopal Singh 59, 8. Titus (7) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 9. Pontius Plate (1) Gaurav Singh 50.5, 10. That’s My Class (3) Md. Ismail 50.5 and 11. Champion Bull (2) Gaddam 50.  1. HIGHLY ACCLAIMED, 2. VICTORY PARADE, 3. EXCLUSIVE BLUE   VEGAVATHI PLATE (Div. I), (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.15: 1. Reno Star (7) Rohit Kumar 61, 2. That’s My Magic (8) Md. Ismail 60.5, 3. Born Greek (11) Mukesh Kumar 58, 4. City Of Wisdom (6) Ashad Asbar 57, 5. Lockhart (10) Ajeeth Kumar 56.5, 6. Blazer (5) Afroz Khan 54, 7. Conscious Gift (2) Akshay Kumar 54, 8. Once More (3) Santosh Raj N R 54, 9. Soul Empress (9) Gaddam 53.5, 10. Mind Reader (1) Nakhat Singh 52.5 and 11. Incredulous (4) Jodha R S 51.5.  1. CONSCIOUS GIFT, 2. BLAZER, 3. CITY OF WISDOM   GOLCONDA PLATE (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o and upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat.III – 4.45: 1. Machismo (Ex: Ratha Sapthami) (10) Ajit Singh 60, 2. City Of Passion (18) Suraj Narredu 59, 3. Minnelli (7) R. Laxmikanth 59, 4. Peaky Blinders (14) Akshay Kumar 59, 5. Royal Pal (17) Nakhat Singh 59, 6. Saffron Art (9) Kuldeep Singh 59, 7. Astronaut (2) Ajeeth Kumar 58.5, 8. Greek Soul (15) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 9. Time Is Good (4) Jodha R S 58.5, 10. Turf Monarch (8) Afroz Khan 58.5, 11. Destined To Be (6) Gaurav Singh 58, 12. Sputnic (12) Deepak Singh 58, 13. Fantastic Show (Ex: Queen Of Love) (5) Irvan Singh 57.5, 14. Star Dancer (1) Kiran Naidu 57.5, 15. Ice Berry (3) B.R. Kumar 57, 16. Turf Warrior (11) G. Naresh 57, 17. Halo’s Princess (13) P. Sai Kumar 56.5 and 18. Whiskery (16) Md. Ismail 55  1. CITY OF PASSION, 2. PEAKY BLINDERS, 3. SAFFRON ART   Day’s best: LACROSSE   Double: BOURBON – SUPER ANGEL  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini jackpot (i): 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 3, 4 & 5; (iii): 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/highly-acclaimed-vs-victory-parade/article33203518.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||BFC-HFC fail to break deadlock||Bengaluru FC (BFC) and Hyderabad FC played out a tepid 0-0 draw at the Fatorda Stadium on Saturday. The way BFC boss Carles Cuadrat walked off the ground, raging against the match officials, told the story; it was a second successive draw for the 2018-19 champion, while Manuel Marquez’s Hyderabad would be happy with a point to add to the win it secured over Odisha FC in the opener.  However, injuries to key players Joel Chianese and Lluis Sastre, both of whom had to be withdrawn by half time, are sure to keep Marquez worried. BFC and Hyderabad passed the ball around in the opening 20 minutes but seldom threatened each other’s goals. The first real chance fell to Hyderabad’s Aridane Santana in the 24th minute, but his header from six yards out off a Lluis Sastre free kick was palmed away superbly by Gurpreet Sandhu. Just after the half hour mark, Hyderabad lost forward Chianese to an ankle injury. A hamstring injury to the creator Sastre ushered in the half time break. The departure of one midfield lynchpin led to BFC bringing on its own, Dimas Delgado. He was welcomed with clattering tackle and play unfolded the same way it had in the first half – lots of midfield action but very little in the final third. Best chance BFC’s best chance came in the 78th minute when Delgado found Cleiton Silva on the left flank. The quick-footed Brazilian broke in, faked a shot to beat a defender, but his thunderous drive from close was blocked by centre-back Odei Onaindia. Santana could have nicked it for Hyderabad five minutes from time, but it was not to be, as he failed to get a toe on a fine delivery from the left.  The result: Bengaluru FC 0 drew with Hyderabad FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-hfc-fail-to-break-deadlock/article33203527.ece
29 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Jeet, Dhruv occupy front row||Hyderabad’s Jeet Jhabakh (FB Motorsport) took the pole in the premier Indian Touring Cars class in the third and final round of the MRF-MMSC FMSCI National car racing championships which commenced at the MMRT here on Saturday. Heavy showers in the afternoon forced curtailment of the day’s schedule. Jhabakh and teammate Dhruv Mohite from Kolhapur occupied the front row ahead of Coimbatore veteran and championship leader Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) who, incidentally, had topped the practice sessions. Raghul Rangasamy (Performance Racing) was the quickest in the Super Stock category while T.S. Diljith from Thrissur snatched pole position in the MRF Saloon Car series class (Toyota Etios). All the three categories will be on a combined grid for the three races to be run on Sunday while the Formula LGB 1300 will have four runs.  The results (qualifying):   Indian Touring Cars: 1. Jeet Jhabakh (FB Motorsport) (2m, 02.041s); 2. Dhruv Mohite (FB Motorsport) (2:02.599); 3. Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) (2:03.392).   Super Stock: 1. Raghul Rangasamy (Performance Racing) (2:09.276); 2. Rithvik Thomas (Race Concepts) (2:10.038); 3. Alisha Abdullah (Race Concepts) (2:16.115).   MRF Saloon Car series: 1. T.S. Diljith (Thrissur) (2:15.996); 2. A. Balaprasath (Chennai) (2:18.969); 3. Chetan Korada (Chennai) (2:20.943) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeet-dhruv-occupy-front-row/article33203530.ece
29 November 2020||Brighton,||Liverpool frustrated by VAR||Manchester City found its shooting boots as Riyad Mahrez scored a hat-trick in a 5-0 thrashing of Burnley to bounce back to winning ways in the Premier League. But for the fourth straight visit to the Etihad, Burnley conceded five times as City eased to within six points of league leader Liverpool with a game in hand. A stoppage time penalty from Pascal Gross left Liverpool frustrated as it was forced to settle for a 1-1 draw at Brighton. Gross drilled home his spot kick after a pitchside monitor review saw Andy Robertson punished for kicking the foot of Danny Welbeck. Liverpool had earlier seen two goals ruled out by VAR.   The results: Premier League: Brighton 1 (Gross 90-pen) drew with Liverpool 1 (Jota 60); Manchester City 5 (Mahrez 6, 22, 69, Mendy 41, Torres 66) bt Burnley 0.   LaLiga: Elche 1 (Boye 38) drew with Cadiz 1 (Gimenez 55); Valencia 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 1 (Lato 79-og).   Serie A: Sassuolo 0 lost to Inter Milan 3 (Sanchez 4, Chiriches 14-og, Gagliardini 60).   Bundesliga: Augsburg 1 (Vargas 80) drew with Freiburg 1 (Grifo 64); Dortmund 1 (Thorgan Hazard 74) lost to Cologne 2 (Skhiri 9, 60); Leipzig 2 (Angelino 29, Nkunu 47) bt Arminia 1 (Klos 75); Stuttgart 1 (Coulibaly 20) lost to Bayern Munich 3 (Coman 38, Lewandowski 45+1, Costa 87); Union Berlin 3 (Andrich 2, Kruse 6-pen, 82) drew with Eintracht Frankfurt 3 (Andre Silva 27, 36, Dost 79).   On Friday: Premier League: Crystal Palace 0 lost to Newcastle 2 (Wilson 88, Joelinton 89).   LaLiga: Real Valladolid 1 (Marcos Andre 57) drew with Levante 1 (Campana 83-pen).   Bundesliga: Wolfsburg 5 (Baku 22, Brooks 25, Weghorst 37, 76, Bialek 90+5) bt Werder Bremen 3 (Bittencourt 13, Mohwald 35, Brooks 47-og).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-frustrated-by-var/article33203536.ece
29 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Bagan pips East Bengal by one run||Writtick Chatterjee claimed three wickets as Mohun Bagan beat East Bengal by one run in a thrilling finish to the first cricket derby of the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Saturday. Bagan, electing to bat, posted 121 for five before barely stopping a winless EB. Even as left-arm seamer Kanishk Seth made some damage, opener Vivek Singh (41, 44b, 5x4, 1x6) played a few fine shots to help Bagan maintain a decent run rate. Captain’s knock Captain Anustup Majumdar (55 n.o., 37b, 7x4, 1x6) raised the tempo in the death overs to take Bagan to a respectable total. Akash Deep scalped two early wickets and Writtick, who donned the Bagan colours after recovering from COVID-19 infection, employed his off-spinners well to reduce EB to nine for three. Writtick trapped Shreevats Goswami in front in the second over and returned to have Ranjot Khaira (18) caught and bowled and Arnab Nandi (0) lbw in the 11th. A determined Sayan Mondal (52, 55b, 6x4) kept EB in the hunt before dropping his bat while completing a second run in the final delivery. He was run out. Bagan’s Manoj Tiwary has been ruled out of the event due to a knee injury.  The scores: Mohun Bagan 121/5 in 20 overs (Anustup Majumdar 55 n.o., Vivek Singh 41, Kanishk Seth 3/31) bt East Bengal 120/8 in 20 overs (Sayan Mondal 52, Writtick Chatterjee 3/6, Akash Deep 2/24).   Calcutta Customs 124/7 in 20 overs (Pradipta Pramanik 4/24) lost to Kalighat Club 125/3 in 18.2 overs (Sudip Chatterjee 47 n.o., Subham Chatterjee 36 n.o., Karan Lal 2/30).   On Friday: Tapan Memorial Club 154/3 in 20 overs (Sandipan Das 50 n.o., Shahbaz Ahmed 49) bt Mohun Bagan 112 in 18.1 overs (Ramesh Prasad 4/15, Prayas Ray Barman 2/29) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bagan-pips-east-bengal-by-one-run/article33203734.ece
29 November 2020||Cape Town,||England runs on Bairstow power||Jonny Bairstow powered England to a five-wicket win over South Africa in the first T20I at Newlands on Friday. Bairstow thrashed 86 not out off 48 balls as England chased down 180 with four balls to spare. England was struggling at 34 for three before Bairstow and Ben Stokes (37) changed the momentum with a fourth-wicket stand of 85. England captain Eoin Morgan said the win was “extremely pleasing, given that we were pretty average apart from two or three players.” Morgan said England's bowlers “missed areas”, although left-armer Sam Curran claimed a career-best three for 28 in South Africa's innings of 179 for six. Bairstow hit nine 4s and four 6s, finishing the match in style with his fourth six. Faf du Plessis top-scored for South Africa with 58 off 40 balls after his side was asked to bat. The next match is in Paarl on Sunday.  The scores: South Africa 179/6 in 20 overs (Quinton de Kock 30, Faf du Plessis 58, Rassie van der Dussen 37; Sam Curran 3/28) lost to England 183/5 in 19.2 overs (Jonny Bairstow 86 n.o., Ben Stokes 37; George Linde 2/20, Lungi Ngidi 2/31); Toss: England; MoM: Bairstow .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-runs-on-bairstow-power/article33203520.ece
29 November 2020||Pune:,||Anatevka runs with good chance||Trainer P. Shroff’s ward Anatevka, who is in good shape as evidenced by her morning trials, should win the DRC Cup, the main event of Mumbai races to be held in Pune on Sunday (Nov. 29). Rails will be announced an hour before the first race. There will be no totalisator betting operation at RWITC.  ASTRAL FLASH PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 2.00 p.m.: 1. Julio Cesaro (1) J. Chinoy 59, 2. Dancer Emperor (2) Prasad 57, 3. Brave (5) Aniket 55.5, 4. Falconette (3) Kaviraj 55.5, 5. Luminosity (10) Hanumant 55, 6. Hilad (4) Bhawani 54.5, 7. Royal Castle (7) Kuldeep 54.5, 8. Alpine Dancer (9) A. Prakash 53.5, 9. Miraculous (8) T.S. Jodha 52.5, 10. Periwinkle (6) Nazil 52 and 11. Pezula (11) Pranil 51.5.  1. PERIWINKLE, 2. BRAVE, 3. JULIO CESARO   ARISTOS PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 2.30: 1. Clark Kent (4) S.J. Sunil 60, 2. Exotique (1) Yash Narredu 57.5, 3. La Teste (6) Zervan 57.5, 4. Royalty (2) Srinath 57, 5. Its A Deal (13) Merchant 56.5, 6. Black Cherry (3) Kaviraj 56, 7. Memorable Eyes (12) Sandesh 55, 8. Peerless (10) T.S. Jodha 55, 9. Resolute (9) C.S. Jodha 55, 10. Southern Frontier (7) Bhawani 54, 11. Tigrio (11) Neeraj 54, 12. Adonijah (5) Prasad 53, 13. Rudimentary (14) Trevor 52.5 and 14. Soldier Of Fortune (8) Nazil 49.5.  1. ROYALTY, 2. MEMORABLE EYES, 3. RUDIMENTARY   KIARA PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 3.00: 1. Head Honcho (4) Kaviraj 56, 2. Maplewood (1) C.S.Jodha 56, 3. Taimur (2) Bhawani 56, 4. Twelfth Earl (5) Srinath 56, 5. Accenture (8) Sandesh 54.5, 6. Arcadia (10) Neeraj 54.5, 7. Farahnaaz (3) J.Chinoy 54.5, 8. Irish Eyes (6) Chouhan 54.5, 9. Luminous (7) Zervan 54.5, 10. Super Girl (9) Nazil 54.5 and 11. Who Dares You (11) Dashrath 54.5.  1. TAIMUR, 2. SUPER GIRL, 3. ACCENTURE   GRAND PASSION PLATE (1,600m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 — 3.30: 1. Lorito (12) Trevor 62, 2. Historian (10) Peter 61.5, 3. Martini (7) Kirtish Bhagat 61, 4. Retained Asset (9) Malam 60.5, 5. Dowsabel (5) Zervan 60, 6. Makati (8) Kuldeep 60, 7. Brianna (withdrawn), 8. Saddle The Wind (16) A. Prakash 59, 9. Blazing Bay (2) Bhawani 58.5, 10. Grey Falcon (11) Kaviraj 58.5, 11. Miss Scarlett (6) Sandesh 58.5, 12. Jack Flash (13) Nazil 54.5, 13. Supreme Being (1) Neeraj 53.5, 14. Chezza (3) Merchant 52.5, 15. Cristo Boss (4) Prasad 51 and 16. Zeemo (14) Pranil 49.5.  1. MARTINI, 2. LORITO, 3. MISS SCARLET   KIARA PLATE (Div.II) (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o only — 4.00: 1. Casanova Prince (4) Sandesh 56, 2. Marrakesh (3) N.Rawal 56, 3. North Star (5) Trevor 56, 4. Summer Night (7) C.S.Jodha 56, 5. Memorable Moments (2) Dashrath 54.5, 6. Noble Queen (8) Yash Narredu 54.5, 7. Peppoli (10) Parmar 54.5, 8. She Is On Fire (6) Santosh G. 54.5, 9. Trinket (1) Bhawani 54.5 and 10. Virasat (9) Zervan 54.5.  1. NORTH STAR, 2. NOBLE QUEEN, 3. PEPPOLI   DRC CUP (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 4.30: 1. Storm Breaker (7) Yash Narredu 61, 2. Anatevka (2) Kirtish Bhagat 60.5, 3. Dandi March (6) C.S. Jodha 60, 4. Pokerface (4) Chouhan 59, 5. Hidden Gold (9) Trevor 57.5, 6. My Precious (5) A. Prakash 54.5, 7. Tasch (8) Zervan 53, 8. Arc Shine (3) Malam 52.5, 9. Epiphany (11) T.S. Jodha 51.5, 10. Questina (1) Sandesh 51, 11. Divine Hunt (10) Nazil 50.5 and 12. Properly Posh (12) Neeraj 49.  1. ANATEVKA, 2. DANDI MARCH, 3. STORM BREAKER   ASTRAL FLASH PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 5.00: 1. Judy Blue Eyes (1) Chouhan 61.5, 2. Turmeric Tower (3) Kaviraj 59.5, 3. Exotic Queen (11) Peter 59, 4. Flameoftheforest (7) Yash Narredu 59, 5. Godsword (10) J. Chinoy 59, 6. Bonafide (8) S. Kamble 58.5, 7. Alpine Express (6) Kuldeep 57.5, 8. Sky Fall (9) Trevor 57.5, 9. Isinit (12) A. Prakash 57, 10. Dilbar (2) Hanumant 56, 11. La Peregrina (4) Dashrath 52.5 and 12. Magic In The Wind (5) N.S. Parmar 52.  1. FLAMEOFTHEFOREST, 2. TURMERIC TOWER, 3. SKY FALL .  DAY’S BEST: ROYALTY   DOUBLE: TAIMUR — FLAMEOFTHEFOREST||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anatevka-runs-with-good-chance/article33204026.ece
29 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||Forest Flame wins Bangalore 1000 Guineas||S. Attaollahi-trained Forest Flame (Trevor up), won the Bangalore 1000 Guineas, the chief event of the races held here on Saturday (Nov. 28). The winner is owned by Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. rep. by Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole & Mrs. Deina Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala, DT Racing & Breeding LLP rep. by Mr. D.R. Thacker & Mr. Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs. Trevor, who rode confidently, kept his filly third last till home stretch, started manoeuvring his mount in the last 400m. Forest Flame accelerated tremendously and galloped with giant strides to overtake the leader Perfectimagination passing the last 300m mark and went on to clear her fourth win in facile manner.  The results:   LINGANAMAKKI PLATE (1,200m), rated 00 to 20: GREEN CHANNEL (S. John) 1, Indian Star (Kiran Rai) 2, Anakin (J.H. Arul) 3 and Song And Dance (Rayan) 4. Not run: Tiger Returns. 2, Snk and 8-1/4. 1m 15.75s. Rs. 35 (w), 21, 18 and 23 (p), SHP: 62, THP: 85, FP: 155, Q: 153, Trinella: 1,449 and 621, Exacta: 12,787 (carried over). Favourite: Green Channel. Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Neil Devaney.  BELUR PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): CHRISTOPHER WREN (Srinath) 1, Livisilla (Neeraj) 2, Amazing Blaze (Trevor) 3 and Cavallini (Anjar Alam) 4. Not run: Handsome and Sand Castles. 4-1/2, 3 and 2-3/4. 1m 27.49s. Rs. 23 (w), 14, 78 and 12 (p), SHP: 129, THP: 41, FP: 555, Q: 442, Trinella: 1,337 and 573, Exacta: 1,549 and 664. Favourite: Christopher Wren. Owners: Manjri Horse Breed Farm Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. Anneka Darashah. Trainer: Neil Darashah.  BRAHMAGIRI PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: CHEROKEE MOON (Suraj) 1, Raven Rock (Zervan) 2, Handsome Rocky (Sai Kiran) 3 and Smoke The Grass (Neeraj) 4. Not run: Stunning Beauty. 1-3/4, 5-1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m 16.63s. Rs. 17 (w), 12, 10 and 129 (p), SHP: 37, THP: 243, FP: 51, Q: 75, Trinella: 6,173 and 1,322, Exacta: 3,279 and 937. Favourite: Cherokee Moon. Owners: Mr. Shantanu Sharma & Mrs. Shreya Rajesh Narredu. Trainer: S. Narredu.  KRISHNA RAJA SAGARA PLATE (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over: LEGENDARY PRINCESS (Srinath) 1, Marco Polo (J.H. Arul) 2, Augustina (Anjar Alam) 3 and Gazebo Talk (Arshad) 4. 1/2, 1-1/2 and 1. 1m 29.53s. Rs. 27 (w), 20, 14 and 20 (p), SHP: 44, THP: 69, FP: 96, Q: 71, Trinella: 342 and 280, Exacta: 10,732 (carried over). Favourite: Legendary Princess. Owners: Radiant Blood Stock Pvt. Ltd. rep by. Mrs. Sharmila Padmanabhan and Mr. S. Padmanabhan & Dr. S.P. Sardeshmukh. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  HYDERABAD SILVER VASE (1,200m), rated 75 & above: CERISE NOIR (Akshay K) 1. Automatic (Suraj) 2, Psychic Warrior (Irvan) 3 and Into The Spotlight (Trevor) 4. Lnk, Lnk and 3. 1m 14.11s. Rs. 18 (w), 14, 24 and 16 (p), SHP: 57, THP: 45, FP: 101, Q: 57, Trinella: 391 and 274, Exacta: 1,098 and 385. Favourite: Cerise Noir. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  BANGALORE 1000 GUINEAS (1,600m), 3-y-o fillies, (Terms): FOREST FLAME (Leitir Mor-Memory Bay) Trevor 1 , Antibes (Multidimensional-Fond Fantasy) S. John 2, Rani Jindan (Win Legend-Chapmans Peak) Neeraj 3 and Allabouther (Win Legend-Somethingabouther) Zervan 4. 7, 7-3/4 and 1-3/4. 1m 40.15s. Rs. 10 (w), 10, 13 and 18 (p), SHP: 27, THP: 44, FP: 20, Q: 19, Trinella: 96 and 58, Exacta: 250 and 86. Favourite: Forest Flame. Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. rep. by Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole & Mrs. Deina Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala, DT Racing & Breeding LLP rep. by Mr. D.R. Thacker & Mr. Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs. Trainer: S. Attollahi.  MANDYA PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50: GALVARINO (Akshay K) 1, The Response (Shreyas Singh) 2, Port Of Beauty (Jagadeesh) 3 and Anne Boleyn (Trevor) 4. Not run: Alexandre Dumas. 5, 1-1/2 and 2. 1m 14.77s. Rs. 23 (w), 10, 35 and 63 (p), SHP: 189, THP: 94, FP: 1,727, Q: 660, Trinella: 2,698 and 6,297 (carried over), Exacta: 6,156 (carried over). Favourite: Galvarino. Owner: Mr. Sujay Kumar Puttanna. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  BRAHMAGIRI PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: MICHIGAN MELODY (Zervan) 1, Stroke Of Genius (S. John) 2, Welcome Surprise (Trevor) 3 and Perfect Perfecto (Chethan G) 4. Not run: Ombudsman. 3, 3-3/4 and 1-3/4. 1m 15.59s. Rs. 214 (w), 28, 12 and 18 (p), SHP: 34, THP: 52, FP: 8,697, Q: 6,752, Trinella: 2,370 and 5,530 (carried over), Exacta: 7,238 (carried over). Favourite: Splash. Owner: Mr. Satish G. Kundapur. Trainer: B. Prithviraj. Jackpot: Rs. 8,636 (four tkts); Runner-up: 80 (185 tkts); Treble (i): 82 (55 tkts); (ii): 1,493 (three tkts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/forest-flame-wins-bangalore-1000-guineas/article33203533.ece
29 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Mytrah-Gopi Foundation renew Khel Udaan||Mytrah Energy and Gopichand Foundation have decided to renew the Khel Udaan project for another three years. The project was launched in December 2016 by chief National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand under the guidance of the Sports Authority of India and the Sports Authority of Telangana State. Vikram Kailas, VC & MD of Mytrah Energy (India) Pvt. Ltd, was present during the renewal of the project. “This project has adopted a system-driven module which rests on a coach-led approach, a relentless focus on athletes and holistic development of the athletes,” Gopi said on Friday. There are 42 athletes who are part of the project now, most of them from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mytrah-gopi-foundation-renew-khel-udaan/article33203953.ece
29 November 2020||Hyderabad,||ACA seniors’ camp from December 4||Andhra Cricket Association will organise a camp-cum-selection matches for seniors at the Andhra Cricket Academy (Vizianagaram) from December 4 to 31, according to ACA secretary V. Durga Prasad. Those chosen have to report on Dec. 3 with a COVID-19 negative report to be obtained between Nov. 29 and Dec. 3.   Players selected: C.R. Gnaneswar, D.B. Prasanth Kumar, K. Maheep Kumar, T. Vamsi Krishna Jr, Ch. Kranthi Kumar, N. Vamsi Krishna, A. Ashwin Hebbar, M.U.B. Sriram, G. Jayawardhane, Ricky Bhui, A. Karan Shinde, G. Hanuma Vihari, B.A. Sumanth, N. Jyothi Sai Krishna, M. Praneeth, Y. Sandeep, T. Bala Subrahmanyam, M. Dheeraj Kumar, K.S. Bharat, U.M.S. Girinath, S. Tarun, K. Nitish Kumar Reddy, P. Girinath Reddy, D. Naren Reddy, P.P. Manohar, Shoib Md Khan, A. Vinay Kumar, H. Shiva Raj, G. Manish, S. Ashish, B. Vinay Kumar, A. Lalith Mohan, Ch. Sneha Kishore, D. Swaroop Kumar, Sk. Ismail, K.V. Shasikanth, Ch. Stephen, B. Ayyappa, S.M.D. Rafi, Y. Prudhvi Raj, V. Venu, T. Tapaswi, I. Karthi Raman, M. Hari Shankar Reddy and B. Santosh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aca-seniors-camp-from-december-4/article33203954.ece
29 November 2020||Dubai:,||India fined for slow over-rate||Team India was fined 20 per cent of its match fee for a slow over-rate in the first ODI against Australia in Sydney on Friday. India took four hours and six minutes to complete its 50 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-fined-for-slow-over-rate/article33203521.ece
29 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen ahead||World champion Magnus Carlsen miraculously managed to keep Ian Nepomniachtchi at bay after escaping defeats in two successive games for a 2.5-1.5 victory in the first set of the $100,000 Skilling Open online chess tournament on Friday. In the other semifinal, Wesley So stayed in control and won 2.5-1.5. Playing white, Carlsen won the first game, forcing the Russian to resign on the 26th move. In the second, Nepomniachtchi was close to victory after 49 moves, but faltered on the 50th to let Carlsen force a draw three moves later.  The results:   Semifinals: Set One: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) 2.5-1.5.   Wesley So (USA) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 2.5-1.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-ahead/article33203531.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Pioneer CC advances||UP Ranji Trophy batsman and man-of-the-match Shivam Chaudhary scored an unbeaten 57-ball 83 and was supported by a 50 not out by Shantanu as Pioneer Cricket Club registered an easy nine-wicket win against San Time Watch CC to enter the pre-quarterfinals of the 30th All India Om Nath Sood memorial tourney.  The scores: STW CC 137 in 36 overs (Aditya Verma 44 not out, Chirag Tyagi 39; Vijay Kumar 3/28, Sanjay Chaudhary 2/12) lost to Pioneer CC 141/1 in 21.1 overs (Shivam Chaudhary 83 not out, Shantanu 50 not out) .    Dinesh Mor top-scored with 90 and Vanshaj Sharma picked up four wickets for 19 runs as Bal Bhawan Academy beat Telefunken Club by 78 runs in the 5th Shanti Devi memorial tournament.  The scores: BBA 235/8 in 40 overs (Dinesh Mor 90, Yash Dhull 60, Arpit Rana 39; Siddhant Bansal 3/36) bt Telefunken Club 157 in 36.5 overs (Bharat Sindwani 52; Vanshaj Sharma 4/19) .      Delhi Under-23 batsman Ayush Badoni struck a match-winning 134 while Subodh Bhati contributed 61 and picked up three wickets as Sagal and Chaudhary Academy beat Delhi Challengers by 75 runs to enter the semifinals of the Eventeurs Cup.  The scores: SCA 318/6 in 50 overs (Ayush Badoni 134, Subodh Bhati 61, Anmol Sharma 40, Gaurav Tomar 37) bt Delhi Challengers 243 in 38.5 overs (Karan Sharma 64, Kartikey Kumar 50; Subodh Bhati 3/53, Faizan Alam 3/38) .    Varun Pal’s three-for-13 helped Maulana Azad Club beat T.N. Memorial by four wickets in the BR Sharma memorial tournament.  The scores: TN Memorial 129 in 34.5 overs (Amey Singh 41; Varun Pal 3/13) lost to MAC 133/6 in 35 overs (Ayush Tyagi 33 not out) .    All-round performance by Ajay Kumar and a half-century by Akash Yadav helped Sant Kabir Academy beat Manthan Academy by four wickets to enter the semifinals of the 3rd Vicky Bandrey memorial under-16 tournament.  The scores: Manthan Academy 212/7 in 40 overs (Yash Dabas 67, Kartikey Rana 60, Ashish Kumar 40; Ajay Kumar 3/36) lost to SKA 215/6 in 38.3 overs (Akash Yadav 57, Ajay Kumar 40, Karan Garg 46; Sammy Kadian 3/32) .        Bowlers Kartik Kalra and Vishal Singh ran through City Academy’s line-up to set up a 10-wicket win for Sporting Club in the Satish Sharma memorial under-16 tournament.  The scores: City Academy 56 in 20 overs (Kartik Kalra 3/05, Vishal Singh 3/06) lost to Sporting Club 57 for no loss in 8 overs (Kunal Sangwan 30 not out, Vansh Gupta 21 not out) .    Rohan Kumar scored an unbeaten 47 and Aryan Kumar picked up four wickets as West Delhi Academy beat Telefunken Club by six wickets to lift the Turf Youth Cup Under-13 tournament. Aryan was named man-of-the-match, Abhiraj best batsman, Gagan Singh best bowler, Naitik Mathur best wicketkeeper, Ekansh Molwani best fielder and Meenakshi Vashishth named man-of-the-tournament.  The scores:   Telefunken Club 103 in 37.1 overs (Chinmoy Vashishth 32; Aryan Kumar 4/25) lost to WDA 104/4 in 33.5 overs (Rohan Kumar 47 not out).        Two wickets apiece for Rajneesh Dadar, Varun Bhati and Abhiraj Rana helped Ravindra Academy beat Sonnet Club by four wickets to enter the semifinals of the 1st Bhola Singh Memorial Under-17 tournament.  The scores:  Sonnet Club 167/7 in 35 overs (Hitesh Boora 50) lost to Ravindra Academy 168/6 in 31 overs (Sohail Khan 40, Naitik Vij 36).     Man-of-the-match Sumit Mathur top-scored with 89 runs as Sai Develop Zone beat Aarush Sports by four wickets in the 1st Tripathi Premier League.  The scores:   Aarush Sports 195 in 40 overs (Arvind Verma 56; Sikander 4/52) lost to SDZ 196/6 in 36 overs (Sumit Mathur 89).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pioneer-cc-advances/article33203947.ece
29 November 2020||MANAMA,||Maiden F2 podium for Daruvala||India’s Jehan Daruvala clinched the third spot, his maiden FIA Formula 2 podium at the Bahrain GP Support Race on Saturday. The Red Bull Racing Junior is the first Indian to stand on the podium in an FIA Formula 2 Race. Jehan made an excellent start for the feature race from eighth, and gained two places and stayed in sixth for a few laps before finishing third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maiden-f2-podium-for-daruvala/article33203528.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 08:01 IST,||Sudoku - November 29, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-29-2020/article33204159.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I speak from the heart’||“Why do you fans from Chennai hate me so much?” grins Sanjay Manjrekar, as he logs on to a late evening Zoom call from Mumbai, where he is in a bio-bubble. Over the two decades he has been on television, the former cricketer-turned-commentator has seen several highs and lows. However, by his own admission, 2019 was a terrible year. It was the year of the ‘bits and pieces’ controversy — a comment he used to describe Indian cricketer Ravindra Jadeja that made the headlines. It was also the year he had an on-air spat with fellow commentator Harsha Bhogle, for which he later apologised. Comparatively, 2020 has been relatively quiet for Manjrekar, who was dropped from BCCI’s commentary panel earlier this year, reportedly for the Jadeja comment; he was not part of the IPL 2020 commentary panel. However, with the current India-Australia series under way Down Under, Manjrekar is back on air. Edited excerpts from an interview: How do you look back at 2019, a year when so many things went wrong? When you play cricket, you know what a good year is because you have statistics to endorse that. But commentary is not like that; it is about how your analysis is or how your predictions fare. Last year, the problem was that the moment I said something would happen, the opposite of that would take place. I equate that with having a bad run. However, my thought process has been the same ever since I started out as a commentator. How has 2020 been so far?  I felt like someone answered my long-time wish. I had travelled so much in my life that I had gotten sick of airports and security, and craved for a simple routine at home. I enjoyed the first few months during lockdown, and then, of course, I was working from home. As long as there is a cricket match going on and I can share my thoughts on it, I am happy. Being back in the commentary box must feel good...  For me, commentary is like riding a bike; you just sit, and you are on your way. This is something I have done the most in my life. In fact, I did not even play cricket as long as I have been into talking about it. What are your unforgettable memories of India-Australia clashes?  A lot come to mind. There have been great individual performances by Sachin [Tendulkar] and VVS Laxman, but I must say that Virat Kohli giving Australia a taste of their own medicine with his scores was thrilling to watch. How did you handle being removed from the BCCI commentary panel earlier this year?  Not many people know that I have been removed twice before as well. It was for something that I had tweeted. It is not easy, of course, but in many ways, I have become thick-skinned about such things. We all talk about the glamour of the commentators’ job. But is it also a little tricky, especially when you are being critical of a star player?  Commentary has always been the most sought-after job for cricketers post retirement. But now, people are very sensitive and everything gets amplified due to multiple media platforms. So, one has to be careful, but there is still a lot of value for truth. I do not claim to be right, but I claim to be pure and speak from the heart. A lot of people get pessimistic that I am still around as a commentator, but the fact that channels still offer me a job proves that this path is not a bad one to take. Would you then describe yourself as a misunderstood commentator?  My remark about Ravindra Jadeja being a ‘bits and pieces player’ was not me being wrong as a commentator, but only because English is not everyone’s second language. People caught on to that only because Jadeja reacted. The only mistake I will hold myself responsible for, in all my twenty years of commentary, is the Harsha Bhogle incident (when Manjrekar took an apparent dig at Harsha’s credentials), where I allowed him to get under my skin and said something that was not in good taste. Have your thoughts on Jadeja evolved since?  My selection and thoughts are based on a principle that I have learnt over the years: if you have specialists who can walk in based on one discipline, you fill your team with those players. I do not have a problem with Jadeja; I have a problem with his kind of cricketers in white-ball cricket. Even Hardik Pandya will not be in my team. They add illusionary value to the team. Of course, I have always rated Jadeja highly in the Test format.  Watch the India-Australia cricket clash on SONY TEN 1, SONY TEN 3 and SONY SIX channels   I do not have a problem with Jadeja; I have a problem with his kind of cricketers in white-ball cricket. They add illusionary value to the team Sanjay Manjrekar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/i-speak-from-the-heart/article33203685.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Maradona was here||The news of Argentinian football legend Diego Maradona’s demise has left a void among scores of fans in football-frenzy Kerala. Malayalis, however, are also cherishing the memories of the icon’s tryst with the State when he made a two-day visit to Kannur to inaugurate a showroom of Chemmanur International Jewellers group in 2012. Hotel Blue Nile, the hotel suite in Kannur, where the soccer legend briefly stayed has been turned into a “museum” of sorts, replete with real-life memorabilia and the articles he used and left behind. Room number 309 is now known as ‘The Maradona Suite’ and its proprietor, V. Ravindran, says he wanted to pay a tribute to his football idol. He adds that a commemoration was organised on Thursday in memory of the football legend. ‘A visit by God himself’ Ravindran remembers the time Maradona set foot in his hotel, to the wonderment of his staff and friends. “It was as if the God himself was visiting us,” he says, adding, “Six months prior to his visit, we got instructions about a potential occupancy by a VIP but we were not told who it was. Following a security assessment and three months later, we were told that Maradona was going to stay here.”  Maradona landed at the Kozhikode airport on October 23, 2012, and arrived in Kannur in a chartered helicopter. “Upon his arrival, we presented a bouquet and felicitated him with a ponnada (golden shawl). Through his secretary and interpreter, I introduced myself and, much to my surprise, Maradona came forward and hugged me, before proceeding to his room where he was offered tender coconut water,” says Ravindran, adding that he was given a food menu for Maradona’s stay. Ravindran says that Maradona liked Russian salad and the staff were well-equipped to ensure that he felt at home. “We had already researched about his food preferences on the Internet. We roped in a top chef from Ernakulam who specialised in such delicacies,” he adds. Naturally, security was beefed up and the suite was customised to suit his liking. “The entire room had to be modified as mandated by the authorities. We had imported and kept a brand of chocolate that he was known to be quite fond of,” he says, adding, “We had also hung photos of his family on the walls to make him feel at home,” says Ravindran. The footballer left the following evening after the photoshoot for the jewellery brand, the arrangement of which was made inside the hotel. Following the legend’s demise, there is a renewed interest in the hotel with football fans dropping by to take a peek into the suite, while booking enquiries have ostensibly gone up, says Ravindran. Among the things preserved at “Maradona Museum” are cutlery and toiletry used by him, the outer shell of the tender coconut offered to him, and the outer shell of a tiger prawn that was specially prepared for him. “Maradona signed on the curated food menu and later autographed footballs emblazoned with ‘Diego 10’. We have kept them in the room since,” says Ravindran, adding, “Before he left, he gave me another hug. I will never forget that moment.” The hotel has since rented out its hallowed suite sporadically for “true-blue Maradona fans” at Rs. 7,500 a night. Last month, Ravindran and his staff celebrated Maradona’s 60th birthday in his now-famous suite. He adds that plans are on to erect a statue in his memory near the hotel’s entrance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/maradona-was-here/article33203682.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrating India||The Chennai-based Tamil Heritage Trust (THT) hosts a week-long online Indology Festival till December 6. The festival will feature a dozen talks by leading scholars from India and abroad, as well as panel discussions and contests for heritage lovers. THT is an independent, non-profit instituted in 2010 with a vision to better understand, appreciate, and celebrate the rich storehouse of knowledge that Indian heritage is. The themes covered include Indian pre-History, Harappan culture, temple architecture, Indian mathematics, Chola bronzes, and heritage conservation. There will be two talks every day, starting at 7 p.m., followed by a discussion and a Q&A session with the live audience. The line-up includes renowned archaeologist, historian and recipient of the Padma Bhushan, R. Nagaswamy; Tom Levy of the University of California, San Diego; Adam Hardy of Cardiff University; Rajesh P.N. Rao of University of Washington; and Sharada Srinivasan of National Institute of Advanced Studies. K. Ramasubramanian of IIT Bombay; Amartya Dutta of the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata; Ravi Korisettar of Karnatak University; and Sanskrit scholar G. Sankaranarayanan of National Sanskrit University, Tirupati; are also slated to speak. Dr. Vilayanur Ramachandran, eminent neuroscientist and author of Phantoms in the Brain, will inaugurate the festival with his talk on the history of ideas and the role India has played in the march of civilisation. Several contests will run in parallel for heritage aficionados to participate in. I Love This Monument invites video buffs to make their own short videos on monuments they love. Showcase A Lesser Known Temple is a contest to promote a local, historically-important temple which has so far remained less well known. There is also a contest for budding heritage journalists, where they can report on the sessions at the conference and win prizes. The event is free but registration is a must.For details, look up www.tamilheritage.in or write to tamilheritage.in@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/celebrating-india/article33203687.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The kiss||Following the registering of a case against the Netflix series, A Suitable Boy , the Home Minister of Madhya Pradesh has said: “The examination prima facie found that these scenes are hurting the sentiments of a particular religion.” The sequence in question is of a pair of young lovers kissing in what looks like a Hindu temple; the young woman is Hindu, the young man is Muslim. The brouhaha has also linked up with the ‘love jihad’ laws being brought in by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Prima facie, we can ascertain the following: 1. A BJP student leader watched an English-language TV serial on Netflix. He found some scenes to be so offensive that he put aside all his important student-leader work and filed a memorandum to the police demanding an apology from Netflix and removal of the scenes. 2. The SP of Rewa found time from his other duties — of solving cases of rape, robbery and murder, of which Rewa and MP have a fair share — to prioritise this complaint, ‘investigate’ it, and then make statements. 3. Narottam Mishra, the Home Minister of one of the largest States in the country, in the middle of a massive pandemic and agricultural crisis, also found time and energy to get involved in this critical matter and pronounce on it. Who is hurt? The matter occupying these worthies has two parts: A. An adult woman and man consensually kiss in the precincts of a temple, B. The woman is Hindu, the man is Muslim. This fleeting scene (it’s not a long kiss, this is India in the 1950s) is deemed to be ‘hurting the sentiments of a particular religion’. So, not people or a person, but an entire religion is personified. This religion supposedly possesses sentiments, just like a person does. Presumably this religion is Hinduism, since no non-Hindu has taken offence. So, we are to accept that a few seconds of two actors kissing each other on TV have ‘hurt’ one of the most ancient, diverse and widespread belief systems on the planet. Nay, those 30 seconds or whatever of lightest lip-lock ‘are hurting’, in the present continuous tense, as in still continuing to land blows upon this beleaguered religion. As with Salman Rushdie’s English novel The Satanic Verses , M.F. Husain’s drawings of goddesses, Taslima Nasrin’s Bangla novel Lajja ( Shame in English) and Wendy Doniger’s The Hindus , one has to ask: how many people would have actually read the books, seen the drawings or watched the TV series labelled as offensive? When political or religio-political leaders claim religious offence on behalf of a large mass of people, this is the first proof of their dangerous dishonesty: without the proclamation of outrage how many Muslims would have come to know of Rushdie’s or Nasrin’s novels and how many Hindus would have gone to see modern art in a small gallery in Ahmedabad or read a scholarly tome of thick history? Likewise, how many viewers in Rewa would have watched an English series like A Suitable Boy ? Next, out of the not merely literate but literature-reading and art-exhibition going public, how many would have been offended to the point of breaking the law and engaging in violence? In a country like Iran, where Khomeini first declares his fatwa against Rushdie, very few people read English; in a country like India very few people read at all and a far more minuscule number go to art galleries. So why magnify the supposed offence and broadcast it around the world? The obvious answer is: for political gain. You do it to create mass outrage in people who would never have opened a book or seen a modern painting and you do it by shouting ‘such and such a book/painting/film/play exists and it attacks your most precious beliefs!’ Once the politician, malignant mullah or pseudo-sadhu riles people up, he then piggy-backs on that outrage to greater power. This leader, who has a choice of ignoring a book, painting or a film, chooses instead to pull that article out of its small niche and use it as a political football. So what? The main question, though, puts aside all calculations of people numbers. Simply put, the question is: so what? So what if somebody insults your prophet or your religion? So what if someone draws a cartoon, or a nude drawing of one your holy figures, and that too in a culture where eroticism has long been celebrated in sacred art, poetry and literature? So what if someone publishes a history of your civilisation that you think is false? Equally, so what if a Muslim man and a Hindu girl willingly kiss each other? For the hundreds of thousands of us who refuse to accept that a knife or a gun, or a bomb or riots can ever be a justifiable response to a book or an image, our work is cut out and it is to remind others of why this intolerance is so poisonous, of why it’s not ever merely about culture or hurt sentiments, of why it’s simply a sneaky back way for reactionary obscurantists to gain and retain power.  Not people or a person, but an entire religion is personified. This religion supposedly possesses sentiments, just like a person does||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-kiss/article33203859.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Morel lessons||Hot on the heels of the fabled rosogolla wars there’s a new battle being fought between the layers of the fragrant beds of biryani. It is best to declare that what Kolkata eats today will be on the nation’s tables tomorrow. If Mumbai is the commercial heart of India, Kolkata is its stomach. Some will call it the underbelly. Its street food is quite as inventive as its bastions of privilege. The sandesh this season has already stamped itself out in miniature tribute to the spiky contours the COVID-19 virus. When the Titanic won at the Oscars, sandesh floated into the market in the shape of ships. While experts waste time arguing whether the addition of small balls of sweetened figs to biryani entitles its maker to call it ‘rosogolla biryani’, I can safely predict that this too will soon go places. In this season of luxury lockdown weddings, the demand is for visual gratification. The only arbiter of taste today is social media. Last year, morels or guchhi — the endangered truffles found in the valleys of Himachal Pradesh — was included in every celebrity menu. Its decimation by herdsman hounded by epicureans has led to artificially enhanced morels being imported from Europe. Chow for all seasons Does it matter that Bengal’s biryani is itself an import from the kitchens of Oudh, brought in by the exiled last nawab, Wajid Ali Shah? Or that the local bawarchis added potatoes to give it a uniquely local texture (and save on meat)? Did the nawab and his retinue also bring with them their exquisite custom of offering paan with crushed pearls and other intoxicating ingredients? And, along with that, the public service of marking walls and sidewalks with the red juice of the chewed gob. But the most significant addition to Kolkata’s culinary stock exchange has to be Chinese food. Two centuries after the first Chinese traders arrived in Calcutta with their woks and noodles, the conquest of Manchuria by Marwari tastebuds is now complete. Chow (the noodles, not the dog) appears in every roadside dhaba and hotel. It is both Indian and Chinese, the flagship of the new bourgeoisie. Let’s forget for now that an authentic Chinese dinner consists of a number of courses that alternate between soups, delicately wrapped wonton parcels, bowls of steamed and stir-fried morsels, ending with rice. Nothing is wasted here: if the chief ingredient is duck, every fragment of the bird is consumed except for its quack, as the saying goes. The Kolkata avatar of Chinese food, is, however, mostly vegetarian. The mushrooms, broccoli and baby corn may be sliced obliquely according to custom, but they are deep-fried and doused in hot-sweet-sour sauces of a spectacular colour and uniform taste enhanced with MSG. I was inspired to write this after watching the documentary, A Life on Our Planet, presented by the 93-year-old David Attenborough as a final testament to his life-long search for nature in the wilder reaches of the earth. Is there a certain irony in the fact that the first foreign footprints on the banks of the Hooghly were left by his predecessors? Greatest happiness William Hickey, the 18th-century British diarist and chronicler, exemplified what it meant to be king of the table in Calcutta’s golden era. His descriptions of gargantuan meals are the forerunners of the chicken country captains and trifle puddings that still survive in the planters’ clubs in hill stations. The exquisitely detailed oil paintings of the era also underline the opulent lifestyle born out of a capital merger between the old feudal order and colonial enterprise. It allowed one to believe that consumption by the elite is the greatest happiness for those who produce it. The Bengal famine of 1943, which led to death by starvation of three million people because food supplies were diverted by the British to their troops, is called an anthropogenic or man-made catastrophe. As the Gandhian revolutionary, Freda Bedi, wrote of that time, it was “not just the problem of rice and the availability of rice. It was the problem of society in fragments.” This is exactly the conclusion Attenborough arrives at towards the end of the documentary. We are a multitude of people living in fragments. It will need the combined will of each one of us to reverse the decline and heal the planet. In the wake of the pandemic, as we look at ways to heal ourselves, it is best we make do with simulations — float figs in biryani — rather than hunt all the truffles we can find to pander to our insatiable desires. The Chennai-based writer is a critic and cultural commentator.  Two centuries after the first Chinese traders arrived in Calcutta with their woks and noodles, the conquest of Manchuria by Marwari tastebuds is now complete||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/morel-lessons/article33203796.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||A voice for the capital||Pragmatic and rational, he always looked straight in your eye and chuckled before explaining any planning interventions. The ‘gentleman’ crowned by colourful turbans never offered instant solutions. And before dismissing anything, he would suggest a simple alternative to achieve the same goal. This was almost always followed by a swift movement of the neck, a clapping of his hands, and a burst of laughter. Architect Kuldip Singh who passed away this month at the age of 86 will be sorely missed at a time when the national capital needs his wise counsel the most. Born in Shimla and raised in New Delhi, he knew the intricacies of his city well. His sharp mind and intellect supported voices to protect the city. Singh argued against both the tunnelling under the Humayun Tomb complex and the elevated Barapullah Road that cut across the skyline. He spoke against the elevated Metro that divided neighbourhoods and burdened the existing arterial road network. He was dismayed at the losses suffered by the capital in the name of last-mile connectivity and warned of the consequences of denying connectivity to the city’s interiors. Singh had earlier also worked with groups that resisted the government’s plan to build a mall over Safdarjung Airport. Of late, he had been busy preparing a charge against the mindless building activity proposed for the Central Vista, which has been designed to hover above the city’s tree line and create a canyon-like environment that can eventually be cordoned off in parts to deny people the public space that belongs to them. He constantly raised an alarm against proposals that might deface buildings or the commercial instincts that compromised the civic realm. Singh had a fine eye for detail. Reason with ease Forever the voice of reason, Singh saw value in engaging with people’s imaginations and creating opportunities for civic sensibilities to find space in well-defined urban envelopes. He worked with ease across the north and the south. Singh studied architecture at the School of Planning and Architecture, New Delhi, where he later taught, and at University College London. He briefly worked on Howard Robertson’s Library building at the University of Keele that used innovative structural design. Singh designed landmark buildings, including the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) headquarters on Parliament Street, and the office buildings of the National Cooperative Development Corporation. His works define a new and modern urban spatial structure. Singh adapted, employing unique techniques to create a different construction language. Singh was one of the last of the professionals who prescribed architectural specifications that required an understanding of the grain of materials. He would check the wood mandi and stone quarries to be assured of quality. Brutalist, minimal, and functional, his designs created civic arenas and flexible spaces with concrete to be economical. Within these, he provided a human touch at eye-level employing fine details. He introduced large glass panels, bronze accessories, and a humane articulation using a controlled vocabulary. Singh also designed a DDA (Delhi Development Authority) housing complex in Saket, for which a small prototype was tested as Usha Niketan in Hauz Khas, Delhi. The urban typology provided for a network of open spaces and flexibility. Singh also designed the M Pavilion at Pragati Maidan. In the early 70s, Singh set up an independent practice that resulted in the development of the Marine Drive waterfront in Kochi and the wholesale markets on the outskirts of Chennai. Singh also provided inputs for the Vision-2030 plan in Kochi. His later works included housing designs for Delhi Metro Rail Corporation at Shastri Park and a master plan for the malls in Delhi’s Saket. He was able to infuse practicality in any design, making the projects feasible. An open mind Singh had an open mind, informed by his diverse readings and wide interests. This quality extended into his personal life as well. Over 40 years, Singh acquired a vast collection of objects and glass paintings from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala. Having familiarised himself with the provenance of every single piece, Singh supervised their restoration with painstaking detail. A part of the collection was once on display at the Kiran Nadar Museum. Over 350 of them are now at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya in Mumbai. His home, now redeveloped, in Delhi’s Bhogal area provides an almost Alice in Wonderland -like feel, with its solid wood Chettinad doors, pillars and carvings in stark contrast to the hustle and bustle of the cityscape outside with its car repair garages and rooting pigs. This was his home and office, and he always smiled at any comment on this reminder of reality. As a planner and architect, Singh will be always revered as a part of the original group that promoted a modernist agenda based on ambition and hope. He worked with ground realities to push for change and improvement in the lives of the people and to create new opportunities in promoting civic environments. His legacy as one among the few who were able to articulate new beginnings for a developing nation and show the path for change will be an inspiration and a reminder to get back on track. The writer is an architect, urban designer, and planner based in New Delhi.  In the early 70s, Singh set up an independent practice that resulted in the development of the Marine Drive waterfront in Kochi and the wholesale markets on Chennai’s outskirts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-voice-for-the-capital/article33203857.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Reality bites||The title might cause you to expect a collection of inspirational stories about people coming together to fight adversity during these trying times. But the 10 stories here are nothing like that: Udayan Mukherjee’s sketches are a stark portrayal of life in lockdown India. He manages to strike a fine balance between a variety of emotions, characters, and cultures.  A matter of life and dearth In the first story, ‘A Life or Death Situation’, two corpse-bearers discuss their imminent unemployment on the banks of the Ganga in Varanasi. As they contemplate the end of their profession, Shibu asks Kallu, ‘“But, here everyone knows us as doms, what else can we do, Kallu?’” Kallu replies, “‘You have answered your own question. It cannot be here, then. Didn’t you have an uncle in Gorakhpur? Best if you can leave the state, though, where our shadows can’t follow us.”’ Even the pandemic — a matter of life and death — cannot erase entrenched caste lines. In ‘Holidays’, Mukherjee gives us a policeman who yells at Achala emerging from a chawl and waves a friendly greeting to a passing jogger. If these stories portray our best and worst selves, the titular story catches us in our most fragile moment. It’s quite a revelation to read this story featuring two locked-up oldies, a delivery volunteer, and an unexpected bout of pettiness from the unlikeliest of sources. In a touching story, ‘Homecoming’, a migrant’s illusions about city life are shattered by the lockdown. The dispensable nature of his city-based work makes him question his definition of home. Mukherjee leaves us with a haunting image of contentment: “After the meal, I sat in the sun with Sonu and Titli and asked them what they had been up to while I was gone. They chattered away; I didn’t register half the things they said, but the singsong lilt of their voices soothed my ears. Gauri sat with a vessel of rice, sifting it for pieces of stone. There wasn’t much to do, from what I could see; she just wanted to sit close to me and the kids.” Instagram gallery Essential Itemsfeels like a well-curated Instagram gallery at times: as you scroll through the pictures, some look suspiciously prettier. Which is my quibble with ‘Border Town’ and ‘The Party’ — both seem conveniently filtered. The latter, especially, reads like an attempt to distil an online comment section into a story, with all the usual suspects — privilege, taxes, charity, guilt — coming up in predictable order. What sets Essential Items apart is its unabashed Indianness — the stories are as real as the motorcyclist who puts on his helmet only when he spots a cop. Using the pandemic as a litmus test, Mukherjee shows us the lines crisscrossing our society, with some lines, like those of caste and class, remaining strong even in the face of death, and some blurring all too easily.  The reviewer is a freelance writer and illustrator.  Essential Items: Stories from a Land in Lockdown  Udayan Mukherjee Bloomsbury India  Rs. 499    The stories are as real as the motorcyclist who puts on his helmet only when he spots a cop||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/reality-bites/article33203831.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The last custodians||There are the rare occasions, in our overscheduled and detailed lives, when we find ourselves having taken an unplanned turn, and looking up, we have the opportunity to encounter something profound. So it was one lazy afternoon when I clicked, in desultory fashion, on one of the numerous forwards that come my way...and I found myself deep in the redwood forests of California, listening to the music of lost languages. “I never dreamed that I would finally be... the last fluent speaker... at some point I turned around, and I was alone.” That’s Loren Bommelyn, the sole remaining fluent speaker of the Tolowa Dee-ni’ language of the indigenous peoples of Northern California. Imagine that you are the very last speaker of a language that holds your history, the words that contain the tastes of the foods and the shapes of the customs you hold dear, the feelings and textures of the relationships that bind you to nature and community. Imagine there is no one to receive those words, to share in those meanings. Even as the earth loses all manner of living things — plants, insects, animals, landscapes, habitats — we’re also losing knowledges, cultures and the many different languages that contain them. Threatened diversity  Language Keepers is a six-part podcast series produced by Emergence Magazine about the indigenous languages of California, believed to be among the most linguistically diverse regions of the world. The series follows efforts to revitalise four of these languages: Tolowa Dee-ni’, Karuk, Wukchumni and Kawaiisu. In the first episode, ‘Colonizing California’, Emmanuel Vaughn-Lee, editor of Emergence Magazine and host of the podcast series, says, “200 years ago, as many as 90 languages and 300 dialects were spoken in California. Today, only half of these languages remain.” It’s a story that isn’t unfamiliar to us. In India, Prof. Ganesh Devy has been recording the diversity of the country’s linguistic landscape as part of the People’s Linguistic Survey of India, which has archived close to 800 languages and 68 scripts, many of which are rapidly vanishing. The podcast describes how four endangered California languages are being revitalised by individuals, families and small communities. The first episode offers deep context, tracing the heartbreaking history of how Europeans occupied the lands of the indigenous peoples of North America. “California’s ecosystems were inhabited by indigenous peoples sustainably for at least 12,000 years,” says Vaughn-Lee, “and as their relationship with the land evolved, so did their languages.” This relationship was severed when the tribes were evicted from their lands and forced to assimilate. Yet there is laughter in the voice of nonagenarian Marie Wilcox, the last fluent speaker of Wukchumni, as she describes how the tribe became “Americanised”. Like many others of her generation, she left her language behind when her parents died, and it is only now, with younger people wanting to reclaim their linguistic heritage, that she is drawing back into her memory for the words, stories and songs. “When elders pass away, lots of songs are gone, it’s like watching all the species of birds die,” says Julian Lang, a Wukchumni speaker. “Language is the key to revitalising our culture,” adds Julie Girado Turner, of the Kawaiisu tribe.  Language Keepers is not for casual listening, but it draws you in; It’s immersive in the way well told stories are. And of course, it is much more than a good story. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.  Emmanuel Vaughn-Lee, editor ofEmergence Magazineand host of the podcast series, says, “200 years ago, as many as 90 languages and 300 dialects were spoken in California. Today, only half of these languages remain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-last-custodians/article33203870.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Intimations of mortality||Shubhshubh bolo! ‘Say only that which is auspicious!’ Thus goes the Hindi admonition to someone talking of, say, serpents, calamities, illnesses, death. The underlying sentiment is that talking about something we do not like, do not want to happen, may actually bring the dreaded thing to our doorstep. Given the deep roots that this thought has in fear and superstition, Arun Shourie’s choice of subject and title for his 500-page philosophical work Preparing for Death swims against the flow. But then when has Shourie refrained from counter-aquatics? The book is in two parts. This is not a formal division but it is just there, like an alaap before the sahitya in a song, except that in Shourie’s book, the alaap comes after the lyrics. The first part  is essentially narrative, descriptive. Anchored in historical time, it has gripping photographs of the five persons from history whose deaths the author discusses with fascinating perspectives and little-known cameos — Gautama Buddha, Ramakrishna Paramahansa, Ramana Maharshi, Gandhi and Vinoba Bhave. The second half of the book is reflective. In it the author rows the reader over a river of pure ideation with two oars — clear logic and sheer speculation. He moves one to dredge fear out of the depths of mystery. And the other to churn up stoicism from the inevitability of death. This second part has a central figure activating it, though — Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama. A friend of the Shourie family over many decades, the Dalai Lama has much to say that is both wise and witty on the subject. Gentle defiance On the cover, however, the author gives us a visual that belong, appropriately to both parts of the book — the narrative and the reflective. It is the photograph of a bas relief from Angkor Wat on the subject of the death-by-arrow of a mythological figure from the Ramayana — The Killing of Vali, the Primate. This choice too is an instance of gentle defiance for it is about the un-heroic act — perhaps the only such — by the epic’s hero. In the Kishkindhakanda of Tulsidas’ Sriramacharitamanas , Vali, the king of Kishkindha, on being pierced through his heart by an arrow sent by Rama from behind a tree, asks the Prince of Ayodhya: ‘Why have you done this to me? What was my crime? I did you no harm...’ Shourie is offering no mantra for meeting death any differently from how humanity meets it. But he serves one huge purpose, almost in spite of himself. And it may be summarised like this: Vali’s question in one form or another haunts every ‘ordinary’ mortal, with the ‘you’ in it being Death itself, the entity that comes un-bidden, ever so often ill-timed, patently heartless, and therefore utterly unjustly. And since that mortal has no option but to accept the inevitable, he or she becomes, in the end, nothing less than stoic. Resistance there may be, until the very end, but at the end of that end, there is a kind of courage. The kind that may be seen — this is not Shourie’s analogy but mine — in any person being executed. Some may go struggling to the gallows, some with courage but at one point in the grim proceedings they are all united in a supreme courage. And here it would be good to remember that history has recorded the wrong, mistaken and often deliberately perverse death sentences to innocents. Such persons become not just stoic but heroic — in the silence of their lonely innocence. The great leveller If the death of the ordinary mortal is stoic, the death of the extraordinary is not necessarily heroic at least not in all its several stages or dimensions. This review should not — and will not — give away the book’s prize details but this much it must say. The great deaths of history or, to put it differently, the deaths of the greats are also, at their basic level, deaths of human beings with organs that feel pain, limbs that turn helpless, minds that confess to mortal experiencings of agony. There is, in other words, a Vali in every Valiant and the ‘arrow’ is incomprehension at the whys and wherefores of life. Be the end ever so gracefully, even willingly, accepted, an understanding of death is not part of the hero’s heroic moment. That understanding comes if at all only upon entering that other space which allows for no communications to go back. Arun Shourie’s book laughs even as it goes still in expressionlessness. And nowhere more endearingly than when he relates a conversation with a friend of his own ‘seniority’ at a memorial service. “Yaar, Arun,” the friend says to him, “Have you noticed one thing? We now know more people on that side of the LoC than on this?” Who controls and why, that Line which we must all cross, is the question that makes this book an instruction for the mind and a balm for the heart, in a way that is hard to explain — shubh.   The reviewer is a former administrator, diplomat and governor.  Preparing for Death Arun Shourie Penguin Random House  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/intimations-of-mortality/article33203846.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Fibre of the future||As the last rays of the sun bathed the countryside, I found myself resting on a wooden bench outside a tiny roadside tea stall. A farmer, in a colourful checked dhoti, was busy knotting up bundles of raw jute that he had spread out to dry in the sun. The guttural squeals from a flock of cormorants perched on the edge of a pond rang through the cool damp air. It was mid-August and the dark monsoon clouds had shielded me during my week-long exploration of Betai, a village bordering Bangladesh. Nestled along the banks of the Jalangi River in West Bengal, Betai was deep in its jute harvest season. A group of old men walked into the shack and approached me inquisitively. I told them I was here to attend a friend’s wedding, but overstaying to witness the jute harvest. They chuckled when I confessed that until a few days ago, I had thought jute grew on trees, hanging in long flowing streams, which were plucked, combed, and braided into ropes. After nearly a week of exploration, I was beginning to understand the importance of this magical grass. It’s a regenerative gold mine, I discovered. “ Paat ki vajaha se hi Bangladesh bana ” (Jute is the primary reason behind the creation of Bangladesh), one man told me. ‘East and West Pakistan split up due to jute?’ I probed inquisitively. “ Haan! “ he asserted emphatically, slapping the table. Young leaves The growing chirps of crickets and frogs were my cue to head back. The golden-brown jute fibre that had lined the roads all day had been taken in for the night. Children were playing on the roads and women huddled together in the courtyards, rolling and bundling beedis for sale. There was a surprise waiting for me back home. My friend’s mother had cooked jute-leaf saag. She had especially ordered the tender young leaves of the plant for me, she said. The leaves turn bitter as they grow bigger. Serving a giant scoop on my plate, she announced that it is very good for health, especially for the eyes and for fertility. And in the same breath, she suggested that I get married soon. In the soft morning light, farmers headed to their fields on bicycles. With a sickle strapped to the carrier and a lunch bag dangling from the handlebars, they pedalled past in single file, with conical bamboo hats resting lightly on their heads. The fields stretched out till the horizon, the lush green jute grass swaying in the wind. Farmers were working in engrossed silence. Some jute fields had long been harvested and now stood flooded with rice saplings; others still had a day or two before harvest. Tightrope walking on the narrow bunds, I met the farmers. Neelkanth spoke fluent Hindi, and he told me there was money to be made in jute if you did it right. He used to lease his half-acre land to other farmers, fetching him next to nothing. “Now that I personally look after my land, the yield has shot up,” he said, pointing to the bundles of jute stacked up on the edge of his field. Rotting gold With a grin he explained that jute is the only crop where earnings begin to trickle in way before the final harvest. “We sell the leaves in the vegetable market for nearly two months of the four-month crop cycle,” said Neelkanth. The tall, hardy grass shoots up to 2.5 metres and has several uses. The leaves are cooked, the outer layer of the stem produces the fibre, the inner woody stem is used to manufacture paper, and the roots, which are left in the ground after harvest, improve the yield of subsequent crops, primarily rice. The jute seeds are planted in April-May and harvested in July-August. Compared to rice, which is also raised on the same field, jute requires very little water and fertiliser, is largely pest-resistant, and its rapid growth spurt ensures that weeds don’t stand a chance. To top it all, the monetary returns on jute are twice that of the resource-leeching paddy. But farming jute used to be much easier, said Neelkanth with a sigh. The Jalangi River, which flows nearby, used to flood the fields when he was a child, but not any more. Back then, they would harvest the jute and submerge the bundled stalks in the field itself. The fibrous outer layer would soften some 20 days later. He and his father would then strip the jute fibre from the stalk. But now he has to carry the entire harvest to a fish pond nearby for soaking. At the fish pond, farmers were busy stripping fibre from stalk. Half a dozen men, in waist-high water, were tying together jute stalks to form a giant floating raft. Once the raft is ready, banana leaves are placed along the entire breadth. Then, mud from the pond bed is scooped out and dumped on the banana leaves until the entire raft is submerged in water. The harvest is left to rot for three weeks until the fibrous outer layer loosens from the woody stalk and can be peeled off. At the other end of the pond, an old man in deep meditative focus was stripping a handful of stalks. His bundles had been rotting for over 20 days. He pulled off the fibre cleanly along the entire length. He then rinsed and knotted the light brown fibre and tossed it on the bank, where a pile was beginning to grow. Just a few days of sun and both the jute fibre and the woody stalks would be ready to sell to factories. An acre of land produces approximately nine quintals of fibre. While the fibre is sold for Rs. 3,500-4,000 per quintal, the woody stalk and the leaves fetch approximately Rs. 9,000. The earning per acre is approximately Rs. 35,000-40,000. No imagination Not only does this wonder crop bring home higher returns compared to most cash and food crops, it is a massive winner on the sustainability front too. Cotton, the most abundant natural fibre in the world, followed by jute in second position, requires twice the amount of land and time, and over five times the amount of water and huge amounts of chemicals. Jute, with its high tensile strength, acoustic and thermal insulation, breathability, low extensibility, ease of blending with both synthetic and natural fibres, and antistatic properties, can be harnessed for countless industrial and domestic applications: for insulation (replacing glass wool), geotextiles, activated carbon powder, wall coverings, flooring, garments, rugs, ropes, gunny bags, handicrafts, curtains, carpet backings, paper, sandals, carry bags, and furniture. India is the world’s biggest producer of jute, followed by Bangladesh. The possibilities of this carbon-neutral crop are limited only by imagination, but its potential still goes untapped.  A ‘Golden Fibre Revolution’ has long been called for by various committees, but the industry is in dire need of basic reforms. Two major problems plague the industry: obsolete processing technology, and the lack of product diversification that dares not tread beyond handicraft and packaging. It’s high time the government pushed jute out of the emporium and into every household through a much wider range of products, thus giving it back its place stolen by polluting synthetic fibres. For India, jute could indeed be the fabric of the future and the solution to two big problems: farmer distress and pollution.  The travel writer and photographer is on a mission to explore and share India.  Jute brings home higher returns compared to most cash and food crops, and is highly sustainable too. Cotton requires twice the amount of land and time, and over five times the amount of water and huge amounts of chemicals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fibre-of-the-future/article33203823.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Tales of Theevattipatty||Life is what happens when you are making other plans, throwing least-expected things at you. Something to this effect happened to me in the early 1980s. My banker husband and I decided to shift to his place of work. But the only hitch was that the place was a small village called Theevattipatty, on the Bangalore highway, in Tamil Nadu. My heart sank to think about my life there. So with a lot of trepidation, we decided to live there. I told myself that maybe, this would turn out to be my Hampshire! If Jane Austen can spend all her life in a village, why crib about a couple of years at Theevattipatty? Our house turned out to be pretty comfortable and spacious. My husband was saving a lot of time since he did not have to commute long distances. My toddler daughter became an instant hit with everyone in the village. I never had to ask for any help, as people were always there to help me. My neighbour Alamelu Amma would schedule her work in such a way that she can spend more time with my daughter. This dusky lady with her broad smile always seemed to be happy. I realised that she had a heart bigger than her smile. These simple people knew only to love. And they had simple rules of life. After plucking groundnut from the fields, Alamelu would just leave a whole sack of it in my living room, hardly listening to my protests. She would say, “ Kattukaranga kanakku parkka koodathu ,” meaning those who had land should never calculate and count. I have never seen her jealous or talking ill of anyone. Not that they did not have their problems, but they rose above pettiness with a heart that was capable of only loving. Milk of kindness The day I landed at Theevattipatty, my daughter was crying for something. Another neighbour immediately went over to his farm and milked the cow and brought us fresh frothy milk. Later, I learnt that he would rush home wherever he was to deliver milk to us because he can’t have my daughter crying. These simple folks with their simple ways and golden heart stole my heart. They never trumpeted their goodness. They hardly knew they were good. They were a bunch of beautiful human beings. I had fun too. The village had a unique theatre called Thendral (meaning zephyr), where we would watch old Tamil movies. If our daughter started getting restless, we would walk away in the middle and watch the remaining the next day! I got to spend some quality time with my only sister when she visited me. We chatted endlessly while our daughters played near heaps of coconuts. These memories were to become precious to me for I would be losing her five years later. Now after three decades of travelling and living in different places, Theevattipatty holds a very special place in my heart. Beautiful memories always set apart a place. That was what I got in that small village. vijinarayan57@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tales-of-theevattipatty/article33203812.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Pin grows up||Diaspora novels often suffer from an exoticisation of the author’s native community and its habits, customs and flaws. Balli Kaur Jaswal’s second novel, Sugarbread , recently published in India, is refreshingly free from such nostalgia-soaked cultural clutter. Set in Singapore in the early 1990s, it tells the story of a Sikh family through the eyes of 10-year-old Parveen, or Pin, as she is called. As the novel progresses, Pin slowly comes to recognise multiple truths about her family, society and life in general. So, in a sense, Sugarbread is also a bildungsroman — a touching tale of a child who grows up a little and emerges stronger and wiser. But even at the outset, Pin is wise beyond her years. She intuits minute changes in her elegant mother Jini’s moods, and likes to think that the food her mother cooks, the spices and sauces she uses, telegraph her state of mind. Lots of chilli powder and mustard seeds signal anger, roast chicken cooked in a light soy sauce means she is happy, and so on. Jini’s cuisines of choice also give a glimpse into her personality, which is liberal and inclusive. She prefers to cook flavourful local Chinese or Malay dishes rather than the dal-roti she grew up on. And both she and her happy-go-lucky husband have a relaxed view of religion. Old grudges Things change when Pin’s grandmother, Kulwant, comes to stay with them. Kulwant is devout and deeply traditional, and she insists that her daughter’s family should be equally rigorous in adhering to the dictates of Sikh religion and society. Soon it becomes clear that Kulwant and Jini harbour old grudges against each other. Harsh words are exchanged between mother and daughter, oppressive silences lengthen, and the food that Jini cooks, once so redolent of her changing moods, gives way to the unvarying drabness of dal-roti — because naniji will have nothing else. The atmosphere in their flat becomes increasingly fraught and Pin feels that she is being watched all the time by the god who looks on benignantly from the picture that Kulwant has hung on their living room wall. Pin is intrigued by this god. She has been told that god is everywhere, that he watches over all things. Yet, she never sees him stepping in to help when there is trouble. Pin’s one-way conversations with god — not just her own, but also the ‘Christian god’ at her school — are a testament at once to her innocence and wisdom. In her own way, Pin questions the basis of faith, and begins to have glimmerings of an understanding of it by the time the book ends. There are other transitions at play. Just as she learns about the awful trauma that Jini went through when she was a teenager, the trauma that has stood between her and Kulwant for years, curdling their relationship forever, Pin also absorbs some valuable life lessons at school and on the playground. She learns to treat racial slurs with the contempt they deserve, and though she initially gives in to peer pressure in her desire to impress a rich, snobby classmate, she soon realises that true friendships ride on things other than grand dresses or fat wallets. Novel of affirmation Similarly, one catastrophic day, it dawns on her that the game of football that she likes to play with the neighbourhood boys is really an occasion for them to treat her with contempt and cruelty. If she were grown up, she would have called it sexism. Pin doesn’t know that word yet, but she decides never to play with them again. Jaswal doesn’t linger excessively on the mores of Singapore’s expat Sikh community, although, clearly, it’s a community she knows and understands well, since she has belonged to it herself. Her first novel, Inheritance (2013), also published in India for the first time recently, is based on it as well. In Sugarbread , Jaswal’s singular achievement is that she keeps the clash of cultures, a key ingredient of every diaspora novel, at a fairly low key. The conflict between the old and the new is filtered through the eyes of the novel’s 10-year-old narrator, and what emerges is a gentle, heart-warming story, told in fluid prose. The only problem with the narrative is that it is almost too polished to be that of a 10-year-old. Pin is no Scout from To Kill A Mockingbird — nor does she need to be. But there are times when her observations are so mature, her assessment of characters and situations so much on point and non-childlike that it is hard to remember that she is only 10. That said, Sugarbread scores as a novel of affirmation. Reading it is as comforting as biting into sugar-dusted bread. The reviewer is a journalist and author.    Sugarbread Balli Kaur Jaswal HarperCollins India  Rs. 499    Pin questions the basis of faith, and begins to have glimmerings of an understanding of it by the time the book ends||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pin-grows-up/article33203833.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I didn’t want to write parody; I wanted to write in parallel’||The story started — like most stories these days — with Donald Trump. There was this report in 2016 about Trump’s former butler, Anthony Senecal, declaring on his Facebook page that President Barack Obama should be killed. British writer Ben Schott says that his first thought on reading this was, “What would Jeeves — the most famous gentleman’s personal gentleman in the history of literature — say? So, I wrote a short story about Trump and his butler meeting Bertie and Jeeves. People liked the story and I thought, ‘Well, it would be nice to write something more.’” Thus came the novel Jeeves and the King of Clubs in 2018, reimagining Bertie Wooster as a British spy. Its sequel, Jeeves and the Leap of Faith, is out now. On a video call from New York, Schott, who is also known for the bestselling Schott’s Miscellanies and Schott’s Almanac series, tells us what to expect from the sequel, how he captured the Wodehousian language, and whether he thinks Bertie is “mentally negligible”. Edited excerpts: The first book had familiar faces like Aunt Dahlia, Madeline Bassett and Roderick Spode as well as new characters like Lord MacAuslan and his niece, Iona. Who and what can we expect to see in the sequel? Well, it’s some old characters and some new ones. The relationship between Bertie and Iona carries on; we shall see what happens there. This book is set in Mayfair, Newmarket Racecourse, and Cambridge University, partly because I went to Cambridge. One of the joys of the King of Clubs was taking people to private worlds. So, you have the private clubs, banks and private gambling houses. Then, of course, the Cambridge colleges, and how they all work. The machinations of Cambridge are as private a world as betting and the Newmarket races. So, part of the joy is taking Bertie and putting him into amusing odd places and using the odd places as a springboard not only to force action and humour but also to describe [these] bizarre worlds. How did you capture the spirit of Wodehouse’s prose? You don’t want it tobe a copy... Exactly. Also, you can’t. Wodehouse is a genius and you couldn’t possibly attempt some of the sentences he constructs. I didn’t want to write parody; I wanted to write in parallel. The tendency is to think, certainly with the Jeeves and Wooster books, that everyone speaks in the same way. And they don’t. Every character has their own vocabulary and their own cadence. With Jeeves, for example, the difference between ‘Sir?’ and ‘Indeed, sir?’ is very subtle. So, to try and get each character and their vocabulary right, that is what I tried to do. Writing, say, 700 words in a day is like solving 700 crossword puzzles. Every single word has to fit horizontally and vertically into a grid. In theKing of Clubs, Roderick Spode says things like, “We must be ceaseless in our fight to keep Great Britain great.” Was it a conscious decision to merge present reality into the story? A tiny bit. Again, I was guided by Wodehouse. If he hadn’t introduced Spode and the Black Shorts, which is a satire on the Blackshirts, these books probably wouldn’t exist. Because Wodehouse had introduced Spode and because he was clearly reacting to Oswald Mosley [the British fascist Spode is based on], he obviously thought that he was a cad and a bounder and someone to be mocked. It allowed me licence, I hope, to bring in a little of what’s going on in the world, just to make it relevant. People have commented that Bertie in theKing of Clubsseems smarter than he usually is. Personally, I don’t think he’s ever beenthatstupid… Exactly!I have a lot of thoughts on this. First of all, I don’t think he’s as stupid as people think he is. He went to Eton and Oxford, and he won the prize for Scripture Knowledge. The second thing is that people tend to equate Bertie with the kind of drunken buffoon played by Hugh Laurie (in the television series, Jeeves & Wooster ). [Stephen] Fry and Laurie were amazing; don’t get me wrong, but that was one interpretation. Jeeves famously says [Bertie is] “mentally negligible”. But compared to Jeeves, everyone is mentally negligible! Maybe not Mycroft Holmes or Sherlock Holmes, but everybody else. But would Jeeves have spent 11 novels and 60 years manning the soda siphon for someone who is a complete buffoon? For me, the absolute key to this is that Bertie writes the books. So, you have someone who keeps telling you how stupid he is [but] also writes these amazing stories in the most incredible prose. It’s this bizarre oxymoron of having somebody incredibly eloquent telling you how dim they are that gives the books their charm, ingenuousness and freshness. That’s the incredible balance, I think. Read the full interview online.  The tendency is to think that everyone speaks in the same way. And they don’t...With Jeeves, for example, the difference between ‘Sir?’ and ‘Indeed, sir?’ is very subtle||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-didnt-want-to-write-parody-i-wanted-to-write-in-parallel/article33203826.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The ‘othering’ of women, Dalits and savarna trauma||Repudiation of a religion by a person born into it is a sub-genre by itself. Wandana Sonalkar’s Why I am Not a Hindu Woman invokes titles such as Bertrand Russell’s Why I am Not a Christian , Ibn Warraq’s Why I am Not a Muslim , and Kancha Ilaiah Shepherd’s Why I am Not a Hindu . This book stands apart by virtue of being penned by a woman. This is significant not least because every major world religion discriminates against women. For Sonalkar, a retired professor of gender studies, the starting point of critique is her own life as a Hindu woman born in a family of Chandraseniya Kayastha Prabhus, a small community of ‘almost Brahmin’ upper castes. Reflecting on her formative years, she notes that her privileges — of caste, class, and location — may have helped her recover, but they did not protect her from the lacerations of growing up in a dysfunctional family whose dysfunction was rooted in brahminical patriarchy, also known as “Hinduism”. Sonalkar was a little girl when her father starts an affair with a family friend. She writes, with devastating brevity, of the contrast in how the affair affected her mother, as opposed to the extended household. “My mother withdrew into even more lengthy puja rituals and more frequent fasts, eliciting outbursts of contemptuous anger from my father,” but “the extended Hindu family offered neither solace nor support... My father enjoyed the same respect and affection as always.” Negation of equality Comparing Hinduism to other religions, she finds it to be “inherently misogynist, where most religions are male-centred” and “as a religion, it does not believe in universal ethics or morality.” While some have argued that dharma is a universal Hindu ethic, she points out that it is “always determined by one’s social status and one’s gender... In Hinduism, dharma for the Brahmin is not the same as dharma for the Shudra.” It is partly thanks to this negation of equality at the core of Hinduism that a supremacist ideology such as Hindutva finds ready acceptance among so many Hindus, and “our liberal-democratic principles remain academic, they do not enter our hearts.” If there is no universal belief system that defines a Hindu, then what makes one a Hindu? According to Sonalkar, “identification as a Hindu requires a performative act” such as visiting a temple or actions “that simultaneously announce one’s religion and one’s caste”. Hinduism does not have a singular belief system precisely because “Hindu identity is always a caste identity.” Through the book, as Sonalkar switches between the personal and the political, she unravels the links between the violence of Hindutva and “the deep roots of violence in a caste-patriarchal Hindu social order”. Why does Hindu society tolerate violence against women, Dalits and Muslims, asks Sonalkar. She suggests that it is because of the different forms of ‘othering’ at work — the ‘othering’ of Hinduism’s internal inferiors (women and Dalits), and of the external enemy (Muslims). She contends that this dichotomy of interior/ exterior set against a common dynamic of ‘othering’ is the reason violence against Muslims is sought to be legitimised, while that against Dalits and women is sought to be invisibilised. Insofar as anti-caste memoirs are over-populated by Dalit-Bahujans, this first-person account by a savarna intellectual is a welcome addition that has plenty to offer those seeking to understand the currents of divisiveness gaining ground in India.  Why I am Not a Hindu Woman Wandana Sonalkar Women Unlimited  Rs. 350    She unravels the links between the violence of Hindutva and ‘the deep roots of violence in a caste-patriarchal Hindu social order’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-othering-of-women-dalits-and-savarna-trauma/article33203843.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On November 29, 1775, Sir James Jay, a physician and amateur chemist, created what he called a ‘sympathetic stain’ using two special liquids. He provided this to George Washington, who immediately realised its potential and gave it to the Culper spy ring. Jay never revealed the secret of his recipe and it was known as ‘medicine’ by the Americans. What was this invention that one can replicate at home using a lemon and a candle? 2 Austrian mathematician and physicist Christian ______ was born on November 29, 1803. He is most famous for discovering an effect that carries his name. He postulated that the observed frequency of a wave depends on the relative speed of the observer, which led to the explanation of the colour of the furthest stars. What effect is this which you probably last experienced when an ambulance went speeding past you? 3 On November 29, 1877, Thomas Edison figured out a way to record sound on tinfoil-coated cylinders and also play it back. Edison said ‘Mary had a little lamb’ into the mouthpiece, the sound vibrations of his voice were captured onto the cylinder by a needle, and then he heard it back, becoming the first human to hear an artificial rendering of their own voice. What had Edison invented, or how better do we know this invention? 4 Born on November 29, 1898, Clives Staples Lewis was a British novelist who took part in frontline action in World War I and experienced severe trauma. He then became a philosophy tutor at Oxford University. Here, he formed a friendship with J.R.R. Tolkien, and their daily chats led to the birth of two amazing fantasy universes. If Tolkien created the Lord of the Rings universe, what series did Lewis create? 5 On November 29, 1910, American engineer Ernest Sirrine obtained a patent for an automatically controlled system which used two non-illuminated display arms arranged as a cross that rotated on an axis which said “stop” and “proceed.” These were installed in Chicago and had grand success. What was this the first automatic version of? 6 On November 29, 1935, this physicist published his famous thought experiment, which he used as a teaching tool to illustrate how some people were misinterpreting quantum theory. This is a paradox that illustrates the problem where quantum particles can exist in a superposition of states at the same time and collapse down to a single state upon interaction with other particles. It involves a box, a tiny bit of radioactive substance and a common house pet. Who was this physicist and what is the name of the experiment? 7 On November 29, 1947, the United Nations General Assembly approved a plan for the partition of a certain state. It recommended the creation of independent Arab and Jewish states and a special international regime for the city of Jerusalem. Unfortunately, a civil war broke out, which put the entire area into turmoil that continues till date. Many lives have been lost and there has been growing concern about the way in which Israel has been handling the situation. Which state is this that fights for its rights on a daily basis? 8 On November 29, 1961, Enos became the first of his kind and third hominid (after Yuri Gagarin and Gherman Titov) to orbit around the Earth. The spacecraft Mercury-Atlas 5 orbited the Earth twice and splashed down off the coast of Puerto Rico. Enos was safe and went on to live for almost a year before he passed away due to dysentery that was resistant to antibiotics. Who was this revolutionary space traveller? 9 On November 29, 1972, Atari released the first commercially successful video game, and due to its cultural impact, it is displayed at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. It is a two-dimensional game that simulates a sport played on a flat wooden surface that has been in the Olympics since 1988. The video game’s name is the second part of an alternative, alliterative name for the sport, which contrary to popular opinion does not originate from China. What is the name of this revolutionary video game? 10 Born on November 29, 1976 in South Carolina, this American actor was of West African descent. At school, his passion was baseball, which would prove to be very useful when he later played the role of baseball legend Jackie Robinson onscreen. He didn’t even have to audition for the role he is most famous for, as it was offered to him based on his work. Who is this amazing actor who we unfortunately lost to cancer this year, and what was his most famous role onscreen? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33203868.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||A green new deal||For many decades now, the world has been waiting with bated breath on the promise of renewables, and with every passing year, the disruptive power of technology is making prices tumble and its economic case so compelling that it may well be possible to imagine a world without fossil fuels, perhaps post 2050. Sumant Sinha, an entrepreneur who set up ReNew Power, has written Fossil Free , a treatise on everything you want to know about renewable energy and didn’t know where to ask. Policy nudge It is infused with rich data and comparables across countries, along with nuggets on policy prescriptions for the government. Technology is changing so rapidly and with it costs of everything are tumbling, so much so that within five to seven years, the cost of renewables could well be more competitive than the cost of fossil fuel-based energy, and enable the electric vehicle revolution to truly happen. For critics of the NDA government who feel not much is happening on the economic reforms front, Sinha argues that over the last six years, rules on renewables have been rewritten in India, helping create a practical and achievable roadmap. But he does concede that though substantial progress has been made, reforms are long overdue on distribution, storage policy for evolving battery technologies and ensuring independence to regulators. The government has been trying hard to get Tesla to invest big in India at the highest levels, perhaps even consider establishing a Giga factory, but their focus for now has been on selling cars (which is short-sighted) and perhaps doing R&D here. The road ahead Sinha claims that India would need more than half a trillion dollars over the next decade and finding those investments, both debt and equity, is going to be challenging. He says the sector’s capability has to expand across the value chain to grow the industry as a whole. Further, of the top 10 solar cell/ module manufacturers in the world, the majority are in China so to reach Prime Minister Modi’s ambitious goal of 450,000 MW by 2030 of renewables (currently, India has 370,000 MW-odd from all sources of generation), the industry needs to become self-sufficient in module production for which policy clarity is required. Further as the sector grows, Sinha points out that intermittency management and discoms’ financial health will become even more critical for the renewables sector as a whole. It is ironical that a power deficit country like India has not attracted enough capital into the renewable sector to build any global giant, even though every major industrial house has tried its hand at it. Strangely, ReNew has struggled with its IPO plans, despite having blue-chip global investors, though going by Sinha’s arguments the sector shows remarkable promise both in India and globally.  Fossil Free is a cogent book that makes a compelling case for energy transition in India for a carbon-light economic growth strategy. India can well become the global leader in this transition and Sinha’s rich insights and policy prescriptions are a good guideline for governments to follow in this journey ahead.  The reviewer is an IAS officer. Views are personal. @srivatsakrishna  Fossil Free: Reimagining Clean Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World  Sumant Sinha  HarperCollins  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-green-new-deal/article33203848.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Attack the entry||South would have passed five hearts with no spade control, and he would have bid something other than six hearts with first-round control in case partner had grand slam ambitions. His six-heart bid showed precisely second round spade control. Today’s deal is from the Blue Ribbon Pairs a few years ago. Few players correctly solved the defensive problem that East faced. The opening spade lead was covered by dummy’s king and won by East with the ace. What next? Nothing could be done if declarer had nine solid hearts and the king of diamonds. Failing that, declarer would need to set up an extra trick from the diamond suit. Leading another spade would be safe, but a waste of time, as South surely started with a singleton spade. Better would be for East to shift to the king of clubs, attacking dummy’s ace of clubs entry. That would do the trick nicely unless South had the queen of clubs. Though a nice effort, the problem is that the king of clubs shift attacks the wrong entry. The winning defence is for East to shift to his singleton heart. This knocks out the heart entry to dummy before declarer can use it properly. On a spade continuation, declarer would ruff and cash the king of diamonds. A diamond to the ace would be followed by a diamond ruff. Declarer would then cross to dummy with the nine of hearts to ruff another diamond. After drawing trumps, South would lead a club to dummy’s ace and discard his club loser on the established nine of diamonds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/attack-the-entry/article33203862.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||So long, farewell||Like that like that,time is come for conclusion of Mathrubootham letters. Kamalam is sitting here itself. She is sitting on chair and looking full of sentiments. She is also saying please finish writing fast, packing company is due. And one almirah that is not opened since Morarji Desai period is still waiting for unpacking. What and all is inside god only knows. Madam/ Sir, how many letters we are now sending each other? Let me check one second please. Oh my god, madam/sir, since February 2017 letter is being written to the esteemed newspaper from the desk of Mr. J. Mathrubootham. Once a week since February 2017 I am writing letter means how many letters? Ok in-between holiday and all was there. I am also human being. Whether like Prime Minister I can work nonstop morning to night with only ten-minute lunch break with peacock? So ok. How many letters? I think... minimum 150 letters. Maybe 170 letters. Letter about Dr. Shankaramenon and Mr. Modi. Letter about Mr. Prathapan and television. Letter about Mohammad Usman and biryani. So many so many letters. So many good memories are coming now. Some bad memories are also coming. And then last one year what is the one memory? Non-stop coronavirus memory only. Worst year this 2020. Karumam of all karumam years. Whole day sitting at home doing nothing. And going out means mask. But where is the mask? Is it behind the door? Pant pocket? Top of TV? Where is mask? Spend half hour looking for mask or do evening walk in balcony only? Better go to balcony. This is the 2020. But madam/ sir at least we are able to write letters to each other. Whether employees of your esteemed newspaper are enjoying my letters? Or whether they are celebrating in the office with rose milk and ras malai shouting Eureka! He has stopped sending letters, thank you Tirupati Balaji, Mother Mary, Allah etc.? How dare these people are talking like this? Someone throwing water bottles in Tok Tok means aha-oho. One old man sending Wren and Martin style letter about retirement and gas cylinder, Suhasini and Ganga Sweets means old-fashioned. Defending traditions This is the problem with whole country. Whether any respect for traditions? Nothing. This is why one poor Mr. Mathrubootham is writing letters every week. Otherwise who will protect all habits and customs and cultures of the Jambuvan period? Madam/ Sir, first of all I want to say thank you for reading this old man’s letters. Sometimes letter is having complaints. Sometimes it is having stories. Sometimes it is totally useless. But every week you are reading nicely and putting it in newspaper. It is a wonderful. Second of all, I want to say thank you to all readers. Sometimes my son is making me see online how readers are putting comments and all underneath the letter. To all people putting good comments I say hearty thank you. Old man is very happy. To all people putting bad comments I am saying go and get lost. Whether newspaper is your father’s? If you don’t like you read something else, hello you are putting promise in temple or what that you will read Mathrubootham, please give me lottery? Muttaals . Third of all, I want to say thank you to Mrs. Mathrubootham. Without Kamalam support and patience whether even one letter will come to your office? Never never never. In fact, please give me two minutes to tell you about how she is supporting and encouraging and helping and... Ok, she is saying if I don’t finish letter now she will ask mover and packer to throw out all Alistair MacLean novels. Whether a man can get any peace of mind in this world? Never.   Yours in exasperation   for the final time,     J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/so-long-farewell/article33203866.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The price of forgetting||I keep annoying my family with my forgetfulness. I have always been forgetful, even in the most unimaginable circumstances. Once while chiding us for “forgetting” to bring the completed homework, our Malayalam teacher in the seventh standard asked whether we ever forgot to eat our meals. Innocently, I piped up, “Teacher, once or twice, I have forgotten to eat!” That set the class laughing. Once, the Principal sent the peon to the class to collect the school diary from me to affix a merit stamp for securing the first rank in the monthly test. The boy who got the second rank handed over his diary. Alas, I had forgotten to bring it. Stinging blows The peon reappeared shortly, and said the Principal had called me to his room. The Principal gave me an earful. Then ominously, he announced that notwithstanding my first rank, he would have to punish me. For the first time in my life, I got caned on my palm. The stinging blows came twice, hurting horribly. I also felt humiliated. I returned to the class quietly. Not even my best friends asked me about it. I think they knew. In the eighth standard, I was always class first and topped in most subjects. I was the favourite of the English teacher. One day at the end of the class, he told us to bring our prose textbook next day instead of the poetry book. The teacher came into the room and the class started. He asked all those who didn’t bring their prose books to stand up. I was the lone one! He asked me to come to the front of the class. Burning with shame, I obeyed. He asked me to hold out my hand for the caning. “You are a good student, but that does not exempt you from punishment for forgetting,” he said. The next morning on the school bus, the teacher told me to show my palm. He wept on seeing the red welt. He said he felt terrible about caning me, but he had to be fair to all students. He hoped that I would not be forgetful anymore. If only he knew! These punishments have not helped me. I continue to have “forgetting” episodes. But my career had not been marred by my forgetfulness. That is a miracle! r.rema@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-price-of-forgetting/article33203814.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Mistress of Melodies||Nabendu Ghosh,   ed Ratnottama Sengupta  Speaking Tiger Rs. 350 Screenwriter Nabendu Ghosh traverses the streets of Kolkata to tell the stories of courtesans and sex-workers. There is Chhaya, a widow who remarries only to be duped. Hasina, the alluring baiji, auctions her daughter’s virginity and lives to regret it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mistress-of-melodies/article33203828.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Cops In a Quagmire||Sunil Ramanand   Vishwakarma Publications Rs. 400 Pankaj Kumar and his squad is famous for cracking tough cases and catching criminals. But when an informant, a woman with connections, dies under mysterious circumstances, the tables are turned  and the cops from the Special Squad have to defend themselves before the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cops-in-a-quagmire/article33203835.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The Kitty Party Murder||Kiran Manral  HarperCollins Rs. 299 Kitty party and murder make for a deadly combo in this novel filled with plush hotels, designer dresses and fancy meals. Kay, a bored mom, infiltrates a ladies’ kitty group to unearth their darkest secrets. There are mysterious deaths and Kay must uncover the truth beneath all that bling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-kitty-party-murder/article33203837.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Sometimes Ivory, Sometimes Sand||Mahek Jangda  Hachette Rs. 450 This is the story of two very different woman, Laila Jagir and Jasmine Mir, who are brought together by fate. After a bill allowing women to be elected into the national council is proposed, Laila and Jasmine join the movement for change. In the cut-throat world of politics, they stand up for themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sometimes-ivory-sometimes-sand/article33203839.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Colaba: The Diamond at the Tip of Mumbai||Shabnam Minwalla  Speaking Tiger  Rs. 499 Colaba, the southernmost tip of Mumbai, is a bustling locality with the Gateway of India, the Taj Mahal Hotel, and Colaba Causeway. A long-time resident tells the story of the evolution of one of the city’s most iconic neighbourhoods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/colaba-the-diamond-at-the-tip-of-mumbai/article33203841.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Musical Gems of Women Maestros||Alamelu Ramakrishnan  Jai Ganesh Printers Rs. 900 This volume gives a lot of information on women composers of Carnatic music and their contribution to the field. The author brings to light their inspired compositions, either little known or unknown. It is a collection of material based on lecture demonstrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/musical-gems-of-women-maestros/article33203850.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Jugalbandi: The BJP before Modi||Vinay Sitapati  Penguin/Viking  Rs. 799 Following the journeys of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani, a historian tells the back story to Narendra Modi’s dominance in politics. Vajpayee and Advani worked as a team despite differences, and their partnership explains why the BJP won.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/jugalbandi-the-bjp-before-modi/article33203852.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The Loss of Hindustan: The Invention of India||Manan Ahmed Asif  Harvard University Press  Rs. 599 A historian argues that a European understanding of India as Hindu has replaced an earlier, native understanding of India as Hindustan, a home for all faiths. He reveals the intellectual pathways that created a religiously partitioned world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-loss-of-hindustan-the-invention-of-india/article33203854.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Hand of god||Argentine football legend Diego Maradona died of a heart attack aged 60. Considered one of the greatest footballers of all time, he was one of two joint winners of FIFA’s Player of the 20th Century Award. He set the world record transfer fee twice and led Argentina to victory in the 1986 World Cup, during which he scored the ‘goal of the century’. He coached the national side and various clubs in his later years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hand-of-god/article33203798.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump backs off||Pressured by fellowRepublicans, U.S. President Donald Trump finally allowed President elect Joe Biden’s transition team access to briefings and federal funds. Biden, meanwhile, announced several nominees for top-level positions, including Antony Blinken as Secretary of State and, reportedly, Janet Yellen as Secretary of the Treasury. Former Secretary of State John Kerry — who helped broker the Paris Agreement — was named the country’s first-ever climate envoy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/trump-backs-off/article33203800.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Stalwarts gone||Two veteran Congress leaders, Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel (left) and former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi, died from COVID-19-related complications. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said Patel, one of her closest political aides, was an “irreplaceable comrade, a faithful colleague, and a friend.” Gogoi was “a great leader whose contribution to the development of Assam cannot be ignored,” said Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/stalwarts-gone/article33203802.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Eye of the storm||Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and parts of Andhra Pradesh were battered by the very severe cyclonic storm Nivar, which made landfall south of Chennai with wind speeds as high as 145 km/h and brought extremely high rainfall in coastal areas. More than two lakh people were evacuated as low-lying areas were inundated. Chennai airport was shut down for 12 hours. At least three people were reported killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/eye-of-the-storm/article33203804.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala rethink||Kerala’s government first put on hold and then withdrew its ordinance adding a controversial section, 118-A, to the Kerala Police Act, 2011. The amendment was heavily criticised for its potential to muzzle free speech. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced that it would not be implemented and the governor signed a new ordinance withdrawing the amendment days after he had signed the latter into law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kerala-rethink/article33203806.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Emmy for India||The Netflix seriesDelhi Crime, based on the Nirbhaya gangrape case, won the best drama series award at the 48th International Emmy Awards. Helmed by Indian-Canadian director Richie Mehta, the series features Shefali Shah, Rasika Dugal and Adil Hussain. Accepting the award in a virtual ceremony, Mehta dedicated it to all women who endure male violence “but are also tasked to solve the problem”. It is India’s first Emmy award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/emmy-for-india/article33203808.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Frontline first||The first doses of the COVID-19 vaccine will be given to 10 million frontline health workers, official sources said. States will help identify doctors, MBBS students, nurses and ASHA workers. The special COVID-19 inoculation programme will use the network of the existing Universal Immunisation Programme. Among those prioritised are municipal corporation workers, police and armed forces, people over 50, and those with co-morbidities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/frontline-first/article33203810.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Pilot study finds potential signal indicative of loss of tone in blood vessels after cardiac surgery||Vasoplegia, where “vaso” refers to blood vessels and “plegia” stands for paralysis, is a condition where the patient exhibits a low blood pressure, even in the presence of normal or increased output of blood from the heart. When this occurs as a complication of cardiopulmonary bypass surgery, there is a chance that it can lead to multiple organ failure and even death. Now, a diverse group of researchers including clinicians, computational biologists and biotechnologists have come together to study how this may be predicted early on based on clinical observations, so that effective treatment may be given. Progenitor cells In a pilot study involving 19 patients who underwent elective cardiac surgery, the researchers measured the circulating counts of endothelial progenitor cells and hematopoietic stem cells at different points in time starting from when the patient was being anaesthetised to until 24 hours after the surgery. They find that in a statistically significant number of people in the group that showed clinically significant vasoplegia, there was a blunting of the endothelial progenitor cell response. Also, in the group that did not show clinically significant vasoplegia, they observed that there was no such blunting. “We can say there appears to be a pattern, which is well worth exploring in a larger cohort of patients and further delineating this particular response as a biomarker in predicting a potentially devastating complication following cardiac surgeries,” says Dr. Paul Ramesh Thangaraj, from the department of cardiothoracic surgery, Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, who is one of the PIs of the study. This research is published in the journal PLOS ONE.  Hematopoietic and endothelial progenitor cells play an important role in repair of damaged tissues and inner lining of the blood vessels called the endothelium, respectively. “Usually, these cells reside in the bone marrow; however, in response to injury to a tissue or a blood vessel, they come out into the circulation from the bone marrow and home into the site of injury for tissue repair,” says Madhulika Dixit from the Department of Biotechnology, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, in an email to The Hindu.   Prof Dixit describes using flow cytometry to measure the counts during the surgery and afterwards. “The cells were identified by means of expression of specialised cell surface receptors. For this, at regular intervals the blood withdrawn from the patient was subjected to flow cytometry. We checked for time-dependent changes in circulating counts of progenitor cells during the course of cardiopulmonary bypass in patients.” Key challenge One of the key challenges was to get significant patterns in this small dataset, according to Rahul Siddharthan, from The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who was one of the people involved in formal analysis. “In this case, we have two data sets, with two-valued outcomes [non-vasoplegic or vasoplegic], and the goal is to see how other measured parameters can predict them,” he says. There are very sophisticated machine-learning algorithms available these days for such tasks. “In this case the most basic algorithm, ‘logistic regression’, is good enough,” says Prof. Siddharthan. Striking trends As he explains, in both cases, the idea is to look at a single value (change in circulating progenitor cells at two timepoints) and in seeing its predictive power for the output. “The trend is clear, that for non-vasoplegic patients, the level of circulating progenitor cells increases, while for vasoplegic patients, it stays flat or decreases. There are exceptions but the finding is statistically significant even on this small study,” says Prof. Siddharthan. With a larger study, Dr.. Paul Ramesh envisages even developing a risk score for predicting vasoplegia as a complication following surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/pilot-study-finds-potential-signal-indicative-of-loss-of-tone-in-blood-vessels-after-cardiac-surgery/article33203490.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||New species of gecko found in the Eastern Ghats||A new species of lizard, the smallest known Indian gekkonid, has been discovered in the Eastern Ghats. Studies show that the species belonged to the genus Cnemaspis. In India, 45 diverse species of Cnemaspis have been found, of which 34 are from the Western Ghats. The newly discovered dwarf gecko - Cnemaspis avasabinae is the twelfth species to be discovered outside the Western Ghats and also the first species reported from the Velikonda Range in Andhra Pradesh. This discovery suggests that the genus may be even more widely distributed than previously thought. “ Cnemaspis is one of several groups of gecko that we now know are very diverse and widespread over much of peninsular India. Knowing this, we can survey in places that have not yet been studied, or have been understudied, and there is a good chance that new species can be found,” explains Aaron M. Bauer from Villanova University, U.S. in an email to The Hindu. He is one of the authors of the paper published in Zootaxa.  Many species likely “In the past, it was thought that there were only a few species, many of them relatively widespread, but now we recognise that it is likely that each hill range or isolated forest patch may have its own species. While we long knew that the diversity in the Western Ghats was high, only more recently have we come to recognise that the Eastern Ghats are also tremendously biodiverse,” he adds. The team gave it a common name – Sabin’s Nellore dwarf gecko. The new species was sighted in a dry evergreen forest among the rocks beneath a small stream at a height of less than 200 metres above sea level and measured less than 2.9 cm (snout to vent length). The dorsal colour of the head, body and tail of the reptile is grey-pink with six pairs of dark brown patches. Femoral spores The most interesting find was that the males of the species lacked femoral pores. Generally, most variants of lizards have femoral pores in both the sexes, and the secretions from these pores play a role in communication. Prof. Bauer explains: “Lacking femoral pores doesn’t mean that a male gecko is not adequately supplied with chemical means of communication. It may also be possible that geckos are able to release pheromones to attract or communicate with possible mates, even if there are no pores. Pores may be especially useful for lizards that maintain a home range or territory and use them to mark this – to keep away other males even more than to attract females. Cnemaspis also have good vision, so visual signalling may play a part in mate attraction in these geckos.” More work needed The team notes that more work is needed in the surrounding areas to determine how widespread it is. “But for now we would have to consider the species ‘data deficient’ until we know more and can meaningfully assess its conservation status,” adds Prof. Bauer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/new-species-of-gecko-found-in-the-eastern-ghats/article33203482.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||RT-LAMP: a new technology for detecting COVID-19||The novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, causes the Coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) and this pandemic. It is highly infective, and everyday thousands of people are newly infected. Since there is no vaccine or cure for the novel coronavirus infection till today, there is a strong need for rapid, specific and sensitive SARS-CoV-2 detection technology to control and contain the virus. Current method The current method for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis is the real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test which detects the presence of viral nucleic acids in nasopharyngeal swab samples. But it has certain shortcomings. The test requires complex and costly equipment. It requires extensive training for potential users. As the specificity and sensitivity of the test is about 95%, there is a possibility of false negative results. The turnaround time is about 10 hours, so that the result will be available only by the next day. In remote places, the turnaround time further increases depending on the distance the samples need to travel. In short, the RT-PCR does not have the capacity to keep pace with the increasing demand. COVID-19 serology tests are also in use to detect antigens that are associated with the virus infection. These tests are easy to use with rapid results, as well as have minimal expenses. However, serology immunoassay lacks the necessary accuracy to be a reliable diagnostic test due to its low sensitivity and high false negative/positive rates. Superior technique With the above-mentioned status of COVID-19 detection ambiguity, there is an urgent need for a better technique for COVID-19 testing. This superior technique is now in India in the form of RT-LAMP (Reverse Transcriptase loop-mediated isothermal amplification) technology. This is a one-step nucleic acid amplification method to multiply specific sequences of RNA of the coronavirus. Here, the RNA is first made into cDNA (copy DNA) by the usual reverse transcription. Then, the DNA is amplified by the LAMP technique. Although the LAMP technique has been used in western countries for the past five years or more, the technique is new to the Indian IVD industry.  The LAMP technology has many advantages over RT-PCR technology. The RT-PCR test needs different temperatures in one cycle. The temperature of the solution has to be changed from 92 degrees C to 56 degrees C and again to 72 degrees C every two minutes, and this cycle has to be repeated. Thus, the PCR test needs expensive thermal cycler as well as the real time PCR machines. On the other hand, the new RT-LAMP technology is done at 65 degrees C, where the DNA amplification is done at a constant temperature (isothermal), so that expensive thermal cycler is not required. Moreover, the quantity of DNA amplified in the LAMP technology is hundred thousand times more than that is taking place in PCR. Therefore the final assay is possible with a simple colour reaction, removing the need for very costly real time PCR machines. An equally important advantage of the LAMP technology is that the assay is so fast that results can be obtained within 30 minutes and positive samples are amplified as early as 10 minutes. This may be compared with the PCR technique which needs 8–10 hours for completion. This means that COVID-19 testing centres can report with accuracy in substantially lower turnover time. Yet another advantage of LAMP is that the reagents are to be stored at 4 degree C (ordinary fridge), whereas the PCR-based reagents are to be stored and transported at –20 degrees C, which needs deep freezers that escalate the cost. The LAMP technology does not need laborious preparation as in the case of RT-PCR. LAMP is cost effective and does not need complex expensive equipment. Assays can be performed with minimum skill and minimum infrastructure. Recently validated The LAMP technology has been recently validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research with sensitivity 98.7% and specificity 100%. Thus the LAMP technology is superior to the PCR technology–based COVID-19 kits where specificity is around 95% only. Thus, in the case of LAMP-based kits, the Positive predictive value is 100% and Negative predictive value is 98.8% with accuracy of 99.38%. User-friendly A confirmatory, accurate, rapid, low-cost, and user-friendly molecular diagnostic method is the prerequisite to address COVID-19 pandemic. The RT-LAMP technology is ideal for Indian conditions. There is an urgent need to build the national testing capacity above what is achievable with currently available test kits. This is possible with RT-LAMP technology which shows great promise as a detection tool. The procedure’s speed, simplicity and cost-effectiveness allow it to be the ideal method for diagnosing the infection. Agappe Diagnostics have recently developed the LAMP technology indigenously, and their kit has been validated and approved by the ICMR for marketing. It is named LUME Screen nCoV  (The writer is Head of postgraduate programmes and research at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/rt-lamp-a-new-technology-for-detecting-covid-19/article33203483.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Morphological reshaping in guttural toads in Mauritius in a short time||In 1922, the guttural toad (Sclerophrys gutturalis), a common amphibian in sub-Saharan Africa was introduced to the Republic of Mauritius in an attempt to control cane beetles. They were then moved to the neighbouring Reunion Island around 1927 as a biocontrol for malaria-causing mosquitoes. A new study has shown that these toads, now an invasive population on the two islands has shrunk in size. The female toads on Mauritius and Reunion were 33.9% and 25.9% smaller respectively than their original South African counterparts. The males shrank by 22.4% on Mauritius, but not on Reunion Island. This extraordinary reshaping of morphology has taken place in less than 100 years, a very short evolutionary time. The results were published in Biology Letters.  Ecosystems and traits The team from MeaseyLab at the Centre for Invasion Biology in Stellenbosch University, South Africa has been studying these toads in different invasive populations. “My interests in them had to do with looking at how novel ecosystems shift and shape different traits, like body shape, physical abilities, and behaviour. Instances like when animals are moved to islands or colonised urban landscapes, are excellent natural experiments to look for evolutionary change and understand the mechanisms that allow wildlife to adapt to a changing world,” explains lead author James Baxter-Gilbert in an email to The Hindu . “The really fascinating part is since both island populations came from the same origin (Durban in South Africa) they effectively started with the same basic ‘genetic blueprint’ so any consistent change we see on both islands happening can help shed light on what traits are being repeated on both islands independently. This can provide a lot of insight into what challenges these invading populations faced and how natural selection (or phenotypic plasticity) allowed them to overcome them,” adds Prof. Baxter-Gilbert. Nitya Mohanty, one of the authors of the paper explains: “It is important to determine what mechanisms are at play, whether it is natural selection or a part of their repertoire which is just expressed in that environment. We need to study if there are some genetic changes, probably adaptive changes: organisms which are on islands have less need for dispersal, but can allocate that energy to more frequent reproduction or some other trait to survive better.” Dr. Mohanty completed his postdoc from Stellenbosch University. Garden experiment He says that one way to find out is to do a common garden experiment where you bring a bunch of toads from the invasive and native populations, and breed them in their native ranges in South Africa and see if it is to do with the environment or it is indeed genetic. “We have also begun to examine changes in behavioural traits, like boldness and exploration. There are anecdotes of the toads engaging in curiosity behaviour on the island, like climbing trees, and we are also looking into this for future research that might help us explain the reason for this shift in body size,” adds Prof. Baxter-Gilbert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/morphological-reshaping-in-guttural-toads-in-mauritius-in-a-short-time/article33203480.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Changing frontiers||Is the tropical zone of Earth expanding? The planet Earth is divided into three climate zones: Tropical, temperate and frigid. The tropical zone extends around the equator from 23.5 degrees north to 23.5 degrees south. Now researchers say that this warm temperature zone is expanding further and this may be the reason behind severe droughts and bushfires in Australia and parts of the U.S. What is causing this expansion? Studies have suggested that increasing greenhouse gases, aerosols, and decreasing ozone may be the factors behind this expansion. A new study recently published in the Journal of Geophysical Research: Atmospheres notes that warming oceans are the main reason. “Our model calculations show that large-scale ocean currents in both the northern and southern hemispheres are the key drivers,” says Hu Yang, lead author of the study in a release from Alfred Wegener Institute, Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research. “Because the currents in this region bring the water masses together particularly strongly, the subtropical ocean surface accumulates heat more easily here than in other marine regions - just like with plastic," explains Gerrit Lohmann, one of the authors in the release. “So far, people have assumed complex changes in the atmosphere to be the cause. In truth, it is a relatively simple mechanism for ocean currents.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/changing-frontiers/article33203485.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Ayurvedic doctors and sanction for surgeries||The story so far: On November 20, the Central Council of Indian Medicine, a statutory body set up under the AYUSH Ministry to regulate Indian systems of medicine, issued a gazette notification allowing postgraduate (PG)Ayurvedic practitioners to receive formal training for a variety of general surgery, ENT, ophthalmology and dental procedures. The decision follows the amendment to the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016, to allow PG students of Ayurveda to practise general surgery. Is allowing non-allopathic doctors to perform surgery legally and medically tenable? The passing of the National Medical Commission Act in 2019 allowed for the formalisation of proposals to induct mid-level care providers — Community Health Providers — in primary healthcare in India, who would serve at health and wellness centres across the country, and focus on primary healthcare provision, with a limited range of medicines allowed for them to use for treatment of patients. This move had also attracted strong opposition from modern medicine practitioners, who branded this as a form of quackery through half-baked doctors. Several countries have been using mid-level care providers, such as nurse practitioners, to enhance the access to healthcare, though with strict safeguards around training, certification, and standards. The current debate revolves around the Central Council of Indian Medicine issuing amendments to the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurvedic Education) Regulations, 2016, to allow postgraduates students in Ayurveda undergoing ‘Shalya’ (general surgery) and ‘Shalakya’ (dealing with eye, ear, nose, throat, head and neck, oro-dentistry) to perform 58 specified surgical procedures. This was immediately opposed by many allopathic professionals, with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) decrying it as a mode of allowing mixing of systems of medicine by using terms from allopathy. The AYUSH Ministry subsequently clarified that the ‘Shalya’ and ‘Shalakya’ postgraduates were already learning these procedures in their (surgical) departments in Ayurvedic medical colleges as per their training curriculum, and the amendment merely added clarity and definitions to the 2016 regulations concerning post-graduate Ayurveda education. Can short-term training equip them to conduct surgeries and will this dilute the medicine standards in India? As such, the postgraduate Ayurvedic surgical training is not short-term but a formal three-year course. Whether the surgeries conducted in Ayurvedic medical colleges and hospitals have the same standards and outcomes as allopathic institutions requires explication and detailed formal enquiry, in the interest of patient safety. Will non-allopathic doctors who have undergone training be restricted to practise in rural areas having poor doctor-patient ratios? As of now, no such restriction exists that limits non-allopathic doctors, including those doing Ayurvedic surgical postgraduation, to rural areas. They have the same rights as allopathic graduates and postgraduates to practise in any setting of their choice. With allopathic surgeons often unwilling to practise in rural areas, how can this problem be solved?   The shortage and unwillingness of allopathic doctors, including surgeons, to serve in rural areas is now a chronic issue. The government has tried to address this by mechanisms such as rural bonds, a quota for those who have served in rural service in postgraduate seats, as well as, more recently, a plan to work on increasing the number of medical colleges and postgraduate seats. However, we would probably still continue to fall short of enough trained specialists in rural areas. We need to explore creative ways of addressing this gap by evidence-based approaches, such as task-sharing, supported by efficient and quality referral mechanisms. The advent of mid-level healthcare providers, such as Community Health Providers in many States, is also an opportunity to shift some elements of healthcare (preventive, promotive, and limited curative) to these providers, while ensuring clarity of role and career progression. Is it sensible to allow Ayurvedic surgeons to only assist allopathic surgeons, rather than perform surgeries themselves? The AYUSH streams are recognised systems of medicine, and as such are allowed to independently practise medicine. They have medical colleges with both undergraduate and postgraduate training, which include surgical disciplines for some systems, such as Ayurveda. There is, however, a difference in approach in the systems of medicine, and hence models, which allow for cross-pathy. An apprenticeship model for Ayurvedic surgeons working with allopathic surgeons might fall into a regulatory grey zone. It might require re-training Ayurvedic practitioners in the science of surgical approaches in modern medicine. Even then, there might be a limit to what they are allowed to do. Any such experiment can put patient safety in peril, and hence, will need careful oversight and evaluation.  Can this lead to substandard care?   Many patients prefer to receive treatment exclusively from AYUSH providers, while some approach this form of treatment as a complement to the existing allopathic treatment they are receiving. For invasive procedures, like surgery, the risk element can be high. Patients have a right to know and understand who their surgeon would be, what system of medicine they belong to, and their expertise and level of training. There should not be a difference in quality of care between urban and rural patients — everyone deserves a right to quality and evidence-based care from trained professionals. Dr. Anant Bhan is a researcher in global health, bioethics and health policy  There may be a limit to what Ayurvedic doctors are allowed to do in surgery. Any such experiment can put patient safety in peril, and will hence need oversight and evaluation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ayurvedic-doctors-and-sanction-for-surgeries/article33203401.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The complexities of cyclone forecasting||The story so far : Cyclone Nivar, that barrelled through Tamil Nadu and brought copious rain in its wake, was the third major cyclone to land on India’s coast this year, besides Amphan and Nisarga. The Nivar storm originated in the Bay of Bengal and whipped up windspeeds close to 125-145 kmph, blowing away roofs and felling standing crop. However, relatively fewer lives were lost compared to the havoc wreaked by Amphan in West Bengal in May. What aided relief operations in the anticipation of Nivar was that it largely conformed to forecasts issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). How are cyclones forecast? Over the years, India’s ability to track the formation of cyclones has improved significantly. There is a network of 12 doppler weather radars (DWR) along India’s coast if one were to begin counting from Kolkata and trawl up to Mumbai — there are 27 in all in the country. Depending on where a storm is forming, these radars send pulses of radio waves to gauge the size as well as the speed at which water droplets are moving. The earlier generation of radars was unable to track such progress in real time, but with DWRs, now the base standard of weather radars, it is usually possible to detect a potential storm at least four-five days in advance. The IMD also collaborates with similar international networks, such as the Japan Meteorological Agency, the U.S. National Hurricane Center, and the U.S. Central Pacific Hurricane Center, and these bodies constantly send warnings and forecasts about changes in the ocean weather. The near ubiquity of ocean-buoys that track changes in ocean sea surface temperatures as well as dedicated meteorological satellites improve the odds of early detection. How difficult was it to track Nivar’s progress? Nivar was the second tropical cyclone that formed around India and made landfall this week. Cyclone Gati, which originated in the Arabian Sea and intensified into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’, made its way towards Africa and made landfall in Somalia on November 22. However around then, another system emerged in the Bay of Bengal, that eventually morphed into a cyclonic storm by November 24. The IMD’s initial forecasts said it would at most be a ‘severe cyclonic storm’, but it then upgraded it to the same league as Gati, i.e, a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’. The IMD follows a five-stage classification for cyclones, with the lowest a ‘cyclonic storm’ generating wind speeds of 62-87 kmph,  and the highest a ‘super cyclonic storm’, generating winds over 222 kmph. April-June and October-December are India’s cyclone seasons. The arriving monsoon, as well as its retreat, stir up the surrounding seas and generate cyclones. Though the Bay of Bengal is three times more likely to generate cyclones, the ones that originate in the Arabian Sea are trickier, as the cyclone, while ostensibly moving away from India’s western coast, can suddenly ‘recurve’ and move back in. There are also fewer radars along India’s west coast than the eastern coast, and all these reasons make the Bay of Bengal cyclones more tractable. In this context, Nivar, because it conformed to a fairly predictable trajectory and was not super cyclonic in intensity, gave State administrations in Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh time to prepare, and was far less damaging than Amphan. However, the cyclone season is not yet over and more systems are likely to form in the coming weeks, according to the IMD. How has disaster warning changed? Forecasts, on their own, are important, but they cannot override the importance of preparedness by State agencies. The formation of cyclones is preceded by ‘depressions’, and they are often the first warnings. Not all depressions become cyclones, but many coastal States — especially those with a history of being battered — begin organising shelters and evacuation of coastal residents. Sea pockets, where cyclones form, are also places that drive schools of fish and lure fisherfolk. While meteorological agencies give advisories on where fish-catches are likely, they suspend such advisories during storm formation to dissuade fishermen from venturing out. The ubiquity of mobile communication makes it much easier to quickly give warnings. The IMD also issues flood forecast maps, in collaboration with urban bodies that forecast which pockets in a city are likely to be flooded and where crop damage is likely to be maximum.  The Bay of Bengal is three times more likely to generate cyclones, but the storms that originate in the Arabian Sea are trickier to predict||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-complexities-of-cyclone-forecasting/article33203403.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Implications of Trump pardoning Michael Flynn||The story so far: Earlier this week, U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted that he had pardoned Michael Flynn, his former National Security Adviser, also a retired U.S. army Lieutenant-General, and a supporter of his 2016 election campaign. Mr. Flynn had twice pleaded guilty of lying to the FBI as well as to Vice-President Mike Pence, as part of a plea agreement with Robert Mueller, the special prosecutor investigating allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 election to favour Mr. Trump. As per his plea, Mr. Flynn admitted that he lied about conversations that he had with the erstwhile Russian Ambassador to the U.S., Sergey Kislyak, wherein he had requested Mr. Kislyak to ensure that Russia did not retaliate against Washington, over sanctions designed to punish Moscow for interfering in the 2016 election. How is the President able to grant pardons? Under Article Two of the U.S. Constitution, the President has the power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against the country, except in the case of impeachment. Under this Article, the President has the right to grant pardons, commute sentences, permit the remission of fines and forfeitures, and allow respites and amnesties, as the case may require. Who else has Mr. Trump pardoned? On the list of those whom Mr. Trump has thus far pardoned are advocates of controversial right-wing ideologies, including former Maricopa (Arizona) County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, Fox News contributor and provocateur Dinesh D’Souza, and military personnel accused of war crimes in Afghanistan and elsewhere. Why is the pardon of Mr. Flynn controversial? However unpalatable the other pardons by Mr. Trump may have been to Democrats and others, his pardon of Mr. Flynn differs significantly from these, in that his perjury relates directly to the intention to shield Mr.Trumpand his associates from exposure to potential culpability with regard to the Russian election disinformation plot. In fact, shortly after Mr. Flynn was fired as NSA in early 2017, Mr. Trump asked the FBI to end the investigation into allegations of wrongdoing by Mr. Flynn. Subsequently, Mr. Flynn sought to withdraw his guilty plea, on the basis that the prosecutors allegedly violated his rights and tricked him into entering a plea agreement. In May 2020, U.S. Attorney General William Barr dropped a bombshell by ordering prosecutors to drop the case against Mr. Flynn, following Mr. Trump’s complaints that Mr. Flynn was being treated “unfairly”. Mr. Flynn’s sentencing has been deferred several times. What is the broader context of the Flynn saga? Several of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, including Mr. Flynn, Roger Stone and Paul Manafort, were found guilty of or pleaded guilty to concealing information from law enforcement in this context. This raises the question of whether Mr. Trump will pardon Mr. Manafort too. It also raises the spectre of the possibility that although the Mueller probe did not find a smoking gun, there was information about Mr. Trump’s possible involvement with Russian agents that did not see the light of day. What further denouement is possible in this case? Now that Mr. Trump has lost the polls, he will no longer enjoy the constitutional protection from prosecution that has limited investigations into his dealings, not only regarding Russia, but also his financial and business dealings in the context of possible conflicts of interest, and the abuse of power and obstruction of justice allegations, over which he was impeached in the House of Representatives.  Can an outgoing President take such a step? What is the former National Security Adviser guilty of?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/implications-of-trump-pardoning-michael-flynn/article33203405.ece
29 November 2020||November 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Scaling new heights||The story so far: Perhaps the most stunning instance of a collaboration between public enterprises and the private sector in recent times is that between NASA and SpaceX. It is stunning because of the sheer extent of the frontier it is trying to breach. With its reusable rockets, large capsules to carry payloads and crew and competitive pricing, SpaceX has revolutionised the space sector. The latest instances of this include the launch of the Crew Dragon spacecraft on November 15, which carried to the International Space Station four astronauts — Michael Hopkins, Victor Glover and Shannon Walker of NASA and Soichi Noguchi of the Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA). Another recent feat is the launch on November 24 of 60 more Starlink Internet relay satellites into the orbit. These, and thousands more like these, are designed for the purpose of providing broadband services to people anywhere on Earth. What is the picture in India? In India too, we have seen the yielding of governmental control over the space industry bit by bit, starting from hiring of vendors and active outsourcing of rocket components to the present idea of allowing external agencies to use ISRO facilities. There has also been a shift from a mandated focus on utilitarian projects to those focused on exploring space and our planetary neighbours, the Moon, the Sun and so on. It is not too much to expect that soon, India may also see the emergence of collaborations like that between SpaceX and NASA.  What does the commercialisation of the space sector mean in practical terms? Dr. Mylswamy Annadurai, former director of ISRO Satellite Centre, notes that the collaboration between NASA and SpaceX is remarkable because it has in fact taken the American space programme to a level that had not been possible for NASA to achieve by itself. Having their own rockets to transport astronauts to the International Space Station and back has prevented Americans from spending hugely on the mission, as they were doing earlier. This was possible only because of NASA’s active collaboration with SpaceX. Thus, the opening up of the space sector could have many more such advancements in store. With the November 24 launch of 60 Starlink satellites, the total number of such satellites sent up by the company equals 955. Thousands more will join these, and the aim of this exercise is to provide Internet services that link any point on Earth to any other point. Targeting coverage in northern U.S. and Canada this year, the aim is to have the globe covered by 2021. This will be the new telecom revolution then, in the context of India, reaching out to rural areas as never before. Would curiosity-driven science survive in the era of privatisation? The cargo version of Dragon-2 spacecraft is the upgraded version of Dragon. It is a reusable spacecraft capable of returning significant cargo to the Earth from the International Space Station. At least in the case of its launch, planned for December 5, it seems that curiosity-driven science would not only survive, but would rather be enhanced. This spacecraft is not just carrying payloads for scientific experiments, but is also sporting a new commercially owned and operated ‘airlock’. An airlock is like a doorway, and the new Nanoracks Bishop Airlock Module, built by a Texas-based company, Nanoracks LLC, is an improvement over what was used earlier. This will allow larger payloads to move in and out of the spacecraft, considerably expanding the scope of experiment design and structure. This mission also carries interesting experiments, one of which is a mixture of meteorite samples and microbes, aimed at seeing how the microbes can be used for biomining on asteroids. Another experiment aims at studying how changes in gravity can affect cardiovascular tissue. So, while there is room for curiosity-driven science, there is also the aspect of utility in the event of more humans travelling to space. What is the future of space tourism? Space tourism could become more common as space travel becomes less expensive. There are companies now, such as Virgin Galactic, Blue Origin and SpaceX, that will offer space flights, albeit for a very high fee. While the first two may allow the customer to experience a few minutes of only microgravity, the last company can, in principle, take space travellers to the International Space Station, where they could spend even weeks. Perhaps this is the stepping-stone to a future colony on the Moon, and should it come through, we will not be without Internet connections there.  India, too, is seeing the gradual yielding of governmental control over the space industry, starting from hiring of vendors and active outsourcing of rocket components to the present idea of allowing external agencies to use ISRO facilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scaling-new-heights/article33203407.ece
