30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers reject Centre’s call for talks, say Burari is an open jail||Farmer groups have rejected the Home Minister’s conditional invitation for talks, and refused to shift to the designated protest grounds in Burari, calling it an “open jail”. Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are massed at the borders of Delhi, demanding the repeal of the Centre’s three agricultural reform laws and withdrawal of an electricity Bill. Equipped with rations that could last for months, they have threatened to block five of the entry points into the capital if their demands were not heard. “The Centre’s condition to hold talks is an insult to farmers. We will never go to the Burari ground. It is not a ground, it is an open jail,” said Surjeet Singh Phul, State president, Bharatiya Kisan Union Krantikari, speaking at a press conference held at the Singhu border point on Sunday evening. “When a group of farmers from Uttarakhand arrived in Delhi today, they said they wanted to go to Jantar Mantar, and the Delhi police said they would be taken there. Instead, they were taken to Burari and held there,” he added. Jantar Mantar, near Parliament, is a more visible and high-profile protest site. Noting that farmers had hauled along bedding and food rations for at least four months on their tractors, Mr. Phul said the protesters are prepared to stay for the long term and block five of Delhi’s entry-exit points. In a letter on November 28, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla reiterated Home Minister Amit Shah’s appeal to farmers to move to the grounds in northeastern Delhi, after which they would be called for a meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-reject-centres-call-for-talks-say-burari-is-an-open-jail/article33208570.ece
30 November 2020||New Delhi,||26/11 key accused wanted ‘medal’ for ‘top class’ input||Tahawwur Rana, key accused in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack, wanted it to be conveyed to one of the Pakistani co-conspirators a year after the 2008 attacks that he deserved a ‘medal’ for ‘top class’ contribution and that the “Indians deserved it,” papers filed by the U.S. government in a California court say. The U.S. authorities told the court that “the Secretary of State, and not the court, decides whether the fugitive should be surrendered to the requesting country”. Rana, wanted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the 2008 terror attack case, is currently lodged in a Los Angeles prison, awaiting extradition to India. Following an Illinois court order in June that commuted his jail sentence (scheduled to get over in September 2021) as he tested positive for COVID-19, federal prosecutors provisionally arrested him in the wake of the pending extradition request from India. Military honour The extradition document, exclusively accessed by The Hindu , says in September 2009, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) intercepted a conversation between Rana and David Coleman Headley, another prime accused, that “nine LeT attackers who had been killed during the attacks should be given Pakistan’s highest military honour”. Ten heavily armed men, trained by Pakistan-based terror outfit LeT and officials in the Pakistan security establishment, launched coordinated attacks on 12 locations in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, killing 166 people, including six Americans. The 10th terrorist Ajmal Kasab was caught and later hanged to death at a Pune prison in 2012. On September 28, the U.S. federal prosecutors filed an “extradition memorandum” in the district court of California, regarding Rana’s extradition. “Referring to a 1971 attack on his school in Pakistan, Headley told Rana that he believed he was ‘even with the Indians now’. In response, Rana said they (the Indian people) deserved it,” the court document said. Rana and Headley attended military high school together in Pakistan and were close friends. The Pakistani-Canadian citizen who was arrested in 2009 has challenged the extradition and filed a plea in the U.S. court on November 25, court records show. He was convicted for providing material support to the LeT in 2013. Unlike Headley, Rana did not enter into a plea bargain with the U.S. and he was placed under “provisional arrest” after he walked out of prison in June as the jail term that was to end in September 2021 was commuted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2611-key-accused-wanted-medal-for-top-class-input/article33208572.ece
30 November 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,||Man attacks Perni with trowel||Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) had a narrow escape when a person attacked him with a trowel at his residence here on Sunday morning. The Minister’s followers and security guards immediately subdued the accused and handed him over to the police. The incident occurred when the Minister was participating in the 13th day ceremony of his mother Nageswaramma who passed away recently after a prolonged illness. “I was interacting with relatives and locals over lunch. A person tried to touch my feet. Suddenly, he whipped out a sharp iron tool and pounced on me. My security personnel came to my rescue, and I am safe,” the Minister said. Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu told The Hindu that the accused was identified as B. Nageswara Rao. Chilakalapudi police took him into custody and are trying to ascertain the motive behind the attack. “Nageswara Rao is a mason. Police shifted him to the government hospital for a medical examination. The case is under investigation,” the SP said. The accused was a TDP supporter and his sister is a member of the party, police said. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas condemned the attack. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha directed the police to investigate the case thoroughly. Meanwhile, Mr. Ravindranath Babu reviewed the Minister’s security after the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-attacks-ap-transport-minister-with-a-trowel/article33208518.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID-19 tests cross one crore in State||The State reported 620 new COVID-19 infections and seven deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, pushing the tally to 8,67,683 and the toll to 6,988. The number of samples tested crossed the one-crore mark and reached 1,00,17,126 with a positivity rate of 8.66%. The positivity rate of the 54,710 samples tested in the last 24 hours was 1.13%, the lowest in the past six months. Nearly 18.76% of the State’s 5.34-crore population have been tested in the last 10 months. In other words, 18 in every 100 persons have been tested. Andhra Pradesh is the fifth State to cross one crore tests, but it has the highest tests per million ratio at 1.87 lakh. The State had begun testing in February by sending the samples of foreign returnees to Hyderabad. Later, it started testing the samples at the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences in Tirupati. Thereafter, the State gradually increased its testing capacities to about 80,000 per day, and the tests included RT-PCR, Truenat, NACO and Rapid Antigen. On October 29, as many as 88,778 samples, the highest in a day, were tested. However, the exercise slowed down as it had taken 16 days to test the last million samples against 13 days each for the number of tests to increase by a million from 70 lakh and 80 lakh. The positivity rate of the last million samples tested came down to 1.65%, the lowest ever, as only 16,385 cases were detected. For the first million samples tested between February and July, the positivity rate was 1.84% and it increased to 13.21% for the second million and reached a peak of 16.86% for the fourth million. Also, for the first time, the recovery rate crossed 98% to reach 98.23% as 3,787 patients recovered in the last one day. The total number of recoveries was 8,52,298 and the death rate stood at 0.81%. At present, there are only 0.96% active cases (8,397). New cases and deaths Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts reported two new deaths each, while Guntur, Chittoor and West Godavari reported one each. There were not fatalities in the remaining districts. West Godavari and Guntur reported more than 100 new cases with their single-day tally standing at 107 and 101 in the last 24 hours. They were followed by Krishna (85), Chittoor (640), Kadapa (48), East Godavari (40), Nellore (39), Visakhapatnam (36), Vizianagaram (35), Prakasam (19), Anantapur (16), Kurnool (15) and Srikakulam (15).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-tests-cross-one-crore-in-state/article33208577.ece
30 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||First case under conversion ordinance in U.P.||The Uttar Pradesh police lodged the first case under the new ordinance against unlawful conversions, a day after it was promulgated. An FIR was lodged by the police in Bareilly under Sections 3 and 5 of the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which was promulgated on November 27 by Governor Anandiben Patel. Bareilly police said the FIR was lodged at the Deorania police station against a person on charges of trying to coerce a 20-year-old girl to convert her to his religion and marry him. Sections 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code were also invoked. The FIR was lodged on the complaint of Tikaram Rathore, a resident of Sharifnagar village, late on Friday. Mr. Rathore alleged that the accused had developed a friendship with his daughter during their education and wanted to “coerce, coax and allure her into converting”. “Despite repeated disapprovals by me and my family, he [the boy] is not listening, and is applying pressure on me and my family through abuses and death threats...,” alleged Mr. Rathore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-case-under-conversion-ordinance-in-up/article33208581.ece
30 November 2020||Mumbai,||BMC to distribute free masks to offenders||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to distribute masks for free to Mumbaikars who don’t wear them in public spaces and are fined for this. According to civic officials, BMC squads charge Rs. 200 as fine from those who do not wear a mask in public places or are wearing it improperly. “However it has been observed that after paying the fine, the individuals concerned walk away without wearing the mask. It does not help the cause as the civic body’s priority is not only to slap fine but also to ensure that all citizens wear a mask while in public places to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus,” said a BMC official. He said that the receipt of the fine will mention that the individual concerned has been provided with a free mask. “As per the health guidelines issued from both the State and the Centre, wearing a mask is important to stop the spread the pandemic until a vaccine is found and distribution starts,” he said. According to the BMC, directions have been given to strictly adhere to the health norms and fine individuals if found without wearing a mask in public places. As of now, the civic administration has taken action against 4,85,737 individuals across 24 wards in Mumbai. The total fine collected by the BMC so far is Rs. 10,07,81,600. BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had, in a meeting on October 14, directed that action be taken against those not wearing masks. Since then, each administrative ward has formed dedicated squads. At some places, clean-up marshals have also been appointed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmc-to-distribute-free-masks-to-offenders/article33209188.ece
30 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Over 50,000 security personnel for GHMC polls||With just a day left for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls, the police of three commissionerates, Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachkaonda, have finalised a fool-proof security strategy leaving nothing to chance. More than 50,000 security personnel from various departments including police, forest and excise would be drawn for security arrangements on the day of polling, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Jitender told The Hindu . He said that for smooth and safe conduct of elections, the police had already evolved the bandobust plan and identified normal, sensitive, hyper-sensitive and critical polling stations. Over 3,500 persons with past criminal records and with a potential to create trouble during polls were already bound over by the local police, who also executed over 100 non-bailable warrants (NBW), Mr.Jitender said. Cash seizure Further, he said that so far they had seized Rs. 1.50 crore in cash, apart from liquor, and other narcotic substances. “More than 5,000 private persons residing in the three commissionrates have deposited their licensed firearms with the police, and as on today we booked 70 cases related to election code violation,” the top police brass said. In Hyderabad police commissionerate alone 55 cases were booked, apart from binding over 3066 ‘badhats’ in society, Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said. He said that there are 4,979 polling stations in their jurisdiction, of which 2,146 are earmarked as normal, while 1,517 are sensitive, 1,138 are hypersensitive and 167 are critical. According to Mr. Kumar, on Tuesday more than 22,000 police personnel will be on bandobust duty and they have already undergone four rounds of training on sequence of events. The deployment includes 15 Static Surveillance Teams (SST), 116 Special Striking Force and 406 Mobile Patrol Team. He said that additional force would be deployed at 29 border checkposts and all polling stations were geo-tagged for quick access. “Our Social Media team is constantly monitoring the elections related posts on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and other platforms, to see if there are any malicious,” Mr. Kumar said. He appealed to the general public to exercise their franchise without any hesitation and said transportation of voters in groups is prohibited. “Such vehicles will be seized and actions will be taken against the vehicle owner, contesting candidate,” he said. Mr. Kumar added that voters must park their vehicles at least 200 metres from the designated polling station, and each contesting candidate is allowed to move in only one vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50k-security-personnel-for-ghmc-polls/article33209093.ece
30 November 2020||Pune,||SII terms allegation of adverse reaction ‘malicious’||After a ‘Covishield’ vaccine volunteer sued the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and the Oxford Group over ‘adverse reaction’ during the vaccine trial, the SII on Sunday denied the allegations and dubbed them “malicious” and “misconceived”. The SII said that it would seek damages in excess of Rs. 100 crore and would defend such claims. “The allegations in the notice are malicious and misconceived. While the Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition, there is absolutely no correlation with the vaccine trial and the medical condition of the volunteer. The volunteer is falsely laying the blame for his medical problems on the COVID vaccine trial,” said the SII in a statement. It said that the volunteer had been informed that the complications that he suffered were independent of the vaccine trial he participated in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sii-terms-allegation-of-adverse-reaction-malicious/article33209189.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Reforms have brought new opportunities: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the demands raised by farmers over the years had been met in the form of the recent agriculture reforms, which have brought new opportunities. In his Mann ki Baat radio address, Mr. Modi said all political parties had been making promises to the farmers but now these promises had been fulfilled. The PM’s address came at the end of a week marked by protests by farmers in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi against the three farm Bills passed by Parliament in September. “The agricultural reforms in the past few days have also now opened new doors of possibilities for our farmers,” Mr. Modi said in the radio address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reforms-have-brought-new-opportunities-pm/article33208580.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Another provocative message found on city wall||Two days after a message that threatened to invite Laskhar-e-Taiba and Taliban to fight Sangh Parivar was found on the compound wall of an residential apartment in the city, another provocative message was found written on the wall of an abandoned police outpost building on the District Court premises here on Sunday. The latest message, which said, “Gustak e rasool ki ek hi saza sar tan se juda” (for those who insult Prophet Muhammad the only punishment is beheading), was written in English. Soon after it was noticed, the police registered a case under the Karnataka Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act and erased it from the wall. Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said that the message on the police outpost appears to have come up at the same time as had the earlier one. “The new message in Urdu but written in English is of religious content. It is a mischievous act. A search is on to find the perpetrators,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-provocative-message-found-on-city-wall/article33209155.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||China nod for downstream dam on the Brahmaputra||China’s media reported on Sunday that authorities have given the go-ahead for a Chinese hydropower company to construct the first downstream dam on the lower reaches of the Brahmaputra river, or Yarlung Zangbo as it is known in Tibet, marking a new phase in China’s hydropower exploitation with pot-ential ramifications for India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-nod-for-downstream-dam-on-the-brahmaputra/article33208829.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Lift curbs on media outfits, Naidu urges Thammineni||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged the State government to allow all the media organisations to cover the winter sessions of the legislature commencing from November 30 (Monday). In a letter addressed to Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam on Sunday, Mr. Naidu said the ‘media point’ outside the Assembly building that facilitates interaction of the leaders of various political parties with the media should also be restored and allowed to function as long as the legislature was in session. A few vernacular media organisations had earlier been barred from entering the Assembly premises. Stating that the media had a pivotal role to play by serving as a bridge between the government and the people, Mr. Naidu asserted that in a democracy, the governments were bound to follow certain ethics and rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lift-curbs-on-media-outfits-naidu-urges-thammineni/article33208579.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||27-km stretch of coastline at Nakkapalli for Navy||The Andhra Pradesh government has formally agreed to give a 27-km stretch of the coastline at Nakkapalli in Visakhapatnam district for setting up an Alternative Operating Base (AOB) of the Indian Navy. Detailed deliberations have already been held in this regard with top naval officials by the Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board and other departments concerned. The Indian Navy had sought notification for a 97 km area as the limits of the proposed Rambilli port to facilitate the establishment of the AOB on the 27-km stretch. Official sources said the Visakhapatnam-based Eastern Naval Command (ENC) had requested the State government to notify the Rambilli port limits in 2016, and wide-ranging consultations had since been held with senior officials of the Navy, including its chief, recently. The AOB is designed to support a fleet of eight to 12 nuclear-powered ballistic missile vessels and submarines to be built for the Navy. The Navy plans to set up “submarine pens” (bunkers that help in hiding the submarines from spy satellites and protecting them from air attacks) in the AOB. The relevant files have been circulated among the State government departments. The AOB is given top priority by the State government, along with the three ports mooted at Ramayapatnam, Machilipatnam and Bhavanapadu at an estimated cost of Rs. 10,000 crore. In another significant development, officials are contemplating setting up ship recycling units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/andhra-pradesh-to-hand-over-27-km-vizag-coastline-to-navy/article33208520.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Low pressure area likely to intensify into a depression||Close on the heels of Cyclone Nivar, which brought heavy rain to northern Tamil Nadu, a depression over the Bay of Bengal is expected to bring very heavy rain to the southern districts of the State in the next few days. A well-marked low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining areas of the south Andaman sea and the equatorial Indian Ocean is very likely to concentrate into a depression by Monday evening, move west-northwestwards and reach southern Tamil Nadu’s coast by Tuesday, officials of the India Meteorological Department said. The weather system is expected to bring very heavy rainfall of between 12 cm and 20 cm to a few places across Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts on Monday. The coastal districts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are likely to receive light to moderate rain. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, said the weather system was likely to bring very heavy rain to most places in the southern districts of the State. On Tuesday (December 2), extremely heavy rain of 21 cm and above has been forecast for much of Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari. Also, very heavy rain (between 12 cm and 20 cm) has been forcast for many places in Pudukottai, Theni, Madurai and Sivaganga districts. The Meteorological Department has predicted that Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Karaikal would get heavy rain (7 cm-11 cm) on Tuesday. For the next five days, all other districts of the State, including Chennai, are expected to receive light to moderate rain. Puducherry too is likely to get a similar quantity of rainfall. As far as Chennai is concerned, the forecast for Monday is partly cloudy skies with light rain at isolated places. The maximum temperature would be 30 degree Celsius and minimum 23 degree Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/low-pressure-area-likely-to-intensify-into-a-depression/article33208615.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||As curbs ease, hubs come back to life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-curbs-ease-hubs-come-back-to-life/article33209125.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Heavy rain alert in State||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has urged the public to take adequate precautions with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting heavy rain and strong winds from Tuesday. Fishing activities have been prohibited from Tuesday till further notice, the KSDMA said. Fishers who are out at sea have been advised to make for the nearest coast by Monday night. The departments of Revenue and Local Self-Government have been directed to make arrangements for opening relief camps, if needed, from Wednesday. The IMD on Sunday upgraded the heavy rainfall alert levels declared for various districts with the northeast monsoon expected to strengthen under the influence of a well-marked low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal which is expected to concentrate into a depression by Tuesday. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall on Tuesday. The districts have been put on yellow alerts. Idukki has been put on red alert on Wednesday as the district is likely to receive extremely heavy rainfall. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta are on orange alert on Wednesday. These districts may receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Yellow alerts have been issued in Alappuzha, Kottayam and Ernakulam. Orange alert Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam are on orange alert on Thursday, while Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki have been put on yellow alerts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-alert-in-state/article33208714.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||As curbs ease, hubs come back to life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-curbs-ease-hubs-come-back-to-life/article33208716.ece
30 November 2020||Kolkata,||classes in bengal||West Bengal Education Minister Partha Chatterjee, who held a virtual meeting with vice chancellors of different State-run universities on Sunday, said there was no immediate plan to start classes in colleges and universities. The State government had earlier announced resumption of classes in higher educational institutions from December 1. After the discussions, the Minister said classes could not be resumed now due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Chatterjee added that colleges and universities can also extend undergraduate and postgraduate admissions by another 15 days. Meanwhile, the State added 3,367 new COVID-19 cases taking total number of cases to 4,80,813. In the past 24 hours 54 causalities were recorded, taking total number of causalities to 8,376 . Of these, both Kolkata and North 24 Parganas recorded 13 deaths each. The toll in Kolkata increased to 2,596, while in North 24 Parganas it increased to 1,973. With 814 new infections the total cases in North 24 Parganas crossed one lakh and increased to 1,00,145.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/classes-in-bengal/article33208734.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Centenarians survive COVID-19 better: Data||The State has seen as many as 26,006 children aged below nine and 60 centenarians being infected with COVID-19. Of these, 26 children and only three centenarians have died. All the three centenarians who died are male patients (one aged 102 and two aged 100) from Bengaluru. None of the them had any co-morbidties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centenarians-survive-covid-19-better-data/article33209000.ece
30 November 2020||Belagavi,||Seer’s call to Kuruba legislators||Niranjanandapuri Swami of Kaginele Mutt called upon all legislators from the Kuruba community to resign if the State and Union governments fail to accord Scheduled Tribe status to the Kuruba community. He was speaking at a rally organised by Kuruba organisations seeking ST tag in Bagalkot on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seers-call-to-kuruba-legislators/article33209001.ece
30 November 2020||Punhana (NUH),||Nuh woman suspected of killing four daughters||A woman in Nuh allegedly killed her four daughters, aged two months to six years, by slitting their throats, and then then tried to kill herself as well. She was taken to the Civil Hospital in Mandikhera and later referred to the medical college in Nalhar. Police said that the woman was the prime suspect in the case, but her statement was yet to be recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-woman-kills-her-four-daughters/article33208831.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi’s COVID count stays below 5,000||Delhi recorded 4,906 new COVID-19 cases and 68 deaths on Sunday, according to a health bulletin issued by the city government. The bulletin added that 64,186 tests were conducted over the past 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 7.64%. The total number of cases now stands at 5,66,648.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhis-covid-count-stays-below-5000/article33208832.ece
30 November 2020||BELAGAVI,||Kuruba religious heads to lead padayatra||Religious heads of the Kuruba community will lead a padayatra from Kaginele to Bengaluru seeking the inclusion of the community in the Scheduled Tribes list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kuruba-religious-heads-to-lead-padayatra/article33208689.ece
30 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||Sriramulu for inclusion of Molakalmur in Ballari||Responding to the demand for the inclusion of Molakalmur taluk in Ballari district from Chitradurga district, Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, who represents Molakalmur in the Legislative Assembly, said that he too was in favour of the demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sriramulu-for-inclusion-of-molakalmur-in-ballari/article33208690.ece
30 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||25,000 health workers identified for vaccine||As many as 25,000 frontline health workers in government and private hospitals across Kalaburagi district have been identified to receive the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine when it becomes available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25000-health-workers-identified-for-vaccine/article33208691.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Cabinet expansion: CM to contact Shah again?||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who on Sunday said he was hopeful of the BJP central leadership allowing him to expand the State Cabinet in the next two or three days, is expected to speak to Union Home Minister Amit Shah again on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-expansion-cm-to-contact-shah-again/article33208799.ece
30 November 2020||Belagavi,||Seer’s call to Kuruba legislators||Niranjanandapuri Swami of Kaginele Mutt called upon all legislators from the Kuruba community to resign if the State and the Union governments fail to accord Scheduled Tribe status to the Kuruba community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seers-call-to-kuruba-legislators/article33208800.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Kannada prosody introduced in English||The structure and principles of Kannada prosody has now been introduced in English for the benefit of non-Kannada readers and scholars. It is written by B.A. Vivek Rai, former Vice-Chancellor of Kannada University, Hampi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kannada-prosody-introduced-in-english/article33208801.ece
30 November 2020||New Delhi,||Did not seize Stan Swamy’s sipper: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday said it has not seized human rights activist Father Stan Swamy’s straw and sipper, and dismissed the reports as “false, incorrect and mischievous”. The 83-year-old priest, who suffers from Parkinson’s disease, was arrested from his residence in Ranchi on October 8 for his alleged involvement in the 2017 Bhima Koregaon case, and is lodged at Taloja Jail in Mumbai. Mr. Swamy was chargesheeted on October 9, along with seven other accused, in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/did-not-seize-stan-swamys-sipper-nia/article33209190.ece
30 November 2020||Pune,||Udayanraje Bhosale targets MVA govt.||Udayanraje Bhosale, Bharatiya Janata Party MP, on Sunday hit out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, accusing it of adopting delaying tactics which has ensured that the Maratha quota law has not yet been implemented in Maharashtra. Mr. Bhosale censured NCP chief Sharad Pawar, without naming him, for failing to implement the quota for the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udayanraje-bhosale-targets-mva-govt/article33209191.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,||BJP sure of taking control of most GPs||Kick-starting the Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign for the coming elections to gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada, party’s State president and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Saturday that the party intends to root out the Congress from such panchayats wherever the latter held sway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-sure-of-taking-control-of-most-gps/article33209156.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Ambulance for animals||Pashu Sanjeevini ambulance of the Department of Animal Husbandry will shortly get drivers to put it into use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ambulance-for-animals/article33209157.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Cong. to fight govt. move to displace farmers||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday said that the government is making an attempt to displace farmers in the coastal and Malnad belts based on the Kasturirangan report on the Western Ghats. The Congress will fight against this move in the districts concerned, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-to-fight-govt-move-to-displace-farmers/article33209159.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Another provocative graffiti found in Mangaluru||Two days after a message that threatened to “invite the Laskhar-e-Taiba and the Taliban to fight the Sangh Parivar” was found on the compound wall of a residential apartment here, another provocative message was found written on the wall of an abandoned police outpost building on the district court premises here on Sunday. The latest message, which said,“Gustak e rasool ki ek hi saza sar tan se juda”(for those who insult Prophet Mohammed the only punishment is beheading), was written in English. Case filed Soon after it was noticed, the police registered a case under the Karnataka Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act and erased it. Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said the message appears to have come up at the same time as had the earlier one. “It is a mischievous act. A search is on to find the perpetrators,” he said. The earlier provocative message which said, “Do not force us to invite Laskhar-e-Taiba and Taliban to deal with Sanghis and Manvedis # Laskhar Zindabad”, was found on the compound wall of the residential apartment in Bejai, a few metres from the Mangaluru east police station and the circuit house on Friday. CCTV footage inspected The police have now registered a case for an offence that created enmity among communities under the Indian Penal Code and under the provisions of the Karnataka Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act. A special team has been formed to arrest the accused. The police are also looking at the footage from the CCTV cameras for clues. In a release here on Sunday, the Police Commissioner said if people had any information on those scribbling such messages on public walls, they could pass it on to them. People can contact Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order) on Ph: 9480802304, Deputy Police Commissioner (Crime and Traffic) on Ph: 9480802305 and control room on Ph: 0824-2220800 for the purpose. The identity of the informants will not be revealed, Mr. Vikash said and added that stringent action would be taken against those involved in the criminal act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-provocative-graffiti-found-in-mangaluru/article33208514.ece
30 November 2020||New Delhi,||Congress flays Shah’s south trip||Taking a potshot at Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Congress said on Sunday that he could travel 1,200 km from Delhi to Hyderabad to campaign for the municipal polls but could not travel 15 km to the Delhi border to meet protesting farmers. The party also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being obdurate in the face of protests from lakhs of farmers. In Sunday’s episode of Mann ki Baat , Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the three agricultural laws. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi asked how was a fair dialogue possible with a government which has a pre-decided stance of supporting the three laws. “The promise was to double the income of the farmers — the Modi government did increase the income but that of Adani-Ambani!” The Congress demanded an apology from Mr. Modi and the immediate withdrawal of the farm laws. ‘PM’s obduration’ “Prime Minister’s obduracy, Prime Minister’s arrogance, Prime Minister’s rigidity in dealing with 62 crore farmers and farm labourers of India is writ large by his insistence today inMann ki Baatthat the three anti-farmer, anti-agriculture laws forcibly passed in an illegal and unconstitutional fashion by Parliament are correct,” said party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. Mr. Modi’s comment, when lakhs of farmers are sitting all around Delhi demanding their withdrawal, shows that the government is drunk on power and the Prime Minister does not care, Mr. Surejwala said. “If the Home Minister of India has time to travel 1,200 km to address a public meeting in Hyderabad, why does Shri Amit Shah not have the time to go 15 km to the border of Delhi and speak to the agitating farmers? Why is it that the Agriculture Minister has taken out a date of December 3 before which no conversation can be held? Have they consulted an astrologer? What is the sanctity of it?” he asked. ‘12,000 FIRs’ He also pointed out that the BJP-led Manohar Lal government in Haryana had lodged 12,000 FIRs, equating farmers with terrorists. These criminal charges should be withdrawn at the earliest, he said. The party has alleged that the three laws rob the farmers of the protection provided by the Minimum Support Price mechanism. Mr. Surjewala said, “If the Agricultural Produce Market Committees are shut, who will buy the produce at MSP?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-flays-shahs-south-trip/article33208538.ece
30 November 2020||Pune,||SII calls allegation ‘malicious’||After a ‘Covishield’ vaccine volunteer sued the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and the Oxford Group over ‘adverse reaction’ during the vaccine trial, the SII on Sunday denied the allegations and dubbed them “malicious” and “misconceived”. The SII said that it would seek damages in excess of Rs. 100 crore and would defend such malicious claims. “The allegations in the notice are malicious and misconceived. While the Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition, there is absolutely no correlation with the vaccine trial and the medical condition of the volunteer. The volunteer is falsely laying the blame for his medical problems on the COVID vaccine trial,” said the SII in a statement. It said that the volunteer’s claim was “malicious” as he had been specifically informed by the medical team that the complications that he suffered were independent of the vaccine trial he participated in. “In spite of specifically being made aware of the same, he still chose to go public and malign the reputation of the company. It is evident that the intention behind the spreading of such malicious information is an oblique pecuniary motive,” said the SII’s statement. The 40-year-old man, who had taken part in the vaccine trial, had said that he suffered serious side effects, including a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions. He sought monetary compensation to the tune of Rs. 5 crore in a legal notice to the SII, AstraZeneca and the Oxford Vaccine Group, besides seeking a halt to the trial. Alleging that the candidate vaccine was not safe, he has also sought cancelling approval for the testing, manufacture and distribution of the vaccine. ‘DCGI is probing case’ The Drugs Controller General of India and the institutional ethics committee at the implementation site are investigating if the alleged adverse event is related to the shot administered to him. Samiran Panda, who heads the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases (ECD) division of the ICMR, said the causal link, if any, of the serious adverse events with the investigational product is objectively assessed in any clinical trial following a pre-defined scientific pathway and within a stipulated period. “Any hurried inquiry or inference is prone to be wrong. Both the institutional ethics committee and the DCGI are investigating the causal links, if any, between the adverse events and investigational product, which is an anti-coronavirus vaccine,” Dr. Panda said. Legal notice The notice given on November 21 by a law firm on behalf of the volunteer said, “Our client states that he must be compensated, in the least, for all the sufferings that he and his family have undergone and are likely to undergo in future.” “He further states that he is still far from being all right and has to be under medical care for a long time to come. Therefore, for all the trauma he is undergoing and with an uncertain future in his health, he should be given a financial compensation of Rs. 5 crores within two weeks from the receipt of this notice,” it said.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-calls-allegation-malicious/article33208551.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad will get BJP Mayor: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asserted that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) “is certainly going to form the next government in Telangana as it has already become the main opposition to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS)”. “We also have the support of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the way in which he is running the government,” he said at a press conference on Sunday. His party was also well poised to win the GHMC election and the Mayor post to make Hyderabad free of “Nawab and Nizam culture to a modern mini-India” where there is “no appeasement or injustice to any community”. “We will bring about a transformation from dynasty to democracy from the likes or TRS and Owaisis without the rampant corruption being witnessed now,” he claimed. First thing if the people give BJP a chance this poll is to “remove all the encroachments” on the stormwater drains and lake beds which had caused the recent floods, he said and charged the TRS-Majlis alliance of allowing them to come up due to “appeasement” politics. “We assure good governance in improving the civic infrastructure to make Hyderabad truly a global city and an international IT hub where youth from across the country will get employment opportunities,” said Mr. Shah. Refuting the charge of Centre not releasing funds for flood relief, he claimed Rs. 500 crore has been released and KCR was not aware since “he does not go to the Secretariat.” The Home Minister also had a series of questions to KCR on the forgotten promises made in the last elections like roads, water, drains, public healthcare, etc., in last five years. KCR should openly declare the alliance with Majlis in public rather than have a “secret” understanding, he said and also questioned if there was “no talent” outside the first families which garners all the posts. Mr. Shah declared he was ready to take action against the illegal Rohingya and Bangladeshi migrants if Majlis MP Asaduddin Owaisi seeks it in writing. “Everyone must have seen in TV who protests the most in Parliament when we talk about taking such action,” he pointed out. Earlier, Mr. Shah arrived by a special plane from New Delhi to the Begumpet airport where he was received by Union Minister of State G. Kishan Reddy, national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, national OBC president K. Laxman, TS party president B. Sanjay Kumar and others. Party activists gave him a rousing reception lining up all along the road till his motorcade reached the Bhagyalakshmi Temple at Charminar where he held prayers along with Goshamahal MLA T. Raja Singh, and others. From there, Mr. Shah moved to Warasiguda where he participated in the road show on the last day of the campaigning for the capital’s local body which got national attention with the BJP getting top leaders from across the country to take part in the electioneering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyderabad-will-get-bjp-mayor-shah/article33208508.ece
30 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s positivity rate rises to 11.34%||Kerala was on the threshold of six lakh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with the State reporting 5,643 new cases from 49,775 samples. The test positivity rate continued in the 9-11% range, rising to 11.34% on Sunday. The COVID-19 toll rose to 2,223 with another 27 deaths added to the list. The number of healthcare workers who contracted the infection was 34. COVID-19 cases in Telangana were on a decline, official data said. Four more COVID-19 patients died. Earlier, in October, when around 40,000 to 42,000 samples were tested per day, over 1,400 positive cases were detected; over 1,500 tested positive when over 45,000 samples were tested. However, the cases and tests dropped from November 20. With 42,000 samples tested, less than a 1,000 cases were detected. On Saturday, 46,280 samples were tested and 805 cases detected. Results of 612 were awaited. From November 23 to 28, a high of 47,593 samples were tested on November 24 and 993 tested positive. Campaigning for the GHMC elections could raise coronavirus spread, it was feared. The new cases included 131 from Greater Hyderabad, 82 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 58 from Rangareddy. The lowest of two cases were reported in Narayanpet and three in Jangaon. Andhra Pradesh reported 620 new infections and seven deaths on Sunday. The positivity rate of 54,710 samples tested in 24 hours was 1.13%, the lowest in six months. Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts reported two new deaths each, while Guntur, Chittoor and West Godavari reported one each. Karnataka on Sunday reported 1,291 new cases. Fifteen people succumbed to the virus. The Health department said the positivity rate was 1.22%. Bengaluru Urban reported 686 new cases and 10 deaths As many as 13,223 Rapid Antigen tests and 92,205 RT-PCR tests were conducted. 1,459 test positive in T.N. On a day when another 1,459 persons tested positive for COVID-19, Tamil Nadu recorded fewer than 10 fatalities, taking its COVID-19 toll to 11,703. Nine persons, including four in Chennai, died in the State.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/andhra-pradesh-claims-113-positivity-rate/article33208523.ece
30 November 2020||COLOMBO,||In Colombo, Ajit Doval meets Sampanthan||In an apparent last-minute addition to his itinerary in Colombo, National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval met senior Sri Lankan Tamil leader R. Sampanthan on Sunday, before wrapping up his two-day visit for a trilateral discussion on maritime cooperation and security. Colombo-based sources told The Hindu that the meeting was held at India House, official residence of the Indian High Commissioner, and lasted about 30 minutes. Asked about the development, Mr. Sampanthan confirmed that the meeting took place. “Matters pertaining to the development of Sri Lanka, and the development of the north and east were discussed,” the Tamil leader told The Hindu . Agenda not known While the Indian High Commission had tweeted updates of Mr. Doval’s visit, including his arrival, departure and various meetings during his stay — the trilateral talks with Sri Lankan and Maldivian counterparts, bilateral meetings with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Ahmed Didi and Secretary to Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Defence Kamal Gunaratne — the official handle, until Sunday night, had no mention of the NSA’s meeting with Mr. Sampanthan. It remains unclear if a political solution to Sri Lanka’s long-pending Tamil question or the prospect of a constitutional settlement was discussed. However, the meeting with Mr. Sampanthan, whose Tamil National Alliance has ten MPs in the 225-member legislature, assumes significance, coming two months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted India’s concerns about the rights of the Tamil minorities, in a virtual summit with his Sri Lankan counterpart. A joint statement issued by New Delhi and Colombo at that time had said: “Prime Minister Modi called on the Government of Sri Lanka to address the aspirations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and respect within a united Sri Lanka, including by carrying forward the process of reconciliation with the implementation of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution.” New Constitution The Rajapaksa administration has promised to draft a new Constitution, but some prominent members in the government openly oppose the Amendment and the provincial council system consequent on the Indo-Lanka Accord that was signed in 1987. The TNA has urged the government to build on the considerable drafting work done during the former government’s time in a process that involved all political parties, including Mr. Rajapaksa’s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-colombo-ajit-doval-meets-sampanthan/article33208530.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lifetime risk of diabetes in metros alarming: study||Disturbing new research published in Diabetologia (journal of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes) shows that more than half of men (55%) and some two-thirds (65%) of women aged 20 years in India will likely develop diabetes, with most of those cases (around 95%) likely to be type 2 diabetes. The research, titled ‘Lifetime risk of diabetes in metropolitan cities in India’, was done by a team of authors in India, the U.K. and the U.S., led by Shammi Luhar, Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, U.K. Professor Nikhil Tandon from the Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, and co-author of the paper noted that India already has a significant health burden caused by diabetes and estimates suggest that 77 million adults have diabetes and this is expected to almost double to 134 million by 2045. The authors noted that their new estimates from India are much closer to estimates of lifetime risk of 20-year-olds among the black and Hispanic populations in the U.S. (above 50%), groups considered at a higher risk than the general population. Dr. Luhar said: “Such high probabilities of developing diabetes will have severely negative implications for India’s already strained health system and also out-of-pocket expenditure on diabetes treatment by patients, unless diabetes is immediately acknowledged for what it is: one of the most important threats to public health in India.” Various factors The researchers noted that — urbanisation, decreasing diet quality and decreased levels of physical activity — are all contributing to this hidden epidemic. Women generally had a higher lifetime risk across the lifespan. “Remaining lifetime risk of developing diabetes declined with age, noted the authors. They estimated that for those currently aged 60 years and free of diabetes, around 38% of women and 28% of men would develop diabetes. Obesity had a substantial impact on these projections.” The paper said the risk was highest among obese metropolitan Indians — 86% among 20-year-old women and 87% among men. Professor Viswanathan Mohan of the Madras Diabetes Research Foundation in Chennai and co-author of the paper said: “Despite these very high predicted lifetime risks of diabetes, it is possible to prevent or postpone diabetes by effective lifestyle modification.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lifetime-risk-of-diabetes-in-metros-alarming-study/article33208544.ece
30 November 2020||New Delhi,||NIA says it did not seize Stan Swamy’s sipper||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday said it has not seized human rights activist Father Stan Swamy’s straw and sipper, and dismissed the reports as “false, incorrect and mischievous”. The 83-year-old priest, who suffers from Parkinson’s disease, was arrested from his residence in Ranchi on October 8 for his alleged involvement in the 2017 Bhima Koregaon case, and is lodged at Taloja Jail in Mumbai. A spokesperson said Mr. Swamy was a “hard-core activist of the banned CPI (Maoist)” and was chargesheeted on October 9, along with seven other accused, for his involvement in the Bhima Koregaon case. “After arresting accused Stan Swamy, the NIA produced him before the Special Court in Mumbai along with a chargesheet on October 9 and never took his police custody. All the necessary legal formalities such as his medical examination etc. were duly observed. Since then, accused Stan Swamy has been in judicial custody at Taloja Central Jail. Nearly after a month, i.e. on November 6, accused Stan Swamy filed an application in the Hon’ble NIA Court at Mumbai for getting back his straw and sipper, (which he falsely claimed to have been kept by NIA). The Hon’ble Court asked the Agency to file its reply on next date, which was scheduled on November 26. NIA duly filed its reply in the court on the scheduled date stating therein that NIA had conducted his personal search in presence of independent witnesses and no such straw and sipper were found,” the NIA said in a statement. ‘Court rejected plea’ The NIA said the court rejected Mr. Swamy’s plea and issued necessary direction to the jail authorities to provide him with a straw and sipper. “As the accused was in judicial custody, the matter was between him and the jail authorities which come under the Maharashtra State Administration. The reports claiming that NIA recovered straw and sipper from accused Stan Swamy and sought 20 days’ time from the court to respond to Stan Swamy’s plea to allow him a straw and sipper in Taloja Central Jail, are false, incorrect and mischievous as NIA neither recovered any straw and sipper from the accused nor sought 20 days time to file reply in said application,” the NIA said. It further added that the accused was propagating among other cadre that the arrest of the urban CPI (Maoist) cadre from different parts of country, particularly in Maharashtra, had caused a huge irrevocable damage to the CPI (Maoist). The NIA alleged that he received funds from other Maoist cadre for furtherance of the activities of the CPI (Maoist).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-says-it-did-not-seize-stan-swamys-sipper/article33208554.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||China nod for downstream dam on Brahmaputra||China’s media reported on Sunday that authorities have given the go-ahead for a Chinese hydropower company to construct the first downstream dam on the lower reaches of the Brahmaputra river, or Yarlung Zangbo as it is known in Tibet, marking a new phase in China’s hydropower exploitation of the river with potential ramifications for India. A report in the Chinese media said the state-owned hydropower company POWERCHINA had last month signed “a strategic cooperation agreement” with the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) government to “implement hydropower exploitation in the downstream of the Yarlung Zangbo River” as part of the new Five-Year Plan (2021-2025). China in 2015 operationalised its first hydropower project at Zangmu in Tibet, while three other dams at Dagu, Jiexu and Jiacha are being developed, all on the upper and middle reaches of the river. The report said this will be the first time the downstream sections of the river will be tapped. Yan Zhiyong, POWERCHINA’s chairman, told a conference of the China Society for Hydropower Engineering last week that “there is no parallel in history” and the downstream reaches of the river offered “a historic opportunity for the Chinese hydropower industry”, the Communist Party-run Global Times newspaper reported. Potential spot The report did not mention the location of the planned downstream project, but quoted Mr. Yan as talking about the particular potential offered at the “Great Bend” of the Brahmaputra and at the Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon in Medog county, where the river falls spectacularly over a 2,000 metre-drop and turns sharply to flow across the border into Arunachal Pradesh. He said this 50-km section alone offered the potential of developing 70 million kWh “which equals more than three Three Gorges power stations”. He said “the 60-million kWh hydropower exploitation at the downstream of the Yarlung Zangbo River could provide 300 billion kWh of clean, renewable and zero-carbon electricity annually” and the project “will play a significant role in realising China’s goal of reaching a carbon emissions peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality in 2060”. “It is a project for national security, including water resources and domestic security,” he was quoted as saying. It remains unclear whether technical feasibility studies for the downstream dams will be approved, as POWERCHINA is not the first hydropower company to push for ambitious dams downstream on the Zangbo. Chinese hydropower groups have long campaigned to tap the “Great Bend”, but projects have so far not taken off over concerns over the technical feasibility in the steep Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon. India has expressed concerns to China over the four dams on the upper and middle reaches, though Indian officials have said the dams are not likely to impact the quantity of the Brahmaputra’s flows in India greatly because they are only storing water for power generation and the Brahmaputra is not entirely dependent on upstream flows with an estimated 35% of its basin in India. A dam at the Great Bend, if approved, would raise fresh concerns, considering its location downstream and just across the border from Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-nod-for-downstream-dam-on-brahmaputra/article33208542.ece
30 November 2020||PUNHANA,||Nuh woman suspected of killing her four daughters||A woman in Nuh allegedly killed her four daughters, aged between two months and six years, by slitting their throats, and then tried to slit her own throat as well. She was taken to the Civil Hospital in Mandikhera and later referred to the medical college in Nalhar. The police said that the woman was the prime suspect in the case, but her statement was yet to be recorded. “She is out of danger, but the doctors are yet to declare her fit for a statement,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police, Punhana, Vivek Chaudhary. Her husband Khurshid Ahmed, 45, a resident of Piproli village here, said he had gone to condole deaths in a family in the village. When he returned to his single-bedroom house around 2 a.m., he heard faint sounds emanating from the room. “I peeped inside through the cracks in the door to see one of the girls lying in a pool of blood with her throat slit. I heard my wife Farmina crying in pain holding a knife and trying to slit her throat. I raised an alarm and soon neighbours gathered,” said Mr. Ahmed, a farmer. People broke open the door to see the four girls lying in a pool of blood on two beds, their throats slit. Ms. Farmina, too, had injured herself with the knife. The couple had got married eight years ago. It was Ms. Farmina’s second marriage. She had a daughter from the first relationship, now aged around 13, who was with Ms. Farmina’s former in-laws at the time of the incident. Ms. Farmina’s family was not present in the village. Superintendent of Police Narendra Bijarniya said the police were investigating the case from all angles. “The woman remains the prime suspect,” he said. (Those in distress can call Centre’s mental health helpline 1800-599-0019)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nuh-woman-suspected-of-killing-her-four-daughters/article33208992.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India records 41,810 fresh COVID-19 cases, 496 fatalities||India reported 41,810 COVID-19 cases, 496 fatalities and 42,298 discharges in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases stood at 4,53,956, as per the Health Ministry data on Sunday. The Ministry said 70.97% of the fatalities reported in the past 24 hours came from eight States/UTs — Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Delhi reported 89 fatalities, followed by Maharashtra (88) and West Bengal (52). Twenty two States/UTs have recorded case fatality rates less than the national average of 1.46 %, the Ministry said. “Maharashtra recorded the maximum positive change with addition of 1,940 cases whereas Delhi recorded the maximum negative change with a decrease of 1,603 active cases,” it said. The Ministry said 70.43% of the daily new cases were contributed by eight States/UT — Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Chhattisgarh. Kerala leads the tally with 6,250 new cases, followed by Maharashtra (5,965) and Delhi (4,998). Delhi also reported the highest number of single-day recoveries, with 6,512 newly discharged cases, while 5,275 people recovered in Kerala followed by 3,937 in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-41810-fresh-covid-19-cases-496-fatalities/article33208546.ece
30 November 2020||KHAMMAM,||Khammam IT hub set for inaugural on December 2||The fort city of Khammam is poised to transform itself into a hub of promotion of information technology, skill and entrepreneurship development and employment generation as the much awaited IT hub is set to be inaugurated here on December 2. Arrangements are in full swing to operationalise the first phase of the IT hub constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 27.5 crore near the two-town police station in the heart of the city. The facility is slated to be inaugurated by Information Technology and Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao on Wednesday. It forms the crux of the State government's policy to promote IT in tier-II cities and incubate start-ups. The ground plus five storey IT hub building with state of the art facilities would offer a little over 40,000 sq.ft. space for the IT companies to set up their back offices, sources said. The spacious building would house an office of the Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge (TASK) on the ground floor. Around 16 IT companies, including some run by enterprising Indian techies based in the U.S. and Singapore are expected to start their offices in the first phase of the IT hub. Some of these IT firms had already signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for setting up their offices at the IT hub in August last year, sources added. A recruitment drive was conducted by the TASK on the SBIT premises here on Saturday to select qualified hands for various positions in the offices to be set up by the IT firms in the Khammam IT hub. Scores of youths turned up for the recruitment drive from the erstwhile composite Khammam district and also from neighbouring districts. Of them, around 300 candidates have been provisionally selected for positions like web developers, accounts executives, sales and marketing professionals in the IT sector, sources said. Meanwhile, Collector R V Karnan on Sunday visited the IT hub building and reviewed arrangements for the inaugural ceremony of the facility scheduled to be held on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/khammam-it-hub-set-for-inaugural-on-december-2/article33209097.ece
30 November 2020||Srinagar,||‘Centre murdering democracy in J&K’||Former Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday accused the Centre of “murdering democracy” in the Union Territory and questioned the presence of nine lakh troops there “if the dilution of Article 370 buried all issues”. “They are murdering democracy while conducting the District Development Council (DDC) polls and the mayor’s elections. All the [Gupkar] alliance candidates are being confined to homes and others enjoy full freedom,” Ms. Mufti said while addressing a press conference in Srinagar. On the arrest of PDP leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra days after he filed his nomination for the DDC polls from Pulwama, Ms. Mufti said he stood for “dialogue, reconciliation and democracy”. “Despite being detained for 14 months, Parra decided to contest the polls for keeping the democracy alive. The next day he got a call from the National Investigation Agency (NIA),” she alleged. She claimed that opponent voices were being dubbed as “anti-national and booked under UAPA” by the BJP regime. “There seems to be no place for real democracy in BJP’s India,” she said. “Muslims are being dubbed as Pakistanis, Sikhs as Khalistanis, students as anti-national, women protests anti-national. I want to ask BJP that if everyone is anti-national, who is Hindustani then? BJP only?” she said. Ms. Mufti said the high poll percentage “has no bearing on the Kashmir issue”. She said, “elections were held in the past as well. Kashmir is an issue, which needs to be resolved.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-murdering-democracy-in-jk/article33208533.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Why can’t old city become new city, asks Bandi Sanjay||Telangana BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday said his party was determined to remove the old city from the clutches of the Majlis party to convert it into a "new city" and attract industries and IT companies from the Hi-Tec City to provide employment opportunities for the youth living in the area. "Why is Metro Rail not allowed into the old city? Why are firms not setting up offices or factories there? Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Majlis MP Asaduddin Owaisi hold so many midnight meetings, so why don't they discuss works to improve roads and drains there?" he questioned, while addressing a doctors’ meeting held as part of the ongoing GHMC poll campaign. BJP stand The BJP was not against any community and was for providing equal opportunities but would stand and fight if there is any injustice in the polity to the majority community like not providing quota for the economically weaker sections among the forward castes in TS. "How long will the Majlis have to be mollycoddled? Is that the only manner in which peace can be ensured in the city? What we are seeing is outward calm as there are several illegal migrants from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan reared and protected by the MIM." he charged. The BJP leader claimed that his charge of illegal stay of Rohingya was proved right with the police admitting to filing of 80 cases and it was a fact the Home Minister himself had opened 108 shelters for them. "If we get a majority in GHMC we will give a free hand for the police within 24 hours to weed out the illegal migrants and also ensure who had fled their ancestral homes in fear in the old city, return and re-settle in the same place," Criticising Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for trying to create a scare among people about law and order issues, he asked if there were any communal riots in the BJP-ruled States or when Article 370 was removed or after the Ayodhya judgment. "Who is interested in creating trouble?" he wondered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-cant-old-city-become-new-city-asks-bandi/article33208692.ece
30 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M) takes serious view of KSFE raid||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has reportedly taken a serious view of the surprise raid by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) offices in the State. With more than 33 lakh customers and 600 branches, KSFE had a direct bearing on the lives of people. The CPI(M) felt the attack on its trustworthiness was akin to undermining the people's faith in the government in the election year. The inspections had caught the administration off guard. The examination had embarrassed the ruling front. The State's anti-corruption watchdog had acted as if it were at odds with the administration. The agency appeared to have played into the Opposition's "fake narrative" about entrenched corruption in State-run entities, the CPI(M) felt. The VACB's action had to some measure undermined the party's position that Central law enforcement agencies had attempted to unsettle the government politically by seeking to unleash predatory investigations into Life Mission, KIIFB, K-Fon and e-mobility projects. Other scandals Furthermore, the raid had added another complexity to CPI(M)'s political messaging as it struggled to outpace other high-octane scandals that have dogged the government since the gold smuggling case broke in July. The CPI(M) believed that the VACB had, perhaps inadvertently, promoted the cause of private chit fund firms by targeting KSFE. The party wanted the government to examine the circumstance that necessitated the anti-corruption raid and whether credible intelligence justified the action. The CPI(M) was equally upset that the agency had "leaked" the news of the raid to the media without reporting the findings to the government. The speculative media reports had added grist to the rumour mills of private competitors who aspired to elbow KSFE aside for a bigger piece of the estimated Rs. 1 lakh crore financial pie. The party also noted that private chit firms were major advertisers who had considerable media influence. A party insider said the VACB seemed to have lost sight of the fact that KSFE was a legacy institution that exerted an amount of social control over the recurring deposit-based advance loan business relied on by ordinary folk. The KSFE's societal role had arguably tempered loan sharks, unscrupulous private chit firms and dealt a body blow to fly-by-night operators incrementally. The next central and State committee of the party would weigh the matter and issue a political statement, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-takes-serious-view-of-ksfe-raid/article33208516.ece
30 November 2020||Srinagar,||Retro Bollywood wraps Srinagar in sepia||Placing characters from cult Bollywood movies, such as those played by Naseerudin Shah and Rekha in Umrao Jaan and Meena Kumari and Nadira in Pakeezah , against the backdrop of the dying heritage bazaars of the 5,000-year-old city of Srinagar, Zoya Khan, 31, an architect and heritage enthusiast, is succeeding in putting the spotlight on the waning architectural character of the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) capital. Created over the past three years, Ms. Zoya’s thematic digital art work, Houses of Kashmir , is fast adorning the walls of the Valley’s popular hotels and homes and, at the same time, creating awareness of its lost heritage. “I frequented the old city while being part of a team drafting Srinagar’s master plan in 2017. My area of intervention was heritage. I went back to areas in 2020 and the houses I saw in 2017 did not exist, in the absence of bylaws or protection status. My works are also an attempt at cataloguing lost heritage,” said Ms. Khan, who is pursuing her Master’s in international architectural regeneration and development at Oxford Brookes University. Kashmir’s Bollywood connections proved a right mix to make people reconnect with the past. “It came instinctively to me to place characters from cult movies such as Umrao Jaan and Pakeezah in the bazaars of the old city. The clothes they wore in the movies go with the place. These pictures also capture the time and space of the bygone era. People liked it instantly. It’s like romanticising the past,” Ms. Khan added. Srinagar, once a hub of cinemas and film posters, has lost all its 11 theatres over the past tumultuous 30 years. For Ms. Khan, heritage houses have “faces to remember all the times to come”. “People take portraits of people and don’t forget about them. In the same fashion, each heritage house comes across as distinct, with unique features, and needs to be remembered. It’s also a journey, a way to document and understand them,” she adds. Being a city planner, Ms. Khan believes that presenting the ordinary and mundane through a new perspective is the key to make people reconnect with the past. “The bazaars of the old city continue to be unique in the way life unfolds every day,” she said. The heritage houses of Srinagar are a unique mix of the influences of three civilisations — Indian, Chinese and Persian — besides colonial and vernacular elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/retro-bollywood-wraps-srinagar-in-sepia/article33208535.ece
30 November 2020||New Delhi,||Sharma hails PM’s visit to vaccine facilities||In a departure from the Congress’s sustained campaign against the BJP government’s handling of the pandemic, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to three facilities that are developing COVID-19 vaccines. “Prime minister Shri Narendra Modi visit to Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadilla was a recognition of Indian scientists and their work to produce the vaccine for COVID-19 That alone will lift morale of frontline warriors and reassure the nation,” Mr. Sharma tweeted. Mr. Sharma heads the Parliamentary Panel on Home Affairs, which is studying the government’s response to the pandemic. He is one of the key signatories of the ‘G-23’ letter seeking reforms in the workings of the Congress party. Despite harsh reactions from some against the 23 signatories, there has been no overhaul of the party. Word of caution Appreciating Mr. Modi’s visit, Mr. Sharma sounded a word of caution, calling for “efficient and equitable” distribution of vaccine. “Also respecting the Institutions that India has built over decades that have expertise and potential making India worlds largest vaccine manufacturer. Urging PM to ensure that an efficient and equitable platform is functional as the vaccine arrives,” Mr. Sharma added. His tweets set off speculation on whether he is on his way out of the Congress. However, Mr. Sharma said: “I would not like to signify such speculation with a response.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sharma-hails-pms-visit-to-vaccine-facilities/article33208552.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Tribal girl killed in tiger attack in KB Asifabad||There were no pug marks of the tiger as the land was dry and the forest had a lot of leaf fall. DFO Shantaram has confirmed the tiger attack and said the animal has not consumed any part of the body. Only canine marks on the neck were found. The death was instant. Efforts are on to locate the animal and a total of 12 camera traps have been set up to capture the image of the feline. Forest officials categorically denied that the killer tiger was the same as in the previous instance. “The tiger had returned to Maharashtra, and since then a team has been monitoring the border areas closely. Forest officials from Maharashtra had also confirmed that the tiger was in their area,” said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Head of Forest Forces) R. Sobha. It is suspected that the attacker might be one of the two new tigers which had entered the Kagaznagar corridor area from Maharashtra on November 24. If true, this could be even more worrisome as Maharashtra has been grappling with several man-eating tigers in its forest areas. “The latest incident did not seem to be an accident. The animal was clearly stalking its victim, which is typical of the man-eating tigers. This is alarming,” confided an official under the condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tribal-girl-killed-in-tiger-attack-in-kb-asifabad/article33209095.ece
30 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||BPF dares BJP to drop its Ministers from Cabinet||The upcoming Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) election in Assam has driven the wedge between the BJP and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) deeper. The two parties are contesting the election to the 40-seat tribal council scheduled in two phases in December. The leaders of the BPF have been challenging the BJP to drop its three Ministers in the Cabinet, besides slamming Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma fort rying to endanger the future of the Bodo tribal people in their own domain. The three BPF Ministers in the Sarbananda Sonowal government are Pramila Rani Brahma, Chandan Brahma and Rihon Daimary. The BJP’s other regional ally, the Asom Gana Parishad, also has three Ministers. “Our Ministers can walk out of the alliance but we are waiting for the BJP to take the step so that all regional parties know how the BJP uses and throws out the smaller parties according to its convenience,” said BPF general secretary Prabin Boro. He also said the BJP would not be able to weaken the BPF despite taking away two of its senior leaders — former Rajya Sabha member Biswajit Daimary and MLA Emmanuel Mushahary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bpf-dares-bjp-to-drop-its-ministers-from-cabinet/article33208528.ece
30 November 2020||Kozhikode,||Ayurvedic post-COVID clinics suggested||The State AYUSH Department has suggested setting up of multi-specialty Ayurvedic post-COVID-19 clinics at district-level Government Ayurveda Hospitals and Ayurveda Medical College Hospitals in the State to address multi-system and multi-organ manifestations of the infection. This was part of an evaluation report on Punarjani, the Ayurvedic convalescent care strategy for those cured of COVID-19. Symptoms Post-COVID-19 syndrome was reported among 1,451 of the 4,871 people covered under the project. Over 40 diverse symptoms were reported. Among those who had the post-COVID-19 syndrome, 39.1% had fatigue as the major symptom, followed by cough (26.5%), shortness of breath (13.8%), headache (12.6%) and muscle ache (12.5%). Abdominal discomfort was reported among 11.9% and sore throat among 11.8%. Anxiety like psychological disturbances (6.5%) and post-traumatic stress disorder (1.2%) too were reported. Gender, age factors Among those under Punarjani care, 67% were males. The report says this confirms the acknowledged gender pattern of the infection. Eighty percent of the entire group belonged to the 15-64 age group. The percentage of individuals with pre-existing co-morbidities were 18.6%. A total of 2,384 or 48.9% of those individuals had been symptomatic. Fever was the most commonly found symptom (19.9%), followed by sore throat (12.8%), and cough (10.4%). Fatigue, headache, loss of smell, loss of taste, and muscle pain were the other symptoms. Shortness of breath was reported in 3.6% of people. Only 1.75% had reported any serious complication such as pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The data evaluation was done by V. Rajmohan, State Coordinator, State Ayurveda COVID-19 Response Cell, Department of Ayush.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ayurvedic-post-covid-clinics-suggested/article33208764.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Cabinet expansion: BSY to contact Shah again?||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who on Sunday said he was hopeful of the BJP central leadership allowing him to expand the State Cabinet in the next two or three days, is expected to speak to Union Home Minister Amit Shah again on the issue. Sources close to the Chief Minister said that though Mr. Yediyurappa was keen on expanding the Cabinet before December 7, when the winter session of the legislature begins, it was also becoming difficult for him to do so as the central leadership had not yet allowed him to take up either an expansion or reshuffle exercise. The sources also indicated that it was unlikely that the expansion would happen before the session. Speaking to reporters in Chitradurga, Mr. Yediyurappa said that there was no confusion over Cabinet expansion and that efforts were being made to get the approval of party leaders. “Who has to be inducted into the Cabinet will be decided by the central leaders. I am confident that the leaders in Delhi will approve the expansion,” he said. He added that he would, if necessary, speak to the leaders again. He also clarified that there were no differences in the party between the newcomers and the old-timers. While the Chief Minister, over the past fortnight, has on multiple occasions said the Cabinet would be expanded in two or three days, it has not happened so far. Sources said that when Mr. Yediyurappa spoke to Mr. Shah when the latter called him to ask him not to take up OBC status issue for Veerashaiva-Lingayats, the matter was discussed. “However, Mr. Yediyurappa did not get clarity or approval to go ahead. He is likely to speak to the Home Minister again,” a source said. Political circles are curious about Mr. Yediyurappa’s statement about getting clearance for Cabinet expansion in the next two or three days, as the central leadership appears to be thinking seriously about replacing him. In this context, the words of Mr. Yediyurappa, who is showing indications of rebellion, has raised curiosity about his next move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-expansion-cm-to-contact-shah-again/article33208708.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers reject talks offer, say Burari is a jail||“If you shift to the Burari grounds, then the very next day the Centre government will hold talks with you, with a high level committee of Union Ministers at Vigyan Bhavan,” said the letter. The Punjab and Haryana farmers unions held an internal consultation on Sunday morning, and decided they would stay put at the Singhu and Tikri border crossing points. They vowed not to allow any political party on their protest stage, to defuse allegations of vested interests driving the campaign. On his part, Mr. Shah said he was not attributing such motives to the agitation. “I never called the farmers’ protest politically motivated, neither am I calling it now,” he told news agency ANI in Hyderabad, where he is campaigning for the municipal elections.  Leaders also expressed scepticism about the government’s offer for talks, saying that two previous rounds of dialogue had shown that the government had nothing to offer, and there had been no concrete response to the specific concerns and demands that farmers had presented in writing. “Instead of responding to the main demands of repealing of three black laws and the withdrawal of the Electricity Bill, 2020 the government is doing its best to move the debate to where the farmers should camp,” said a statement from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the alliances leading the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-reject-talks-offer-say-burari-is-a-jail/article33208524.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Accused wanted ‘medal’ for ‘top class’ input||Ten heavily armed men, trained by Pakistan-based terror outfit LeT and officials in the Pakistan security establishment, launched coordinated attacks on 12 locations in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, killing 166 people, including six Americans. The 10th terrorist — Ajmal Kasab — was caught and later hanged to death at a Pune prison in 2012. On September 28, the U.S. federal prosecutors filed an “extradition memorandum” in the district court of California, regarding Rana’s extradition. “Referring to a 1971 attack on his school in Pakistan, Headley told Rana that he believed he was ‘even with the Indians now’. In response, Rana said they (the Indian people) deserved it,” the court document said. Rana and Headley attended military high school together in Pakistan and were close friends. The Pakistani-Canadian citizen who was arrested in 2009 has challenged the extradition and filed a plea in the U.S. court on November 25, court records show. He was convicted for providing material support to the LeT in 2013. Unlike Headley, Rana did not enter into a plea bargain with the United States and he was placed under “provisional arrest” after he walked out of prison in June as the jail term that was to end in September 2021 was commuted. Headley, a prime accused, had entered into a plea bargain with the U.S. soon after his arrest in 2009 and he cannot be extradited to India due to the “double jeopardy” clause which bars punishment for the same crime twice. Rana was acquitted by the jury at the Illinois court of conspiracy to provide material support to terrorism in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accused-wanted-medal-for-top-class-input/article33208525.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Reforms have brought new opportunities: PM||The PM’s address came at the end of a week marked by protests by farmers in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi against the four farm Bills passed by Parliament in September. “The agricultural reforms in the past few days have also now opened new doors of possibilities for our farmers,” Mr. Modi said in the radio address. He added, “These reforms have not only served to unshackle our farmers but also given them new rights and opportunities,” Mr. Modi said. He cited the example of a farmer from Dhule in Maharashtra, Jitendra Bhoiji, whose payments for his corn crop was kept pending by traders for four months. “In this situation, the new farm laws that were passed in September came to his aid. Under this law, it was decided that all dues of the farmers should be cleared within three days of procurement, failing which, the farmer can lodge a complaint,” Mr. Modi said. The farmer was able to lodge a complaint and get his pending dues cleared within days, the Prime Minister said. He cited the example of the CEO of a farmer producer organisation, Mohammad Aslam, from Baran in Rajasthan, who was spreading awareness among farmers about prices at markets through a WhatsApp group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reforms-have-brought-new-opportunities-pm/article33208526.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||First case filed under U.P. conversion ordinance||“Despite repeated disapprovals by me and my family, he [the boy] is not listening, and is applying pressure on me and my family through abuses and death threats...,” alleged Mr. Rathore. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Bareilly Sansar Singh said a case under kidnapping the girl had been lodged against the boy earlier. “He was pressuring her to convert from her religion and marry,” Mr. Singh said. The accused is absconding and attempts were on to arrest him, said the officer. ‘Case resolved in 2019’ The woman’s brother Kesarpal Rathore, however, said the case involving the accused had been resolved in 2019. His sister had also married another boy in May this year, he said. Mr. Kesarpal said the family did not approach the police for the latest FIR, claiming that police came to their house and questioned them about the earlier case. The police then took his father Mr. Rathore with them to the police station, Mr. Kesarpal told The Hindu . “Police came to our house. And said there was an old file lying [with them]. Police told me they are taking him [father] to the police station for questioning for some investigation,” he said. Mr. Kesarpal said his sister eloped with the boy in October 2019 but was located in three-four days with the help of police. The matter was closed in the Bareilly district court as the girl’s family wanted to keep the matter under wraps, said Mr. Kesarpal and a police officer. “The case came to an end one year ago with the court decision,” Mr. Kesarpal said, claiming that there was no contact between the boy and the girl after the settlement and her subsequent marriage. Station Officer Deorania Daya Shankar, however, said the accused was constantly harassing and pressuring the girl and her family even after her marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-case-filed-under-up-conversion-ordinance/article33208527.ece
30 November 2020||Hassan,||Mahadayi: BSY says he’ll talk to Goa Chief Minister||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said he will talk to Goa Chief Minister on the Mahadayi issue. He spoke to journalists at the helipad in Shivamogga on Sunday Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant recently ruled out the possibility of an out-of-court settlement. He said that he had made his stand clear on the Mahadayi issue to C.T. Ravi, BJP national general secretary, who is in charge of Goa. Answering a question, Mr. Yediyurappa said he would speak to Mr. Sawant in Delhi soon and resolve the issue. Airport project  On the airport project in Shivamogga, the CM said the State government had approved the second phase of the project. The work is going quickly and will be completed soon, he said. He refused to take questions on recent political developments. The Chief Minister is in Shivamogga to inaugurate the buildings of Sahyadri College of Kuvempu University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahadayi-bsy-says-hell-talk-to-goa-chief-minister/article33208696.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,||BLoC Boardroom Challenge semi-finals begin tomorrow||The nine city semi-finals of the BLoC Boardroom Challenge will kick off online on December 1. It is a one-of-a-kind competition for MBA students and B-schoolers where teams will don the hat of a CXO and work together to solve a boardroom-level business problem. The first semi-finals to be webcast will be the Chennai round. The participating teams are MOP Vaishnav, DoMS of IIT Madras, XIME, and Great Lakes Institute of Management. On December 2, two teams of IIM Trichy, BIMS and Bannariamman Institute of Technology will participate in the Coimbatore semi-finals. On December 3, three teams of IIM Kozhikode and CUSAT will participate in the Kochi semi-finals. Two teams of IIMB, IBS Bangalore and CMRIT will participate in the Bengaluru semi-finals on December 4. Teams from Institute of Public Enterprise and three teams of ISB will participate in the Hyderabad semi-finals on December 5. At the Delhi semi-finals on December 7, two teams from IIM Kashipur will participate and on December 8, two teams each from IIMA and SPJIMR will participate in the Mumbai semi-finals. On December 9, two teams from IIM Ranchi, XLRI and IIM Shillong will participate in the Kolkata semi-finals and three teams from SIBM & IIM Nagpur will participate in the Pune semi-finals on December 10. The webcast of the Boardroom challenge, where the shortlisted teams will present their strategies, will go on from 10.30 a.m. to noon. Persons interested can either scan the QR code given or go to https://bit.ly/3q61NF4  The fourth edition of the BLoC Boardroom Challenge is presented by Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC and powered by Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages. The associate sponsors are Punjab National Bank and Casagrand. The knowledge partners are BrandVectors and Potential Genesis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bloc-boardroom-challenge-semi-finals-begin-tomorrow/article33208549.ece
30 November 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. lost 26 tigers in 2020, say national conservation data||Madhya Pradesh, known as the ‘tiger state’ of India, has lost 26 striped animals so far this year, as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority. M.P. Forest Minister Vijay Shah said average death rate of tigers was less compared to their birth rate in the State in last six years. According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s website, out of the 26 deaths reported since April this year, M.P. lost 21 felines inside the tiger reserves, including 10 in the Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve. No tiger death was reported in the first three months of this year, as per the data. In 2019, the State lost 28 tigers while three cases of seizures of body parts due to poaching were also reported. Karnataka, which is on the second position in the number of tigers in the country, registered eight deaths and two seizures of tiger body parts this year. The State lost 12 big cats last year. “M.P. has 124 tiger cubs. The cubs were not counted during the last census. In the next count, we are going to have more than 600 tigers,” Mr. Shah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-lost-26-tigers-in-2020-say-national-conservation-data/article33209193.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Outsiders told to leave GHMC limits||With the conclusion of campaigning for GHMC elections at 6 pm on Sunday, the State Election Commission (SEC) has instructed outsiders, who were roped in for electioneering by parties and contesting candidates, to leave the GHMC area till completion of voting at 6 pm on December 1. Explaining the arrangements made for the December 1 polling, SEC C. Parthasarathi said here on Sunday that sale of liquor had also been banned till 6 pm on the day of polling. He instructed the civic authorities to sanitise all the 9,101 polling stations on November 30. Live web-casting of polling has been arranged in 2,272 polling stations. Mr. Parthasarathi stated that a total of 45,505 sanitiser bottles of 500 ml capacity each have been placed in all polling stations at five each. Another 14,490 sanitiser bottles have also been kept as reserve stock in the 30 circle offices of GHMC for supplying them to the polling stations in case the five bottles supplied initially are exhausted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/outsiders-told-to-leave-ghmc-limits/article33209094.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Under white cover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/under-white-cover/article33209085.ece
30 November 2020||Kolkata,||Abhishek slams BJP over ‘bhaip o ’ jibe||Under relentless attack from the Opposition, particularly the BJP, Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday broke his silence and said that no BJP leader, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had the guts to take his name, and kept referring to him as “ bhaipho ” (nephew). BJP leaders have been making incessant attacks on Mr. Banerjee, Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, referring to him as “ bhaipo ”. “They cannot take my name and say Abhishek Bandyopadhyay. Neither the Prime Minister nor any BJP leader has the guts to take my name,” Mr. Banerjee said The 33-year-old MP said he had initiated legal action against leaders like Mukul Roy, who had made direct allegations against him. “I am taking the name and saying that Kailash Vijayvargiya is an outsider. West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh is a goon and a mafia. Amit Shah is an outsider and Sunil Deodhar is an outsider…,” Mr. Banerjee said, daring the BJP leadership to take legal action against him. During the address, his first before the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls, Mr. Banerjee also rebutted some of the allegations made by TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abhishek-slams-bjp-over-bhaip-o-jibe/article33208536.ece
30 November 2020||Imphal,||Shah’s visit to Manipur postponed||Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to Manipur has been postponed indefinitely. He was slated to arrive at Imphal on Sunday to meet State government representatives and other stakeholders before inking the final peace accord with the NSCN(IM) and other Naga bodies. A government official tersely said, “The official visit of the Home Minister has been postponed indefinitely.” Mr. Shah was scheduled to visit for a few days to confer with civil society organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shahs-visit-to-manipur-postponed/article33208548.ece
30 November 2020||Mumbai/Panaji,||Navy finds some debris of crashed MiG-29K||The Indian Navy has recovered some debris of the MiG-29K aircraft that went missing three days back off the Goa coast, a defence spokesperson said on Sunday, adding the search continued with ships and aircraft for missing pilot Cdr Nishant Singh. In addition to nine warships and 14 aircraft engaged in the search efforts, Indian Navy’s Fast Interceptor Craft are also deployed to search along the Arabian Sea coast, a defence release said. “Indian Navy’s search and rescue effort to locate the second pilot of the MiG-29K trainer aircraft which ditched off Goa on November 26 continues with extensive deployment of naval ships and aircraft,” a defence release said. “Some debris of the aircraft, including landing gear, turbo charger, fuel tank engine and wing engine cowling have been located,” it said. The Marine Police and Coastal Police are on the lookout and nearby fishing villages have been sensitised, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-finds-some-debris-of-crashed-mig-29k/article33208738.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We will form next govt. in Telangana’||Earlier, Mr. Shah arrived by a special plane from New Delhi to the Begumpet airport where he was received by Union Minister of State G. Kishan Reddy, national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, national OBC president K. Laxman, TS party president B. Sanjay Kumar and others. Party activists gave him a rousing reception lining up all along the road till his motorcade reached the Bhagyalakshmi Temple at Charminar where he held prayers along with Goshamahal MLA T. Raja Singh, and others. From there, Mr. Shah moved to Warasiguda where he participated in the road show on the last day of the campaigning for the capital’s local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-form-next-govt-in-telangana/article33209240.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India rejects OIC reference to Kashmir||India on Sunday ‘strongly’ rejected the criticism of its Kashmir policy by the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). The Ministry of External Affairs hinted at Pakistan and said the OIC is being used by the country for its campaign against India. “We strongly and categorically reject the factually incorrect, gratuitous and unwarranted references to India in resolutions adopted by the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) at the 47th CFM Session in Niamey, Republic of Niger, held on 27-28 November 2020,” it said. The report of the OIC Secretary General on its activities submitted to the 47th session of the Council of Foreign Ministers referred to the situation in J&K and said, “The decision of the Indian government on 5 August 2019 towards changing the demographic and geographic composition of the territory, and the continuous blockade and restrictions together with human rights abuses, had awakened renewed efforts of the international community towards a resolution of the conflict.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-rejects-oic-reference-to-kashmir/article33208993.ece
30 November 2020||Srinagar,||BJP releases manifesto in Urdu for J&K||In a bid to reach out to the Urdu speaking population in Kashmir valley, the BJP released its Urdu version of the manifesto on Sunday to garner votes for the District Development Council (DDC) polls. The party hopes to win a majority of seats from both Kashmir and Jammu divisions in the ongoing elections. “The BJP will get the majority of seats not only in Jammu but Kashmir as well. The DDC polls are for development and prosperity. Those who have picked up the arms must shun the path and pick a pen that carries more power,” said BJP national spokesperson, Shahnawaz Hussain, during a public rally. He said regional parties were scared of the BJP and had to form an alliance “because they feared the imminent loss”. Mr. Hussain said the BJP will rule the country for the next 50 years and “time has come to take J&K on the path of development”.  The manifesto said J&K has been finally brought on the path of development after the revocation of Article 370.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-releases-manifesto-in-urdu-for-jk/article33208531.ece
30 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||CMs of Punjab, Haryana spar over protests||After Haryana Chief Minister (CM) Manohar Lal on Sunday said that the Punjab government will be fully responsible if there is a catastrophic situation with respect to COVID-19 in Haryana, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hit back saying Mr. Lal should have allowed them to move quickly through to reach Delhi instead of stopping them in his State. Mr. Manohar Lal said precautionary measures were taken by his government to ensure that the pandemic does not take catastrophic proportions. ‘Irresponsible move’ “In view of the pandemic, everyone should fulfil their responsibility. But it is surprising that at such a time, the Punjab government has exhibited irresponsible behaviour and created such a situation,” Mr. Lal told mediapersons in Hisar. On Mr. Lal’s remark that farmers should not block Haryana’s borders, Captain Amarinder pointed out that it was Haryana government that had been blocking the borders for the past three days by forcibly stopping the farmers from proceeding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cms-of-punjab-haryana-spar-over-protests/article33208539.ece
30 November 2020||Bhopal,||CRPF officer killed in IED blast||Nitin Bhalerao, an Assistant Commandant of the CRPF’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Actions (CoBRA), died while undergoing treatment for injuries he sustained in an IED blast in Sukma district on Saturday night, the Chhattisgarh police said. The condition of seven others, including second-in-command Dinesh Kumar Singh, was stable, and they were believed to be out of danger while undergoing treatment in Raipur. Assistant Commandant Nitin Bhalerao succumbed to his injuries, said Sundarraj P., Inspector General of Police, Bastar. An IED went off at 8.30 p.m. near the Arabraj Metta hills under the Chintagufa police station limits of the district while an anti-Maoist operation was under way.  Airlifted to Raipur The incident occurred 9 km northwest of the police station and 6 km west of the Burkapal base camp, the police said. Eight personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) 206 CoBRA were injured in the blast, and were evacuated to the Chintalnar field hospital. Later, they were airlifted to Raipur, where the Assistant Commandant died at 3.30 a.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crpf-officer-killed-seven-others-injured-in-ied-blast/article33208540.ece
30 November 2020||Mumbai,||Aashiqui star Rahul Roy hospitalised||Actor Rahul Roy, best known for starring in the 1990 musical blockbuster Aashiqui , has suffered a brain stroke and is recuperating at a hospital here, a family source said. The 52-year-old actor, who was recently shooting in Kargil, was admitted to the intensive care unit of Nanavati Hospital two days ago due to a progressive brain stroke, the source said. “He is safe and recovering well.” Roy won the first season of the popular TV reality showBigg Bossin 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aashiqui-star-rahul-roy-hospitalised/article33208994.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM to interact with vaccine developers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to have virtual interactions with three teams that are developing vaccines for COVID-19 on Monday, a tweet by the Prime Minister’s Office said on Sunday. “Tomorrow, on 30th November 2020, PM @narendramodi will interact, via video conferencing, with three teams that are involved in developing a COVID-19 vaccine. The teams he will interact with are from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s,” a tweet from the PMO’s official Twitter handle said. On Saturday, the Prime Minister visited the Serum Institute of India in Pune as part of efforts to get a first-hand perspective of the efforts towards readying a vaccine against COVID—19. He had also visited Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad and Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-interact-with-vaccine-developers/article33208547.ece
30 November 2020||Bhopal,||No need for conversions: Uma Bharti||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti said there is no need for religious conversions in the country, when asked about the proposed law to criminalise forcible religious conversions in Madhya Pradesh. Speaking with reporters in Maihar, Ms. Bharti said, “There is no need for religious conversions in India because here Hindus are free to read the Quran or the Bible and visit mosques or churches.” She made the remark in reference to the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020. The statement is being viewed as her opposition to the proposed law, with the Congress welcoming it. “The identity of indomitable courage in politics Uma Bharti has yet again uttered the truth,” said Congress leader K.K. Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-need-for-conversions-uma-bharti/article33208555.ece
30 November 2020||Kozhikode,||Student volunteers to lend a hand in poll conduct||Over 10,000 students under the newly formed Student Police Cadet Volunteer Corps (SVC) are likely to extend their service as Special Police Officers to support the safe conduct of the upcoming local body elections in Kerala. Efforts are on to enrol at least 100 SVC cadets from each police district and get them trained for the special duty. 1.5-lakh members As of now, there are 1.5 lakh SVC members who were earlier part of the prestigious Student Police Cadets in various schools in Kerala. The police hope that the support of this well-trained SPC alumni can perform the election-related tasks perfectly. Since 2008, many of them have been part of various independent volunteer activities in the absence of a State-level collective like SVC under the patronage of the State police. Online training Now, the Assistant Nodal Officers (ANO) who hold the additional charge of the SVC are busy with the first phase online training of the already enrolled volunteers for the election duty. They have also created a separate WhatsApp group of such students to explain to them the field requirements and the nature of work they are supposed to do in booths. “Though there are over 6,000 SVC cadets in Kozhikode district alone, all of them may not be able to turn up as Special Police Officers considering the actual requirements. It is just a debut to test the strength of the new force. Also, we do not expect the improved participation of girl cadets considering the very nature of the job and its timing,” says Pradeep Kumar, ANO, Kozhikode city. Other volunteers too He adds that there will be other approved volunteers as well representing various voluntary organisations to function as special police officers along with SVCs. In Kerala, there will be 34,780 booths for the local body elections. The service of at least one special police officer will have to be made available in every booth. In Kozhikode district alone, there are 2,987 booths. Of this, 1,000 are classified as vulnerable booths. Election authorities hope that they can easily meet this requirement with the entry of a large number of SVC cadets for the cause. In effect, their service will be crucial along with the police for controlling 2.71 crore voters who are expected to exercise their franchise this time. State-level SPC coordinators also make it clear that they can easily improve the number of enrolled SVC cadets for election duty in case of any urgency or shortage of volunteers from other sectors. The selected volunteers will be eligible for daily honorarium. After the trials as Special Officers, the service of SVC, which include professionals and highly qualified hands, will be explored for a number of innovative social service activities and community development programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/student-volunteers-to-lend-a-hand-in-poll-conduct/article33208694.ece
30 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Girl killed in tiger attack in Asifabad||Kumram Bheem Asifabad district recorded its second human kill by a tiger in a period of less than 20 days, when an adolescent tribal girl was fatally attacked by the big cat on Sunday, in Penchikalpet area of the Bejjur forest block. The first kill was reported on November 11, when a youth Sidam Vignesh from Digada village died in tiger attack in a forest abutting Dahegaon mandal of the district, not far from the site of the latest kill. In the latest instance, the girl Pasula Nirmala, 15, from Manneguda hamlet of Kondapalli village panchayat was picking cotton in an agricultural field towards the thick vegetation inside the forest along with her two brothers and 10 more villagers, when the tiger attacked her. The feline dragged the girl by neck for 30 metres into the forest when her brothers close by raised an alarm, forcing the animal to leave the body and clear off. Forest officials including the Field Director, Kawal Tiger Reserve, Vinod Kumar and District Forest Officer Shantaram who have inspected the spot said they could not collect any pug marks due to darkness. There were no pug marks of the tiger as the land was dry and the forest had a lot of leaf fall. DFO Shantaram has confirmed the tiger attack and said the animal has not consumed any part of the body. Only canine marks on the neck were found. The death was instant. Efforts are on to locate the animal and a total of 12 camera traps have been set up to capture the image of the feline. Forest officials categorically denied that the killer tiger was the same as in the previous instance. “The tiger had returned to Maharashtra, and since then a team has been monitoring the border areas closely. Forest officials from Maharashtra had also confirmed that the tiger was in their area,” said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Head of Forest Forces) R. Sobha. It is suspected that the attacker might be one of the two new tigers which had entered the Kagaznagar corridor area from Maharashtra on November 24. If true, this could be even more worrisome as Maharashtra has been grappling with several man-eating tigers in its forest areas. “The latest incident did not seem to be an accident. The animal was clearly stalking its victim, which is typical of the man-eating tigers. This is alarming,” confided an official under the condition of anonymity. The victim’s family will be given a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/girl-killed-in-tiger-attack-in-asifabad/article33208510.ece
30 November 2020||Mangaluru,||A lot of things fishy in Santosh case, says KPCC chief||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar said on Sunday that there were “a lot of things fishy” in the alleged suicide attempt case involving N.R. Santosh, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s political secretary and grand-nephew. Speaking to presspersons in Udupi, he said, “There is something fishy. A lot of things fishy.” Welcoming Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s statement thatan inquiry would be conducted into the incident, Mr. Shivakumar said he had never said that he would release a video clipping related to the case. He claimed that Mr. Santosh’s wife had said on record that there were no differences in the family leading to the alleged suicide attempt. “It was because of politics, not family matters,” he said. The KPCC president said that no one attempts to end their life at a young age without valid reasons. “The reasons could be heavy loans, stress, or other dealings. But in this case, it appears the family did not have heavy loans. As his wife has mentioned politics, it should be probed as the Chief Minister’s political secretary is not a common man,” he said. Mr. Shivakumar also said he had never linked anyone in particular with the matter. “Then why should some BJP leaders feel guilty?” he asked. On ‘love jihad’ law Referring to the government’s move to push for a Bill to curb “love jihad” (conversions for the sake of marriage), he said humanity should be respected as everyone enjoys the right to love. “Let those who are pushing for a law on the same study the marital relations of the children of some top leaders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-lot-of-things-fishy-in-santosh-case-says-kpcc-chief/article33208512.ece
30 November 2020||Belagavi,||Resignation call made over Kuruba ST tag issue||Niranjanandapuri Swami of Kaginele Mutt called upon all legislators from the Kuruba community to resign if the State and Union governments fail to accord Scheduled Tribe status to the Kuruba community. He was speaking at a rally organised by Kuruba organisations seeking ST tag in Bagalkot on Sunday. Saying that the State government had to send a proposal to the Centre, he urged the Centre to approve the proposal as soon as possible. He said the community would hold a large rally in Bengaluru and submit a memorandum to the government on February 7. Siddaramanandapuri Swami of Tinthani Mutt raised the issue of delay in giving Cabinet berths to legislators from the Kuruba community who had defected to the BJP from the Congress and the JD(S). He said the BJP had come to power in Karnataka because of the sacrifice made by leaders of the Kuruba community, but leaders of other communities were reaping the benefits. “The Yediyurappa government is acting like it is focused only on one community. That is unfortunate. Every community should be treated equally,” he said. N. Nagaraj (MTB), MLC, said Mr. Yediyurappa had assured them that they would be inducted into the Cabinet very soon. “We believe him. We will wait and see,” he said. He denied that the meeting of defectors held in Bengaluru recently was against any leader. Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said the rally was not political. “I believe that Kurubas are Hindus and they should stay Hindus. That is why I am here,” he said. He said this was a rally for people from the Belagavi revenue division. “We will hold rallies in other divisions too.” He told journalists that he had invited Congress leader Siddaramaiah to attend the Bagalkot rally. “I must have called him 10 times. Each time he says he will come, but he does not. What can I do? Can I drag him to the rally?” he asked. He denied claims that he was organising the rallies to try and promote his son K.E. Kantesh as a leader of the Kuruba community. “These are lies. Don’t believe them. I don’t use my community for political reasons.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resignation-call-made-over-kuruba-st-tag-issue/article33208509.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 bed occupancy dips in government hospitals in city||Bed occupancy in COVID-19 wards at the four government medical college hospitals in Chennai have dipped due to the decline in fresh coronavirus infections. Nevertheless, the hospitals are retaining the beds allocated for such patients with one of the main facilities — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) — starting to streamline the inflow of patients with COVID-19 to two blocks. With 1,498 beds in total, the RGGGH presently has 313 patients in COVID-19 wards. Of this, 136 persons are positive and the remaining are those suspected of having symptoms. “A majority of the beds are vacant. We have started to wind up COVID-19 wards established in normal wards. We have handed over some of the wards in other blocks to the parent departments such as medicine, gastroenterology and geriatrics. We can take over the wards again if required. We are streamlining patient inflow to two blocks — four floors in Tower-3 and four floors in the rheumatology block. We have four wards in Tower-3 for COVID-19 patients, asymptomatic persons, those with suspected symptoms and comorbidities,” E. Theranirajan, RGGGH dean, said. Regular services, including emergencies and elective surgeries, have resumed at the RGGGH, with at least 20 emergencies and 25 to 30 elective surgeries taking place per day. The hospital’s non-COVID-19 in-patient count stood at 1,200. “We have also reduced the number of doctors on COVID-19 duty in a cycle from nearly 240 to 90 now,” he added. There are a total of 1,200 beds for COVID-19 at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. “After discharging, we have 215 COVID-19 patients as of Sunday. We have been told to retain the bed strength till December to see if the graph is still on the decline. The inflow of patients has been declining in the last two months as we had 400 patients earlier and this subsequently reduced to 300,” P. Balaji, dean of the hospital, said. Till Sunday, the hospital recorded 15 new admissions, he said, adding that the number was around 40 to 45 usually. “The number of non-COVID-19 admissions has increased. Of the 1,600 beds, we have 960 patients now,” he said. The Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, currently has around 230 in-patients. Lessening severity “There is a 30% dip in bed occupancy when compared to last month. The severity of the disease has come down marginally. People must follow precautionary measures,” R. Jayanthi, dean of the hospital, said. More than 60% of beds were vacant at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, dean P. Vasanthamani said. The hospital is maintaining 550 beds for COVID-19 patients, and the inflow of both in-patients and out-patients for COVID-19 was around 30 to 40% now, she said. Senior doctors said that the decline in fresh infections had given breathing time for doctors, nurses and hospital staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-bed-occupancy-dips-in-government-hospitals-in-city/article33209025.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Days after rain, water stagnation continues to plague many areas||Residents of 58 localities continue to suffer because of water stagnation, even three days after Cyclone Nivar brought heavy rain to the city. P.K. Vijaykumar, former president of the Baba Nagar Residents Welfare Association, said water stagnation in the area was caused by encroachments on drains and waterbodies. “Civic officials should remove all encroachments from the drains. They should complete the stormwater drain [project] by removal of encroachments. The drains were not completed because of the encroachments,” he said.  Surplus canal Residents in the Ambattur zone have pointed to issues in the development of a surplus canal from Retteri to prevent inundation. Residents of Ashok Nagar have complained about rising water levels inside their homes because of inadequate desilting of drains. “Water stagnation has been increasing on Rajamannar Salai when it rains. Officials claimed that the water level in MGR Canal was high. So the issue of water stagnation on Rajamannar Salai, which is 2 ft lower than the neighbouring areas, could not be resolved,” said a resident. Residents of Alagappa Road and Jothi Venkatachalam Street have demanded redevelopment of drains along Poonamallee High Road to reduce water stagnation in various neighbourhoods such as Egmore and Vepery. Restoration work Residents of Barathidasan Colony near Kasi Theatre in the Kodambakkam zone said work on restoration of the drain by the Highways Department after the collapse of the structure had led to water stagnation. Egmore MLA K.S. Ravichandran said Poonamallee High Road needed a better drain design to reduce water stagnation from Ega Theatre to Ripon Buildings. “The water level has increased on Purasawalkam Tana Street, Ritherdon Road and Poonamallee High Road this monsoon. Just 20% of the drains have been desilted,” he said. Harbour MLA P.K. Sekar Babu said the homes of many residents were inundated because of the delay in the implementation of infrastructure projects based on the recommendations of flood monitoring officers in 2016.  “Wall Tax Road is flooded for most of the 2.8 km from Central to Moolakothalam. The old drain has collapsed. The proposal to build a new drain along Wall Tax Road was made by the flood monitoring officer in 2016. We received approval just a few days ago,” he said. Residents of Osankulam at Chetpet have requested the line agencies to facilitate redevelopment of the tenements for 248 families. “The buildings were constructed 45 years ago. The road level has increased by 2 ft. Redevelopment is the only solution,” said a resident. As many as 190 families on Pulianthope High Road have been affected by water stagnation in their temporary houses near the K.P. Park tenements. The residents of P.K. Colony at Pulianthope have requested redevelopment of the 578 houses as a solution to water stagnation. About encroachments Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash visited areas like Baba Nagar, Villivakkam, on Sunday following complaints from residents about water stagnation for three days after the rain. “All encroachments on waterways will be demolished. Engineers will design new drains, based on the existing level and pattern of the stormwater drain network. Residents have also started giving their feedback about the old drainage system,” he said. Corporation officials said all the locations affected by water stagnation would get a better design for redevelopment of stormwater drains in two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/days-after-rain-water-stagnation-continues-to-plague-many-areas/article33209034.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theatre owners stare at empty halls||After a prolonged shutdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, theatre owners have received a lukewarm reception from audiences when they opened their doors on November 10. A senior executive of a well-known multiplex chain in India said only 25 tickets per show were being sold on an average in Chennai, while several single-screen theatre executives reported that the footfall has been as low as 20-25% of the total seats allowed to be sold by the State government. “We could only sell 25 tickets per show on an average. We hope that the release of Christopher Nolan’s Tenet and Wonder Woman in December, and the positive news about the arrival of vaccines, will make a difference in the coming months,” said the executive of a multiplex. While producers and theatre owners agree that only movies starring big stars can bring back audiences, the fact that actor Nayanthara’s Mookuthi Amman and actor Suriya’s Soorarai Pottru released directly on OTT (over-the-top) platforms to favourable reviews did not help matters. Naturally, the spotlight has fallen on actor Vijay’s Master , which is ready for release, though many in the industry admit that releasing the film in the present situation will not be economically viable. G. Dhananjayan, vice-president, Tamil Film Active Producers Association, said, “It is a catch-22 situation for us. Movies starring big stars cannot be released unless the present occupancy rate of 50% is increased. It wouldn’t be economically viable. We hope that by Pongal, the situation becomes normal and the occupancy is increased by the government”. While there were rumours on Friday that Master would release on an OTT platform, the producers of the film, in a statement, have said that they prefer to release the movie in theatres. Hariharan, the manager of one of the oldest cinema houses in Ashok Nagar, said, “If we had opened with a movie starring somebody big, it would have brought back audiences. Now, we are selling anywhere between 80-100 tickets out of the 400-odd tickets in our main screen”. While the producers of big-budget movies are in a fix, this situation could be used by small and medium budget movies, say theatre owners. Ruban Mathivanan, managing partner, GK Cinemas, said, “Smaller movies would anyway struggle to bring in more than 50% of the crowds. They should release their films when no big movies are lined up. The argument made by the producers of big-budget movies that they will not be able to recoup the money invested with 50% occupancy does not hold true for smaller movies”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theatre-owners-stare-at-empty-halls/article33208687.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 1,459 fresh infections, 9 fatalities||As many as 1,459 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Sunday. The State recorded 9 fatalities, taking the toll to 11,703. Chennai accounted for 398 fresh infections, followed by Coimbatore with 148. Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu reported 88 and 80 cases respectively. There were 79 cases in Tiruppur, 78 in Salem and 70 in Erode. There were no new cases in Perambalur. The district also accounted for the least number of active cases, at just five. Eight other districts, including Ramanathapuram, Theni and Tirunelveli, had fewer than 10 cases each. Nine returnees from West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh tested positive for the infection. The State’s case tally has now reached 7,80,505. The number of persons aged over 60 who have tested positive has crossed one lakh. As many as 1,00,148 persons in this category have contracted the infection till date. As many as 1,471 persons were discharged after treatment on Sunday, taking the total figure to 7,57,750. A total of 11,052 persons are currently undergoing treatment, including 3,754 in Chennai, 919 in Coimbatore and 601 in Chengalpattu. Co-morbid conditions All the nine persons who died had co-morbidities. Seven of them died at government hospitals. They included a 51-year-old woman from Madurai, who had systemic hypertension, diabetes, old pulmonary tuberculosis and coronary artery disease. She was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on November 26. She died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Five of the deceased were in their 80s. One of them — an 80-year-old man from Chennai — died at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital a day after admission due to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, systemic hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism. As many as 67,145 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,19,97,385.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-1459-fresh-infections-9-fatalities/article33208636.ece
30 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||The long and short of NEET||With the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) counselling under way in Tamil Nadu, The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling Series, presented by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, hosted a webinar on ‘The Challenges of NEET Counselling during the Pandemic’. A. Ravikumar, Pro Vice-Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM IST, discussed the evolution of NEET and its impact on medical education. He said though the number of medical aspirants and the available seats had increased, there was still a significant gap between the two. He also explained the measures taken during the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure student safety and the challenges for those who were unable to access online classes easily. Satyajit Mohapatra, professor, Department of Pharmacology, SRM IST, shared statistics and discussed the eligibility criteria and process by which students could register for counselling, the documents they would require, the different institutions involved and the various rounds of counselling. He also spoke briefly about the MBBS course and the careers one could pursue after the degree. S. Mohan Raj, psychiatrist and director, Tharu Clinic, Chennai, focused on the psychological aspects, which were not just limited to NEET counselling. He pointed out that with NEET now being the only exam, “it is like putting all your eggs in one basket, which causes a lot more anxiety. Earlier, when different colleges held their own exams, students felt like they had multiple chances to try again.” He also highlighted the negative aspects of the coaching system that puts a lot of strain on students and adds to their anxiety. He ended by reminding students and their parents that the outcome of the exam is not the end of the world and that there would be other chances and routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-long-and-short-of-neet/article33208680.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro phase I extension project to be energised this week||Chennai Metro Rail Limited plans to start the 25kv power supply in the phase I extension project in north Chennai between Washermenpet and Wimco Nagar this week. While one track will be energised on Monday, the other will be done on Saturday. They are planning to conduct a trial run in two weeks as well. According to CMRL officials, they will monitor and check the line for any issues that emerge during this phase and resolve them in the next two months. Since CMRL plans to complete this 9 km stretch by the end of January 2021, it has to install and check the functioning of all important systems in the next month. “We want to carry out the trial run first by operating a locomotive engine by mid-December. Then, in a few weeks, we will operate a train as well,” an official said. Now that the track work has been completed, the trial run can be done any time. The construction of stations and installation of telecom and signalling system has been under way now, and officials hope to finish it by mid-January. “Installation of platform screen doors in the underground stations has commenced and may be finished in a month,” another official said. Meanwhile, sources indicated that the construction of stations had to gain speed at the earliest, failing which it may be very difficult to complete the work before the final inspection and the opening of the stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-phase-i-extension-project-to-be-energised-this-week/article33209028.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Music therapy during cataract surgery helps patients relax||A study conducted by Aravind Eye Hospital has found that music therapy can help patients undergoing cataract surgery to relax. As many as 330 patients in the age group of 45-70, all undergoing cataract surgery for the first time were selected. While 165 patients were provided the music therapy, the others were not. Ophthalmologists at Aravind Eye Hospital decided to study if music provided relief from anxiety during the 10-12-minute procedure. “Cataract is a simple surgery but a lot of them become anxious and become uncooperative. They have a visual experience as the surgery progresses. As a result some of them experience increased heart beat and some people also have cardiac symptoms. For such people anti-sedatives are given. Some are even administered intravenous drugs,” said T. Venkatesh, one of the authors of the study. Though music has been used as therapy, this time the doctors decided to look at the results both objectively and subjectively.The patients were provided with a music player and headphones and asked to listen to music of their choice prior to, during and post-surgery. During the procedure their blood pressure, pulse rate and respiratory rate were measured every few minutes. Similarly, measurements were taken before and post-surgery. “We found that there was a significant difference between the control group and therapy group post-operatively. The latter seemed more calm and had a better experience during the surgery,” Dr. Venkatesh said. The patients were asked to rate their anxiety on the Likert anxiety scale. Based on the readings and from the patients’ response to the anxiety rating questionnaire, the investigators concluded that listening to music tended to help relax patients during the procedure and made them less anxious post-surgery compared to the control group. For the study, the hospital collaborated with music therapist Sumathy Sundar, attached to the Mahatma Gandhi Medical College. The study has been reported in the Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery, brought out under the aegis of the American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/music-therapy-during-cataract-surgery-helps-patients-relax/article33209037.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With duration reduced, CAT poses a challenge this year||The Common Admission Test (CAT) was a bit difficult this year as the duration was reduced from three hours to two hours on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Indian Institute of Management-Indore conducted the test this year, for which over 2.27 lakh candidates had registered themselves.  The test comprises three sections — verbal ability and reading comprehension, data interpretation and logical reasoning and quantitative ability. For each section, candidates got 40 minutes to answer questions. They had to attempt fewer questions this time owing to the change in the duration. Instead of 100 questions, they had to attempt 76. In general, the test was of moderate difficulty, according to coaching centres. In the first slot, candidates found the verbal ability and reading comprehension section slightly more difficult than last year because the questions were of a higher level of difficulty and the time to answer them was reduced, said Arvind Mantry of Triumphant Institute of Management Education, a coaching centre. A candidate who took the test in the second slot from a centre at Avadi said he found the test difficult. “My computer crashed, and this led to a loss in continuity. They gave me extra time, but the flow was lost,” said the B. Tech graduate.  The test comprises three sections — verbal ability and reading comprehension, data interpretation and logical reasoning and quantitative ability. For each section, candidates got 40 minutes to answer questions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-duration-reduced-cat-poses-a-challenge-this-year/article33209051.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With new exam paper pattern, CBSE schools prepare students||With the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) having introduced a new question paper pattern for the Class 12 board examination, schools have started preparing students. “The focus of the new pattern is more on comprehension skills. There is an increase in multiple choice questions as well as case studies. It is student-friendly. As is the case with any pattern, we believe that repeated training and practice will help students,” said Minoo Aggarwal, principal, DAV Public School, Velachery. With schools having remained closed since March owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and classes going online, it would be important to have assessments of learning and the efficacy of teaching, she said. Written tests “We are going to conduct three-hour written tests for the Class 12 students, keeping in mind a number of aspects — the need for them to remain in touch with writing, to develop time management skills and to practise the new question paper pattern, besides applying their thinking skills,” she said. Sample question papers for all Class 10 and 12 subjects were released by the CBSE in October. Earlier this year, the CBSE announced a 30% reduction in syllabus for Classes 9-12 owing to the closure of schools. “At stakeholder meetings, the CBSE had asked school heads for inputs on the syllabus reduction and views on the changes it was planning in the question paper pattern. The new pattern is going to prepare students better to hone their comprehension skills,” said C. Satish, director, Paavai Group of Institutions. Given that a few students might have connectivity issues, tests were assigned online and question papers, assignments and worksheets were mailed to students of Classes 10 and 12, he said. “We’ve held interactions with the parents and students of Class 12, and have been mentally preparing the students for the board exam next year,” he said. The Tamil Nadu government had considered reopening schools for senior classes alone or allowing schools to have guidance sessions for students sitting for the board examinations next year. But no decision has been taken yet. Besides daily online classes, schools have been reaching out to Class 10 and 12 students for any more help they may need. “We have time allotted for doubt-clearing sessions on a regular basis for students of Classes 10 and 12. The teachers will be available online and students can voluntarily connect with them to seek guidance and any extra help they may need,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, principal, Bala Vidya Mandir. He said the school was conducting regular tests, and teachers were discussing important concepts that needed more explanation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-new-paper-pattern-in-hand-cbse-schools-prepare-students/article33208681.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Honour V.N. Janaki’s memory, family requests govt.||Barring a small advertisement every year on November 30, in newspapers, by her family members, there is hardly anything that reminds the people of Tamil Nadu about V.N. Janaki, who was the Chief Minister of the State for 24 days in January 1988, following the death of her husband, M.G. Ramachandran. Her family has now requested the State government to honour her memory by observing her birth and death anniversaries, similar to how the memories of other former Chief Ministers are commemorated. “So long as Jayalalithaa and Karunanidhi were around, we could not approach them with our request. We met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami twice and requested him to commemorate her,” said advocate Kumar Rajendran, the grandson of P. Narayanan, brother of Janaki. Known as “Thottathammal” (she lived in the Ramapuram Garden House), Janaki donated her property on Lloyds Road to the AIADMK, and it was converted into the present party headquarters. Born in Vaikom to Rajagopala Iyer, the brother of composer and musician Papanasam Sivan, Janaki did her schooling in Kumbakonam. She remained a source of strength to MGR in his film career, and, later, in politics. She quit politics after her faction of the AIADMK was routed in the 1989 elections. Mr. Rajendran, who penned her biography Janaki MGR: Naadanda Mudhal Nayaki (First woman Chief Minister of T.N.), contends that her contribution to the AIADMK (after MGR) was immeasurable. “She gave up her claim to the party symbol. She personally met [late Thuglak editor] Cho. Ramasamy and handed over all the documents on her claim without any condition,” he said. Former Chennai Mayor Saidai Duraisami, a supporter of Janaki, in his foreword to the book, had said: “She decided to take a plunge in politics when she realised the party was in shambles. Otherwise, she had no political ambition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honour-vn-janakis-memory-family-requests-govt/article33208646.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waiting for MoEF approval to open Pulicat sand bar mouth: govt.||Travails faced by the Pulicat fishermen due to frequent closure of the sand bar mouth, a natural opening between the lake and the Bay of Bengal, would end as soon as the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change grants environment clearance for opening the bar mouth permanently at a cost of Rs. 27 crore, the State government has informed the Madras High Court. In a status report filed before Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh, the State Fisheries Department said all other ancillary works such as conducting a public hearing and calling for tenders for construction of training walls to provide permanent stability to the bar mouth had been completed and that the officials were waiting only for the Centre’s environment clearance. The status report was filed through Special Government Pleader J. Pothiraj in response to a public interest litigation petition filed by A. Usha, a resident of Tiruvallur district. It stated that the Pulicat lake, spread across 760 sq. km., was the second largest brackish water lagoon in the country. It was spread over Tamil Nadu as well as Andhra Pradesh. The lake acts as a flood water buffer for River Arani in Tamil Nadu and Kalangi as well as Swarnamuki Rivers in Andhra Pradesh before discharging it into the Bay of Bengal during the rainy seasons. Water exchange Post monsoon, the bar mouth helps in flow of lake water into the Bay of Bengal during low tides and flow of sea water into the lake during high tides. “This exchange of water happens due to gravitational forces exerted on the earth by the moon and sun,” M. Murugesan, Executive Engineer, Fishing Harbour Project Division, Chennai said in the report and added that the frequent mixture of fresh water with sea water helps in the growth of brackish water species in the lake. Prawns were the main source of sea food caught from the lake followed by mullets, green crab, jelly fish and fin fish. Nevertheless, fishermen dependent on the lake for their livelihood, were put to hardship due to frequent closure of the bar mouth due to sediment drift during non-monsoon seasons and the change in wind direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waiting-for-moef-approval-to-open-pulicat-sand-bar-mouth-govt/article33209046.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Income Tax Department detects undisclosed income of over Rs. 450 cr.||The Income Tax (I-T) Department has detected undisclosed income to the tune of over Rs. 450 crore from a search recently. On Friday, the taxmen conducted searches in the case of an IT SEZ developer, its ex-director and a prominent stainless-steel supplier in Chennai. The searches were carried out on 16 premises in Chennai, Cuddalore, Mumbai and Hyderabad. Details provided by the I-T Department showed that evidences unearthed included unaccounted assets worth about Rs. 100 crore, accumulated by the ex-director and his family members, in three years. The search further showed that the IT SEZ developer claimed bogus work-in-progress expenses of about Rs. 160 crore, in a project under construction. The entity also claimed capital expenses of around Rs. 30 crore, on account of bogus consultancy fees, in an operational project, and inadmissible interest expenses to the extent of Rs. 20 crore. Further analysis revealed certain share purchase transactions relating to the IT SEZ developer. Shares of the entity were sold by its erstwhile shareholders, a resident and a non-resident entity, which routed its investment through a Mauritius intermediary, for about Rs. 2,300 crore, in 2017-18. But capital gains out of this sale transaction were not disclosed to the Department. A statement by the I-T Department said further investigation was in progress to determine undisclosed capital gains with both shareholders. Other land transactions involving cash payments and an issue relating to compulsory convertible debentures are also under examination Evidences found on the premises of the stainless steel supplier revealed that the supplier group had been conducting three sets of sales — accounted, unaccounted and partly accounted. Unaccounted and partly-accounted sales amounted to more than 25% of total sales each year. Further, the assessee group provided sales accommodation bills to various customers and received commission of more than 10% on these transactions. While the quantification of unaccounted for income is being carried out currently, it is estimated to be around Rs. 100 crore. Related concerns of the assessee group are involved in financing, money lending and real estate development. Unaccounted transactions conducted by the entities and the unaccounted capital/loan infusion in these entities are estimated to be around Rs. 50 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/income-tax-department-detects-undisclosed-income-of-over-rs-450-cr/article33208644.ece
30 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Two men held for assaulting maid in Tambaram||The police have arrested a doctor and his relative, a banker, for locking up a maid at their house in Tambaram and assaulting her. According to police, Deepak, 28, a resident of CTO Colony, is working in a city hospital and his relative Anand Amirtharaj, 34, is an employee of a private bank. On Saturday, the two reportedly called the police and informed that they had caught their maid when she tried to steal valuables. When the police rushed to the spot and inquired, they found injuries on the face of the 27-year-old maid. During questioning, she told the police that she began working as a maid in Deepak’s house in October. However, she quit after Deepavali. On Saturday, she returned to the house to ask for her salary. She said the duo locked her up and tried to misbehave with her. She sustained injuries when she resisted. Deepak and Anand were booked under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act, 1998, and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-men-held-for-assaulting-maid-in-tambaram/article33209026.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK condemns move to replace scholarship||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Sunday opposed the Centre’s decision to replace post-matric scholarships for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, the Other Backward Castes and minorities, with a single scheme, allotting it a budget of just Rs. 7,000 crore. He said the move would affect around 60 lakh SC/ST students. In a statement, he said the Union government was also planning to hold entrance tests for the scholarship, which would deny higher education opportunities to SC/ST students. “If the scholarship to pay their hostel fee is stopped, the SC/ST students will be forced to stop their education. This is nothing but an effort to deny education to shudras and the casteless Scheduled Castes, in accordance with Manusmriti ,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to announce that the State government would continue with the post-matric scholarships.  If the scholarship to pay their hostel fee is stopped, SC/ST students will be forced to stop their education Thol. Thirumavalavan VCK founder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-condemns-move-to-replace-scholarship/article33209020.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw order on salary cuts for engineers’||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Sunday urged the State government to withdraw its order reducing the basic salaries of engineers working in various Departments. In a statement, he said the move had caused hardship to engineers, given the current economic situation. Mr. Balakrishnan also pointed out that even if the engineers were promoted in the future, the current salary cut would not be compensated, and this would also impact their pension component. Taking into account the fact that the Chief Minister handles the Public Works portfolio, the State government should consider the request of the engineers, and drop the plan of cutting their salaries, Mr. Balakrishnan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-order-on-salary-cuts-for-engineers/article33209021.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RGGGH takes initiative to provide essential items||During an emergency, patients rush to hospitals without carrying the basic items they may require. To help such patients, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has set up a ‘Wall of kindness’ or ‘ Anbu Suvar ’ that will receive contributions. The hospital has put up cupboards in all three tower blocks on its campus. ‘Provide essentials’ “The objective is mainly to provide essential items to patients who come in during emergencies without bringing things that they may require. We have received new items worth Rs. 1.5 lakh through a sponsor. The essential items include towels, soaps, toothpastes and brushes, combs and clothes such as shirts, lungis, dhotis, saris and nightwear,” Dean E. Theranirajan said.  Anyone can donate Anyone can donate items that are in good condition. Patients who are discharged after treatment and their families can also “gift” essential items. Doctors, nurses and hospital workers can also contribute to this initiative, a press release said. Persons who wish to make contributions can contact the hospital at the helpline number 89397 97696. They can call and drop in to make their contributions at the ‘Wall of kindness’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wall-of-kindness-provides-essential-items-to-needy/article33209030.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IAS academy to offer UPSC classes on T.V.||The Manidhanaeyam Free IAS Academy, founded by former Chennai Mayor Saidai Duraisamy, will be offering coaching classes for students preparing for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination through Doordarshan’s Podhigai channel, a statement issued by the institution said. The programme will be aired daily from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Stating that the institute offered free coaching classes to socio-economically backward students from diverse caste groups and had helped them get government jobs by clearing the UPSC, Mr. Duraisamy said coaching through television would help them reach more aspirants. “The programme can also be of use to school and college students,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ias-academy-to-offer-upsc-classes-on-tv/article33208685.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical counselling to resume today||The Directorate of Medical Education will resume counselling for State quota seats in medical and dental colleges from Monday. According to the revised list, the first phase of counselling will continue till December 10. The counselling has so far been conducted for the special category and the seats under the 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students. The selection secretary has advised the candidates to watch out for announcements on the official websites www.tnmedicalselection.org and www.tnhealth.tn.gov.in. On the first day of counselling for the general category on November 23, 308 seats were filled, including one at a self-financing medical college. On Monday, counselling will be held for 2,440 seats in government medical colleges; 1,060 seats in self-financing medical colleges; and 151 seats in government dental colleges, including Rajah Muthiah Dental College. As many as 985 seats in self-financing dental colleges are also available. The Director-General of Health Services on Saturday released results of the second round of counselling for seats surrendered by State government colleges to the All-India Quota, and for seats at Central government institutions and deemed universities. Seats that remain vacant after the reporting of students will be offered to the State governments on December 8. Demonstration held Ahead of the counselling for State quota seats, the Doctor’s Association for Social Equality staged a demonstration on Sunday, demanding that the fee structure for the three colleges taken over by the government be on a par with that of other government colleges. The government conducts counselling for Annamalai University’s medical and dental colleges, and IRT Medical College at Perundurai, which has been taken over by the government and is now called the Government Erode Medical College. However, according to the prospectus, the fee continues to be higher than that of government colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-counselling-to-resume-today/article33208642.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps on to ensure safety of deep-sea fishing boats’||In view of the well-marked low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal that is likely to develop into a depression, the Fisheries Department is taking steps to ensure the safety of 210 deep sea boats from Kanniyakumari and Thoothukudi districts that are in the sea. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Sunday said that eight boats belonging to Thoothukudi district had returned due to the efforts of the Department. “Steps are being taken to contact the boats over satellite phones and VHF sets. They are being asked to either return or head to nearby harbours or landing centres,” he said in a statement. “The governments of Kerala, Karnataka, Goa and Lakshadweep have been requested to permit safe anchorage for boats from Tamil Nadu, due to the depression that is likely to develop into a cyclone,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-on-to-ensure-safety-of-deep-sea-fishing-boats/article33208651.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for cheating car owners||The police arrested Arunkumar, 32, for allegedly cheating people by renting cars and then running off with them. A few months ago, Arunkumar approached Akash Singh, of Kottupuram, and convinced him to loan him a car for a monthly fee of Rs. 28,000. As the rent was paid on time for two months, Mr. Singh did not suspect anything. However, Arunkumar soon went missing with the car. A complaint was lodged and Arunkumar was nabbed at Pallavaram. The police said he had been arrested earlier for cheating customers at the car showroom where he used to work and was out on bail. They added that another case was also pending against him with the CCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-cheating-car-owners/article33209023.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stormwater drain work to start soon||The Chennai Corporation will start work on stormwater drains in southern parts of the city in two weeks. The work is expected to start next year on the development of stormwater drains in the northern parts. At least Rs. 2,600 crore is expected to be spent on the development of stormwater drains, the eco-restoration of waterbodies and he interlinking of tanks in the Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Ambattur, Sholinganallur, Perungudi and Alandur zones. However, residents have started a campaign to stop the development of stormwater drains in areas like Sholinganallur. Officials of the Corporation are planning to conduct a meeting with residents associations, explaining the significance of the development of stormwater drains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stormwater-drain-work-to-start-soon/article33209035.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||About 3.15 kg gold worth Rs. 1.57 crore was seized at Chennai airport and three persons have been arrested by Chennai Air Customs. Early on Sunday, 36 gold sheets weighing 1.36 kg was seized. In two other cases, 1.62 kg and 190 grams of gold were seized respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-at-airport/article33209042.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Revised table for Rajdhani Special trains||The Southern Railway has announced a revised schedule for the Rajdhani Special trains. According to a press release, train no. 02431/02432 Thiruvananthapuram-New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram tri-weekly Rajdhani Special and train no. 02433/02434 Dr. MGR Chennai Central-New Delhi-Dr. MGR Chennai Central bi-weekly Rajdhani Specials will originate and terminate at Hazrat Nizamuddin instead of New Delhi. Accordingly, train no. 02434 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Dr. MGR Chennai Central bi-weekly Rajdhani Special will run as per the revised schedule from December 30. Train no. 02433 Dr. MGR Chennai Central-Hazrat Nizamuddin bi-weekly Rajdhani Special will run as per the revised schedule with effect from January 1, 2021. It will leave MGR Chennai Central at 6.05 a.m. Train no. 02432 Hazrath Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram-Hazrath Nizamuddin tri-weekly Rajdhani Special will run as per the revised schedule from December 29. It will leave Hazrat Nizamuddin at 6.16 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revised-table-for-rajdhani-special-trains/article33209052.ece
30 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘CM has established social justice through 7.5% quota in medical seats’||By enacting a law to reserve 7.5 % seats for government school students in medical colleges and creating a revolving fund to meet the education expenses of those students who had secured seats in private medical colleges, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had established social justice, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani said on Sunday while honouring students from Coimbatore who had got admission to medical colleges. Students, who had studied from class VI to Plus Two in government schools, would have 7.5 % of the seats allotted to them in government medical colleges and 7.5% of the 69% government quota seats in private medical colleges in the State. Those government school students, who had cleared NEET and applied to admission to MBBS, BDS, BSMS, BAMS, BUMS or BHMS, would get to enjoy the benefit of the 7.5% reservation. The Chief Minister did not stop with just reserving seats. To help those government school students who had gained admission in private medical colleges under the 7.5% quota to pay tuition and hostel fee, he had ordered the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation to create a revolving fund so that the students did not have to wait for the government to clear their application for scholarships. With this, the Chief Minister had helped establish social justice in the State, the Minister said. This was something that no other State had done, he added. Mr. Velumani, who gave Rs. 25,000 each to the 21 students from Coimbatore who had secured medical seats, said the AIADMK government had also increased the number of medical seats in the State. The government had also ordered the establishment of 11 new government medical colleges and that would add another 1,650 seats, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-has-established-social-justice-through-75-quota-in-medical-seats/article33208678.ece
30 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||City police launch combing operations to prevent crimes||The Coimbatore City Police have started vehicle checks and combing operations in select areas that come under two police sub-divisions, East and South, to prevent crimes. According to senior police officers, the vehicle checks and combing operations are aimed at curbing crimes ranging from chain snatching to organised crimes. Based on instructions from City Police Commissioner Sumit Shran, the police conducted vehicle checks at 42 places in the two sub-divisions on Saturday. G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), said most of the interior and extended areas of the city came under the limits of seven police stations of East and South sub-divisions where crimes involving youngsters were frequently getting reported. “Police personnel will check vehicles driven by youth during the special drives. Vehicles travelled by women and families will not be stopped for checking,” he said. According to him, prevention and detection of crimes such as chain snatching, vehicle theft, robbery, possession of weapons, smuggling of ganja and banned tobacco products are possible through the surprise checks. Of the 15 law and order police stations in Coimbatore city, interior and extended areas of the city fall under seven police stations - Saravanampatti, Peelamedu, Singanallur, Selvapuram, Kuniyamuthur, Podanur and Ramanathapuram. The police have also identified several unused and barren lands under the limits of these seven police stations where persons who involve in anti-social activities hang out. These areas were less frequented by the police before. Mr. Stalin said a 50-member special team of the police was formed in the two sub-divisions for the combing operations. Personnel from the seven crime police stations in the two sub-divisions were also part of the surprise vehicle checks and combing operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-launch-combing-operations-to-prevent-crimes/article33209062.ece
30 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder||The Tiruppur North police on Friday arrested a 25-year-old man in connection with the murder of his friend earlier this month. During custodial interrogation, the accused confessed to the police that he had also murdered two others in the past. Sankar, a native of Madurai, was arrested for the murder of Esakki from Thoothukudi. Esakki’s body was found in a decomposing state in a water tank inside the house on College Road in Tiruppur, where the two were staying, on November 2. The two men were working in a knitwear company in Tiruppur. The Tiruppur north police found that Sankar was missing after Esakki's death and they traced him to Coimbatore Central Prison where he was serving judicial remand in another case. A court in Tiruppur granted one-day police custody of the accused. During interrogation, Sankar confessed to killing Esakki and two others by smashing their heads with stone. The Tiruppur north police recorded the arrest of Sankar in Esakki’s murder.  VCK functionary held The All Women Police Station at Avinashi in Tiruppur district on Sunday arrested a local functionary of the Viduthalai Siruthaigal Katchi (VCK) on charges of helping an accused in a sexual assault case. Police said that Marisamy, Avinashi union secretary of VCK, was arrested after he helped Danapal, accused in a sexual assault case, to escape.  Police said that they also seized a two-wheeler of Marisamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder/article33208684.ece
30 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Teenager arrested for sexual assault on five-year-old girl||The All Women Police Station (AWPS), Perur, arrested a teenager for alleged sexual assault on a five-year-old girl. As per the complaint lodged by the girl’s mother, the alleged incident took place around 7.30 p.m. on Friday. It said that the 17-year-old accused was sitting in front of his house when her daughter was playing outside. The woman could not find her daughter when she returned from the kitchen. Meanwhile, she heard cries of her daughter from the juvenile’s house. The woman and neighbours opened the door of the house using force and found the accused assaulting the minor girl sexually. They rescued the girl and the mother lodged a complaint with the AWPS, Perur. The boy was arrested for offences under Sections 9 (m) (aggravated sexual assault on a child below twelve years) and 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and sent to the Juvenile Delinquents Observation Home at the Lakshmi Mills junction.  Banned tobacco products seized The Saravanampatti police seized two tonnes of banned tobacco products from eight vehicles during a vehicle check on Vilankurichi road on Saturday evening. The police arrested six persons and seized the products were worth around Rs. 10.24 lakh from them. Six arrested The arrested have been identified as Alex Pandian (34) from Thoothukudi, K. Manikandan (27) from Udayampalayam, G. Karthik (23) from Villupuram, Anantha Narayanan (51) from Ganapthy, V. Manikandan (22) from Tirunelveli and A. Murugan (32) from Tiruppur. The police were on the lookout for Guna, another accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-arrested-for-sexual-assault-on-five-year-old-girl/article33209065.ece
30 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Siblings drown in tank||Two siblings from Kovilmedu drowned in a tank near Perur on Sunday. The police said A. Hari (20) and his brother A. Ananthan (25) from Thilagar street at Kovilmedu drowned at Kolarampathi tank where they had gone along with a friend to clean themselves following an accidental fall from a two-wheeler. According to the police, Hari and Ananthan were lathe workers. The brothers and their friend S. Madhan (23), also from Kovilmedu, boozed together on Sunday morning after which they travelled on Nagarajapuram - Perur road on a motorcycle around 10.45 a.m. The trio fell on to the mud on the side of the road after one of the siblings who rode the two-wheeler lost its control. The three men went to the nearby Kolarampathi tank to clean themselves, said the police. “While cleaning himself, Hari noticed the water lilies and ventured into a deeper portion of the tank to pluck the flowers. As Hari started sinking due to the swampy bottom, Ananthan stepped into the tank to rescue his brother. However, both of them drowned,” said a police officer. After being alerted by Madhan, people from the locality rushed to the tank and managed to recover the bodies. The Vadavalli police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-drown-in-tank/article33209063.ece
30 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Awareness meeting||The District Industries Centre, Coimbatore, in association with Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health will conduct online seminars on Saturdays on ‘Industrial Safety for MSMEs’. The DIC is organising the meetings to create awareness among MSMEs, following a fatal electrocution accident at a micro unit during Ayudha Puja. The first programme was held on November 28 and K. Arul, vice-president of Coimbatore Productivity Council, addressed the participants. Two more meetings will be held on December 5 and 12 from 11 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. each day. The Zoom ID is 822 5033 2895 and the password is lub.    State Bank of India opened a branch at CheranManagar on Friday. The branch will provide a wide range of services and products to its customers, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-meeting/article33209060.ece
30 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||26 persons test positive in Cuddalore district||Cuddalore district reported 26 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 24,200. A total of 12 persons were discharged from hospitals, which now has 80 active cases. The district did not report any death due to COVID-19 on Sunday. As many as 19 persons tested positive for novel coronavirus disease in Villupuram district, taking the overall tally in the district to 14,606. Kallakurichi district recorded seven fresh cases on Sunday, taking the total to 10,663.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-new-cases-in-cuddalore/article33209230.ece
30 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects rain affected areas||District Collector S. Kathiravan inspected areas affected by recent rain in Modakuruchi here on Saturday. Mr. Kathiravan along with V.P. Subramani, MLA, visited camps at Kolathupalayam and Vengambur. Mr. Kathiravan advised officials to ensure that the public are provided with all required amenities. Visits canals The Collector also inspected Kalingrayan canal and Avudayarparai canal in the district and advised officials to take necessary measures to strengthen its bunds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-rain-affected-areas/article33208669.ece
30 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rain improves storage level in tanks||The water level has increased in most of the tanks in the city, following the recent spell of rains received during the northeast monsoon. With most of the tanks in the Vandiyur system and Sellur system having reached their optimum storage capacity, the residents are hopeful about the increase in groundwater levels in the city. A Public Works Department (PWD) official said that surplus water had been discharged from one tank to the subsequent tank in the chain of tanks that feed Vandiyur tank. "The water level in Vandiyur tank has reached 75% of its total capacity. We are expecting the level to reach its maximum storage capacity this year," he said. The water storage in Sellur tank has reached its optimum storage after a gap of four years, said the PWD official. ‘The surplus from the tank is currently being discharged through the Panthalkudi channel to the Vaigai,’ he added. However, water inundation was reported in a few low-lying streets of Kattabomman Nagar in Sellur near the Panthalkudi channel on Saturday, following the heavy rains witnessed in the city on Friday night. The increased storage in the tanks will hugely help in recharging the underground water table in the city, said R. Jeyaprakash, a member of Kannanendhal Tank Water Users' Association. "Until three years back, garbage was dumped inside the tank and the groundwater would be available only at 600 feet. But, by storing water in the tank for the past three years, the groundwater level has drastically improved such that the groundwater level is available at 100 feet itself," he added. Echoing his viewpoint, D.Raghavan, president of Gomathipuram-Thendral Nagar Residents' Welfare Association, said that with increased groundwater table in areas near Vandiyur tank, the residents are spending lesser amount of money for purchasing water from private tankers. The increased flow of water in the Vaigai due to the recent rains has helped to divert water to Mariamman Teppakulam, said a Madurai Corporation official. ‘In addition, the old channels of the tank were cleared. As a result, the rainwater from nearby streets trickled into the temple tank,’ he added. In Madakulam, Thenkal and Nilaiyur tanks, which receives water from Vaigai dam, water level has reached around 40% of their total capacity, said the PWD official. ‘Water from Vaigai dam will be released to Ramanathapuram district from Monday, then to Sivaganga and finally to Madurai districts. We are expecting the water storage to increase in these tanks following the release of water from Vaigai dam,’ he said. Although the original ayacut area of the Madakulam tank has reduced, the tank plays an important role in recharging groundwater table in surrounding areas like SS Colony, TVS Nagar and Alagappan Nagar, said S. Suthanthira Amalraj, former Executive Engineer of PWD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-improves-storage-level-in-tanks/article33209153.ece
30 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not misuse freedom of speech’||Freedom of speech is being grossly misused these days and nobody cares about the adverse impact it can leave, Madras High Court Judge Justice N. Seshasayee said at the Constitution Day celebration held at the World Tamil Sangam here on Saturday. The judge was addressing advocates in the event organised by the Central Government Panel Counsels. He said that the freedom of speech and expression was being misused, especially on social media platforms. An uninformed crowd was occupying the middle space on these platforms and this had led to the misuse of the fundamental right which was deplorable, the judge said. He said that one’s caste, religion and status were unnecessarily being brought into discussions. People should speak with responsibility and not misuse the freedom of speech. One can criticise, but while doing so should also look at what he/ she has contributed, the judge said. Justice B. Pugalendhi said that the role of a law officer was an important one. Not many people get to become law officers. Therefore, the counsels must make use of the opportunity given to them and conduct the cases with utmost sincerity, he said. Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri welcomed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-misuse-freedom-of-speech/article33208655.ece
30 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Karthigai Deepam celebrated||A large number of devotees offered prayers at Subramaniaswamy temple at Tirupparankundram here on the occasion of Karthigai Deepam festival on Sunday. The main attraction of the festival- the 'Mahadeepam'- was lit on Tirupparankundram hillock at 6 p.m. to the delight of the devotees. The wick of the lamp, which was around 160 metres long, was soaked in oil kept in seven tins, with each tin weighing around 15 kg, said an official from Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. "Hundreds of devotees visited the temple from Sunday morning onwards for a darshan. A large number of devotees also walked along the girivalam path. It looked like a usual temple festival, after several months since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic," he said. The devotees were not allowed to light lamps inside the temple due to restrictions imposed because of COVID-19, he added. At Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, devotees helped in lighting around one lakh lamps around the Golden Lotus Tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mahadeepam-lit-atop-hillock/article33208650.ece
30 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tenkasi district records 17 cases, five get discharged||Ramanathapuram district recorded just four new positive cases on Sunday. With this, it continued to maintain the lowest number of cases in the region. The hospitals discharged five patients and 40 active cases were undergoing treatment. Madurai district recorded 27 new cases taking the total number of cases to 19,691. A total of 16 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 242. One death was recorded, increasing the district’s death toll to 439. Virudhunagar district reported nine new positive cases even as 12 patients got discharged on Sunday. This has taken the total number of positive cases to 15,882 and the number of discharged patients till date to 15,572. While the number of active cases was 84, the death toll has remained at 226. Theni district had four cases taking the tally to 16,581. There were 10 discharges from hospitals and 17 active cases. Dindigul district had 25 new patients and the tally stood at 10,277. Hospitals discharged five patients and there were 135 active cases. Tenkasi district had 17 new cases taking the total number of patients to 8,073. Hospitals discharged five patients and 105 people were undergoing treatment. Sivaganga district saw 11 cases and the tally stood at 6,301. Hospitals discharged 10 patients and there were 86 active cases. Southern districts Kanniyakumari district had 15 new cases after which the tally moved to 15,690. Hospitals discharged 14 people after treatment. An 87-year-old male patient died and active cases remained at 140. Thoothukudi district had 15 new cases and the tally was at 15,667. Hospitals discharged 12 patients and there were 133 active cases in the district. Tirunelveli district had eight new cases and the total tally stood at 14,817. There were nine discharges from hospitals and 128 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramanathapuram-has-lowest-number-of-cases-in-the-region/article33208664.ece
30 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Need to address mental health issues’||Expressing shock over the fact that India was named the most depressed country in the world by the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court observed that though the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 was passed, no sufficient awareness programmes have been conducted to address the issue. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that according to the WHO report, 7.5 % of India’s population was suffering from some sort of mental illness. All psychological problems are treatable, curable and preventable provided it is identified early and treatment initiated quickly coupled with appropriate rehabilitation, the judges said. The court expanded the scope of a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate K.R. Raja who had sought a direction to the State to set up a medical wing in either the Madurai or the Tiruchi Central Prison, exclusively to provide mental health care facilities for prisoners with round the clock availability of access to psychiatrists. The judges pointed out that WHO predicts that by the end of this year, approximately 20 % of Indians will suffer from mental illness. Referring to various reports that were conducted on mental health issues, the judges observed that many were suffering from depression and anxiety and they were in need of active intervention. When this was the situation, only a negligible amount was being allocated and spent towards mental health. As per reports, the amount spent on mental health for the year 2018-2019 was only Rs. 48 crore. Also, the Mental health force is very low in the country and at a ratio of one psychiatrist per one lakh population, the judges said. The court said that there was only one premier research centre in the country dedicated for mental health, the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) at Bengaluru. The need of the hour is to have a Psychiatry Department in every District Headquarters Hospital and a Psychiatrist in every taluk-level hospital. The court suo motu impleaded various Central Departments in the case as respondents and sought response to a series of questions with regard to the mental health issue in the country, ways to address these issues and the budget allocations. The case was adjourned to December 9 for filing the response to the queries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-to-address-mental-health-issues/article33209147.ece
30 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Constables’ gesture||Kaval Uthavum Karangal of 2003 batchmates of police constables on Sunday handed over cash, insurance and fixed deposits worth Rs. 24.92 lakh to the family members of their batchmate Palanivelnathan who died on October 3. A total of 4,985 batchmates contributed Rs. 500 each towards the welfare of the family of Palanivelnathan, who was attached to Crime Wing of Tallakulam police station. The batchmates invested Rs. 9.62 lakh in insurance for his 12-year-old son so that he would get a maturity amount of Rs. 19.42 lakh when he attains 21 years. The 8-year-old daughter was given an insurance deposit of Rs. 9.62 lakh that would get her Rs. 20.67 when she attains 20 years of age. Savings bank deposits of Rs. 2.87 lakh for his wife Radha and Rs. 1 lakh each for his parents, Nageswari and Ganesan were given. The batchmates provided Rs. 3 lakh medical insurance for the wife and two children. All the documents were handed over to the family on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constables-gesture/article33209150.ece
30 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Remove water hyacinth’||A group of members from Democratic Youth Federation of India staged a demonstration near Sellur tank in Madurai on Sunday demanding immediate action to arrest the discharge of untreated sewage into the tank and remove water hyacinth from the tank. Residents and environmentalists were in for a shock when they discovered foam and froth was floating in Sellur tank on Saturday, following the heavy rains witnessed in the district on Friday night. Fire and Rescue Services personnel sprayed water to subside the foam, which was around four feet in height. The district secretary of DYFI T. Selva said that indiscriminate discharge of untreated sewage into waterbodies in the city resulted in formation of foam in the Sellur tank. "Some people also suspect that industries discreetly release chemical effluents into water bodies, which has resulted in formation of froth," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-water-hyacinth/article33209154.ece
30 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CM to lay foundation for water project||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will lay foundation stone for Rs. 1,295.76-crore Mullaperiyar drinking water project on December 4, said Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar here on Sunday. He was speaking at an event to mark the 150th day of ‘Amma kitchen’ through which food was supplied to those undergoing treatment at COVID-19 care centres. The ‘Amma Kitchen’ was closed on Sunday as there are no patients undergoing treatment at these centres in the district. The Mullaperiyar drinking water project, which envisages laying a 143-km-long pipeline from Lower camp near Gudalur to Madurai city, will bring additional 125 million litres per day of drinking water to the city. Mr. Udhayakumar said that the Chief Minister will also inaugurate an additional building constructed at Madurai Collectorate and a slew of other completed projects. The Minister said that continuous efforts of the district administration and civic body officials had helped reduce the COVID-19 positivity rate in Madurai district from as high as 18% to 0.5%. Currently, a total of 282 COVID-19 patients are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-to-lay-foundation-for-water-project-on-december-4/article33208647.ece
30 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Alumni meet held||The alumni meet of Lady Doak College was organised through an online platform on Saturday. A press release from the college said that D. Priscilla Suresh Raj, the president of the alumni association, welcomed. Principal Christianna Singh emphasised that the alumni must work together to be positive during the pandemic. J. Vinita, secretary of the alumni association, read out the annual review report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alumni-meet-held/article33209148.ece
30 November 2020||NAGAPPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Point Calimere awash with flamingos again||The arrival of flamingos from far flung areas has started at Point Calimere, one of the popular destinations in the State for the winged visitors. According to an initial estimate, more than 5,000 flamingos have landed on the salt marshes stretching from Muthupettai lagoon to Point Calimere for the feeding season. The flamingos flock to the mudflat tracts of the Point Calimere Wildlife and Bird Sanctuary between the last week of October and March. The long-legged pink birds stay in colonies. While a section of them is said to have migrated from Iran and the southern parts of Russia, there are birds that have come from the Rann of Kutch in Gujarat and Sri Lanka.  ‘Gradually increasing’ “We have recorded the arrival of flocks of flamingos to Point Calimere. The number is gradually increasing. It is a treat to watch the pink wall formed by the migratory birds,” S. Ramasubramanian, Conservator of Forest, Thanjavur, told The Hindu . He said Point Calimere, Dhanushkodi near Rameswaram in Ramanathapuram district and the Pulicat lake north of Chennai were important destinations for the flamingos on the east coast of the State. The climate during their arrival is conducive for the feeding season. The recent rain has attracted birds from far away places. The mudflat region has a mix of salt and pure water. It possesses innumerable microorganisms. There is ample prey for the birds, especially during the northeast monsoon and the winter. Mr. Ramasubramanian said the birds, which prefer the wetlands along the eastern shore of the State during the winter, would gain strength and fly back to their nesting sites. “December is the peak season for the arrival of the flamingos. We expect more flocks in the weeks to come as the condition is ideal,” he said.  As December is the peak season, we expect more flocks in the weeks to come  S. RamasubramanianConservator of Forest, Thanjavur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/point-calimere-awash-with-flamingos-again/article33208623.ece
30 November 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||215 mechanised boats yet to return||Despite cyclone warning, 215 mechanised boats which had ventured into the sea with fishermen were yet to return to the shores on Sunday. According to the fishermen associations, the boats had set off for deep sea and multi-day fishing towards Lakshadweep, Kerala and Karnataka. Though many among them had satellite phones, they were yet to return and it has caused concern among their families. The Central and State governments should immediately come to the rescue and engage surveillance mechanism to safely bring them back.  Rainfall Widespread rain in Kanniyakumari district had resulted in the storage levels rising fast in dams and tanks. Rainfall recorded was 62 mm in Mullaginavilai, Adaiyamadai: 14, Mookadal dam: 12, Kannimar: 48, Boothapandi: 10 and Balamore recorded 9 mm. Pechiparai dam had 44.08 feet water and in Perunchani dam it was 70.25 feet, PWD officials said.  Okhi remembrance day Many families and fishermen from various fishing hamlets in the district offered tributes to the 172 fishermen who died in Okhi cyclone in 2017. The fishermen paid homage by lighting candles and offering flowers at the Colachel Fishing Port on Sunday. They also wanted helicopter ambulance facilities to be launched to rescue stranded fishermen from mid-sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/215-mechanised-boats-yet-to-return/article33209271.ece
30 November 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Boats yet to return||Despite cyclone warning, 215 mechanised boats that had ventured into the sea with fishermen were yet to return to the shores on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boats-yet-to-return/article33208621.ece
30 November 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Medical aspirants honoured||Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja honoured three medical aspirants from government school here on Sunday. She also offered a stipend of Rs. 20,000 for each of the student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-aspirants-honoured/article33208671.ece
30 November 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Online betting: public warned||The Namakkal police has advised public to not to indulge in online gaming involving betting or wagering here. According to police, public would be punished with fine and imprisonment for indulging in online gaming involving betting or wagering and for opening common gaming house. The companies which conduct online gaming are also liable for punishment, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-betting-public-warned/article33208672.ece
30 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID recovery rate in U.T. touches a new high of over 97%||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Puducherry dropped below the 500-mark for the first time in several months while the overall recovery rate touched a new high of 97% in the Union Territory on Sunday. The Union Territory saw 33 new cases adding to its overall tally while 72 patients were discharged after recovery in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stood at 480. Of this, 178 patients were in hospitals and 302 in home isolation. Only one in Yanam The new cases were detected from testing 2,926 samples. Puducherry accounted for 21 of the newly-infected cases, Karaikal (six), Mahe (five) and Yanam (one). The test positivity rate was 1.12%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.05%. The tally is 609 deaths, 480 active cases, a cumulative total of 36,935 coronavirus cases and 35,846 patients recovered. Meanwhile, the number of tests carried out by the Health Department to date crossed 4 lakh. Of the 4,00,323 samples tested so far, 3,59,129 samples returned negative. “The net recovery rate has crossed the 97% mark for the first time in the Union Territory,” Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. “The tests have covered about 26% of the total population,” he said. The Minister, who visited the IGMCRI, said measures were being taken to restore full services to non-COVID patients as there were just 63 positive cases at the institution. Steps are on to resume classes at the medical college in December. Pointing out that several States were imposing hefty fines for not wearing a mask, Mr. Rao said masking had to be mandatory to ensure that coronavirus was kept under control.  Measures are being taken to restore full services to non-COVID patients at IGMCRI as there are just 63 positive cases at the institution Malladi Krishna Rao Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-recovery-rate-in-ut-touches-a-new-high-of-over-97/article33209041.ece
30 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Institution chosen for clinical trial of Covaxin||The Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (MGMCRI), a constituent college of Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth, has been chosen as one of the participating centres in the Phase III human clinical trials of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for protection against COVID-19. A press note from the MGMCRI said the phase III clinical trial at the institute had recently been approved by the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Puducherry and participation would be based on the norms and stipulated guidelines established by the Central Drugs Control Organisation and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India. Subhash Chandra Parija, Vice Chancellor of Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth, said the MGMCRI was among 21 partnering institutions approved by the Central Licensing Authority in the human trials for Covaxin, an inactivated vaccine, jointly developed by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech Limited, Hyderabad. Safety and efficacy The phase III trials for testing the safety and efficacy of corona virus vaccine (BBV152B) is being conducted on an estimated 28,000 subjects. S.R. Rao, vice-president (Research, Innovation and Development), SBV, said the multi-centre trials would ascertain the efficacy and safety of the inactivated SARS – COV – II Vaccine in adults. At the MGMCRI, the trials would begin soon and intend to cover 1,200 volunteers. Interested persons can register as volunteers and preference would be accorded to health careworkers, doctors, nurses and security personnel. The details are available at https://sbvu.ac.in/mgmcri/ Nirmal Coumare, Medical Superintendent, MGMCRI, said that the preparation for carrying out the phase III trials are fully in compliance with the guidelines of ICMR, Government of India and Government of Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-institution-chosen-for-human-clinical-trials-of-covaxin/article33209229.ece
30 November 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister honours landowners in Pudukottai district||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday honoured landowners in the district who voluntarily gave their lands for the Cauvery-Gundar river link project. At a function organised at Viralimalai in the district, Mr. Vijayabaskar honoured the landowners with a shawl and appreciation certificates signed by Collector P. Uma Maheswari. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Vijayabaskar said Rs. 700 crore had been sanctioned for carrying out the works in phase-I under the river-link project. Stating that the exercise of acquisition of lands for the “dream project” was under way, he said consent letters were being received from landowners in a cordial manner for the project. The tender for digging a canal at an estimated cost of Rs. 331 crore would be floated next month and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would inaugurate the project in January next. Of the 36 hectares of land required for the mega project in Kunnathur village near Viralimalai, 20 hectares had been provided so far by the landowners voluntarily. Sixty-three out of the 122 land owner voluntarily gave their lands for the project. Steps had been taken to provide three times additional compensation to those who provided their lands for the project. Along with the compensation amount, 25% incentive would also be provided to them, the Minister further said. Collector Uma Maheswari, District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan, Special District Revenue Officer Ramya Devi, officials of Revenue and Public Works Department and farmers participated in the programme, an official press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-honours-landowners-in-pudukottai-district/article33208620.ece
30 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP denying quota for majority Hindus’||DMK women’s wing leader and Thoothukudi MP M.K. Kanimozhi on Sunday accused the ruling BJP at the Centre of having denied reservation tor “majority Hindus” to study medicine [by not implementing OBC reservation in all-India quota medical seats]. Launching the second leg of ‘ Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for a new dawn), the DMK’s campaign for the 2021 Assembly election at Edappadi in Salem district, she countered the BJP’s allegation that the DMK was “anti-Hindu”. “They (BJP) should first say what they have done for Hindus. They have denied reservation for majority Hindus. They are spoiling the chances of the Hindu majority to study medicine,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. “They have brought in farm laws and labour codes that are against the interests of the majority — the Hindus,” she said in response to a query. The DMK leader, who began her campaign in the morning at Koganapuram, which falls under Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s Assembly constituency, alleged that the AIADMK co-coordinator was betraying his own party and rolling out the red carpet for the BJP. Addressing DMK cadre near the Edappadi bus stand, she asked whether former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had ever gone to the airport to receive a Union Minister from the BJP, and whether AIADMK cadre had ever crowded with party flags to receive a BJP Minister. She was referring to the Chief Minister and AIADMK cadre receiving Home Minister Amit Shah at the Chennai airport recently. According to her, people from all walks of life were dissatisfied with the current government, and the CM had not fulfilled poll promises in Edappadi. On cyclone relief measures, she said, “They (the government) have not learnt any lessons from previous floods. Neither the water channels nor the waterbodies were desilted. Encroachments were not removed either.” She reiterated that a drop in the cyclone’s intensity, not the government’s measures, had saved Chennai. On the investment front, she pointed out that DMK president M.K. Stalin’s demand that the government present a White Paper on the two editions of the Global Investors’ Meet had not been met. ‘SHGs neglected’ “SHGs have been completely neglected. They have not received any funds and have suffered severely during the COVID-19 pandemic. Still, interest is being collected on their loans. I wrote to the Union Finance Minister, seeking a waiver of their loans. Though I received an acknowledgement of receipt of the letter, no action has been taken,” she said. She alleged that there was no safety for women under a regime being run in the name of a woman (Jayalalithaa). The victims of the Pollachi sexual harassment case were yet to get justice, she said. Some women from SHGs complained to her that they hadn’t received any skill development training. Ms. Kanimozhi also met people from various walks of life, including weavers, farmers and palm tree workers, and heard their grievances. She assured them that their grievances would be addressed when the DMK comes to power.  They (BJP) have brought in farm laws and labour codes that are against the interests of the majority — the Hindus||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-denying-quota-for-majority-hindus/article33208639.ece
30 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Fire in tyre shop||A fire broke out at a tyre shop near Kondalampatti here during the early hours of Sunday. According to police, Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot and doused the fire. Old tyres, a condemned four- wheeler and a two-wheeler got damaged in the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-in-tyre-shop/article33208670.ece
30 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Pet dog bites boy, owner arrested||Police on Sunday arrested a man after his pet dog attacked a 16-year-old boy near Kannankuruchi on Sunday. According to police, the boy suffered severe bite injuries. When the teenager's mother questioned this, Prabhakar, the owner the of dog, allegedly spoke in an indecent language, police said. Based on complaint from the boy’s mother, Kannankuruchi police registered a case and arrested Prabhakar and remanded under various charges including for negligent handling of pet animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pet-dog-bites-boy-owner-arrested/article33208673.ece
30 November 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled persons operate Aavin parlours||With the objective of making differently abled persons to live in a self-sustained manner, the State government had embarked upon a novel initiative of establishing self-employment programmes. Granting permission to differently abled persons to operate Aavin parlours, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had mentioned in the Assembly under Rule 110 that the government would facilitate in establishing parlours where the beneficiaries can make a living permanently. Taking this forward, the District Differently Abled Welfare Department had suggested setting up Aavin parlours to eligible persons. Aspirants shall provide a space measuring 10x10 or about 150 square feet for setting up the parlour in their locality and the department would remit the Rs. 50,000 deposit to the Aavin on behalf of the beneficiary, following which they would be able to procure milk products. In Sivaganga, Collector P Madhusudhan Reddy, who inaugurated an Aavin parlour at Madurai Road junction (near water tank) said that the beneficiary Mathiazhagan of Vembathur had fulfilled the required space for setting up the kiosk. Similar parlours were set up by differently abled persons in Illayankudi, Devakottai and other towns in the district. The objective of the welfare scheme was to ensure that the differently abled persons earned their living with limited movement. If a differently abled person evinces more interest, he or she may earn higher returns, said B. Saravanakumar, District DifferentlyAbled Welfare Officer. The Collector said that if more number of applicants came forward to set up Aavin parlours, the district administration would take it up with the government and get sanction for the same. There was no question of restricting genuine applicants. However, the officials said that in thickly populated residential areas, especially in newly added wards, the scope for selling the Aavin products was very high. Mathiazhagan, the beneficiary thanked the TN government for giving him the opportunity to set up the kiosk. He hoped to cater to the needs of the customers and start a new lease of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-persons-operate-aavin-parlours/article33208653.ece
30 November 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Allow tourists to visit Courtallam falls: CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has urged the State government to allow tourists visit Courtallam falls immediately. Various resolutions were passed at the special executive committee meeting of the party held in which State executive committee members Madhukur Ramalingam, Venkatraman and Suganthi participated. The new district secretary Muthupandian and other office-bearers were elected during the meeting. The meeting demanded the State to immediately open Courtallam falls for the public and ensure that COVID-19 guidelines were adhered to by the visitors. The cadre also sought water from Karuppanadhi dam to reach Sernthamaram village. Though the State government had created Tenkasi district by bifurcating Tirunelveli district, no progress in development works had been made over the last one year. The nunicipal administration had dug up many roads stating that it had done so for laying drinking water pipelines. However, several months had gone but many of the dug up portions were not closed properly. The rainy season had worsened the condition of these roads and motorists had harrowing experience. The members said that rail over bridge was essential at Shencottah, Viswanathapuram and Pavoorchatram in view of growing vehicular movement. The TNSTC should take steps to see that bus connectivity was established from all major village panchayats to the district headquarters. When the cadre took out a march to the Head Post Office here to condemn the Central government for registering false cases against social activists and farmers, who had assembled in New Delhi demanding to withdraw the Farm Laws, the police arrested them. About 55 members who courted arrest were later released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-tourists-to-visit-courtallam-falls-cpim/article33208658.ece
30 November 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Primary school teachers plan protest||Members of TN Primary School Teachers’ Association claimed that late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had promised during the 2016 election campaign that the AIADMK would fight for withdrawal of the new pension scheme but the party had not done so. Fifteen resolutions were passed at the State-level general body meeting held at Aranmanaipudur near here on Sunday. State president M.Manimegalai and other office-bearers were present. State general secretary S. Mayil told reporters that they would conduct a three-pronged protest pressing their 15-point charter of demands. In the first phase, they would hold demonstrations at regional level on December 17. In the next phase, they would hold dharna in front of the district headquarters on January 9, 2021. In the third and final phase, about 10,000 of their members would gather in Chennai and observe a day-long fast. The government should enhance the 7.5 % horizontal reservation for government school students to 10 % in medical admissions through NEET. Similarly, students in government aided schools should be given a separate 10% reservation. The State government’s decision to reduce the qualifying age as 40 years for teacher recruitment had spoilt the chances of many getting jobs. Hence, the government should withdraw the announcement, Ms. Mayil said. The police had registered cases against many teachers who had participated in the JACTTO-GEO sponsored agitations, the government should withdraw the same and give an order to this effect, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/primary-school-teachers-plan-protest/article33208665.ece
30 November 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi ready to raise paddy on 10,000 hectares||With the onset of north-east monsoon, agricultural activity in the district is in full swing, said Joint Director (Agriculture) S. I. Mohideen here on Sunday. The district has targeted to raise paddy on about 10,000 hectares during the pisanam season. Usually, the north-east monsoon remains active till mid-October. However, this year, as the monsoon is still active, farmers are happy as tanks under the Tamirabarani system have almost reached their full storage level. Channels too have been getting water. “Under these circumstances, the target of raising paddy on 10,000 ha would not be a difficult task”, the official said. Already, farmers have completed preliminary work in close to 1,000 ha. In some blocks, nursery was being raised and the activity would be completed soon, the official said and added that fertilizer stock was sufficient. Though there have been complaints of shortage in some pockets, officials at the respective taluk or blocks have been told to check again, he added. Apart from private dealers, primary agriculture cooperative societies have stocks of urea, fertilizer and certified seeds. The farmers can approach the field officers at the respective taluks, he noted. Farmers in Karungulam, Srivaikundam, Alwartirunagari, Tiruchendur and Sattankulam areas were hopeful of getting their due share of water for irrigation during this season. The district also got a good amount of rainfall during November, Mr. Mohideen said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-ready-to-raise-paddy-on-10000-hectares/article33209273.ece
30 November 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||6 Sri Lankan nationals sent to Puzhal jail||The six Sri Lankan nationals, who were arrested under charges of smuggling 100 kilograms of heroin, five 9 mm pistols, a satellite phone, among others, were sent to Puzhal Prisons, Chennai. Following the interception of the Indian Coast Guard personnel three days ago off Thoothukudi coast, the SL nationals were arrested with the contraband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-sri-lankan-nationals-sent-to-puzhal-jail/article33209270.ece
30 November 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||6 Sri Lankan nationals sent to Puzhal jail||The six Sri Lankan nationals, who were arrested under charges of smuggling 100 kilograms of heroin, five 9 mm pistols, a satellite phone and among others were sent to Puzhal Prisons, Chennai. Following the interception of the Indian Coast Guard personnel three days ago off Thoothukudi coast, the SL nationals were arrested with the contraband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-sri-lankan-nationals-sent-to-puzhal-jail/article33208648.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over bad roads in locality||Residents of Ramalinga Nagar in Tiruchi are irked by the worsening condition of roads in the the area after the recent spell of downpour. The asphalt layer has worn off causing formation of large potholes and exposing pedestrians and two-wheeler riders to risk of accidents. The rains are back and with it are the worries of residents as water stagnation on the streets is making it difficult for motorists to ride. Routine work undertaken by the civic body to clean up stormwater drains and lay pipelines and cables has worsened the condition of already bad roads, residents say. “While the road already had small potholes and uneven asphalting, the rain has ruined it over the last few weeks. One night’s rain flooded the entire road and there is no place for pedestrians to walk,” said M. Muthu, a resident. Two-wheeler riders, too, struggle to tread this path. “A child slipped and fell while moving away from a vehicle earlier on Saturday morning. She was trying to avoid the bike and fell. Imagine the plight of senior citizens who walk up and down the street as a form of exercise,” another resident said. The Tiruchi Corporation has not responded despite several complaints from the residents. “Workers are busy desilting and reconstructing drains on the street further up the road. That will only make things worse. Can they do this in the summer months?” Mr. Muthu asked. When contacted, an official of the civic body said he was unaware and would inspect the streets and carry out necessary repairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-bad-roads-in-locality/article33208617.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Timings fixed for daily movement of freight vehicles at Gandhi Market||The city police have specified fixed timings for movement of heavy goods carriers for loading and unloading of freight at Gandhi Market here following its reopening after a gap of eight months. The move by the law enforcers comes in an effort to reduce vehicular congestion and prevent spread of COVID-19. Heavy goods vehicles will be permitted at the market from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. daily with effect from November 29, says a police press release. The city police have made it clear that heavy goods carriers will not be allowed during day time for loading and unloading of freight in any place within the city. They have sought the cooperation of traders of Gandhi Market for the move, which has been taken keeping in mind the interests of the general public.and with a view to curbing the spread of COVID-19. Traders have also been told to confine loading and unloading activities within the permitted time at the market and other commercial hotspots, the release further said. Traders had been apprised of the timings fixed for movement of heavy goods carriers in Gandhi Market, Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan said. Teams of police personnel will be deployed at different entry points to ensure that heavy goods carriers do not enter the market during the day in order to check congestion and prevent the spread of the viral infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/timings-fixed-for-daily-movement-of-freight-vehicles-at-gandhi-market/article33208627.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||System of door-to-door waste collection relegated to bin?||The system of door to door collection of garbage, which was introduced in 2017 with much fanfare in the city, has lost its sheen due to poor management. A few months after introduction of the system, Tiruchi Corporation made a blanket ban on garbage bins and removed more than 500 of them in different parts of the city. Residents were strictly asked to hand over domestic waste only to garbage collectors visiting their homes. The civic body also introduced a spot fine system for those found dumping waste on streets and in public places. Though the abolition of garbage bins did not go down well with residents, they gradually got accustomed to the new system of handing over domestic waste to sanitary workers after segregating them into bio degradable and non-degradable. It soon became a regular practice. A QR code was also inroduced for garbage collection and follow-up mechanism. The system now appears to have lost its focus and vigour. There are vociferous voices complaining about its inefficiency. Many criticise the poor management that has ultimately frittered away the aims and objectives of the door-to-door waste collection. Under the system, waste collectors have to visit each and every household. However, there are houses where the garbage is mounting due to non-collection for several days. Unable to bear the stench, residents dump the waste on streets, particularly on corners where garbage bins were kept. “It is a common sight to see rubbish scattered on street corners. Daily garbage collection has become highly irregular and erratic. If no one comes to collect domestic waste for days, it inevitable for residents to dump it at public places. Waste, particularly vegetables and food, cannot be kept in houses or flats beyond a point. Authorities should take note of it,” says J.M. Mohan of Lawsons Road. He points to the heaps of garbage found on Heber Road and several places at Cantonment. It is alleged that in the absence of an efficient system to monitor the implementation of garbage collection mechanisms, workers skip many areas. It has fuelled the demand for reintroducing garbage bin system as well. “If the civic body is not able to improve the efficiency of the collection mechanism, it is better to keep garbage bins in street corners. It will enable residents to dump waste, particularly food waste,” says C. Balasubramanian, advisor, Exnora, Tiruchi. He says the Corporation should revisit the system to list out the gaps. The workers and supervisors should be made accountable if garbage is not collected in their areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/system-of-door-to-door-waste-collection-relegated-to-bin/article33208633.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||120 new cases in central region||The central districts on Sunday recorded a slight dip in fresh cases for COVID-19, with 120 patients testing positive. Meanwhile, no deaths were reported in the region, according to the health bulletin released by the State Health Department. Among the central districts, Thanjavur reported the highest number of cases on Sunday with 32 patients testing positive. Among them were local cases with no contact history and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. The remaining districts in the region reported less than 30 cases for the viral infection. Nagapattinam reported 24 cases, while Tiruchi reported 21. Patients who tested positive in both districts were primary contacts, or local cases with no travel or contact history. Some patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses and asymptomatic patients detected through fever camps also tested positive. Five patients who had been undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged on Sunday after recovering from the illness. Pudukottai reported a slight increase in the total number of COVID-19 cases with a total of 16 patients testing positive. Karur, too, reported a slight spike in cases with residents from Gandhigramam, Kalvettupalayam and Kulithalai among the 15 patients testing positive. Tiruvarur reported a significant drop in the number of patients who tested positive with only 10 cases on Sunday Two patients tested positive in Ariyalur, while no new fresh cases were reported in Perambalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/120-new-cases-in-central-region/article33208625.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Karthigai Deepam’ lit atop Rockfort Temple||A huge lamp was lit atop the Rockfort Sri Thayumanaswamy Temple here on the occasion ofKarthigai Deepamfestival on Sunday. Devotees were not permitted inside the famous shrine, the lamp was lit on a copper cauldron that was placed atop a tower installed close to Uchi Pillaiyar shrine at 6 p.m., said a temple official. The temple authorities used 300 metres of cotton cloth for making the wick. As many as 900 litres ofIlupaioil, gingelly oil and ghee were used to light the holy lamp. The temple official said devotees were not allowed inside the temple from 3 p.m. due to COVID-19 pandemic restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karthigai-deepam-lit-atop-rockfort-temple/article33208629.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for sexual assault||Following the registration of a case of sexual assault against a minor boy, two transwomen were arrested by Lalgudi police on Sunday. Identified as Aparna and Satya, they were charged for manipulating a 14-year-old transsexual boy from Theni, forcing him to consume alcohol and into prostitution on the pretext of caring for him and funding his sex-reassignment surgery. In the complaint submitted to the police, the child said he met Aparna and Satya in Dindigul where they took his phone number and pestered him. “For the next few days, they called me every day and tried to convince me to shift to Tiruchi under their care. On November 25, I visited their house in Tiruchi where the incident occured," the child said. The child was forced to drink alcohol and indulge in sexual acts for money.  Kollidam police, whom the complainants alleged did not pay heed to the complaints, transferred the case to Lalgudi AWPS. The two were charged under the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act and POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-sexual-assault/article33208618.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Idol produced in court||Idol Wing CID police on Sunday produced a stolen metal idol of Bhoo Devi seized by them recently in Mamallapuram near Chennai and presented the arraigned accused before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate at Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate remanded the trio in judicial custody till December 11. They were lodged in Central Prison, Tiruchi. The Idol Wing CID police seized the idol from Velkumar, 33, and Selvam, 38, and subsequently arrested Sebastian, 35, of Mamallapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idol-produced-in-court/article33208619.ece
30 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||GST is another name for usury, says Stalin||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) is another name for usury and it resembles tax collection during the British Raj, said DMK president M.K. Stalin during a virtual address to Tiruppur district party functionaries on Sunday. “Tiruppur is an example of [the consequences of] the wrong economic policies of the Central government,” he said. GST exacerbated the condition of industries that were already affected by demonetisation in 2016. From being known as “dollar city” because of the foreign exchange it generated through exports, Tiruppur has now become “dull city” as exports have been further hit due to COVID-19, he said. If elected to power, the DMK will form a committee comprising experts and will implement their suggestions for Tiruppur, he said. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Ministers S.P. Velumani, Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan, K.A. Sengottaiyan, P. Thangamani and K.C. Karuppannan are all from the Kongu region, Mr. Stalin said. “In the last 10 years, they could have introduced many projects for the region, but have they done so?” Regarding the Athikadavu-Avinashi water supply project, he said the previous AIADMK governments had not completed the project, and Mr. Palaniswami was now taking credit for having implemented the project. He accused Mr. Palaniswami of betraying farmers by supporting the three farm laws introduced recently by the Central government. Mr. Stalin asked all district units of the party to work together to ensure the DMK’s victory in the Assembly election. Sanskrit news bulletin In a separate statement, Mr. Stalin urged the Centre to change its decision to telecast a Sanskrit news bulletin on Doordarshan Podhigai and other regional television channels, contending that it was a cultural invasion on people who spoke different languages. Recalling a circular issued to all regional directors of Doordarshan, Mr. Stalin said besides regular news, they had been asked to telecast the weekend Sanskrit news bulletin in full. Urging the Prime Minister to give up the plan, Mr. Stalin threatened to launch a protest, similar to the agitations that broke out when Hindi was imposed. PMK founder S. Ramadoss said, “National news is being presented in English. Sanskrit news will not have national news. In such a scenario, the decision to force regional channels to telecast Sanskrit news is imposition of the language.”   From being known as the dollar city because of the foreign exchange it generated, Tiruppur has now become a dull city M.K. Stalin DMK president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-is-another-name-for-usury-says-stalin/article33208643.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Karthigai Deepam lit atop Tiruvannamalai hill||With no one allowed to climb up the hill, devotees had to witness the lighting of Karthigai deepam atop the Tiruvannamalai hill on Sunday evening from the town. Exactly at 6 p.m., amidst mild drizzle, the five-foot-tall kopparai filled with ghee and camphor was lit atop the 2,668-foot-high hill. Subsequently, devotees and residents in the town lit lamps on the streets and in the houses illuminating the lanes. The 10-day Brahmotsavam of Sri Arunachaleswarar Temple began on November 20 with the hoisting of the flag. On Sunday, Bharani Deepam was lit in the temple at 4 a.m. In the evening, processions of Vinayakar, Murugar, Arunachaleswarar, Unnamulaiamman, Chandikeswarar were taken out. At 6 p.m., the idol of Ardhanareeswarar was brought out amidst the beating of percussion instruments and chants and the lamp was lit on the temple premises, followed by the lighting on the hill. Fire works lit the sky and the chant ‘Annaimalaiyanukku Arohara’ reverberated in the temple. The Deepam will be kept alive for 11 days. Low-key celebrations Unlike every year, Tiruvannamalai district administration had imposed restrictions in view of the pandemic. All the festivities, including the car festival, was conducted inside the temple premises. The police and district administration had announced that devotees would not be allowed inside the temple on November 29 alone. Devotees were banned from climbing the hill too. "Usually lakhs of people throng the streets to catch a glimpse of the deepam, but this time the streets were less crowded. It was disappointing to see the usual grandeur missing," said K. Perumal, who works in a lodge near the temple. Around 12 entry points into the temple town were blocked. Those who are living in Tiruvannamalai alone, carrying identity cards, were allowed to enter. Policemen warned outsiders not to enter using the public address system and at many points motorists were seen arguing with the cops. "We kept telling people that Girivalam or entry into the temple was not allowed, but they would not listen," said a policeman at Vengikkal. Collector Sandeep Nanduri and Inspector General of Police P. Nagarajan were present in the temple to monitor the arrangements and ensured that the event took place smoothly. "The devotees were asked to leave the temple in a queue and we tried to ensure that there was no commotion," said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karthigai-deepam-lit-atop-tiruvannamalai-hill/article33209049.ece
30 November 2020||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||For the Boyar community, it’s a break from tradition||For 25 years, 48-year-old E.D. Vijay and 1,000 other members of the Boyar community have been involved in the safe running of the pancha ratham (temple car festival) during ‘Karthigai Deepam’ festivities. However, the district administration cancelled the car festival this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, depriving the community of an opportunity to celebrate.  Pancha ratham is held on the seventh day of the ten-day ‘Karthigai Deepam’ festivities. Five cars, including the maha ratham (big car), are taken around the mada streets — a route that is around 4 km-long. Safe passage For generations, the Boyar community, residing in the temple town, has been involved in ensuring the safe running of the cars. They make sure the car does not run astray, injuring people or damaging property en route. “We first place a square block of wood, weighing close to 50 kg, beneath the giant wheel of the temple car. We then place a 15 ft log, weighing close to two tonnes, on it and 15 men stand on it. Using it as a fulcrum, we propel the vehicle,” said Mr. Vijay.  Iron chains While ascending or descending a slope, the car’s speed is controlled with heavy iron chains. “At other temples, woven coir ropes are used to pull the car. But here we use iron chains. More than 100 people are used to lift it,” said N. Velmurugan, another member of the community. The maha ratham is close to 140 ft high and weighs 200 tonnes, said Mr. Vijay. It takes hours for the cars to complete the circumambulation of the mada streets. The entire community looks forward to the festival. “People from our community living in other States, and even abroad, come to Tiruvannamalai to take part in the festivities. The police provide us security while we place the logs, and an ambulance also accompanies us,” he said. “We have requested the temple and the administration to at least clean the maha ratham this year and make sure it is maintained well,” added Mr. Vijay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-the-boyar-community-its-a-break-from-tradition/article33208641.ece
30 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Inform about uncovered wells’||The Nilgiris district administration has urged the public to share information about the presence of wells which are not closed with protective metal grating. A release stated that uncovered wells had led to the deaths of many wild animals that had accidentally fallen inside. Recently, a leopard was found dead inside a well owned by the local panchayat. Hence, residents had been asked to inform the Block Development Officers about the presence of such uncovered wells.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inform-about-uncovered-wells/article33209066.ece
30 November 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 9,000 hectares of crops inundated in Villupuram district||Preliminary estimates in Villupuram district indicate that standing crops on over 9,000 hectares have been inundated during Cyclone Nivar. The detailed assessment of damages caused by the recent incessant rains due to Cyclone Nivar in the district is under way. Around 4,000 hectares of paddy, 3,748 hectares of pulses, 448 hectares of groundnut, 67 hectares of sugarcane and 650.05 hectares of horticultural crops were inundated. In addition, transplanted crops in an area of 1026.3 hectares were also submerged. The cattle loss stood at 71, while about 1,024 houses were damaged. About 532 electric poles and 54 transformers were replaced in the district, according to an official.  Cuddalore district Even as the assessment of damages caused by the recent incessant rains due to Cyclone Nivar in Cuddalore district is under way, preliminary estimates indicate that standing crops on over 2,900 acres have been inundated. Chairing a meeting at the Collectorate here on Saturday, Industries Minister M.C. Sampath said that paddy and groundnut cultivated in about 2,525 acres were damaged and horticulture crops in about 185 hectares were also affected. As many as 95 thatched huts were completely damaged while 642 huts were partially damaged. In addition, 174 concrete houses were fully damaged while five were partially damaged, he said. Over 300 uprooted trees were removed while 77 electric poles damaged in the cyclone were replaced. More than 52,000 people were accommodated in 28 Cyclone relief shelters and 191 temporary shelters set up across the district, he said. Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-9000-hectares-of-crops-inundated-in-villupuram-district/article33209039.ece
30 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Poor storage and non-functioning shutters plague Anaikuttam dam||Though north-east monsoon is active over the region, Anaikuttam dam, which serves as one of the major drinking water sources for Virudhunagar town, is waiting to be repaired. The catchment area is experiencing good rainfall but the dam started to get water only in the last three days. As against its maximum storage of 125.75 mcft, the dam has only 7.58 mcft of water. After having dead storage for several days, the water level improved marginally to 3.7 metres only on Sunday due to the recent rain. The dam used to supply two million litres of water daily to the town. However, there are serious operational problem in its three-decade old shutters. The shutters, simply, cannot be operated. “A couple of years ago, when the shutters were raised to maintain the water at the optimum level, the engineers could not lower it to stop the release of water. Consequently, the entire water got drained,” an engineer said. On Saturday, Collector R. Kannan, along with Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar and Public Works Department officials inspected the dam. The officials were trying to plug minor leaks in the nine shutters. The PWD officials were highly cautious about lifting the shutters as their railings have developed technical snag. “They are trying their best to make it functional,” Mr. Kannan said. The Collector said that the district badly needs rain as most of the dams were yet to get even the minimum storage. Good rainfall would help the district to mitigate water shortage during the summer, he said. The dam has its catchment areas in Western Ghats that flows through Pilavakkal Periyar dam. “After filling up 40 tanks downstream Pilavakkal Periyar dam, the water would reach Anaikuttam dam,” Executive Engineer (Lower Vaippar), K. Gurusamy said. The PWD has already sent a proposal to renovate the nine shutters and construct three new spillways for maintaining the water level in the dam at a cost of Rs. 23.5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-storage-and-non-functioning-shutters-plague-anaikuttam-dam/article33208661.ece
30 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Door-to-door survey of drop-out children in the age group of six to 18 years is under way. In a release, Collector R. Kannan said out-of-school children would be identified based on school attendance. Besides, children who are not admitted in schools would be identified. Focus would be on children of migrated families. It would also be ascertained whether differently abled children possessed national identity card. The survey would be completed by December-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article33208656.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 148 new cases, one death||Coimbatore district reported 148 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the number of patients under institutional care to 919. The Health Department said 50 persons were discharged on Sunday and a 70-year-old patient died of the disease, taking the toll so far to 612. With 79 persons testing positive in Tiruppur, the number of active cases in the district stood at 575. The Department said that 79 persons were discharged and the district did not report any death on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 37 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stood at 7,392 and the toll was 41. The district administration said 182 persons were undergoing treatment. Salem district reported 78 positive cases, all indigenous including 42 in the Corporation limits. A 67-year-old man died of the disease. In Namakkal, 28 cases were reported. In Erode, 70 indigenous cases were reported. Dharmapuri district reported 10 cases and Krishnagiri six.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-78-cases/article33208668.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Relief for boatmen||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-for-boatmen/article33208676.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Low pressure area likely to intensify into a depression||On Tuesday (December 2), extremely heavy rain of 21 cm and above has been forecast for much of Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari. Also, very heavy rain (between 12 cm and 20 cm) has been forcast for many places in Pudukottai, Theni, Madurai and Sivaganga districts. The IMD has predicted that Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Karaikal would get heavy rain (7 cm-11 cm) on Tuesday. For the next five days, all other districts of the State, including Chennai, are expected to receive light to moderate rain. Puducherry, too, is likely to get a similar quantity of rainfall. As far as Chennai is concerned, the forecast for Monday is partly cloudy skies with light rain at isolated places. The maximum temperature would be 30 degrees Celsius and minimum 23 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-pressure-area-likely-to-intensify-into-a-depression/article33208637.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival of lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-of-lights/article33208683.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||There is only one foot over bridge at the southern-end of the railway station available for passengers. The old northern-end foot over bridge-cum-escalator has been completely barricaded. It is difficult for passengers especially senior citizens to walk the distance to reach the exit. The railway authorities have not extended basic facilities to passengers. Hope the authorities look into the issue. C.A. Pradeep,  Madurai.   At the time when the country is fighting a battle against the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, the relief measures must also reach destitute persons. The Madurai administration should identify and reach out to the destitute people. The authorities must then initiate measures to test them and safeguard them from the COVID-19 pandemic. M. Sainithii,  Madurai.   Recently, an eatery has opened in Bharati Street, K K Nagar. The open kitchen has become a threat to the passers-by. Frequent movements of delivery boys picking up orders from noon go on till 11 p.m. Haphazard parking has crippled free movement of other vehicles. Stray animals forage for leftover food and an unpleasant smell prevades the area in the early mornings. As a result, the residents are put to untold hardships. When the issue was taken up with the Corporation authorities through the grievance cell twice, there was just a one-line stock response "the authorities concerned are looking into the issue in Ward 44..." Will the higher ups in the civic body take some tangible steps and give the residents relief. Sivakami A, Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article33208662.ece
30 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Kuruba religious heads to lead padayatra from Kaginele||Heads of religious institutions belonging to the Kuruba community will lead a padayatra from Kaginele to Bengaluru, demanding inclusion of Kuruba community in the Scheduled Tribes list. Sri Niranjanandapuri Swami, head of the Kaginele Gurupeetha, announced this at a rally organised by various Kuruba organisations to seek ST tag in Bagalkot on Sunday. “Senior community leader and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, has cautioned me about the padayatra. He said that the government is watching our agitation. He says some leaders are also keeping a watch on us. But I want to tell you that I will undertake this padayatra along with three-other seers. I will not stop, even if I have to sacrifice my life,” the seer said. He asked community members to eat, sleep and breathe the ST agitation. Sri Eshwarananda Swamy said that according to Union government rules, communities that had suffered untouchability were to be included in the Scheduled Castes list, while nomadic communities were to be included in the Scheduled Tribes list. Kurubas are nomadic communities and are deserving of a place in the ST list. Kuruba Samaja ST Horata Samiti president B.R. Virupakshappa said that Kurubas had to get ST status to send their children to school, to obtain scholarships, to get government jobs and get reservation in zilla panchayat, the Assembly and Parliament. Thousands of people had gathered for the rally. But few were wearing masks and few followed social distancing. Community leaders from different parties, including Adaguru Vishwanath, H.M. Revanna, K. Mukudappa, K.E. Kantesh, Rajendra Sannakki, M.N. Shantagiri, Rakshita Eeti, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kuruba-religious-heads-to-lead-padayatra-from-kaginele/article33208698.ece
30 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Action promised against those obstructing police||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has warned that strict action will be taken against anyone who obstructs police personnel from doing their duty. He was responding to questions from journalists in Dharwad on Sunday, on the alleged assault by Irani gang members on policemen. He said that he had sought a report on the issue. He said that if it were found true, the government would not spare anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-promised-against-those-obstructing-police/article33208697.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centenarians survive COVID-19 better, shows data||The State has seen as many as 26,006 children aged below nine and 60 centenarians being infected with COVID-19. Of these, 26 children and only three centenarians have died. All the three centenarians who died are male patients (one aged 102 and two aged 100) from Bengaluru. None of the them had any co-morbidties. Among the 60 who tested positive, only one centenarian, a 105-year-old female from Chamarajanagar, had hypertension and diabetes. Of the total centenarians, 53% are female patients, according to the State COVID war room data. Of the total 8,81,086 cases reported till November 27, the highest number has been reported in the age group of 30 to 39 (1,92,539) followed by the 20 to 29 age group (1,80,078). However, of the total 11,738 COVID-19 fatalities in the State (till November 27), the deaths have been the highest in the 60 to 69 age group, with 3,540 people dying. But, in terms of Case Fatality Rate (CFR), the 90 to 99 age group tops with 11.4% and zero to nine age group is at the bottom with 0.1%. As many as 148 of the 1,300 patients in this 90 to 99 age group have succumbed to the infection. Significantly, the CFR among the centenarian group is 5%. Except for the 100+ age group, the mortality rate has increased gradually with seniority across age groups. Doctors, who have been saying that those aged above 60 are more vulnerable to COVID-19, are surprised over the low mortality rate of the senior-most age group. Less exposure Anoop Amarnath, member of Karnataka’s COVID-19 Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU), who heads the department of Geriatric Medicine at Manipal Hospitals, said one of the potential reasons for the low mortality among the centenarians could be their less exposure to the virus, as they are usually house-bound. “Also, immunosenescence — gradual deterioration of the immune system owing to age — could be another reason. If the immune system is very strong, cytokine storms are likely to be high. Most develop severe COVID-19 because of an over-reaction of their immune system, which triggers a syndrome called a cytokine storm. But, if the immune system weakens (immunosenescence), the cytokine storm is not severe. May be this has played a role,” he said. Pointing out that centenarians usually are healthy, the doctor said, “Most centenarians do not have many co-morbidities and that is probably why they are able to reach that age.” “The Baltimore Longitudinal Study on Ageing — started in 1958 and is the longest ongoing research on ageing — looks into why some people are resistant to disease and stay healthy till extremes of age,” he said. V. Ravi, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said the low mortality among the centenarians could be because they presented early to hospitals. “Usually, families take utmost care of their elderly and may be they were given medical attention at the earliest,” he added. Terming this as an old-age paradox, C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said most centenarians would have lived a healthy and disciplined life. “They would led a contented and stress-free life because of which they would not have had co-morbidities,” the doctor added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centenarians-survive-covid-19-better-shows-data/article33209004.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka tops in disbursal of loans under Mudra scheme||Karnataka is top in disbursal of loans under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, popularly known as the Mudra scheme. As of September 18, the State disbursed Rs. 6,906.12 crore during the current fiscal year. Rajasthan was second with Rs. 6,405.69 crore disbursed, while Uttar Pradesh was third after releasing Rs. 6,068.23 crore. Maharashtra was fourth with Rs. 5,153.62 crore released to eligible beneficiaries, sources in the State-level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) said. Various nationalised banks in the State have disbursed loans to 9,75,873 beneficiaries. The bankers have been told to take appropriate steps to boost the flow of credit under the Mudra scheme. Sources said proactive co-ordination by SLBC and prompt guidance and direction by controlling offices of the banks are the major reasons for the State’s position. “Active participation by bank branch staff was another reason for the successful disbursement of loans for various start-ups,” existing and new units, sources said. Under the Mudra scheme, which was rolled out in April 2015, three categories of loans are being disbursed to support small and budding entrepreneurs. A total of 6,92,502 beneficiaries received loans upto Rs. 50,000 under “Shishu” scheme and 2,58,433 beneficiaries received loans from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 5 lakh under “Kishore” scheme. A total of 24,938 beneficiaries received loans from Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh under “Tarun” scheme.    The highest number of beneficiaries are from Belagavi district (77,989). Sources said a large number of beneficiaries availed loans for expansion of existing establishments and about 20-25% for setting up new businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-tops-in-disbursal-of-loans-under-mudra-scheme/article33208818.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic police to re-launch monthly public interactions in city from next month||Following the success of Janasamparka Divasa, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has directed the traffic police to resume public interactions. The initiative, which will give people a chance to discuss traffic-related grievances and other issues with the police, will be launched in December. “We are planning to hold it on the second Saturday of every month,” said a senior police official. During a recent social media interaction with citizens, Mr. Pant was flooded with queries and suggestions related to traffic. He discussed this with Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda who in turn directed the police stations to start the initiative. As per the directions, inspectors in-charge will invite motorists, members of RWAs and owners of commercial establishments to these interactive sessions. All the issues that come up for discussion, complaints and grievances will be recorded. “The in-charges of stations should also make efforts to return the seized goods and vehicles to owners during the sessions after obtaining due permission from the court,” Mr. Pant said via a circular. The police should also update the status of the complaint to the complainants and should provide valid reason if there is a delay in the investigation. “There are around 44 traffic stations and such interactive meetings are essential as it will help us understand the needs of motorists,” said M Narayan, DCP Traffic east, adding that the during the interactions the police will also spread awareness on the need to follow road rules and lane discipline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-police-to-re-launch-monthly-public-interactions-in-city-from-next-month/article33209011.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pro-BSY camp also wants to meet central BJP leaders||In the midst of alleged complaints to central BJP leaders by those opposed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s style of functioning, former Minister and the Chief Minister’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya on Sunday said that leaders standing by the Chief Minister would also take a delegation to Delhi even as some Cabinet members insisted that there would be no leadership change. His statement comes at a time when Mr. Yeddiurappa’s camp is under pressure from the central leadership, which is yet to give him approval for Cabinet expansion. ‘Undisputed leader’ Coming to the support of the Chief Minister, Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar told reporters in Kodagu that Mr. Yediyurappa was the undisputed leader and the question of change of leadership did not arise at this point. He said that Mr. Yediyurappa was a man who kept his word by making leaders Ministers as promised. “The Chief Minister and the central leadership will decide who will get the Cabinet berths. I am confident that Mr. Yediyurappa will not let down those yet to get berths,” he added. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi told reporters in Ballari that Mr. Yediyurappa would continue to be Chief Minister for the next two years. Saying that the matter of Cabinet expansion/reshuffle would be decided by the Chief Minister, he acknowledged that the exercise had been delayed by the bypolls and other issues. Referring to voices coming from the party in the public that are hurting the BJP’s and the government’s image, he said the party was watching those not showing discipline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pro-bsy-camp-also-wants-to-meet-central-bjp-leaders/article33208706.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2 more quarries to be used to dump waste||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is set to convert two new quarry pits at Mittaganahalli and Bagalur into landfills to dump waste generated by citizens. The quarry landfill at Mittaganahalli, where over 2,000 tonnes of mixed waste is currently being dumped every day from the past year and a half, is almost full. “We have issued a tender to develop the Bagalur quarry, less than a kilometre away from Mittaganahalli into a scientific landfill, which the government is yet to approve. This will take nearly three months to be developed and made ready. In the interim, we have prepared a small quarry pit at Mittaganahalli itself to dump the waste and it can sustain us for six months,” said Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, BBMP. Solid waste management activists are unhappy with the development as the city administration has adopted a no-landfill policy, committed to segregation at source, and sustainable waste processing. “Opening up new landfills over the past four years only indicates the complete failure to implement the policy the city has adopted,” said an SWM activist. Not functioning Of the six compost-based waste processing plants, three are not functioning. While Lingadheeranahalli plant has been stuck in litigation at the National Green Tribunal, Seegehalli and Subbarayanapalya plants have been shut down owing to protests by local residents. “Segregation levels in the city have stagnated at around 40% and we are sending nearly 1,200 tonnes of segregated wet waste to the processing plants daily,” Mr. Khan said, adding efforts were on to reopen the three other plants as well. However, Sandhya Narayan, member of the Technical Advisory Committee, SWM, BBMP, said complacency had set in. “We have not added any waste processing capacity in the city since 2015, neither the large plants nor the decentralised plants. None of the waste-to-energy plants that have been in the pipeline for nearly a decade now, materialised. Many proposals for the biomethanation plants at the ward level have not been accorded approval,” she said, adding there was no serious push to increase the levels of segregation at source as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2-more-quarries-to-be-used-to-dump-waste/article33209006.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,291 new cases, 15 deaths in State||The State on Sunday reported 1,291 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of positive cases since the start of the pandemic to 8.83 lakh. Fifteen people succumbed to the infection and the death toll in the State now stands at 11,765. The case fatality rate for the day stood at 1.16%. As many as 19 patients have died owing to non-COVID-19 reasons. According to the health bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the positivity rate for the day is 1.22%. The total number of active cases in the State currently stands at 24,503; around 374 patients are being treated in intensive care units. The bulletin also stated that 1,530 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 8.47 lakh. Bengaluru Urban reported 686 new cases, the maximum among all the districts in the State. With 10 deaths, the toll in this district rose to 4,131. As many as 13,223 rapid antigen detection tests and 92,205 RT-PCR tests were conducted over the past 24 hours, taking the total number of tests to 1,05,428.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1291-new-cases-15-deaths-in-state/article33209003.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||EWS quota question to be top priority for BC panel||Even as the State is seeing a spurt in caste groups pushing for various demands, the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission is set to start an exercise to consider how the 10% quota for the economically weaker sections (EWS) of the General category can be brought into the current reservation matrix. While the Centre brought in a constitutional amendment last year by inserting Articles 15(6) and 16(6) to make EWS from General category eligible for 10% reservation in education and employment, it told the Supreme Court this February that the decision rested with State governments. “The chairperson to the commission has been appointed after over a year to study how this reservation can be implemented in the current matrix, which has a cap of 50%,” a senior official in the Backward Classes Department said. “Not only are EWS to be considered for reservation, but transgenders also should be considered as Backward Classes (BC) for reservation.” He added that there was a lot of pressure to appoint a chairperson since a report by the commission in this regard had to be submitted by the chairperson to the government. The new chairperson, K. Jayaprakash Hegde, who took charge recently, will have to submit the report to the government at the earliest. “The matter needs a thorough study as there are differences between what is being implemented in the State and the Centre. For example, the entrance examinations for many professional courses earlier conducted by the State are now being conducted by the Centre. These are to be studied before a recommendation is made,” a top source in the commission said. When contacted by The Hindu , Mr. Hegde acknowledged the issue and said he would start that work shortly. Leaders take exception Meanwhile, some leaders have taken exception to the hurry in which caste-specific corporations are being set up and heads appointed to them without taking into account the larger reservation issue. P.R. Ramesh, Congress MLC, said such bodies were being formed without any ethnographic study and only as an election tool. In his letter to the Chief Secretary, he pointed out that boards and corporations were being formed in the midst of the reservation issue, which had to be discussed first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ews-quota-question-to-be-top-priority-for-bc-panel/article33208816.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man booked for accessing, sharing child pornography||The cyber crime police of the South division have booked a case against a software engineer from Bengaluru for allegedly accessing and sharing child pornography. According to the police, the accused, a resident of Girinagar has been booked under Section 67 (b) (Punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit acts) of the IT Act, 2000. “The accused has not been arrested as there was no prima facie evidence found when the police raided his house on November 25. His laptop and mobile phone have been confiscated and sent to the forensic laboratory for analysis. We are waiting for the report,” said a police officer. The incident came to light when officials with the CyberTipline — the centralised reporting system for the online exploitation of children —alerted the police. “While tracking people accessing child pornography, they identified the accused, Yogesh, and alerted the CID cyber crime team here. They submitted a report on Yogesh’s Internet activities along with the IP address, contact number and residential address,” the officer said. The police suspect that the accused might have erased his data. “Only FSL analysis on the digital devices seized will reveal his activities,” the officer added. The police are also probing his Internet surfing habits and offline storage devices before initiating penal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-booked-for-accessing-sharing-child-pornography/article33209010.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Youth killed||A 22-year-old was stabbed to death in Gangondanahalli, Chandra Layout on Saturday night. The deceased, identified as Abdul Sahil, was a welder by profession, said the police. “He was on his way home late at night when he was attacked by an armed gang near a mosque. They stabbed him multiple times before fleeing the spot,” said a police officer. He was taken to a local hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-killed/article33209012.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. meeting today||Senior Congress leaders will confabulate in Bengaluru on Monday about the current political situation. The meeting has been convened in light of the confusion in the BJP over a leadership change and with an eye on the winter session that commences on December 7, party sources said. While the Congress’ failure in the Sira and R.R. Nagar bypolls will be looked into, discussions will also revolve around strengthening the party and preparing for the bypolls to Belagavi Lok Sabha and Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies. Sources said that with the stability of the B.S. Yediyurappa-led BJP government in question, the Congress will also strategise on how to corner the government during the legislature session over administrative failures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-meeting-today/article33208709.ece
30 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Planetarium reopens with new programme||The Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium, which was closed in March this year, reopened earlier this month, but with revised entry fees. The ticket rate for adults has increased to Rs. 75, while the entry fee for children below 16 is Rs. 50. For organised groups of schoolchildren, the ticket rate will be Rs. 40 per head. A new show titled, ‘To Worlds Beyond: Journey through the solar system’ has been introduced. Planetarium director Pramod G. Galgali told The Hindu that all standard operating procedures prescribed by the government to check the spread of COVID-19 were being followed including thermal screening of visiting public, hand-washing units at entrance and exit points and floor markings for maintaining social distancing. With alternate seats being arranged in the sky theatre, the capacity has been reduced to 110 per show.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/planetarium-reopens-with-new-programme/article33209009.ece
30 November 2020||Benglaluru,KARNATAKA||Vehicle rental company cheated of 8 cars||Three people claiming to own a travel agency allegedly duped a car rental company in Whitefield and stole eight cars. In his complaint to the police, the owner of the rental said that the men, posing as clients, rented the vehicles — valued at around Rs. 65 lakh — and sold them in Tamil Nadu. Based on the complaint filed by Pavan Janani, the Whitefield police have taken up a case and efforts are on to track down the accused. In his statement, Pavan said that the cars were booked by a Bengaluru-based travel agency for around ten days from November 13 to 24 in the name of Mohammend Ishaq, Bindu and Dayanand. “The trio took the deliveries of the car on November 13, but failed to return them in time,” said a senior police officer. When Pavan tried to reach out to his clients to remind them to return the cars, the accused allegedly started avoiding his calls. After repeated attempts Pavan realised that he had been duped. “He learned that the cars were taken to Tamil Nadu where they were sold. We are investigating the case,” the police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vehicle-rental-company-cheated-of-8-cars/article33209008.ece
30 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Agriculture officials told to recover money from ineligible farmers||The Department of Agriculture has the task of recovering money paid to hundreds of ineligible farmers under Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi. Under this scheme, launched in December 2018, farmers get Rs. 6,000 annually in three instalments. Of the total 55.88 lakh beneficiaries, 85,206 farmers have turned out to be ineligible. In Hassan district alone, 3,872 ineligible farmers have received the payment. Many of them have got six instalments of Rs. 2,000 each. The Ministry of Agriculture has sent the list of ineligible beneficiaries to the respective districts. The officers have been told to recover the amount paid so far to them. K.H. Ravi, Joint Director of Agriculture Department in Hassan, told The Hindu that income taxpaying farmers were not eligible for the benefit under the scheme. “Many have registered for the scheme either hiding the fact that they are taxpayers or ignoring the conditions. Now, the Central office has sent us the list of ineligible beneficiaries. The office has instructed us to write to the beneficiaries for the recovery of the amount,” he said. The amount to be recovered in each district would run into several lakhs, considering the number of ineligible beneficiaries. A senior officer said that recovering the amount would be a difficult task. The scheme has excluded landholders holding constitutional posts, those serving or retired officers of State or Union government or public sector undertakings, professionals and those pay income tax.  Many have registered for the scheme either hiding the fact that they are taxpayers or ignoring the conditions. Now, the central office has sent us the list of ineligible beneficiaries.K.H. RaviJoint Director of Agriculture Department in Hassan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agriculture-officials-told-to-recover-money-from-ineligible-farmers/article33208810.ece
30 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM promises Rs. 1 crore for Sahyadri College||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has promised Rs. 1 crore to upgrade the stadium, laboratory and library of Sahyadri College in Shivamogga. He was speaking after inaugurating new buildings on the campus on Sunday. The college administration and Kuvempu University had sought funds for additional infrastructure facilities on the campus. “The State government will release Rs. 1 crore immediately and decide on providing more funds later in the budget,” he said. The State government has given importance for improving infrastructure facilities in Shivamogga city. The Ring Road would come up at a cost of Rs. 450 crore which would ease traffic movement in the city limits, he said. Construction of airport The airport being constructed at Sogane on the city outskirts would be completed by 2022 and flights would begin to operate from the city. It would help Shivamogga and neighbouring districts as well, he said. Elected representatives of Shivamogga district, senior officers of Kuvempu University and Shivamogga district administration were present at the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-promises-rs-1-crore-for-sahyadri-college/article33208811.ece
30 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Leaders unite to build memorial for Dalit leader||Leaders of Chitradurga have come forward to build a memorial for M. Jayanna, leader of the Dalit Sangharsha Samiti, who passed away recently after a prolonged illness. Lok Sabha member A. Narayanaswamy of the BJP and former minister H. Anjaneya of the Congress have purchased a private land near Kyadigere in Chitradurga taluk for this purpose. G.H. Thippareddy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Chitradurga MLA, and T. Raghumurthy of the Congress, Challakere MLA, have also pledged their support to build the memorial for the leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leaders-unite-to-build-memorial-for-dalit-leader/article33208815.ece
30 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||25,000 identified for vaccine||As many as 25,000 frontline health workers in government and private hospitals across Kalaburagi district have been identified to receive the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine when it becomes available. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Rajashekar S. Mali speaking to The Hindu here on Sunday said that the district-level task force committee under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna has identified doctors in the government and private sector, nurses, post-graduate students, laboratory technicians, hospital staffs and scavengers who will be immunised on a priority basis. Doctors and staff working in primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) are also included in the list. Each person included in the immunisation list would be linked as per their Aadhaar cards to avoid duplication and to track beneficiaries, Dr. Mali said. Along with Health Department staff, ASHAs and anganwadi teachers will be roped in for the immunisation process, Dr. Mali added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/25000-identified-for-vaccine/article33208703.ece
30 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Protest seeking action against policemen||Members of Republican Youth Federation staged a demonstration outside the office of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kalaburagi, demanding action against police officials for assaulting a Dalit. Police Inspector Mahantesh Patil and constable Nehru Singh attached to the Women Police Station summoned Tukaram for an inquiry and assaulted him over his son's alleged relationship with an upper caste girl. They demanded that both the policemen be suspended and said they filed a complaint six days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-seeking-action-against-policemen/article33208700.ece
30 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Include Molakalmur taluk in Ballari’||Responding to the demand for the inclusion of Molakalmur taluk in Ballari district from Chitradurga district, Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, who represents Molakalmur in the Legislative Assembly, said that he too was in favour of the demand. “After six taluks from Ballari district are carved out to form the new Vijayanagara district, five taluks would remain in Ballari district. A new demand for carving out Molakalmur taluk from Chitradurga to include it in Ballari and make it six taluks for Ballari has cropped up. Personally, I am in favour of the demand,” he said, while speaking to media representatives in Ballari on Sunday. When asked about Ballari city MLA G. Somashekhar Reddy’s opposition to the bifurcation of Ballari, the Minister said that the decision for the formation of the new Vijayanagara district was taken after consulting all leaders. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa took the decision after consulting all leaders from the region. The bifurcation of Ballari was for administrative convenience. I know that Mr. Somashekhar Reddy is opposing it. We will convince him of the need to heed to the decision,” he said. Endorsing the leadership of Mr. Yediyurappa, Mr. Ramulu dismissed the possibility of a change in leadership in the State. “Mr. Yediyurappa is our leader whose words are final in the State BJP. There is no question of replacing him. There are many aspirants for Ministerial berths. The Chief Minister would take the final decision after holding consultations with the high command and taking everybody into confidence... If 17 MLAs get together to discuss some issues, it cannot be viewed as an anti-party activity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sriramulu-also-wants-molakalmur-taluk-included-in-ballari/article33208702.ece
30 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Congress bags nine seats in DCC Bank polls||The Congress on Sunday bagged nine of the total 13 seats in the elections to the posts of directors of Kalaburagi-Yadgir District Cooperative Central Bank leaving the four seats to its traditional rival BJP. Elections were held for only six seats as seven directors, including five from the Congress, were elected unopposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-bags-nine-seats-in-dcc-bank-polls/article33208699.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cong. to oppose move to displace farmers in coastal, Malnad areas||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday said that the government is making an attempt to displace farmers in the coastal and Malnad belts based on the Kasturirangan report on the Western Ghats. The Congress will fight against this move in the districts concerned, he said. Speaking at a convention of party workers in Udupi, Mr. Shivakumar said that the party will chalk out district-level programmes to fight the government move. None of the BJP Ministers, Members of Parliament and leaders are talking on the issue, he said. Mr. Shivakumar said that the party will constitute booth level committees to face the coming elections to gram panchayats. Each committee will have representatives from the party’s youth, women, Seva Dal, labour, backward classes and student wings. Social media groups will be created in the booth level for communication and to reach out to people in the grassroots level. He said that the COVID-19 compensation package announced by the State government has not reached even 10 % of the population. The Rs. 20 lakh crore package announced by the Union government has helped only industrialists and not the common man. Mr. Shivakumar said that the party is supreme and not individual members. Some leaders have an illusion that the party is thriving because of them. Such leaders should come out of such illusion and work as common party workers. Urging workers not to indulge in acts that will embarrass the party, Mr. Shivakumar said that the workers should strive to strengthen the Congress as a cadre-based party. All units of the party are important and party workers and leaders should settle their internal differences, if any, by discussing the matter with him (Mr. Shivakumar). Unless the party is made strong, none can enjoy power, he said. He said that the Congress takes people from all castes and religion along with it based on its secular credentials. The KPCC president said that the Congress stood behind workers to help them during the lockdown and when COVID-19 was at its peak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-to-oppose-move-to-displace-farmers-in-coastal-malnad-areas/article33209174.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Revised schedules for Netravathi, Mangala express trains from today||The Railways has revised the schedules of two long-distance special trains operating through Mangaluru Junction Station with effect from Monday. Press releases from Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. and Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division here said that the timings of Train Nos 06345/06346 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mumbai LTT-Thiruvananthapuram Central Netravathi Daily Special and Train Nos 02617/02618 Ernakulam Junction-Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Junction Mangala Daily Special have been revised. Train No 06346 Thiruvananthapuram Central-LTT would leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 9.15 a.m. instead of 9.30 a.m. to reach LTT at 4.45 p.m. the next day instead of 4.40 p.m. It will leave Mangaluru Junction at 10.50 p.m. instead of 11.20 p.m. Train No 06345 LTT-Thiruvananthapuram Central would leave LTT at 11.40 a.m. and arrive at Thriuvananthapuram Central at 6.05 p.m. the next day instead of 6.25 p.m. The train will leave Mangaluru Junction at 4.25 a.m. instead of 4.45 a.m. Train No 02617 Ernakulam Junction-Hazrat Nizamuddin would leave Ernakulam at 1.25 p.m. instead of 1.15 p.m. to reach Nizamuddin at 1.25 a.m., instead of 1.15 a.m., on the third day. It will leave Mangaluru Junction at 4.25 p.m. instead of 4.45 p.m. Train No 02618 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Junction would leave Nizamuddin at 5.40 a.m. instead of 9.15 a.m. to reach Ernakulam at 7.30 a.m., instead of 10.40 a.m., on the the third day. It will leave Mangaluru Junction at 10.50 p.m. instead of 12.55 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revised-schedules-for-netravathi-mangala-express-trains-from-today/article33209166.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP confident of taking control of most GPs, says Kateel||Kick-starting the Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign for the coming elections to gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada, party’s State president and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Saturday that the party intends to root out the Congress from such panchayats wherever the latter held sway. Addressing the party’s gram swaraj convention at BC Road, Mr. Kateel said that the party has taken the gram panchayat elections as seriously as it did the Lok Sabha elections. He said that the party is confident of taking control of over 80 % of gram panchayats in the State in the coming elections. Mr. Kateel said that the Congress could not fare better in the last Lok Sabha elections because it ignored its grassroots workers and deviated from its original principles and ideals. But the BJP has not deviated from its principles, he said. He said that the BJP constituting Pancharatna committees and organising Kutumbh Milan programmes in the grassroots level will help the party garner support in the coming elections. In-charge of Dakshina Kannada and Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Water Transport and Muzari Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi intends to sanction Rs. 1 crore to Rs. 2 crore to each gram panchayat from the 15th Finance Commission grants. It will come as a huge relief for taking up development projects in the grassroots level. Member of Parliament from Chikkamagaluru-Udupi Shobha Karandlaje said that of the 228 gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada, the BJP had control over 148 panchayats now. Elections will be held to 225 gram panchayats this time. The party workers should create awareness on the development programmes taken up by the BJP-led Union and State governments at the grassroots level, she said. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan spoke. Members of Legislatives Assembly Rajesh Naik U., Umanath A. Kotian, Y. Bharat Shetty, D. Vedavyasa Kamath and MLC Pratapsimha Nayak were present. The party organised the gram swaraj convention in Puttur later in the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-confident-of-taking-control-of-most-gps-says-kateel/article33209168.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ambulance for domesticated animals to be put into operation shortly||Pashu Sanjeevini ambulance of the Department of Animal Husbandry which has not been used for the last four months to attend to accidents and emergency health condition of cows and other domesticated animals will shortly get drivers to put it into use. “We are outsourcing drivers through the Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat. The process is in the final stages. The ambulance will be in action in the next few days,” said Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department’s Polyclinic, Mangaluru, D. Ramaprakash. As many as two doctors will work on rotation on this ambulance, he added. The lack of drivers kept the Pashu Sanjeevini ambulance unused since it was given in August this year. This ambulance was among the 15 given to the district polyclinics by the State government in the first phase of the programme to improve treatment facilities for animals used by farmers. Each ambulance cost Rs. 14.5 lakh and is designed for carrying out specialised surgeries. These surgeries can be done in case of accidents, delivery of calf or any other emergency health condition. “We go to the place where the ailing animal is and provide treatment,” Dr. Ramaprakash told The Hindu . The ambulance has all facilities, including an oxygen cylinder, required to perform surgery. This ambulance has lights that will help in carrying out emergency services during the night. The absence of drivers for the ambulance was raised by State Animal Welfare Board member Vinay L. Shetty during a meeting to review operations of Go Shalas, which was chaired by Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. He advised officials to explore outsourcing drivers through the Zilla Panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ambulance-for-domesticated-animals-to-be-put-into-operation-shortly/article33209177.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Provocative messages should be treated as an anti-national act, says Khader||Urging the State government to trace those behind the two provocative wall writings in the city within a week, Mangaluru MLA and former district in-charge Minister U.T. Khader said here on Sunday that the failure to do so will force the Congress to launch a State-wide agitation. Talking to reporters, Mr. Khader said that there appears to be a group behind the provocative messages found on the compound wall of an apartment and on the abandoned police outpost building on the District Court premises. These two messages should be treated as an anti-national act and those involved in these acts should be immediately traced. People will question the Bharatiya Janata Party in the impending gram panchayat elections. The two incidents expose the failure of police intelligence, he added. It is strange that such anti-national activities are seen only during the BJP’s rule, he said. Mangaluru, he said, has seen a spate of assaults and murders. Recently, a man was attacked in Gurupura and when his family members came to see the injured at the hospital, they too were attacked. “The police are yet to arrest those involved in the two cases,” he said. The police have not taken any concrete steps in the recent criminal incidents that are creating unrest in society, Mr. Khader said. The State government is in a coma and is not in a position to wipe out the tears of people. The government is yet to give ration cards to poor families and several people are facing problems in getting pension, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/provocative-messages-should-be-treated-as-an-anti-national-act-says-khader/article33209180.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kannada prosody introduced in English||The structure and principles of Kannada prosody has now been introduced in English for the benefit of non-Kannada readers and scholars. Written by B.A. Vivek Rai, former Vice-Chancellor of Kannada University, Hampi, and also Karnataka State Open University, Mysuru, ‘A Handbook of Kannada Prosody’ has been published by the Central University of Karnataka, Kalaburagi last month . Mr. Rai, who taught Kannada language and literature in Mysore and Mangalore universities for 34 years, told The Hindu: “To the best of my knowledge, this is the first book in English to introduce Kannada metrics to non-Kannada readers.” Mr. Rai said that the book has three dimensions. To begin with, it has explained the basic structure of ‘Chandombudhi’, the first book of prosody in Kannada composed by Nagavarma during the 10th century AD. In addition, it has introduced all major metrical forms used in classical and medieval Kannada poetry with their definitions and illustrations. All the examples cited for such metres are taken from the classical and medieval poetry texts. The third dimension is that such examples are presented first in their original form in Kannada script which is followed by the transliteration of those poems and finally the synopsis of them has been given in English. “Since this treatise is planned as a ‘handbook’ in its true sense, the discussions and debates related to the origin, varieties and transformations of the various metres are not dealt with in the book,” he said, adding that it is a modest beginning in introducing Kannada prosody to the outer world. In his foreword to the book, H.M. Maheshwaraiah, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Karnataka, said that it is a first attempt to introduce and explain the structure and principles of Kannada prosody in English, by Mr. Rai. “…I feel proud to say that this is a significant contribution to Kannada language…,” Mr. Maheshwaraiah said. The university has published the handbook as the sixth work under its ‘Classical Kannada study series’. The Vice-Chancellor said that the study of classical texts and their translations to other Indian languages and a few European languages are also important dimensions of the Centre for Classical Kannada at the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-prosody-introduced-in-english/article33208820.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Part-time govt. teachers still wait for honorarium||Despite the release of grants, several part-time lecturers working in government polytechnics are yet to receive their honorarium pending since July 2019, president of the Akhila Karnataka Sarkari Polytechnic Arekalika Upanyasakara Sangha M. Prashanth has said. Talking to reporters here, Mr. Prashanth, who is a part-time lecturer in the Government Polytechnic, Bantwal, said that after representations were presented to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, among others, Rs. 5.12 crore was released in October to clear honorarium dues till March 2020 of 12,500 part-time lecturers from 80 government polytechnics in the State. The dues of only a few have been cleared and there are a large number of lecturers who are still waiting for honorarium. While dues for some part-time lecturers is pending from July 2019, there are a good number of lecturers whose dues are pending from December 2019. Mr. Prashanth said that payment has been kept pending after a clarification was sought by polytechnic principals about the month from which the increased honorarium was to be paid. The government, in December 2019, increased the honorarium of part-time lecturers in government polytechnics from Rs. 7,500 to Rs. 12,500 per month and of those working in government engineering colleges from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 per month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/part-time-govt-teachers-still-wait-for-honorarium/article33209185.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pramod Madhwaraj stays away from convention||Congress leader and former Minister in-charge of Udupi Pramod Madhwaraj was conspicuous by his absence at the convention of the party attended by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar in Udupi on Sunday. The supporters of Mr. Madhwaraj had planned for a silent protest under a shamiyana erected at the venue of the convention. But they dropped the plan in the last moment and participated in the convention after the party leaders assured them of listening to their grievances. A visibly upset Mr. Shivakumar, while addressing the gathering, said that the party will not heed to any blackmail tactics. The workers and leaders should maintain discipline. “None should complain against each other. I will not listen to the squealing,” Mr. Shivakumar said. The KPCC president said that if anybody wants to leave the party, the Congress will send them out honourably. The Congress leader mentioned that there is no party MLAs in Udupi district now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pramod-madhwaraj-stays-away-from-convention/article33209175.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man dies in road accident||A 22-year-old resident of Puttur died after a motorcycle he was riding was hit by a sports utility vehicle (SUV) in Tenkila of Puttur Kasba village on Friday night, the police said. The Puttur Traffic Police gave the name of the victim as Mohammed Hashim. He was riding the motorcycle from Perladka towards Puttur on the Mani-Mysuru National Highway. Near Abhaya Marbles store, his motorcycle was hit by the SUV, which was moving in the same direction, at around 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-in-road-accident/article33209169.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||ABVP seeks arrest of those involved||The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishat, Mangaluru unit, has urged the government to arrest those behind the provocative messages in two places in the city since Friday last. Manikanta Kalasa, secretary of the city unit, said that the ABVP condemned the writings. The government should arrest those involved in these incidents of crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abvp-seeks-arrest-of-those-involved/article33209170.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two killed in as many road accidents||An elderly man and a 24-year-old woman died in road accidents reported in Udupi district on Saturday. Shreya Shanbhag (24) of Belur died, while Prajna (25) of Ujire was injured when a scooter they were riding on was hit by a sports utility vehicle near the new MESCOM office in Chitrapady village, near Kota, on Saturday evening. The Kota Police said that Prajna was riding the scooter with Shreya as pillion on the National Highway 66 from Kundapur to Udupi. Near the new MESCOM office, the SUV, which was moving in the same direction, hit the scooter and sped away. Subash Kini (69), a milk vendor, died after a scooter he was riding was hit by a car near K1 Hotel in Kaup on the National Highway 66 on Saturday. The Kaup Police said that the accident occurred when Kini was waiting to take a turn near the hotel to go towards Kaup Market. Kini was taken to a private hospital in Manipal where he was declared dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-as-many-road-accidents/article33209181.ece
30 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man caught in sea current dies||A 20-year-old man from Bengaluru drowned in the sea at Murudeshwar, Uttara Kannada, on Sunday. The Murudeshwar Police gave the name of the deceased as Manjunath Srinivas from Peenya in Bengaluru. The police said that Srinivas was among eight people who came to Murudeshwar on Saturday. On Sunday morning, six persons, including Srinivas, came to the beach and started swimming in the sea. Srinivas, though knew how to swim, was caught in a rip current, the police added. Local fishermen then rushed to his rescue and brought him out of the waters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-caught-in-sea-current-dies/article33209178.ece
30 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Branding and marketing of agri products by tribals in the offing||The tribals of Nagapura, on the outskirts of Nagarahole National Park in Hunsur, will soon vie for a slice of the market for spices and agricultural and horticultural crops cultivated by them, in a move that will shore up their income. As part of an initiative to empower them financially, the State government has conceived a blueprint to facilitate the marketing and branding of agricultural and horticultural crops, besides spices such as turmeric, ginger, and black pepper cultivated by the tribals. This entailed the creation of a tribal farmer-producers’ organisation, which was inaugurated by Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu in Hunsur on Thursday. The organisation is mandated to provide value addition to the farm output from Nagapura and Veeranahosahalli region in Hunsur. The members will be supported by various government agencies. Conceived during the middle of the lockdown in June by the then Principal Secretary of Social Welfare Department, Kumar G. Naik, this is reckoned to be the first such organisation of tribals in the State and will receive financial and other institutional support from the government to make it competitive. It is similar to farmer-producers’ organisations whose members are farmers and cater to their interests. The long-term plan is to develop Veeranahosahalli and Nagapura as a “model tribal agricultural village” with funding from the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India. If successful, it will be replicated in other tribal areas of the State. There will also be a thrust on dairy farming and floriculture so as to diversify the opportunities for revenue generation. A technical team comprising agricultural scientists have identified the crops suitable for cultivation in and around Nagapura and Veeranahosahalli where Adivasis have been living after their relocation from Nagarahole almost 25 years ago. In all, 731 hectares of land belonging to the Adivasis will be brought under the project, and spices and agricultural and horticultural produce will be marketed domestically to start with. “In the days ahead, we can look forward to the branding of ginger and turmeric something on the lines of Araku coffee of Andhra Pradesh, while in the second phase pepper cultivation can be taken up,” said M.B. Prabhu, an activist working for the welfare of tribal communities in Veeranahosahalli. Also on the anvil is a warehouse to store the produce, for which the government will release funds. The project will move away from conventional agricultural crops such as paddy and sugarcane, and the nearly 280 tribal families in Nagapura will be encouraged to cultivate crops suitable for the area. Mr. Sriramulu, who also visited Pakshirajapura, opined that the herbal oil prepared by the tribal community should also be branded to create a market for it and empower the stakeholders financially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/branding-and-marketing-of-agri-products-by-tribals-in-the-offing/article33208803.ece
30 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Decentralised waste water treatment system developed||A new system of decentralised waste water treatment installed at a school in the drought-prone Chamarajanagar district holds out promise for reducing dependence on freshwater sources for secondary use. The system, developed by researchers at the Centre for Sustainable Technologies, Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), Bengaluru, is functioning at Berambadi Primary School. A release issued by IISc. said the research team operated the greywater treatment system for a year and monitored the different physiochemical and biological characteristics of the greywater at the entry and exit points. “The performance of every treatment stage was quantified in terms of removal efficiencies (REs) of turbidity, Total Suspended Solids (TSS), nitrate, total phosphorus, Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), and faecal coliforms (FC),” said the release. Overall, the system showed high REs – more than 90% for most of the parameters. About 667 litres of greywater were treated daily using the system, saving around 1,80,000 litres of water annually, the release added. The IISc. said a new study, published in the Journal of Water Process Engineering and carried out in collaboration with researchers in the U.K., shows how the system has, over the past year, enabled the reuse of waste water and reduced dependence on freshwater resources. “We have demonstrated for the first time that decentralised waste water treatment systems can be economically put into practice in a rural setting,” according to Lakshminarayana Rao, Assistant Professor at CST and a senior author of the paper. The authors have suggested that such a robust waste water management system can be replicated in both rural and urban settings after taking into consideration various factors such as space limitations, baseline greywater quality, and daily flow rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decentralised-waste-water-treatment-system-developed/article33208814.ece
30 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Demand for Hunsur as a new district lacks mass support||Fresh but feeble demands have cropped for carving out Hunsur as a separate district from Mysuru following the creation of Vijayanagar district by hiving it off from Ballari. This was one of the planks on which the BJP candidate A.H. Vishwanath contested the Hunsur bypolls but lost and the issue received a quiet burial. There was also a general perception that creating a new district will be the last thing on the minds of the government amidst the ongoing battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, bulk of the resources – both human and financial – has been diverted to fight the scourge of the pandemic and hence the issue never gained traction. However, it has been resurrected again with a section of activists calling for upgrading the Hunsur subdivision to a full-fledged district for better administration and comprehensive development of the region. “The existing Hunsur subdivision comprises Hunsur, H.D. Kote, Saraguru, Periyapatna, K.R. Nagar taluks apart from Mirle-Saligrama region all of which should be brought under the new district,” said S. Sreekanth of Development through Education (DEED) who averred that it would foster development in the region. The crux of the argument in favour of Hunsur as a separate district is that the district administration tends to be preoccupied with issues central to Mysuru and surrounding areas besides following the protocol of visiting dignitaries. This apart, a full-fledged district status will generate employment as new offices have to be created and officials can resolve issues that are locally relevant. “With Mysuru as the headquarters the rural hinterland takes a back seat in the scheme of things of the officials,” said Mr. Sreekanth. But apart from Mr. Vishwanath, no other politician raised or supported the issue and JD(S) leaders during the byelections made light of it. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had questioned as to why Mr. Vishwanath was silent about it when he was the MLA of Hunsur and had made it an issue only while seeking a re-election having defected to the BJP. Notwithstanding the feeble voices of a handful of NGOs who came together under the banner of Janarigagi Vedike or Forum for People in Hunsur town, the subject has not excited people in rural areas nor does it have a mass appeal even among the people in the towns. M.B. Prabhu, a social activist, said ideally the administrative units should be smaller and receive greater focus. “While ideally Mysuru should be declared as Mysuru Urban and the rural hinterland should be hived off as a separate administrative unit, there is no mass movement in favour of it,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-hunsur-as-a-new-district-lacks-mass-support/article33208805.ece
30 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Well-being officers to the rescue of stressed police personnel||At a time when the entire country was in the grip of a lockdown in May this year, Shankar (name changed), an Assistant Sub-Inspector in Mandya, aged around 45, was considering suicide while awaiting the results of the COVID-19 tests conducted on him and his family members. While displaying unmistakable signs of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD), Mr. Shankar could not help worrying over contracting the virus during his routine activities and eventually becoming the cause for spreading it to his family members and others. “He was so disturbed that he was even considering ending his life. He was relieved of the anxiety to a certain extent when the COVID-19 test reports showed negative, but he continued to be gripped by the obsessive thoughts of contracting the virus for more than a month. He finally managed to overcome disturbing anxiety through a series of counselling sessions carried out by well-being officers under the guidance of psychiatrists,” said Kishor M. Rao, Associate Professor of Psychiatry at JSS College in Mysuru, to whom the case was referred. Mr. Shankar was counselled by Sandeep B.H., the well-being officer in Mandya district. Mr. Sandeep is one of the 50 well-being officers appointed by the State government to provide counselling to police personnel across the State and help them cope with work pressure, occupational stress, marital issues and addictions, if any. The officers even make confidential referral to a psychiatrist if needed. Each of the 30 district police and four Commissionerates have one such well-being officer, the remaining have been posted at different KSRP wings and in Bengaluru. Superintendent of Police, Mandya district, Parashurama K. told The Hindu that the State government introduced the concept of appointing well-being officers in 2018. The appointment of such officers was following the suicides that rocked the Police Department in 2016. Applications were invited by candidates with MSc/MA in Psychology and preference was given to candidates with MPhil in Clinical Psychology for the posts. “They have been appointed on contract basis and it is renewed every year,” said Mr. Parashurama. “During lockdown, the well-being officer spoke to all COVID-19 patients among the police personnel and their family members either through videoconference and telephone. It was very well helpful,” he said. Out of the 1,584 police officials in Mandya district, 184 had tested positive for COVID-19 in addition to another 50 of their family members. The police officials and their family members were telephonically guided on the measures they needed to take during quarantine, including practices to prevent mobile addiction, Mr. Sandeep said. Before the onset of COVID-19, Mr. Parashuram said the well-being officers had held workshops and seminar from time to time to help personnel cope with mental stress arising out of their nature of work.  The State government introduced the concept of appointing well-being officers in 2018 following the suicides that rocked the Police Department in 2016.Parashurama K.Superintendent of Police, Mandya district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/well-being-officers-to-the-rescue-of-stressed-police-personnel/article33208806.ece
30 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Maratha corporation: Vatal stages protest||Kannada leader Vatal Nagaraj and his supporters were taken into custody and released when they tried to block the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway on Sunday in protest against the State government’s decision to set up the Maratha Development Corporation. Soon after Mr. Nagaraj accompanied by Sa Ra Govind and others reached the junction of Mysuru-Bengaluru highway and Outer Ring Road near Columbia Asia Hospital, the police took them away. Before proceeding to the protest venue, Mr. Nagaraj addressed the reporters and called upon Kannada organisations to support the call for Karnataka bandh on December 5 against the Maratha Development Corporation. He said the State’s borders with neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Kerala in Chamarajanagar, Mysuru and Kodagu will be blocked on December 5 and vehicles will not be allowed to ply on the highways leading to Bengaluru. More than 1,500 organisations had supported the call for Karnataka bandh. Mr. Nagaraj said the setting up of a corporation for development of Marathas will lead to demands for setting up similar ones for people from Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. He came down heavily on BJP MLAs Basavaraj Patil Yatnal from Vijayapura and M.P. Renukacharya from Honnali in Davangere and said the bandh call will be successful. He criticised Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and politicians of Belagavi for “destroying” Kannadiga’s interests.  Setting up of a corporation for development of Marathas will lead to demands for setting up similar ones for people from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and A.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maratha-corporation-vatal-stages-protest/article33208808.ece
30 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Temple darshan timings curtailed||Entry of devotees to Srikanteshwara temple at Nanjangud will be curtailed on Monday. Devotees will be allowed darshan between 6.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. The decision was taken as it is Karthika Hunime as per the Hindu almanac and hence considered auspicious by the devout, and the authorities anticipate a surge in the number of people visiting the temple. All rituals in the post-noon session will be conducted by temple priests as per tradition but in the absence of devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-darshan-timings-curtailed/article33208809.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ferry service||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ferry-service/article33209184.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Co||The BJP’s Preetham Gowda, MLA for Hassan, often gets into heated arguments with JD(S) MLAs, who enjoy a stronghold in the district, at review meetings. However, in the course of an argument during a meeting held on Thursday, JD(S) leaders ended up pointing fingers at each other as well. At the KDP meeting chaired by Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K. Gopalaiah, who is also the Minister in charge of the district, MLA for Arsikere K.M. Shivalinge Gowda of the JD(S) picked an argument with Mr. Preetham Gowda over funds released to take up flood relief work in the district. The JD(S) MLA wanted the funds granted to be utilised for works in his constituency as well. However, Mr. Preetham Gowda objected, saying that it was he who had got the funds sanctioned and it would be utilised in his constituency. The MLAs had a heated argument, thumping tables and more. At one point, Mr. Shivalinge Gowda said that while former Minister H.D. Revanna of the JD(S) had taken a majority of funds for his constituency under the rule of previous governments, and now Mr. Preetham Gowda was doing the same under the BJP government. MLA for Shravanabelagola C.N. Balakrishna butted in to say that his constituency too was not getting funds for flood relief work. To bring about an amicable settlement, Mr. Gopalaiah (who was incidentally from the JD(S) before he shifted loyalties to the BJP) intervened and assured MLAs that he would get funds granted for Arsikere and Shravanabelagola.   What’s in a name? This was the question posed in Raibag recently when Duryodhan Mahalingappa Aiholi, BJP MLA, was having tea with journalists. The MLA, who has been named after the antagonist from Mahabharata , said his name never bothered him. On the contrary, he thinks it has brought him luck. “My parents were very smart. They named me after the villain in Mahabharata , only to see that no one casts an evil eye on me,” he said. “The name has been lucky for me so far. I have been a MLA for three terms, and now I have been appointed chairman of the Dr. Ambedkar Development Corporation. What else can I ask for?” He admitted, though, that it was a cause of amusement for his friends in the Legislative Assembly. “Some of them enjoy calling out my name and teasing me about it,” he said, laughing.  Satish G.T. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/co/article33208704.ece
30 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha has no clear favourites||Alappuzha municipality has refused to be branded as the bastion of any political front. In the past two-and-a-half decades the people of Alappuzha voted Left Democratic Front (LDF) to power thrice (1995, 2005 and 2010) and United Democratic Front (UDF) twice (2000 and 2015). This pattern or the lack of it makes the 2020 elections to the municipality so unpredictable. The UDF is hoping to retain power banking on the ‘good works’ of the last five years, while the LDF highlights a ‘lack of performance’ to wrest the municipality. The BJP, which had won four seats in 2015, is expecting to extend its footprint and thus make it a three-cornered contest. In the previous election, the Congress-led UDF romped to victory by winning 26 of the total 52 seats in the civic body. “The UDF is confident of repeating 2015. We are seeking votes for continuity of various development projects and schemes. The Alappuzha municipality has seen development in all spheres in the last five years. Around 5,000 homeless people were provided financial assistance for building houses. A total of 105 canals and waterbodies were rejuvenated. The Alappuzha municipality was named as the best small city in ‘Innovation and Best Practices’ in the country in Swachh Survekshan 2020. A sum of Rs. 100 crore was spent on roads and bridges in 52 wards of the municipality. The list of development initiatives goes on and on. We hope the people will once again elect the UDF to power,” says Illikkal Kunjumon, chairman, Alappuzha municipality, who is contesting from Vattayal ward. Mr. Kunjumon became the chairman last year after Thomas Joseph stepped down as per an agreement within the Congress party for sharing the post. Mr. Joseph is also in the fray, this time from Kottamkulangara ward. Although the UDF is upbeat about their prospects, the presence of rebels in at least four wards could spell serious trouble to the front in its efforts to retain power. LDF move The LDF, on the other hand, is going all out to wrest the civic body. The last election saw the LDF’s tally in the municipality down to 19. “The UDF’s rule was marred by factional feud and corruption. They failed to intervene or find solutions to issues facing the people. The various development initiatives we saw in Alappuzha in recent years were the results of interventions made by the Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran. The UDF has failed to deliver. This will be reflected in the upcoming elections,” says, D. Lekshmanan, LDF's leader in the municipality, who is not contesting this election.The performance of the BJP, smaller parties and independents might also play an important role in deciding the elections. Whoever wins, the post of chairperson of the municipality is reserved for a woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-has-no-clear-favourites/article33208768.ece
30 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Taking a cue from reel life||Thomas Kuruvila is better known for his role as the young son of Sakhavu D. K. Antony (Murali) in the 1990 blockbuster Lal Salam . The movie, directed by Venu Nagavally, ends with Nettooran (Mohanlal), who stands along with the child beside the grave of D.K., saying that ‘this child will become a communist.’ But, three decades after the movie was released, the young boy in the movie has decided to follow his real father T.T. Kuruvila, a Congress leader, to become the party’s candidate in Vazhicherry ward of the Alappuzha municipality. “In the movie, I played the role of the son of a communist. But in real life I am associated with the Congress party. My father was a former councillor and when the elections came the party wanted to field him from Vazhicherry. After he informed his reluctance in contesting polls, the party put its faith in me,” Mr. Thomas says. Thomas who also acted in a few other films and advertisements is up against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate and incumbent Bindhu Thomas of the KC (M) (Jose faction). “This is the first time I am engaged in an electoral battle. A lot of people know me as a child artist. But I am seeking votes by promising to find solutions to some of the vexing problems such as drinking water issues, canal pollution and so on being faced by the people of Vazhicherry. Everywhere I go in the ward, I can say that the response is positive,” he says. In, 2015, Ms. Bindu of the KC (M), who had then contested as a UDF candidate defeated the LDF candidate Raichal of the CPI (M) in Vazhicherry. The film Lal Salam is based on the life of comrades Varghese Vaidyan , T. V. Thomas and K.R. Gowri. Mr. Thomas was selected to the role as Cherian Kalpakavadi who wrote the story is a relative of his. Apart from him, other family members too played roles in the film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taking-a-cue-from-reel-life/article33208717.ece
30 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Condition of tiger cub improves||The condition of the two-month old female tiger cub found near the remains of the Mangaladevi temple inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR) on November 21 improved a little on Sunday and was under the care of two forest veterinary surgeons. A.P. Sunllbabu, PTR deputy director, said that the cub was given food supplements and medical care as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority of India (NTCAI) guidelines. A camera trap installed near the area had captured the picture of a tigress believed to be its mother. However, it has to be ensured that the tigress was its biological mother and the health of the cub needed to be improved. Meanwhile, the search for the mother also continued in the Meghamala Wildlife Sanctuary in Tamil Nadu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/condition-of-tiger-cub-improves/article33208777.ece
30 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Deprived pockets cry out for attention||Small pockets in the central parts of the city, populated by hundreds of people, still lack habitable housing facilities, leaving residents furious at all political fronts. Kala Arun Kumar, a resident of Karithalaparambu colony near the KSRTC bus stand, is unsure if she wants to vote this time. The last time she voted, in the bypoll to the Ernakulam Assembly constituency last year, she had to wade through knee-deep water to get to the polling booth. This time, Ms. Kala, who works as a domestic help at Kathrikkadavu, wonders if there is any point in voting for candidates who do little but ask for votes. The colony, comprising 49 houses, lies next to the railway track between the north and south railway stations. Between the railway track and the colony is a canal, that leads to a clogged Mullassery canal, the waters of which had flooded their homes in October last year. Houses in the low-lying colony are in poor shape. “The structures are dilapidated and crumbling. The houses were spread out earlier, but around 17 years ago, the corporation turned it into a stack of houses, each measuring only around 180 square feet, which leaves little room to even change clothes. The structures were built on a small budget of around Rs. 35,000 each back then, partly with funds allotted for Scheduled Caste communities,” said K.C. Surendran, a resident, who is also a member of the CPI(M). “The total area, of around 66 cents next to the railway line, could have been used to build more spacious homes. Now, there are at least five persons living in each tiny house,” said Omana D., a resident and a booth-level Congress worker. No political party or administration has been able to do much for the residents here, who do not even have title deeds for the land, says Ms. Omana, a cook in a nearby school. With little space in their homes, residents have tried to construct flimsy, makeshift rooms covered with metal sheets above the existing structures, Mr. Surendran said. Thanga Dasan, who says she has lived in the area for over five decades, says that besides a shed constructed outside the colony, to serve as a hall that they can use for functions, not much was done in the area after the houses were constructed 17 years ago. But the residents will all have political loyalties that determine their vote. Sudha Dileep Kumar, the councillor representing Ernakulam Central, said that the land was held in the name of the Secretary of the Kochi Corporation. Some residents in the area were included in the list of LIFE Mission beneficiaries, she added. The 85 families of P & T Colony in Gandhinagar have faced a similar plight for decades. The Perandoor canal, choked with toilet waste that empties into it from homes nearby, brings water into the houses at high tide. “We are still awaiting completion of the Greater Cochin Development Authority’s rehabilitation project. Residents have been angry that a project for which the foundation stone was laid two years ago, has not yet materialised,” said Rajesh, a resident.  The structures are dilapidated and crumbling. They were built on a small budget of around Rs. 35,000 each, partly with funds allotted for SC communities K.C. Surendran Resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deprived-pockets-cry-out-for-attention/article33209129.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Three national highways to take off from Kundannoor||Kundannooron the Edappally-Aroor NH 66 Bypass will become a converging point of multiple highway stretches, with work under way to widen the Kochi-Theni NH 85 stretch, which takes off from the junction, and the detailed project report (DPR) for the Kundannoor-Angamaly NH 66 Bypass getting ready. According to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) proposal, the Kundannoor-Angamaly NH Bypass will begin south of the junction, in order to stay clear of high-rises that abound at the junction. Its greenfield alignment through Puthen Cruz had been chosen two years ago from among three options, and its DPR is getting ready. It has been included in the Centre’s Bharatmala project which aims to link major NH corridors, since it joins NH 66 at Angamaly, official sources said. The DPR will take into account expected traffic and deviation, if any, that is required in the alignment. The Revenue Department can begin land acquisition once the State government and the NHAI approve the DPR. A consultant for the project was appointed two months ago. The NHAI proposed the alternative bypass in order to decongest and lessen accidents on the 16-km-long Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass, where around one lack passenger car units (PCUs) cross junctions like Vyttila and Kundannoor, and the Edappally-Angamaly NH 66 stretch. This calls for an eight-lane stretch, which is not possible, since both sides of the existing bypass are heavily built up. The maximum that can be done is to widen the predominantly four-lane stretch to six-lane by making optimal use of space on service roads and medians, the sources said. Altogether, 120 km of the 160-km-long Kochi-Theni NH 85 stretch is in Kerala. The alignment to develop the corridor into a four-lane stretch at a cost of Rs. 9,213 crore is ready and is awaiting approval from the NHAI. It will pass through areas frozen three decades ago for the Thripunithura Bypass, where four of the total 16 hectares needed have been acquired. It will bypass Munnar, to avoid high ranges. This will, however, considerably lessen travel time from Kochi to Munnar, since a link road will take off to the tourist locale from the highway, officials said. The District Collectors of Ernakulam and Idukki have been requested to depute personnel to acquire land to develop the NH, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-national-highways-to-take-off-from-kundannoor/article33209137.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Too many choices for voters||Ten candidates in a relatively small division with just about 5,600 voters may appear way too congested. Eraveli, division three of Kochi Corporation, has left candidates of mainstream political parties staring at such a far from comfortable scenario where a smattering of marginal players from the SDPI, V4Kochi, and PDP, and far too many Independents, including a rebel, skewing the fray. While candidates of both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) have put up a brave face, there is no denying the fact that even a little split of votes could make or break their fate. “Our foundation in the division is solid as reflected in the smallest margin of 69 votes among all divisions in the Corporation by which our candidate P. Rajeev had gone behind UDF rival Hibi Eden in the last year’s general election. Besides, we will also benefit from the discontent simmering in the Congress camp over the dynasty politics of the UDF candidate,” said Ismudheen P.M., LDF candidate. The division was a Left bastion before the current UDF candidate K.R. Rajeesh’s father wrested it for the front in 2010 followed by his wife in the last election. “Dynasty politics is just about the only allegation they have got to throw at me. But I started off as an ordinary KSU worker 20 years ago and worked my way up the hard way. My name was unanimously recommended by the party division committee,” said Mr. Rajeesh, who, however, left the allegation of turning the division a family fief unanswered. While seemingly pinning down the principal opponent on a sticky wicket, the LDF has to counter a googly sent down by one of its own who has turned rebel and thrown in the hat as an Independent. “There are no longer Communists here in this part of Kochi but only commissars driven by vested interests. Having joined the party in the 70s and been persecuted during the Emergency when the many who feign leaders now were in the school, this is my way of telling the party that they have erred,” said Sherif Alisar whose letter to the party authorities concerned evincing interest in contesting was reportedly shunned. K.H. Haneesh, a resident of Mattancherry and a keen observer of the local election rumblings, said that contrary to what major political fronts argue, not all of them were mere also-rans and could decisively impact the multi-cornered contest in the division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/too-many-choices-for-voters/article33209135.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kalady braces for a keen tussle||The electoral campaign in the Kalady grama panchayat has peaked, as the LDF is seeking a second term riding on the development plank, while the UDF seems pulling all the stops to regain the civic body citing poor development and corruption. The LDF came to power in 2015 by winning 11 of the 17 wards, while the UDF could make it in only six wards. The floods of 2018 and 2019 had hit the panchayat hard, with hundreds losing their shelter and the region witnessing extensive damage. The LDF is confident that the development projects initiated by it will translate into votes. But the Congress alleged that the ruling front had a golden opportunity but wasted it owing to administrative inefficiency and nepotism. Thulasi Bai Padmanabhan, outgoing president of the panchayat, termed the Kalady beautification project among the top achievements. “The drains and canals were in a poor condition, and the system was not able to hold water, resulting in flooding. Within two years, we could resolve the issue,” she said. Ms. Padmanabhan added that the collection and disposal of non-biodegradable waste had improved considerably after the council implemented a scientific process. However, Alphonsa Poulose, Opposition Leader, alleged that the CPI(M)-led council had rejected assistance to the tune of over Rs. 3 crore sanctioned under the MLA fund for setting up a bus stand-cum-shopping complex at Kalady over political differences. “The much-hyped beautification project at an estimated cost of Rs. 8 crore was also caught up in allegations of corruption and nepotism. Despite tall claims, many areas in Kalady are in a poor shape,” she said. Ms. Poulose said that the toilet complex project, especially meant for Sabairmala pilgrims, was now facing a probe by the Vigilance Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalady-braces-for-a-keen-tussle/article33209136.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Feasibility study for solar-powered lights||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is conducting a feasibility study for installing solar-powered street lights on the 16-km-long Container Road that links Bolgatty Island with Kalamassery. The agency had over a year ago agreed to install street lights on the stretch following widespread demand from local residents, motorists, and the police in the wake of fatal accidents and crimes committed under the cover of darkness. The NHAI does not generally install street lights, as it is considered the responsibility of the local body through which a highway passes. It was decided to install lights on Container Road as a special case owing to concerted demand from various quarters. The feasibility study will assess whether lights relying exclusively on solar power can be installed on the highway which passes mostly along the backwaters. The agency has sought the views of firms which have expertise in the sector, official sources said. The conventional mode of sourcing power from the grid will be chosen if solar power is not found feasible and the cost of upkeep is high, they added. Highways need light which has at least 150 lumens intensity and light up a substantial portion of the road which is used by fast-moving vehicles, said S. Gopakumar, architect and president of Better Kochi Response Group (BKRG), an NGO. “Such high-frequency lights might be tough to source from solar panels installed atop the lights on medians. This might prompt the need to have lights on either side of the stretch too. Even then, storing the battery beneath each light and the cost of maintaining the infra might be on the higher side,” he added. “A sound option being adopted worldwide is to create a solar park in open space, sell the solar power to the KSEB and source conventional power from it for street lights. This can ensure sustainable and efficient lighting of the entire NH corridor,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-lights-on-kochis-container-road-likely/article33208778.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Over 200 report at post-COVID clinics with persistent symptoms||In the two weeks since post-COVID clinics began functioning in the district, they have attended to around 200 people who have recovered from the infection but have reported persistent symptoms. Most people who have recovered report issues like persistent fatigue or sleeplessness, which can be resolved with medication, said Dr. Savitha K., Deputy District Medical Officer and nodal officer for post-COVID clinics. But going by recent reports, three patients had to be admitted again with respiratory symptoms like breathlessness and chest congestion, she said. Respiratory problems, including persistent cough, chest congestion, exertional dyspnea or shortness of breath, besides palpitations, and pedal edema or swelling of the feet are red-flag signs that call for more tests, Dr. Savitha said. So far, patients who required ventilatory support have reported such post-COVID complications, she added. ASHA workers and other field staff have been asked to keep a tab on people who have recovered, Dr. Savitha said. They are to be monitored telephonically every month for the red-flag signs. Post-COVID clinics function at primary health centres, community health centres, and taluk hospitals on Thursdays between 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. After a teleconsultation with the medical officer at the local health centre, the patient could be referred to the General Hospital, if necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-200-report-at-post-covid-clinics-with-persistent-symptoms/article33209138.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Mangalavanam-Jos Jn. stretch for India Cycle 4 Change contest||The approximately 5-km-long Mangalavanam-Chathiath Road-Jos Junction stretch will shortly become Kochi’s first road corridor having cycle tracks on either side, courtesy Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). It is thus slated to enter the nation-wide India Cycle 4 Change contest organised by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The winning city will get Rs. 1 crore grant to further develop cycle tracks. A sustainable alternative to private vehicles, cycling increases the share of green and healthy mode of commute in cities, said Jafar Malik, chief executive officer, CSML. Cycle tracks on either side of the Chathiath-High Court Junction-Shanmugham Road-Park Avenue Road-DH Road-Jos Junction stretch will most likely be highlighted using markings of unique shade, so that motorists will be able to know that cyclists have the right of way there. “Installing bollards to demarcate the lanes will affect the width of the tarred carriageway, and hence, we decided not to have them. Highlighting the tracks using easily discernible markings will enable safety of bicyclists, while other road users can use the space if absolutely needed,” Mr. Malik said. The tracks will be ready for use by bicycle riders from January 20. The scope of the pilot project in the city will be readied by December 10. CSML is in the final stage of developing Abraham Madamakkal Road that links High Court Junction and the first Goshree Bridge as a smart road having, among other features, a dedicated duct to carry utility cables and pipelines. The agency is being helped in rolling out the bicycling initiative by GIZ, a German agency which is spearheading the work to realise the road meant for pedestrians, bicyclists, and e-autos, which will link Ernakulam North and South railway stations. All the five smart roads in Kochi (the four roads through which the 6-km cycle track has been proposed and Banerjee Road) and four in Fort Kochi will have cycle tracks. They will be commissioned by March 31, 2021. In the long run, CSML has identified Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road-Panampilly Nagar-Vyttila stretch and a few roads in the vicinity of the port to hew out cycle tracks, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mangalavanam-jos-jn-stretch-for-india-cycle-4-change-contest/article33209131.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||More staff to be roped in for election duty||District Electoral Officer and District Collector S. Suhas has said that more staff are required for election duty. COVID protocol In line with the COVID-19 protocol, five officers will be deployed in each polling booths, instead of four. The district has a total of 3,132 polling booths. As many as 15,560 staffers are needed, apart from the 3,132 included in the reserved category. Government officials, government school teachers, aided school teachers, officers of State corporations and public sector undertakings, and Public Service Commission staff will be roped in for poll duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-staff-to-be-roped-in-for-election-duty/article33209132.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||District records uptick in co-infection||In about a month, the district has reported one case of co-infection of dengue and COVID-19 and two cases of co-infection of COVID-19 and leptospirosis. The co-infection of dengue and COVID was reported earlier this month from the Kochi Corporation limits, and the 64-year-old patient had recovered at a private hospital, said an ASHA worker in the area. Confirming the case, Dr. Vinod Paulose, District Surveillance Officer for non-COVID diseases, said that there had been a recent uptick in cases of dengue from the corporation limits. Around 51 suspected cases of dengue were reported in the district this month. Between October 30 and November 4, two persons, a cattle rearer and a farm worker, from Payipra panchayat in the district, were diagnosed with leptospirosis. One case was confirmed, and the other was suspected. They were referred to the Government Medical College Hospital at Kottayam with multiple organ dysfunction, and they tested positive for the novel coronavirus there. Both of them succumbed to their infections, Dr. Paulose said. “An analysis of the 14 deaths from leptospirosis this year shows that death from leptospirosis can happen as fast as an average of eight days from the onset of symptoms. Doctors have also been confused with the atypical presentation of leptospirosis symptoms like diarrhoea, giddiness, and general fatigue, and a test is done for the novel coronavirus. Typically, leptospirosis patients present with symptoms like high fever, head ache and body pain,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-records-uptick-in-co-infection/article33209139.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||512 new COVID-19 cases||Ernakulam district recorded 512 new COVID-19 cases and 1,001 recoveries on Sunday. Pallipuram, Edathala, and Thripunithura all reported over 20 cases of infection each. Areas including Vengoor, Mattancherry, Thrikkakara, Palluruthy, and Kalamassery also recorded new cases of infection on Sunday. Four health workers and one police officer were among those who tested positive. The source of infection in 128 people could not be traced. The district’s active case load stands at 8,331. For testing, a total of 3,561 samples were sent. As many as 27,007 people are in quarantine. While 87 patients are admitted at the MCH, 6,371 people are recovering at home and 643 are at FLTCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/512-new-covid-19-cases/article33209140.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Official suspended for dereliction of duty||The District Collector has suspended Arun Mohan, Parakadavu block panchayat extension officer, for dereliction of election duty. The charge was that he had refused to carry out the duties entrusted to him and had remained continually absent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/official-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty/article33209133.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Livelihood issues to the fore in Chendamangalam||Two successive years of floods and the COVID-19-induced lockdown coupled with the slowdown in the economy are the key issues facing the people of Chendamangalam, famed for its handloom weaving industry. The panchayat is dominated by the handloom industry, and 600 families of weavers in and around Chendamangalam depend on weaving for a living. The times are difficult, and people in the panchayat have faced the hard times with great resilience, says Ajith Kumar, secretary, Chendamangalam-Karimpadam Handloom Weavers Society. He added that the slowdown had acutely affected weavers’ livelihood. There is hardly any sale due largely to restrictions on movement of people and also because of lack of employment and means of income. Panchayat president T.G. Anoop said that the LDF rule had seen a lot of good work. As many as 290 houses were built for those who had lost shelter in the floods. Another 70 houses were constructed with the help of NGOs, he added. Venu K. Valappil, Congress councillor in the outgoing council, rated the LDF rule as average. He said that livelihood issues were important for people now, with the pandemic affecting all sections. The floods in 2018 and 2019 had hit people badly, he pointed out. He said that the weaving sector had sustained heavy losses, but help was forthcoming both from the State and other agencies.The panchayat has a total of 18 seats. Mr. Anoop expressed hope that the LDF would be voted back to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livelihood-issues-to-the-fore-in-chendamangalam-panchayat/article33209126.ece
30 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Recession worry for Kumbalangi residents||Kumbalanghi, a village nestled close to the Kochi backwaters, is in trouble mostly because of the slowdown in the tourism industry. The village is noted for its Chinese nets and traditional coir manufacturing units. But the pandemic and subsequent lockdown and drop in tourist footfall have left the villagers a pessimistic lot, said Jaison T. Jose, a CPI(M) leader. But Kumbalanghi will make a comeback, said Martin Anthony, the outgoing panchayat president and Congress leader. He added that the last five years of UDF rule in the panchayat had instilled optimism among people about a post-COVID life. According to him, the front had been successful in waste management. K.D. Shivadattan, a tourism industry representative, said Kumbalanghi had suffered immensely because of the pandemic restrictions. He added that the slowdown in the industry had resulted in widespread financial insecurity. Homestays, which served the tourism industry in a big way, had been badly hit. Mr. Jose said there was a perception that the UDF rule, over the last 20 years, had helped the village much. He alleged that the front had failed in waste management, and that unauthorised constructions had been mushrooming across the village along the backwaters. He also said that the Kudumbashree units in the panchayat were not able to create jobs unlike in other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recession-slowdown-worry-kumbalanghi-residents/article33209128.ece
30 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||426 test positive in Kollam||The district reported 426 new COVID-19 case and 152 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 424 contact cases, one person without any known source and one health worker. A 23-year-old Chathannur resident is the health worker who contracted the infection while the patient with no known source is a 34-year-old from Kollam. The district currently has 16,454 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,58,982. While 1,119 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 1,15,741 primary and 9,935 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present the district has 4,647 active cases. In Kottayam Staff Reporter writes from Kottayam: A day after marking a new high in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases, 399 people in Kottayam tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday Of the fresh cases, 393 people contracted the disease through local contact while six cases had come from outside the State. The fresh cases also included 47 children and 84 people aged above 60 years. With 53 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Changnassery with 32 cases. With 215 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,413 active cases while 14,513 people are under observation. Alappuzha Staff Reporter writes from Alappuzha: The district reported 381 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. It also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths. Of the fresh cases, 376 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of another five people remains unknown. The 381 cases include 37 each reported from Alappuzha and Pulinkunnu, 37 from Mannancherry and 27 from Veliyanad. Meanwhile, 896 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 6,144. Pathanamthitta Staff Reporter writes from Pathanamthitta: As many as 244 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 212 people contracted the virus through local contact and of this, the contact source of 40 people were yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Pathanamthitta reported 16 cases while Pallickal reported 15 cases. Meanwhile, a 64-year-old man from Thiruvalla who had been confirmed of virus infection earlier this month, died at the Kozhencherry District hospital. With 141 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,098 active cases. Idukki A Correspondent writes from Idukki: The district reported 274 COVID-19 cases with Thodupuzha municipal area recording the highest number of 57 positive cases on Sunday. Positive cases were reported in Kumily, Adimali, Edavetty, Kudayathur, Kumaramangalam, Munnar, Nedumkandam, Peruvanthanam, Vannapuram and Velliyamattom grama panchayats. As many as 244 cases were through local transmission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/426-test-positive-in-kollam/article33208779.ece
30 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||LDF releases election manifesto for Kollam||Giving maximum impetus to agriculture and waste management, Left Democratic Front (LDF) released its election manifesto for Kollam district panchayat on Sunday. Among the promises are model farms in all panchayats, protection of water bodies, industrial estates, drinking water projects and programmes to support vulnerable sections. All households in the district will be encouraged to start farming in the premises or terrace while farm tourism projects and residential training will be provided. According to the manifesto, the district panchayat in association with farmer cooperatives will set up and maintain model farms to promote agriculture, livestock raising, dairy farming, aquaculture and waste treatment. Following scientific guidelines, separate farms will be developed for all five sectors. Nurseries will be started to distribute quality saplings and seeds along with popularising techniques like tissue-culture, grafting and budding. Shores of all major waterbodies in the district will be cleaned and biowalls will be raised. As a continuation of Sujalam project, debris will be removed from all waterbodies including lakes, ponds and canals to prevent water-logging and ensure smooth flow. Drinking water projects will be launched in all grama panchayats facing water scarcity and measures will be taken to raise groundwater level. Fishers Fisher cooperatives will be given adequate support and marketing network in the district will be strengthened. Fish seed, feed and technical assistance will be made available to the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-releases-election-manifesto-for-kollam/article33208769.ece
30 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||COVID shadow over campaign||Coming hot on the heels of a vertical split in the Kerala congress (M),the battle for the Pala municipality was always meant to be a shrill campaign on the ground. The situation here, however, is starkly different. While posters and banners can be spotted all across its streets, in-person and door -to-door campaign have almost ground to a halt. The focus of public campaigning has now shifted more to an everyday concern - limiting the exposure to SARS-CoV-2. With one of its candidates testing positive for the disease, the UDF has already suspended its public campaign in Pala till November 30. The coalition leadership has now directed its contestants to remain under surveillance till Sunday and resume direct campaigning only after obtaining certificates testing negative for COVID-19. The situation has been just as bad for the LDF, which also has one of its candidates to the civic body testing positive. Considering that the person did not attend any party events after November 23, the coalition is yet to suspend the public campaign but has put strict restrictions on the public interactions of its candidates. As per official estimates, at least six persons contesting to the various local bodies in the district including two in Pala have contracted the disease during electioneering. The number, according to sources, is expected to go up further in the coming days. “We are strictly monitoring whether any of the persons who tested positive or under surveillance are part of the public campaigns,” said M.Anjana, District collector, Kottayam. Though the district administration has laid down strict conditions to maintain social distancing during electioneering, the norms have been often violated in some locations, she added. The curbs on electioneering in Pala comes only a few days after the Health Department temporarily banned house visits of all the candidates in Elikkulam panchayat for a couple of days after an NDA contestant tested positive. Similarly, an LDF candidate in Aymanam panchayat tested positive last week while another candidate in Kumarakom had to go into quarantine after her husband tested positive. Robbed with the traditional ways of campaigns, the contestants here are perfecting the use of digital communication to reach out to the voters.“But we are keen on returning to the ground and getting up close to voters, which is most-crucial for elections at the grass roots level,” said one of candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-casts-shadow-over-electioneering-in-pala/article33208770.ece
30 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tight contest on the cards at Payyoli||The political track of Payyoli is set for a tight race this time. For the United Democratic Front (UDF), a no-confidence motion passed against the ruling front in 2018 by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to assume power emerges as a key poll plank. The front projects it as an example of ‘political opportunism and sabotage of democratic verdict’ to take on their rivals. The LDF camp, however, says that voters are ‘sensible’ and are aware of the reasons behind moving the no-confidence motion. “Though the UDF came to power after the first elections in 2015 with 19 seats, their tenure came to an end in 2018 following a no-confidence motion passed with the support of three Lok Tantrik Janata Dal councillors. It was a political development as we could secure 20 seats and there were no elements of deception in it as alleged by the UDF,” says V.T. Usha who became the chairperson later. According to her, the Communist party of India (Marxist) alone had secured 16 out of the 36 seats and had proved its approval among the electorate. Though local campaigns mostly revolve around the theme of politics itself, developmental issues are also being highlighted by both the fronts. The LDF hopes to retain power by listing out its achievements in the areas of LIFE Mission project implementation, waste management, potable water supply and healthcare. The UDF’s attempt is to expose the ruling front’s alleged failures in implementing projects and finding newer revenue sources. “Voters here are well aware that their municipality has been running after some State-sponsored projects since 2018. The proposed Kunhali Marakkar memorial project is still in limbo,” says C.P. Shanavas, one of the UDF councillors from Payyoli. He says that even the Clean Payyoli project initiated by the UDF did not get any attention from the ruling front. Meanwhile, the LDF says the LIFE mission scheme implemented in the municipality within the past two years has already covered 659 beneficiaries. Three hundred houses have already been handed over to select families. The new municipal building, renovated facilities for four government schools, opening of family health centres and expansion of home shops to all wards are some of the other major achievements, they add.  Payyoli Total voters — 40,961 Wards — 36 Candidates — 123 Female candidates — 66 Male candidates— 57||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tight-contest-on-the-cards-at-payyoli/article33208728.ece
30 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Congress accuses CPI(M) of false campaign||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) vice president T. Siddique has accused the CPI(M) of attempting to sabotage the electioneering of a woman UDF candidate in Thalakulathur grama panchayat by resorting to a false campaign that she had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Addressing the media here on Friday, he alleged that the CPI(M) local leadership in close collusion with health officials had fabricated a fake COVID-19 certificate of Sajini Devarajan contesting from Ward-15 of the panchayat. Mr. Siddique said that her son had earlier tested positive for the virus. However, the authorities had initially refused to shift him to a COVID care centre, as their house did not have isolation facilities. Three days later, he was shifted to the centre. Subsequently, Ms. Sajini and her family underwent tests at a government laboratory, and she alone had tested positive. However, sensing foul play, she went for a test again at a private laboratory, only to find it negative. Now, her earlier test result is being used by CPI(M) local leaders against her, Mr. Siddique alleged. Meanwhile, CPI(M) district secretary P. Mohanan said that the Congress leaders were raising the charges out of fear of losing in the elections. He also said that the party would file a complaint with the State Election Commission against the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-accuses-cpim-of-false-campaign/article33208729.ece
30 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Environment is priority for these candidates||While mainstream political parties have ignored environmental issues in their campaigns for local body polls, green organisations across Kozhikode district have come forward to make sure that their voices are heard through their own candidates, mostly Independents. Quite a number of such candidates have been fielded to local bodies in the district, mostly in the high lands where stone quarrying has disrupted normal life. Some of them are Mathayi Pulimoottil contesting to Koodaranhi grama panchayat, Edodi Chandran contesting to Narippatta grama panchayat, C. Nimisha Rajesh to Thalakkulathur, Jobi Cholakkal to Kottur grama panchayat and K. Vishwanathan contesting to Kunnamangalam block panchayat from Poovattuparamba division. Mathayi is a social worker who has been in the forefront of the public protest against granite quarries at Koombara in Koodaranhi panchayat. Being a member of the the anti-quarry protest committee in the panchayat where there are five quarries within 1-kilometre radius, Mathayi’s candidature was unsurprising for local people who wish to put and end to the functioning of quarries and save their land located in a high risk area in the Western Ghats. “This region is at risk of landslips. Our efforts to check these quarries have not been very fruitful. The panchayat is planning to grant permission to more quarries. We should be part of the local body to influence decisions regarding them,” Mr. Mathayi, an Independent candidate, said. Edodi Chandran’s ward had suffered landslips in the past. He is a candidate of the CPI(ML) and a member of the protest committee against the 150-acre wide quarry in the panchayat. Besides quarrying, wild animal menace and the panchayat’s failure to protect crops also prompted Mr. Chandran to contest. Nimisha is an Independent candidate at Thalakkulathur whose family has been part of the protest against laterite quarrying at Eliyoramala for the past two years. “The 100 acre-hillock will be no more in a few years if the mining goes on at the current pace. The hillock is very crucial in maintaining water balance in our locality. Our wells that never used to dry up in the past started drying up after the quarrying started,” she said. Jobi Cholakkal is a representative of the Chengottumala Protection Committee in the Kottur grama panchayat. His candidature is in support of the 2000 odd families that are affected by granite quarries in the panchayat. K. Vishwanathan, a retired policeman, is now in the forefront of the protest against a proposed township by a prominent builder on a hillock in Peruvayal grama panchayat. Builders have converted a rubber plantation into commercial plots where villas and apartments are coming up, despite a negative report from environment bodies. “The streams that originate here contribute to Mampuzha. But many of them have already dried up. Our paddy fields are also disappearing fast,” Mr. Vishwanathan said. “Quarry mafia and political parties that support them have been trying to dissuade us from contesting. They threatened another candidate so much that he stopped campaigning,” Mr. Chandran said. Nimisha pointed out that contesting with the support of the anti-quarry committee itself was a huge risk for her life, but decided to go ahead for the cause she believed in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/environment-is-priority-for-these-candidates/article33208720.ece
30 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||AIDS Day: 27 students to get aid||Efforts to support children of HIV+ parents is in its sixth year and 27 students are to benefit from the scheme this year. ‘Ee Punchiri Mayathirikkatte’ is a project of the National AIDS Patients’ Protection Council and the District AIDS Control Unit to support such children below 18 years of age, especially from financially backward families, who, though not infected, have to bear with the social stigma associated with AIDS. The project, started in 2014 by a few like-minded individuals in Kozhikode, has so far sponsored the education of 25 students. Each of them get a Rs. 1,000-scholarship per month, sponsored by several philanthropic agencies. This year, the scholarship distribution is being held at St. Xavier’s College in the city on Monday, by District TB and AIDS control officer P.P. Pramod Kumar, in connection with the World AIDS Day on December 1. Manager of the College Vincent Arakkal will preside over the event. Principal of the College Varghese Mathew is one of the founders of the council that encourages individuals to sponsor the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aids-day-27-students-to-get-aid/article33208718.ece
30 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||TPR shoots up to 14.29% in Kozhikode district||Kozhikode district on Sunday reported a test positivity rate (TPR) of 14.29%, when 851 of the 5,955 people tested were confirmed to have contracted SARS-CoV-2. It was higher than the State average of 11.34%. The district also had the highest number of newly infected persons in the State. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, there were 804 cases of locally acquired infections here. The source of infection of 41 people were not known. There were 733 recoveries and the number of active cases in the district was 6,761. Kozhikode Corporation had 191 cases of local transmission while Maniyoor and Koduvally had 30 each, Olavanna and Karassery 26 each and Unnikulam 25. COVID portal Meanwhile, the district administration has claimed that its COVID Jagrata portal has received over two crore hits. The portal was developed by the National Informatics Centre and the IT Mission to coordinate the surveillance of infected persons and ensure their treatment. A tele-ICU facility was recently added to the portal. In Malappuram While 721 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, 776 patients recovered from the disease in Malappuram district on Sunday. Health officials said that 688 of the new cases had got the infection through local contacts. There were 24 cases whose source of infection could not be identified. As many as 7,670 people are being treated for COVID-19, and nearly 86,000 were quarantined. Most of those under treatment are at their respective homes across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-shoots-up-to-1429-in-kozhikode-district/article33208719.ece
30 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Tactical tie-up’ a major poll issue in Mukkom||The rights and wrongs of an alliance with a political party propped up by the Jamaat-e-Islami, not anti-incumbency against the ruling front, is a major campaign issue in Mukkom municipality in the upcoming local body election. The Jamaat-backed Welfare Party of India (WPI) is influential in at least four divisions in Chennamangallur area in the municipality. The United Democratic Front (UDF) has been accused of entering into an informal understanding with that party as it doesn’t have official candidates there. A section of local-level Congress and Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leaders, however, have fielded candidates under the aegis of an unofficial ‘Janakeeya Munnani’ as they are unhappy with the idea. A sense of déjà vu It could give a sense of déjà vu for political observers as it was the Left Democratic Front (LDF), which came into power in 2015 by winning 18 of the 33 divisions when Mukkom was upgraded as a municipality, that was accused of entering into a tactical tie-up with WPI. The LDF too reportedly had not fielded its candidates where the WPI was in fray. Asked about the controversy, V. Kunhan, chairman of the outgoing council, told The Hindu on Saturday that the Left had never sought the support of the WPI for its survival. “We have been in power here since 2000, when these areas were part of the erstwhile Mukkom grama panchayat,” he pointed out. E.P. Aravindan, Congress member in the council, however, was more categorical when he said that the understanding had a sole aim to capture power. “We want to dethrone the LDF. This is just a political understanding for that purpose, not an alliance,” he said. Mr. Aravindan claimed that the LDF-led council had obstructed many development works. There were many areas which still faced drinking water shortage. There were no new projects as well, he added. Mr. Kunhan countered this by saying that Mukkom figured on top in constructing the highest number of houses for the homeless, among 27 municipalities which were earlier grama panchayats. “As many as 1,100 houses had been completed in the past five years,” he said. Bricks for constructing these buildings were made available at cheap rates after roping in a firm floated by Kudumbashree units. Another major achievement was the ‘Ksheeranagaram’ project in which dairy farmers were given the benefits of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme. In the erstwhile council, the IUML had seven seats, Congress and WPI three each, and the BJP and the Lok Tantrik Janata Dal one each. The BJP is contesting in one division this time too.  Mukkom Number of divisions - 33 Voters — 33,748 Women — 16,001 Men — 17,747||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tactical-tie-up-a-major-poll-issue-in-mukkom/article33208727.ece
30 November 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Kadalundi’s ecology faces a threat||The lockdown necessitated by COVID-19 pandemic is found to have had an adverse effect on the sensitive mangrove-mudflat ecology of Kadalundi Vallikkunnu Community Reserve (KVCR), one of the prime wintering destinations along the west coast of India for birds from cold climes. Researchers studying the estuarine ecology of Kadalundi vis-à-vis the mudflats that attract migrant birds from far regions and the mangroves that offer KVCR a unique place in the map of conservation have found that waste dumping increased to an unexpected level during the lockdown at Kadalundi. Unparalleled incursion “We all expected that the lockdown that began in March would help the sensitive ecology of Kadalundi to refresh and boost. But to our surprise, we find an unparalleled incursion of mangroves into the mudflats. An increase in the arrival of waste, particularly poultry waste, during the lockdown months has been the main reason for this proliferation,” said T.R. Athira, one of the researchers working at Kadalundi. Sediment She has found that the quality of sediment in the estuary changed in the past eight months. According to her, the poultry and slaughter waste easily get stuck in areas surrounded by mangroves, and they help speed up the proliferation. However, Ms. Athira said that the amount of impact the mangrove incursion would have on the arrival of birds for wintering at Kadalundi should be studied separately. C.T. Shifa, another researcher who works at Kadalundi, said that the coming months would be crucial for their studies as the wintering season has just begun for migrant birds. Ms. Shifa, who specialises on kingfisher, said that the presence of Black-capped kingfisher, a local migrant, was a positive sign. Studies Both of them are guided by K.M. Aarif, whose studies on shorebirds of Kadalundi have made seminal contributions to information on Central Asian Flyway, one of the least studied and ecologically sensitive flyways in the world. Currently working on the east coast of Saudi Arabia, another critical wintering ground like Kadalundi, Dr. Aarif told The Hindu that efforts should be made to maintain the unique ecology of Kadalundi. Separate ecologies “Mudflats and mangroves are two separate ecologies. It is this unique combination of ecologies that gives Kadalundi its charm. One should not be allowed make incursions into another,” said Dr. Aarif. Birds have begun to reach Kadalundi. Ms. Athira and Ms. Shifa said that plovers were the early visitors. Lesser sand plover, Greater sand plover, Kentish plover, Common redshank, Common greenshank, Common sandpiper, Whimbrel, Marsh sandpiper, and Broadbilled sandpiper were some of the species that reached Kadalundi in the early weeks of wintering. Terns and gulls, which are larger birds, are expected when the wintering peaks in December and January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kadalundis-unique-ecology-faces-a-threat/article33208722.ece
30 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Sreekandan enjoys UDF-LDF camaraderie at Attappady||District Congress president V.K. Sreekandan, MP, was witness to an exceptional camaraderie between the rival United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Sunday. Mr. Sreekandan could not help stop by when he saw the workers of the LDF and the UDF pasting posters on a same wall sharing jokes and friendship in ward 12 of Pudur panchayat. Curiosity brought the MP out of his car and he walked up to the youngsters to appreciate them for the bonhomie that cut across party affiliations. Mr. Sreekandan was in Attappady attending UDF election conventions in Pudur grama panchayat. Workers of both the UDF and the LDF were excited on seeing their Member of Parliament. He stood bemusedly for a while looking at the posters of the LDF and the UDF. When the UDF fielded Muruki, the LDF has Murukan as their candidate in ward 12. Without hiding his excitement, Mr. Sreekandan took a few posters from his party workers and pasted them on the wall when the LDF workers pasted theirs in the adjoining space of the wall. “Such acts of camaraderie are not too common in our place. We should encourage friendly political activism,” said Mr. Sreekandan. Mr. Sreekandan made sure that he had a group photo with the workers of the LDF and the UDF before he left the place.  Curiosity brought the MP out of his car and he walked up to the youngsters to appreciate them for the bonhomie||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sreekandan-enjoys-udf-ldf-camaraderie-at-attappady/article33208723.ece
30 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||394 cases in Palakkad||As many as 394 people tested positive for COVID-19 when 338 patients recovered from the disease in Palakkad district on Sunday. Among the newly tested cases on Sunday, 229 were found to have contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. However, there were 161 cases without an identifiable source of infection among those tested. Among the new cases were two health workers. Two persons who came from across the borders were also among the patients.  Among the new cases reported on Sunday, there are two health workers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/394-cases-in-palakkad/article33209224.ece
30 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Anti-corruption group plea on KSFE raids||The Anti-Corruption People’s Movement demanded that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan make his stand clear on the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau raids on Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) offices. A memorandum sent to the Chief Minister, movement president A.K. Sultan urged Mr. Pinarayi never to support the attempts to whitewash corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anti-corruption-group-plea-on-ksfe-raids/article33209266.ece
30 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dilemma for State over Remdesivir||The State Medical Board is said to be in a fix over Remdesivir, the expensive antiviral and the much-hyped drug to have emerged during the pandemic as the efficacious treatment for serious COVID-19 patients, now that the WHO has issued a conditional recommendation against the use of Remdesivir in hospitalised patients, regardless of disease severity. While the ICMR has not made any directives to remove Remdesivir from the treatment protocol of States, doctors are not quite sure whether they should continue to recommend a drug which does not offer significant mortality benefits, given the fact that the drug has been huge drain on all government medical college hospitals (MCH). Remdesivir, the first drug to be touted as an efficient antiviral against COVID-19 in the U.S., has been included since July under the national treatment protocol for COVID-19, for “restricted emergency use purposes in moderate COVID-19 cases”. Rs. 40,000 per patient “Many patients improve without any drugs and hence we cannot say if Remdesivir is beneficial. The main concern is regarding the the cost of the drug, which is Rs. 40,000 per patient for a five-day course. Remdesivir is being provided free to all serious patients and all government medical colleges in the State have now spent crores purchasing this drug,” a senior Health official said. “Cell studies have shown that Remdesivir inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication and reduces viral load. Even when the drug fares poorly when it comes to cost vs benefit, doctors are perturbed that they would be left with just steroids to fight COVID-19. The WHO report did not rule out the use of the drug as a COVID-19 treatment, but said evidence was lacking to recommend its use. As trials are continuing, better evidence could emerge,” says R. Aravind, Head of Infectious Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram MCH.  It was last week that an expert committee of the WHO, which reviewed evidence from four trials, including the Solidarity trial (a large international trial which involved over 5,000 patients in 405 hospitals in 30 countries), concluded that Remdesivir has no significant impact on mortality, length of hospital stay, or need for ventilation among hospitalised patients and that it is unlikely to be the life-saving drug it was made out to be. While the State is not ready to be the first one to discontinue Remdesivir, the decision is likely to hinge on the drug’s cost factor and the question whether the State’s scarce resources could be better spent.  Drug is provided free in all govt. MCHs WHO panel concluded that Remdesivir has no major impact on mortality||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dilemma-for-state-over-remdesivir/article33208789.ece
30 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Robust vaccination plan needed: expert||The COVID-19 vaccine might protect individuals but a well-designed vaccination programme will have to be put in place to control COVID-19 transmission and reduce disease burden in the community, T. Jacob John, renowned virologist and former Professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore, has said. While health-care workers, those above 65 years, and those with co-morbidities have been prioritised for administering COVID-19 vaccine, vaccinating these special groups will not be enough for returning to reasonably relaxed normal life, Dr. John, who also heads the five-member committee set up by the State government to explore the possibility of vaccine production in Kerala, said. He was speaking at a webinar on ‘COVID Vaccines: Prospects and Problems’, organised by the Thiruvananthapuram branch of the Indian Medical Association here on Friday. The current vaccination platform in the country, that of the Universal Immunisation Programme, will not be enough for COVID vaccination if the government intended to administer vaccines to the elderly population, he pointed out.  Supervised activity Vaccination will have to be a supervised activity and adverse effects following vaccination will have to be closely scrutinised, and most importantly, a good documentation and data management system and a system for closely following up vaccinated persons in the long term would all have to be set up, all of which made COVID vaccination a challenging prospect, Dr. John said. While theoretically there need not be much worry over the safety of the mRNA (Pfizer and Moderna) or the adenovirus- vectored DNA vaccine (Sputnik V and Astra Zeneca-Oxford), both of which are different from classical pathways used for designing vaccines, the regulatory agencies in the country will have to set up an independent panel of experts and evaluate more than just data at the level of the Data and Safety Monitoring Board before giving final approval, he cautioned. “The Drugs Control General of India should independently evaluate the entire protocols of the Phase 3 trials of the intended vaccine, the interpretation of the results, and scrutinise if the safety and efficacy claims are accurate and plausible,” Dr. John said. Caution advised He, however, warned that all hopes should not be pinned on vaccines to end the pandemic or to stop the course of the virus. One would have to wait and see whether SARS-CoV-2 would behave like a respiratory virus (which causes repeated re-infections) or a systemic infectious virus to assess how effective and how long the vaccine-induced protection would last. Because of these uncertainties, people should not relax their guard and would have to diligently follow universal masking and all other COVID-19 safety protocols for a longer time, Dr. John said.  Universal Immunisation Programme will not be enough for COVID vaccination if government intends to target elderly population||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/robust-vaccination-plan-needed-expert/article33209256.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Field wide open at Sreekariyam||Sreekariyam has been some kind of an outlier in the city Corporation, being the only ward in the city Corporation where Independent candidates have won consistently. In the past three terms, as well as the period before that when it was part of a panchayat area, only Independents have won from this ward.  Hopes kindled This time though the local co-ordination committee which fields Independents is not putting up candidates, kindling hopes for the three major political fronts. Former councillor B.Vijayakumar, who was the heart and soul of the committee which used to put up Independent candidates, passed away in 2018, after which it became dysfunctional. In the period from 2010 to 2015, he was a strong presence in the Corporation council taking both the ruling and the opposition fronts to task at various points. N.S.Lathakumari, a former ASHA and Kudubashree worker, who won as Independent here by 131 votes in 2015, had supported the ruling LDF during much of the term. Now she is part of the LDF campaign team. LDF candidate Stanly Dcruz says that the front is confident of a win this time, as they had lost out by a slender margin in 2015 and many of those supporting the Independents were with them now. “Vijayakumar had a personal rapport with the people here and that helped the Independents win consistently. We had come up a close second every time. We will be raising mainly issues of development mainly, especially the construction of a flyover at the congested Sreekariyam junction, for which the government has already sanctioned funds for land acquisition,” says Mr.DCruz. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Sunil Kumar is a familiar face for the people here, as a newspaper distributor. “I personally know people in more than 50% of the ward, as I distribute the newspapers here. Even now, I begin my work early in the morning and finish a shorter route before the campaigning starts. I have appointed one more person to distribute newspapers in the rest of the areas. We will be pointing at the lack of development under the previous councillor as part of the campaign,” he says. Current Cheruvakkal councillor Alathara Anilkumar is the United Democratic Front's candidate here, with his experience being one of the strong points for the front. “After the first round of campaigning, we feel that things are favourable for us,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/field-wide-open-at-sreekariyam/article33209248.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Better security for lion safari park||The government has decided to go ahead with measures to enhance security measures at the Lion Safari Park at Neyyar. The move comes around a month after a 10-year-old tigress’s escape after being brought from Wayanad prompted an elaborate search operation to capture it. Steps are already afoot to renovate the existing cages — five holding cages and a squeeze cage — at the park. With rusty cage bars rendering the enclosures weak to ensure its confinement, the animal is believed to have broken through the grills. By endorsing the theory, the Forest Department has also ruled out the possibility of sabotage in the tiger’s escape. The finding was recorded by Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar in his inquiry report to the government. The report also listed several proposals, both short-term and long-term ones, for improving precautionary steps in the facility. The tigress’s escape and the subsequent search efforts had exposed various frailties in the existing security system. CCTV surveillance Based on the report, the government also decided to bring the park under round-the-clock CCTV surveillance that would enable authorities to closely monitor the animals in the facility and track other movements. Lighting facilities will also be established across the facility. A dedicated electric post and power connection will be established to cater to such needs. In addition to the existing pathway for vehicles to pass through the safari area, a new inspection path will be created within the park boundary to enable foresters to assess the condition of the fence. Such a path would also provide an alternative access to the park by cutting through the fence during exigencies. The branches of the trees that lean towards the fence will also be pruned. External agencies or faculty from engineering colleges will be roped in to undertake an annual security audit of the fence. They will be mandated with reviewing the strength of the wall to prevent any possible breach. Various structural aspects, including the possible force that could be applied by an animal, will be factored in during the certification process. The Forest Department will also train animal keepers, who are employed on contractual basis, to ensure the professional handling of animals that are accommodated in the park. The programme will touch upon various aspects, including the use of protective equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/security-at-lion-safari-park-to-be-enhanced/article33208781.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||V.V. Rajesh has violated norms: LDF||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has flagged the alleged entry of Bharatiya Janata Party district president V.V. Rajesh’s name on multiple voters’ lists for the local body polls in the district. Communist Party of India (CPI) district secretary G.R. Anil on Sunday submitted complaints to the State Election Commission and the District Collector against Mr. Rajesh, who is also the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate from the Poojappura ward. In his complaint, the CPI leader accused Mr. Rajesh of violating election norms by purportedly concealing the fact that he figured on three different electoral rolls during the submission of his affidavit. The duplication allegedly has occurred on the finalised voters’ list of Koraliyodu ward (Ward 16) in Nedumangad municipality and PTP Nagar (Ward 38) and Vanchiyoor ward (Ward 82) in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. He, however, revealed the details of his entry on the electoral roll for Vanchiyoor ward alone in his affidavit, Mr. Anil alleged. ‘Request placed’ Reacting to the allegation, Mr. Rajesh said that he had applied for shifting his name from the voters’ list in Koraliyode to that in Vanchiyoor several years ago. He had also formally written to the Nedumangad municipality seeking the deletion of his and his family members’ name from the list in Koraliyode. “Our names’ continue to figure on the particular list owing to lapses on the part of municipal officials there. Strangely, I also found the name of an unknown person listed as my family member,” he said. He added that the was unaware of the alleged presence of his name on the PTP Nagar ward’s list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vv-rajesh-has-violated-norms-ldf/article33209251.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ballots, labels in Tamil, Kannada too||Ballot papers and ballot labels affixed on Electronic Voting Machines (EVM) will be printed in Tamil and Kannada also in wards that have linguistic minorities, the State Election Commission has said. Ballots in Tamil, in addition to Malayalam, will be printed for a number of wards in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Palakkad and Wayanad. Ballot labels and paper will be printed in Kannada in some wards in Kasaragod district. Tamil ballots will be printed in 375 wards of 36 grama panchayats and Kannada in 228 wards of 18 grama panchayats. Tamil ballots will be printed in 36 block panchayat divisions. In the district panchayats, Tamil ballots will be printed in 375 wards. In the municipalities, Tamil ballots will be printed in three wards and Kannada in 38 wards. In the Corporations, Tamil ballots will be printed only in the Karamana and Valiyasala wards of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, the Commission said. Commission warning Meanwhile, the Commission had warned of stern action against unleashing defamation campaigns against candidates on social media. Such campaigns were punishable offences, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ballots-labels-in-tamil-kannada-too/article33208786.ece
30 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Finance Minister denies intra-government feud||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said that the Chief Minister need not necessarily have been in the know of the Vigilance raid on Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) offices. Talking to reporters in Alappuzha on Sunday, Dr. Isaac denied the allegation that the Finance and Home Departments were at odds. He rejected the Opposition’s allegation that the raid reflected vicious intra-government and intra-party feuding. Dr. Isaac said the party and the government were unified in the purpose to work for the State’s development and the welfare of its people.  The KSFE was not against any inspection or above auditing. However, there should be grounds to justify a surprise Statewide raid. Moreover, the inspections had reportedly found no major infraction. Routine inspections The Comptroller and Auditor General and Local Fund Audit routinely inspected the KSFE accounts and published their respective reports. The KSFE also boasted a robust internal auditing mechanism. Dr. Isaac has reportedly sought a report from KSFE on the circumstances that prompted the Vigilance inspection.  The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seized on the Vigilance raid to attack the government. Union Minister of State V. Muraleedharan told reporters here that the State Cabinet had lost its collective responsibility. The Home Department was at odds with the Finance Department, he alleged. Mr. Vijayan seemed to have sanctioned KSFE inspections to undermine Dr. Isaac. In response, Dr. Isaac had slammed the VACB for inspecting KSFE accounts. His words appeared to be a veiled attack on Mr. Vijayan. The raids had opened a rare window into the internecine feuding in the government and the CPI(M), he said. Moreover, the VACB’s raid had dealt a blow to the government’s claim that Central agencies had targeted State-controlled entities for political reasons.  Hassan seeks probe Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Dr. Isaac’s attack on VACB was indicative of a mustering of forces in the CPI(M) against Mr. Vijayan. UDF convener M.M. Hassan demanded an anti-money laundering inquiry against KSFE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finance-minister-denies-intra-government-feud/article33208788.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two-day CUK webinar on law and pandemic||The Department of Law, Central University of Kerala, Thiruvalla campus, will organise a two-day webinar on ‘Law, Public Health and Pandemics: Changing Dimensions of Right to Health’ on November 30 and December 1. Vice Chancellor H. Venkateswarlu will inaugurate the programme, being organised in association with the university’s alumni association through Google Meet, at 11 a.m. on Monday. Jayasankar K.I., head of the department, will preside over the session. National University of Advanced Legal Studies Vice Chancellor K.C. Sunny will deliver the special address. James Malar, Community, Rights, and Gender Advisor, Stop TB Partnership, and senior technical advisor at Stop TB Partnership Sreenivas A. Nair are the keynote speakers. Amar Pal Singh, Dean, University School of Law and Legal Studies, G.G.S.I.P. University, New Delhi; Bismi Gopalakrishnan, Dean, Faculty of Law, Mahatma Gandhi University; and K.R. Thankappan, Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, CUK, will chair various panel discussions during the webinar.  The programme is being organised through Google Meet, at 11 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cuk-webinar-on-law-and-pandemics/article33208782.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF promises to make city investor-friendly||Transforming Thiruvananthapuram into an investor-friendly metropolitan city, a knowledge hub, and the State’s cultural capital are some of the lofty goals set by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in its manifesto for the upcoming polls to the city Corporation. Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan, LDF Thiruvananthapuram Corporation election committee president V.P. Unnikrishnan, secretary V. Sivankutty, former Speaker M. Vijayakumar, and other coalition leaders jointly released the 18-page document here on Sunday. The LDF has set its sights on attracting major investors and start-ups. It also promises to support micro, small, and medium-scale enterprises that are bound to generate jobs. Boosted by its efforts in transforming the dumping yard at Erumakkuzhy into a park, it also aspires to strengthen its decentralised waste management efforts. While effective steps will remain in place to segregate non-biodegradable waste, including glass, plastics, and e-waste, it will also strive to introduce an effective mechanism to dispose of construction waste.  Sewer network The city’s sewer network will be expanded by maximising the capacity of the Muttathara sewage treatment plant (STP). A project will also be implemented to treat the effluent from the STP to be utilised for agricultural purposes. The Corporation’s green army will be expanded to promote joint liability farming groups. In order to improve employability, finishing schools and an internship scheme will be launched for job aspirants. The LDF also hopes to tap the city’s unfulfilled potential as a hub of knowledge and information technology by leveraging the various universities and institutions to spur industrial growth, according to the poll manifesto. ‘Greater Trivandrum’ The proposed infrastructure development works include the creation of a ‘Greater Trivandrum Development Region’ encompassing the city suburbs and evolving a master plan that incorporates Technopark, Technocity, Institute of Advanced Virology, Vizhinjam seaport, and the proposed Light Metro. The LDF promises to establish more centres to promote and impart training in various art forms. More cultural corridors will come up in the city on the lines of Manaveeyam Veedhi. The coalition also promises to establish a modern fish market at Valiathura. Reiterating its political stance on the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport, the LDF maintained that the property should remain vested in the people of the State who should be permitted to choose its mode of development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-promises-to-make-city-investor-friendly/article33209250.ece
30 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Caseload nears 6 lakh||The cumulative COVID-19 case burden of Kerala is poised to cross the six-lakh mark, at 5,99,600 cases, with the State reporting 5,643 new cases on Sunday when 49,775 samples were tested in 24 hours. Test positivity rate in the State continues to be in the 9-11% range and in fact went up slightly to 11.34% on Sunday. A total of 5,861 COVID-19 patients were discharged on the day. The active cases now stand at 64,589 cases. The COVID-19 toll rose to 2,223 when another 27 deaths were added to the official list on Sunday. Thrissur accounted for six of these deaths, Kottayam five, Alappuzha and Ernakulam, four each, Malappuram three, Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram two each and Wayanad, one. Among districts, Kozhikode reported 851 cases, Malappuram 721, Thrissur 525, Ernakulam 512, Kollam 426, Kottayam, 399, Palakkad 394, Alappuzha 381, Thiruvananthapuram 370, Kannur 277, Idukki 274, Pathanamthitta 244, Wayanad 147, and Kasaragod 122 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caseload-nears-6-lakh/article33208791.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Adhere to protocol: SEC||Given the COVID-19 scenario in the State, elaborate arrangements are being made to ensure that the COVID-19 protocol is strictly adhered to at polling stations in the State during the local body elections in early December. The State Election Commission has issued a circular on the arrangements that are to be made at the stations, State Election Commissioner (SEC) V. Bhaskaran said. The COVID-19 protocol should be strictly followed when arranging the polling stations. As part of the break-the-chain campaign, buckets, water, mug and soap will be provided outside the stations for the use of the voters. Special queue markings would be made to ensure proper physical distancing. The secretaries of the local bodies have been asked to ensure the removal of wastes from the stations after the voting. Biomedical waste Biomedical wastes such as gloves and masks will be collected separately and disposed of, the Commissioner said. Local body secretaries also have been directed to inspect the stations and ensure that they are equipped with electricity and water connections, furnitures and toilets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adhere-to-protocol-sec/article33208796.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||370 new cases, 638 recoveries in capital||The district reported 370 COVID-19 cases and 638 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 4,277 on Sunday. Barring a few imported cases, almost all of the new cases have been attributed to local transmission. Eight health workers are also among those infected. The COVID-19 death toll increase to 546 with two more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased were a 68-year-old woman who hailed from Attingal and an 81-year-old man who hailed from Koovalassery in Maranalloor. The district administration placed 2,524 people in quarantine, taking the total number of people who were being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 29,567 in houses. There are 110 persons in various institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/370-new-cases-638-recoveries-in-capital/article33209257.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Virtual workshop for student filmmakers||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy in collaboration with Global Media Makers and Film Independent, Los Angeles, is organising a Virtual Workshop on Creative Producing and Pitching for student filmmakers from India. The virtual workshop will be held over two blocks of sessions between December 1 to 3 and December 8 to 10 for three hours per day. The workshop aims to provide the participants who are the final year students of Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute, Kolkata, K R Narayanan National Institute of Visual Sciences, Kottayam and L V Prasad Film and TV Academy, Chennai the opportunity to workshop their pitch, discuss their projects and receive feedback from mentors and peers. The workshop will also provide an overview of US independent film development strategies and explore how these practices can be applied in their countries. The virtual workshop will be led by US and Indian industry professionals, including Tatiana Kelly, Producer, Serena Films, Jim Young, Producer, Animus Films, Miriam Joseph, Producer and Bina Paul, Editor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-workshop-for-student-filmmakers/article33209254.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Entries invited for short film festival||Entries have been invited for the 9th edition of the Prathidhwani Qisa short film festival, organised by Prathidhwani, a welfare organisation of IT employees. Employees from around 600 companies across Technopark, Infopark and Cyber Park can make use of the platform. The last date for submitting the entries is December 10. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the festival will be held online this year. The selected films will be screened via Prathidhwani Film club YouTube channel. Film critic M.F.Thomas will be the jury chairman. Best film The best film will get a cash award of Rs. 11,111 and the best director, best script and the second best film will each get a cash award of Rs. 5,555. For details visit -http://www.prathidh wani.org/Qisa20||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entries-invited-for-short-film-festival/article33208776.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Murder accused arrested||The Vithura police on Sunday arrested 62-year-old Thajudeen, a habitual offender, who was wanted for the alleged murder of Madhavan a few days ago. The police nabbed the Memala native from a forested area near his house where Madhavan’s putrefied body was found. According to the police, Thajudeen and Madhavan, both accused in numerous criminal cases, were allegedly involved in a scuffle while they were illegally brewing liquor in the house on November 26. The accused is suspected to have hit him on the head using a heavy object. The police are yet to ascertain the theory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-accused-arrested/article33209258.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Polls in two wards put off||The State Election Commission has decided to cancel the elections scheduled to two municipality wards following the deaths of candidates. Thelliyil J. Mathew, a candidate in Ward 37 of Kalamassery municipality in Ernakulam district, and M.K. Mukundan, a candidate in the Pullazhi ward of Thrissur municipality, had passed away recently. Section 124 of the Kerala Municipality Act requires the Commission to cancel the election and start the procedures afresh if a candidate whose nomination has cleared the scrutiny and who has not withdrawn his candidature dies and a report of his death is received before the publication of the list of contesting candidates. The same procedure is called for where a candidate dies and a report of his death is received before the commencement of the poll. The State Election Commission had recently put off elections to the Parambimukku ward of Panmana grama panchayat, Kollam district, and Thathoorpoyyil ward in Mavoor panchayat, Kozhikode district, following the deaths of candidates invoking similar provisions in the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polls-in-two-wards-put-off/article33208726.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bolster anti-defacement squads, says poll panel||The State Election Commission (SEC) has directed District Election Officers to step up the activities of the anti-defacement squads formed to monitor the campaigns of the candidates for the upcoming local body polls. Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran directed the officers to include more police officers in the squads in consultation with the District Police Chiefs to add more teeth to the squads formed at the taluk level. At least one police officer should be assigned to each squad in districts where police officers have not been included in them, the Commissioner said. Mr. Bhaskaran stressed the need for more effective action on the part of the squads to prevent the use of plastic, flex and other non-biodegradable materials in the campaigns and to obey the High Court ruling pertaining to green protocol for the elections. e-DROP Presiding officers and first polling officers assigned reserve polling duty in the grama panchayats have been asked to report for training sessions after examining the training schedule on the e-DROP website, a pressnote issued here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bolster-anti-defacement-squads-says-poll-panel/article33208772.ece
30 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Appointed member of NCERT advisory board||K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer of KITE (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education), has been appointed member of the advisory board of the NCERT (National Council of Educational Research and Training), under the Union Ministry of Education. Mr. Sadath has been selected to the Institute Advisory Board of the Central Institute of Educational Technology, New Delhi, for a period of three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointed-member-of-ncert-advisory-board/article33208792.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Modi govt. playing with fire: Chandy||The Modi government is playing with fire by ignoring the protest of the country’s farmers braving even the biting cold, Congress Working Committee Member Oommen Chandy has said. In a press release, he said that Delhi would turn into a sea of farmers when protesters from other States joined the farmers from Punjab and Haryana who were now part of the Delhi Chalo march. The Central government had created several obstacles to prevent the farmers from reaching Delhi.The government should hold talks with the farmers to convince them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modi-govt-playing-with-fire-chandy/article33208794.ece
30 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Curbs in place in view of heavy rain||The district administration has placed a temporary ban on travel to hilly areas, quarry activities, and fishing in view of the likelihood of heavy rain and strong winds in the district on December 1 and 2. The administration has also opened 24-hour control rooms at the taluk level to monitor the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-in-place-in-view-of-heavy-rain/article33209259.ece
30 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NISH evaluations for children and adults||The National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH) will conduct free hearing/communication (speech, language) evaluations for children and adults from December 1 to 4. The programme is being organised in connection with International Day of Persons with Disabilities that falls on December 3. For registration, call phone numbers 0471 2944622/627 from Monday to Friday (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.), said a press release issued here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nish-evaluations-for-children-and-adults/article33208780.ece
30 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||525 cases in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded 525 COVID-19 cases on Sunday while 293 patients recovered from the disease. There are 6,764 active cases in the district and 103 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far, 58,832 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in the district and 51,637 patients recovered. According to the official statistics, 513 patients, including four health officials, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. They include 53 people above the age of 60 and 47 children below the age of 10. Home care There are 4,584 people under home care. As many as 209 people were admitted in the hospital for COVID-19 treatment on Sunday. As many as 4,748 samples were collected for the test on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/525-cases-in-thrissur/article33209222.ece
30 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||CM trapping opposition in fake cases: Chennithala||The LDF government, which is immersed in a slush pool of corruption, is trying to indulge in mudslinging against the opposition leaders, Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said. Addressing a ‘Meet the Press’ programme organised by the Thrissur Press Club on Saturday in connection with local body elections, he said the Chief Minister was conspiring to trap opposition leaders in fake cases. The cases, which were dropped, had been reinvestigated intentionally by the government. Such attempts would be fought with legally and politically. “The government and the CPI(M) should not think that they can silence the opposition with fake cases. The statement of Biju Ramesh in the bar bribery case is not new. Now it is being reinvestigated. The Chief Minister will not be able to do anything against me in the bar bribery case. I haven’t taken even a single rupee while I was KPCC president,” he said. The Chief Minister was scared as the central investigating agency had called his Additional secretary C.M. Raveendran for questioning. If there was nothing to hide, why should the government be scared of the agencies, he asked. Why should Finance Minister Thomas Isaac be angry at the vigilance raid in KSFE (Kerala State Financial enterprises)? He was angry at the CAG report too, Mr. Chennithala noted. The government was going ahead with the K. Rail Project without the recognition of the Railway Board or NITI Aayog. The government had business interest in the project. The project had been promoted for the real estate mafia, he alleged. Departmental inquiry into the Chembuchira school construction malpractice was to protect the culprits, he said, seeking vigilance investigation into the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-trapping-opposition-in-fake-cases-chennithala/article33209264.ece
30 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Discussion on Mani’s role in bar case irrelevant: Vijayaraghavan||A discussion on late K.M. Mani’s role in the bar bribery case is irrelevant now, LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan has said. He was answering a question about whether K.M. Mani was innocent in the bar bribery case at a election debate programme organised by the Thrissur Press Club on Sunday. The question was about a man who was no more. So such a question was unnecessary, he said. However, he refused to give a clear answer about the KSFE (Kerala State Financial enterprises) Vigilance raid. The party had not discussed the issue, he said. “The KSFE is an institution that is functioning very well. The Finance Minister has expressed his opinion about the raid. Many others too have expressed their opinion. However, the party is yet to discuss the issue.” He refuted the allegation of the Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala that the Chief Minister is conspiring against him. The investigation was on the basis of some new evidence that emerged against the opposition leader, he said. When asked his reaction to the controversy over the appointment of his wife and former Mayor Dr. R. Bindu as vice principal of Sree Kerala Varma College, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said it was not a subject he should react to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discussion-on-manis-role-in-bar-case-irrelevant-now/article33208771.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kappakkal has highest number of voters in Kozhikode city||The distribution of voters in various wards of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation is quite uneven, as evident from the huge difference between the number of voters in some wards. While Chakkorathukulam has the lowest number of voters at 3,042, Kappakkal has the highest at 10,783. Besides Kappakkal, Beypore has a huge voting population of 9,364, while 11 wards have less than 5,000 voters. Of the 4.62 lakh voters in the city, 2.19 lakh are male and 2.42 lakh are female. There are also four transgender voters. While the gender ratio is in favour of females in most wards, only Kuttichira ward has a male-dominated voting population. There are 3,063 males in the ward as against 2,996 females. There are 398 booths in all the 75 wards of the corporation, of which Mukhadar ward has the highest number of booths at seven, while Chakkorathukulam, Medical College South and Medical College wards have three booths each. The booth with the maximum number of voters is Varadoor in Vengeri ward (1,629). There are three other booths with more than 1,600 voters. On the other hand, six booths have less than 700 voters. Among them is a special booth in connection with the leprosy hospital in Chevayur ward where 75 voters are to exercise their franchise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kappakkal-has-highest-number-of-voters-in-kozhikode-city/article33208725.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traditional ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traditional-ritual/article33208785.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Play of emotions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/play-of-emotions/article33208731.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll preparations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-preparations/article33208774.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Time at their disposal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/time-at-their-disposal/article33208798.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Temporary home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temporary-home/article33209268.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Play of lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/play-of-lights/article33209226.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival sale||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-sale/article33209143.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Light of hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/light-of-hope/article33209261.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Larger than life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/larger-than-life/article33209253.ece
30 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Successive CMs betrayed people of Rayalaseema’||Bharatiya Janata Party national secretary Y. Satya Kumar on Sunday alleged that the successive Chief Ministers, who hailed from the Rayalaseema, had betrayed the people of the region by neither taking up development activities nor spending money to improve the standard of life of the common man. During an interaction with the party functionaries here, Mr. Satya Kumar said that things had come to such a pass that the assets of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) were not being protected even as the portions of the seven hills were getting encroached. Criticising the YSRCP government, he alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was following the footsteps of his counterpart in Telangana and working only for political gains .  “Like Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Mr. Jagan also functions from his farmhouse without having a public connect. There is no focus on generating revenue for the State or development activity. Just doling out money in the name of welfare does not help,” said Mr. Satya Kumar. Housing scheme At a time when the BJP-led Central government has sanctioned 21 lakh houses to the poor in Andhra Pradesh, not even 7 lakhs have been finished in the past seven years, he pointed out and alleged that all YSRCP leaders were mired in corruption. The Narendra Modi government has introduced Jan Dhan accounts and Direct Benefits Transfer system so that financial leakages are plugged, he said. BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy and other leaders were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/successive-cms-betrayed-people-of-rayalaseema/article33209209.ece
30 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more held in girl’s ‘murder’ case||Three more persons were arrested on Sunday in connection with the ‘murder’ of a 19-year-old girl, Shaheeda, of Chapiri village in Kalyandurg mandal. She was allegedly thrown into Tungabhadra High-Level Canal on November 17 after tying her legs and hands by a youth, Bestha Raghu, said to be her lover from the same village. The three were relatives of the accused and with these arrests, the total number of persons taken into custody in the case rose to eight. When the parents of the girl complained to the police that Raghu had taken her on a motorcycle, the accused was taken into custody, and during the course of interrogation, he misled the police. However, later he confessed to the crime. The body was retrieved six km away from the spot where he had allegedly pushed her into the canal. A plea would be filed in court on Monday to get the police custody of the main accused for further investigation, Disha Police Station DSP A. Srinivasulu told The Hindu.  Meanwhile, Loukika Rajyanga Parirakshana Vedika (LRPV) State convener S. Mushtaq Ahmed visited Chapiri and met the parents of Shaheeda. The LRPV leader demanded that a case under Disha Act booked and the accused punished within a month as promised by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-held-in-girls-murder-case/article33209195.ece
30 November 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||After a brief lull, ganja smugglers active again in Visakha Agency||After a brief lull, ganja smuggling cases have started to increase in Visakhapatnam district. From January 1 to November 26 this year, the district police have busted 208 ganja cases in which 34,549 kg ganja was seized. It may be noted that in November alone, the police cracked 30 ganja cases and seized 12,063 kg ganja, which is almost 35% of the total contraband seized. Huge hauls of ganja were recovered at various places including Araku, Paderu, and K.D. Peta among other places. The Araku and Paderu police seized about 2,000 kg ganja each some days ago and KD Pea police on Wednesday seized 1,800 kg ganja from a lorry. According to the district police, in the year 2018, police had recovered 16,045 kg ganja in 153 cases and in 2019, 23,172 kg ganja was seized in 199 cases. The police estimate that the total worth of ganja seized in the district in November so far, would be Rs. 2.40 crore. But if the ganja is transported to other States like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka and Telangana, its worth would increase to nearly Rs. 12 to Rs. 15 crore, the police said. In these cases, 54 persons, including 28 inter-State smugglers, were arrested and 27 vehicles were seized. ‘Harvesting time’ According to a few police officials, end of November to December is the time when the farmers harvest the crop. Most farmers try to dispose of old stock by offering the contraband at low rate. Smugglers try to make best use of the opportunity and buy in huge quantities. “Since the last couple of years, the Excise Department in association with a few others have conducted raids and damaged lakhs of ganja plantations during October to December. This year, it was not possible due to various reasons. Most of the farmers have planted crop during July this year and are harvesting now,” said a senior officer from the Excise Department. Tourist season Some police officials said that during this time of the year, a number of tourists from various parts of the country visit the Agency and the smugglers use the opportunity to smuggle out the weed. “Unless we have concrete information, we cannot intercept some vehicle and check luggages. They may be genuine tourists. Keeping this in view, some smugglers try to escape by using regular tourist cars,” said a officer from the district police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-smuggling-picks-up-in-vizag-agency-after-a-brief-lull/article33209203.ece
30 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA pledges Rs. 1 crore towards flood relief||Proddatur legislator R. Sivaprasad Reddy on Sunday announced to give Rs. 1 crore towards flood relief for the farmers of his constituency. The YSRCP MLA who visited the flood-ravaged fields in Kummaripalle village of Rajupalem mandal in his constituency along with the revenue officials, saw for himself the damage suffered by the standing crops and gave a patient hearing to the farmers’ woes. The amount would be disbursed on December 31, the day on which the government had announced to pay the official compensation to the victims of Cyclone Nivar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-pledges-rs-1-crore-towards-flood-relief/article33209196.ece
30 November 2020||KAIKALUR (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers rue their luck as another storm brews||Agriculture and aquaculture farmers, who suffered huge losses due to incessant rains in the recent past, are an anxious lot with the IMD predicting that heavy rains will occur again in the region in the next few days. With the officials predicting the formation of another cyclone and possible rains in the first week of December, farmers are worried about salvaging their produce. Many aqua and agriculture farmers suffered huge losses due to the incessant rains that occurred in the last few months. Crops in thousands of acres were inundated and fish and shrimp tanks were also damaged due to the rains. Leaders of various political parties, who visited the damaged fields to assess crop loss, appealed to the government to procure the discoloured paddy and other damaged crops and provide financial aid to the ryots to recover from their losses. Several paddy farmers were seen drying paddy on the main roads on West Godavari and Krishna districts. However, they were anxious regarding the heavy rainfall prediction in the coastal districts of the State. “We invested Rs. 20,000 per acre. But the rains in October inundated the crops, and rainwater stagnated in the fields for a month. Again, we spent around Rs. 5,000 to pump out the rainwater and clear the damaged crop,” said a farmer Ch. Ramachandra Rao of Alapadu village. “The crop was harvested by November 20. Suddenly, there was a change in the weather and heavy rainfall occurred in several parts of the State, damaging the produce,” said another farmer K. Nageswara Rao of Undi in West Godavari district. In Narsapuram, Veeravasaram, Akiveedu, Kalidindi, Korukallu and other mandals, many aqua ponds were damaged due to the rains, said the farmers. Overflowing canals “Irrigation canals were overflowing and tanks brimmed to the full due to incessant rains and damaged the tank bunds in many villages. Rains caused huge losses to fish and shrimp farmers,” said an aqua farmer David Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-rue-their-luck-as-another-storm-brews/article33208592.ece
30 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virtual workshop on ways to harness power of technology||Product innovation, aeronautics for young minds, social networking for agriculture, understanding customer requirements in the dairy industry were some of the topics discussed at a two-day online workshop on “Connecting the dots with design and technology” at the Indian Institute of Information Technology Design and Manufacturing, Kurnool. Professor Sudheer Varadharajan, Dean for Design, Innovation, and Incubation at IIITDM Kancheepuram, and the founding director of MaDeIT Innovation Foundation - a design-driven technology business incubator highlighted the importance of creative and critical thinking in product development, the way forward for beginning a start-up and bridging the gap between idea and execution. Founder of “Aeronautics for young minds”, an initiative to boost aerospace interest among young students, Prabhu Annadurai spoke about the importance of experiential learning and pursuing passion by giving an account of his and his 10-year old son’s interest in aeronautics. Digital Green CEO Rikin Gandhi dealt on “Social Networking for Agriculture Development”. He explained how Digital Green has been creating awareness of technology among farmers of Asian and African continents that empowers smallholder farmers to lift themselves out of poverty by harnessing the collective power of technology. While institute director D. V. L. N. Somayajulu inaugurated the sessions, Modern Dairy Machines founder Gowri Shankar explained about caring for “Understanding Customer Requirements”. Having ethics in business and fulfilling the commitments, exploring the possibilities were key to success. He encouraged the ignited minds to trust and follow their passion to be successful in life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virtual-workshop-on-ways-to-harness-power-of-technology/article33208583.ece
30 November 2020||MYLAVARAM (KRISHNA DT),ANDHRA PRADESH||Bus driver dies of cardiac arrest; all passengers safe||An APSRTC driver, B. Krishna Rao (49), who was on wheels died of cardiac arrest on Sunday. Mr. Krishna Rao, who was working in Tiruvur depot, was driving the bus to Vijayawada from Tiruvur when the incident occurred. RTC Vijayawada Regional Manager G. Nagendra Prasad said the driver suffered heart pain when the bus was on Mylavaram outskirts and he stopped the bus on the roadside and fainted. He was rushed to a local hospital, where he was declared brought dead. All the 30 passengers in the bus were safe, the Regional Manager said. Mr. Nagendra Prasad, along with Deputy Chief Traffic Manager John Sukumar, Tiruvuru Depot Manager Venu and other officials visited the hospital and consoled Krishna Rao’s family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bus-driver-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-all-passengers-safe/article33208589.ece
30 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Growing opportunities in healthcare sector pave way for new courses||At a time when many post graduates and engineering degree holders have been unable to find jobs, youngsters from remote areas of the tribal region could get decent placements within no time, thanks to new opportunities in the healthcare sector. Moreover, COVID-19 has made many hospitals to recruit more number of trained personnel in the last six months. As many as 3,500 youngsters from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts could get placements with decent packages in reputed hospitals, nursing homes, clinical laboratories, diagnostic centres located both in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana regions. Bollineni Medsills, which is part of Kims Group of Hospitals, has launched innovative courses in 2016 after completion of a detailed study over the requirements of healthcare sector. It observes hospitals are able to appoint efficient doctors, nurses but unable to get well-trained assistants whose role would be critical in providing quality service to patients. It led to the establishment of Bollineni Medskills on the premises of GEMS Hospital of Srikakulam five years ago with the suggestion from KIMS founder Bollineni Bhaskara Rao. Initially, the courses helped youngsters to settle down as multi purpose health assistants, medical lab technology assistants, dark room assistants, ECG technicians, and cardiology technicians. Keeping in view demand for para-medical courses, the Medskills introduced B.Sc courses in operation technology, imaging technology, physiotherapy and others. Along with Dr .B.R. Ambedkar University, it has started offering post-graduate courses in master of health administration and diploma course in medical records and health information, according to Ch. Nageswara Rao, centre head of Medskills, Srikakulam. Nominal fee structure “NTR Health University and AP Government have also approved new degree and PG courses. We fixed very nominal fee structure to help tribal and rural youngsters complete the courses without having any financial difficulty. Luckily, we could get support from Tata Strive and Tech Mahindra Foundation to introduce new courses with affordable fee structure,” he said. Academic director Ch. Lakshmi Padmaja has expressed happiness over good response to the courses from girls who could not study beyond intermediate due to various reasons. The youngsters, who got placements, shared their happiness with teachers and heads of the organisation. “Owing to our family condition, I was forced to do a job to take care of my siblings. I used to earn little income by working in a textile shop. Later, I did ward nursing assistant course and could get a decent job in Sunshine Hospitals,-Karimnagar,” said Savara Jayamma of Purushottampuram village of Saravakota mandal, Srikakulam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/growing-opportunities-in-healthcare-sector-pave-way-for-new-courses/article33209198.ece
30 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Truckers’ body concerned over hike in diesel prices||Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners Association and Srikakulam Granite Lorry Owners and Trailers Association, in a joint statement, expressed their concern over the skyrocketing of diesel prices which led to huge losses for the owners of granite lorry and trailers in Srikakulam district. The associations said that while the per tonne loading charge remained at Rs. 600 in the last four years, the price of diesel had risen from Rs. 62 to Rs. 79 in the State. Srikakulam Granite Lorry Owners and Trailers Association elected Chinnala Venkata Satyanarayana at the general body meeting held in Tekkali under the supervision of AP State Lorry Owners Association’s vice-president Mudiya Janakiram Reddy. The association also elected Allu Nagesh as general secretary and Guna Siva Krishna, U. Shyamkumar and K. Lakshmunnaidu as vice-presidents. ‘Huge losses’ Mr.Venkata Satyanarayana said that unhealthy business practices, overloading, and return journey without any loads were leading to huge losses for the lorry owners. “The lorry owners and drivers should not violate norms as heavy loads are resulting in huge fines from the Transport Department. Proper weight checks would prevent unwanted penalties. Lorry owners and drivers should try for bookings on their return journeys from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and other States. Cement and other materials can be transported on the return journey by developing cordial relations with lorry owners and drivers of other States. We are also trying to improve coordination with respective organisations of other States,” Mr. Chinna Rao said. Delegation to meet CM Mr. Chinna Rao said that a delegation would meet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, requesting them to reduce the tax and surcharge burden on petroleum products within Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Janakiram urged the Transport Department not to impose heavy fines as minor discrepancies in weight are common when huge granite loads are carried on trailers. He urged the government to control diesel prices as they would have an immediate impact on the transport sector as well as a cascading effect on overall business activity. Mr. Allu Nagesh said that bad roads in many parts of the State are leading to a delay in transport of granite and other material. He urged the members to be united in drawing the attention of the government to their long-pending demands. Srikakulam Lorry Owners Association president Badana Janardhana Rao and the association’s legal adviser K. Nanaji were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/truckers-body-concerned-over-hike-in-diesel-prices/article33208585.ece
30 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMC students perform ‘Narayana Seva’||Andhra Medical College students participated in ‘Narayana seva’ at Sri Guru Raghavendra Swamy temple of Srikakulam on Sunday to commemorate their classmate M. Srividya who died in November, 2019. The medicos -- Paidi Reshma, Surya Chakravarti, Harshavardhan Reddy, Rishikesh Goud -- and others served food to poor people on the temple premises as part of the ‘seva’. Temple trust chairperson Baratam Kameswara Rao, Srikakulam Press Club president Konkyana Venugopala Rao hailed their initiative in participating in service activity in memory of their friend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amc-students-take-part-in-narayana-seva/article33209197.ece
30 November 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan to visit rain-hit areas on December 2||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan will visit the areas affected by heavy rain caused by Cyclone Nivar in the State on December 2. In a teleconference with the party cadres in Chittoor, Guntur, Kadapa, Krishna, Nellore and Prakasam districts on Sunday, Mr. Pawan said that crops in around 12 lakh acres had been damaged due to the Cyclone Nivar, which had dealt a blow on the farmers. Paddy, cotton, chilli, groundnut, banana and horticultural crops have been extensively damaged by heavy rains. Mr. Pawan demanded that the funds given by the Central government for disaster management should be utilised for the purposes they were meant for, and alleged that the facilities in the relief camps were pathetic. JSP political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar said tenant farmers were in dire straits and requested the government to take urgent measures to bail them out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-to-visit-rain-hit-areas-on-december-2/article33209215.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Damaged Pincha project will be restored soon: MP||The mammoth Pincha irrigation project, which got washed away due to the flash floods triggered by cyclonic storm Nivar, would be restored at the earliest, assured Member of Parliament (Rajampet) P.V. Midhun Reddy. Accompanied by legislators Meda Mallikarjuna Reddy (Rajampet), Chintala Ramachandra Reddy (Piler) and former MLA Akepati Amarnatha Reddy, Mr. Reddy visited the project in K.V. Palle mandal of Chittoor district that shares border with Kadapa. Lifeline of farmers The MP said that the Pincha river used to be the lifeline of farmers in this drought-prone region, but it unfortunately suffered a damage due to the sudden rise in water flow in the canals upstream in the wake of heavy rain. Temporary relief measures had been initiated to minimise the damage, while permanent steps would be taken after the irrigation authorities prepared a detailed report on this issue, said Mr. Midhun Reddy after his visit to the project. Earlier in the day, Mr. Midhun Reddy also inspected the 100-year-old bridge that suffered damage in Sodum mandal due to the sudden discharge of water. Mr. Midhun Reddy announced to get a taller and wider bridge in its place to meet the needs of the town for the next 50 years. Damage estimation The Rajampet MP also instructed the officials concerned to estimate the extent of damage done to roads and causeways in Somala and Punganur mandals, coming under his native Punganur Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/damaged-pincha-project-will-be-restored-soon-mp/article33209211.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP extends helping hand to farmers||Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy extended a helping hand to the farmers of Cherlopalle village in Srikalahasti mandal of Chittoor district on Sunday. Farmers were taken by surprise when they saw the SP, who was a farmer himself before joining the profession, stepping into the muddy field to assist the workers engaged in transplantation operation. The SP assured the farmers, who were ruing their fate over the loss of crop and livelihood in the wake of Cyclone Nivar, that the cloud of gloom in the form of cyclonic devastation would vanish soon and urged them to face the situation bravely. Vegetables distributed He later handed over rice, vegetables and ration to the farm workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-extends-helping-hand-to-farmers/article33208587.ece
30 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 boys meet watery grave in Chittoor||Three boys in their teens drowned in a water body in Ramasamudram mandal of Chittoor district on Sunday. Nagabhushanam (15), Vijay (15) and Yashwanth (12) went out to bring fodder and grass for their livestock when they accidentally fell into Municheruvu near Ramapuram village. It is believed that one of them would have fallen first and the other two must have jumped into it in a bid to rescue the first. Ramasamudram police rushed to the spot on being alerted by the villagers and fished out the bodies. A case has been registered and the bodies sent for postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-boys-meet-watery-grave/article33208586.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village Child Protection Committees to stop child abuse, minor marriages||Officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) are making all efforts to stamp out child marriages and increase girl child literacy through Village Child Protection Committees (VCPCs) in the State. Over 7,000 VCPCs have been constituted in Andhra Pradesh, and the Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) of WD&CW and some NGOs, working on protecting child rights, were monitoring the functioning of the committees. “A sarpanch will head the committee and the local Anganwadi worker will act as a convener. Committee members will include four children, community elders, local school teachers, VRO, VRA and other government employees, NGOs working on child rights and parents,” said an officer of the WD&CW department. VCPCs will identify the problems, arrange meetings, discuss the problems and come up with a solution. If the issue was not solved, the problem would be taken to the Mandal Child Protection Committees for resolution, the officer said. West Godavari District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Ch. Surya Chakraveni said over 900 VCPCs have been formed in the district. The committees were actively functioning with the help of World Vision, Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF) and other NGOs, she said. Child rights “We constituted 800 VCPCs in Krishna district. The committees will look into issues like school dropouts, child marriages, facilities in schools, better implementation of Right to Education Act, awareness on POCSO Act, and prevention of child labour,” said Krishna DCPO Ch. Vijay Kumar. CRAF State programme director P. Francis Thambi said the children and members will also discuss on supply of nutritional diet, identification and restoration of children in need of care and protection, empowering children in leadership qualities, gender equality, Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, 1994 (PC-PNDT Act), promotional activities of Beti Bachao Beti Bachao (BBBP), a Central government Scheme. Child marriages stopped “We are sponsoring for 152 children under Open School System, who are unable to attend regular schools due to various reasons in the State. Trained children will deliver lectures on protection of girl child, minor marriages and dropouts,” Mr. Francis said. VCPC member Nithya of Eluru town said the committees foiled around 25 child marriages, with the help of Anganwadi workers and supervisers and counselled the bride and bridegroom families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-child-protection-committees-to-stop-child-abuse-minor-marriages/article33208594.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. announces energy conservation awards||The Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (AP-SECM) has announced Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Awards-2020, which will be given during the National Energy Conservation Week in December. Energy Secretary N. Srikant, in a press release, said the awards were intended to encourage and recognise the endeavours of industry, buildings and municipal sectors in reducing energy consumption, and to showcase the State’s achievements on energy efficiency and energy conservation fronts. He said that Andhra Pradesh had set a target of saving 15,000 Million Units (MU) of energy in various sectors in the coming years. PAT scheme The industry sector alone has successfully saved 2,386 MU of energy by implementing energy efficiency measures under the PAT scheme with support of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE). In view of this, the State government has decided to take forward the energy efficiency movement on a mission mode, for which it has instituted the above awards. As part of the process, a State-level energy awards competition would be held in December. Applications According to SECM CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy, assistance of the National Productivity Council has been sought to organise the awards competition. Applications need to be downloaded from the AP-Transco website https://www.aptransco.co.in and the filled-in applications need to be sent to seca.apsecm@gmail.com, with a copy to ceo.secm@gmail.com by December 7, the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-announces-energy-conservation-awards/article33209212.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tight security in place for Assembly session||The Guntur and Vijayawada City Police have put in place tight security for the winter session of the Legislative Assembly, which will begin from Monday. Police conducted vehicle checking on roads leading to the Assembly at Undavalli, Thullur, Velagapudi, Tadepalli, Prakasam Barrage and other places. Bomb disposal squads and sniffer dog teams conducted checking at the culverts and in the roadside bushes to prevent any untoward incident. Additional forces have been deployed en route the Assembly. Police visited hotels and lodges and conducted checking. Police will continue to conduct random checking of vehicles and have stepped up vigil near the Assembly. Police reviewed security in the capital villages on Sunday, senior officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tight-security-in-place-for-assembly-session/article33209280.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nivar causes a loss of Rs. 5.07 crore to SPDCL||The Energy Department has put the loss inflicted by Cyclone Nivar on the power supply infrastructure under the purview of the SPDCL at Rs. 5.07 crore. The discom deployed 151 special teams in Nellore, Chittoor and Kadapa districts which had the maximum impact of heavy rains caused by Cyclone Nivar, for doing the restoration works, according to an official release. Energy Secretary N. Srikant asked the Discom officials to focus on power supply to domestic and water supply schemes and complete all the works at the earliest. In total, 261 33-KV feeders, 1,029 11- KV feeders and 1,238 Distribution Transformers (DTRs) were damaged. As on Sunday, all but six 33- KV feeders, 49 11- KV feeders and 632 DTRs were restored. Water work services are being restored on a war-footing. Control rooms have been set up at the division level in three districts to monitor the restoration works and ensure round-the-clock power supply. Nodal officers Four Superintending Engineers were deputed from the corporate office as nodal officers.  The load monitoring cell at the SPDCL head office in Tirupati is monitoring the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nivar-causes-a-loss-of-rs-507-crore-to-spdcl/article33209213.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swarna Palace mishap: police to interrogate Ramesh Babu||The Vijayawada City Police, who are probing the fire mishap at Hotel Swarna Palace in which ten persons died on August 9, will question Ramesh Cardiac and Multi Speciality Hospitals Private Limited managing director P. Ramesh Babu. Fire broke out on the first and second floors of Hotel Swarna Palace, which was functioning as a COVID-19 care centre, in the early hours of August 9 this year. The hotel was taken on lease by the management of Ramesh Hospitals. Ten patients were killed and 20 others suffered injuries in the fire mishap. The Governorpet police registered a case and took up an investigation and arrested three persons in the case. Dr. Ramesh Babu approached the High Court, which granted a stay on investigation of the case. Later, the police approached the Supreme Court for continuing their probe into the case. Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said that the High Court directed Ramesh Babu to cooperate with the police in their investigation into the case. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP-Law and Order) Ch. Lakshmipathi, who is investigating the case, said the police will begin questioning Ramesh Babu from Monday. “The High Court issued orders to conduct a custodial investigation of Ramesh Babu on November 30, December 1 and 2, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., by following the COVID-19 protocol and other guidelines,” Mr. Lakshmipathi said. Police questioned a few hospital and hotel employees. Investigation officers recorded their statements in the case, Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swarna-palace-mishap-police-to-interrogate-ramesh-babu/article33209220.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB unearths spurious liquor racket; 19 held||The Guntur Rural police and the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials unearthed a spurious liquor manufacturing racket on Sunday. They conducted raids in Uppalapadu and the neighbouring villages and seized about 16,000 bottles of spurious liquor. The police arrested 19 persons of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh, who were doing the illegal trade, said Superintendent of Police Vishal Gunni. Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Arif Hafeez said the Macherla SEB and the police recovered the bottles hidden in the ground and arrested the accused. The accused were marketing the spurious liquor with the labels of noted liquor brands. “The accused were manufacturing the liquor at Belgaum in Karnataka State and were storing the stocks in AP. They were distributing the liquor stocks to the neighbouring States from Guntur,” Mr. Hafeez said. The gang was printing the labels and caps at Indore in Madhya Pradesh and have a wide network. Samples of the seized liquor has been sent to the Excise Laboratory for examination. The case is under investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-unearths-spurious-liquor-racket-19-held/article33208588.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drive to shift homeless to shelter homes||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has launched a special drive to identify and shift homeless persons to shelter homes set up at four locations in the city. Urban Community Development centre project officer J. Aruna asked the officials concerned to go around the city between 9 p.m. and 10.30 p.m. every day and identify destitute persons sleeping on the roads. Contact numbers The persons identified have to be shifted to nearby shelters. Locals who come across such persons can also inform the officials of the shelters at Hanuman Pet (96031 92978), Ranigari Thota (80082 01536), Sitara Junction-Chitti Nagar (82470 56826) and Medical Depot-Railway Station (90320 66642). The drive will be conducted till December 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drive-to-shift-homeless-to-shelter-homes/article33208582.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1 crore unaccounted cash seized||Sleuths of the Police Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) conducted raids in Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) and seized Rs. 1 crore unaccounted cash. They took two traders into custody. Raids conducted Following information that the traders, who were running electronic gadgets showroom, were carrying the cash, the CTF police conducted raids on Sunday, and recovered the cash when they failed to produce necessary bills. They were about to travel from Vijayawada to Guntakal. The amount would be handed over to Commercial Taxes (CT) Department personnel for further investigation, according to a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-1-crore-unaccounted-cash-seized/article33209279.ece
30 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘It’s a habit of Naidu to politicise every issue’||Government Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy has said former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu should attend the Assembly session on the first day (November) 30 and demand that it be held for a particular number of days, after the Business Advisory Committee takes a decision thereof. Addressing the media on Sunday, Mr. Srikanth Reddy said it had been Mr. Naidu’s habit to politicise every issue and this time was not an exception. He said the government was ready to discuss the issues raised by the Opposition on the welfare schemes being implemented and policy matters. “The government decided to conduct the Assembly session in compliance with COVID protocols. There are nearly 70 leaders in the Assembly and Council aged above 60.” No question hour Question Hour would not be taken up due to the pandemic as per the same procedure followed in Rajya Sabha. Live coverage of the Assembly proceedings would be provided to all media houses for telecast, Mr. Srikanth Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-a-habit-of-naidu-to-politicise-every-issue/article33209217.ece
30 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aashrayam Projects to build houses for the poor for free||Aashrayam Projects will construct houses free of cost for the tribal people and those living below the poverty line. Announcing this at a media conference here on Sunday, Aashrayam CEO K. Arun Kumar and its mentor P. Venugopal said that the beneficiaries would be selected by the Union Ministry of Tribal Welfare. The Union government had responded positively to the proposal. “Our aim is to build 8 crore houses across the country and in the in the first phase, we will build one crore houses for tribals, BCs and the poor, irrespective of caste and religion,” Mr. Arun Kumar said. “The Centre and the States will provide subsidies and tax exemptions to our company. We have appointed consultants across the country for execution of the projects. KRS Projects of Vizag is our main consultant,” he said. He explained that a Mumbai-based EMI Financing company has agreed to fund the projects. The foundation stone for the construction of the first 1,000 houses, under the pilot project, would be laid on January 18 and they would be completed within one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aashrayam-projects-to-build-houses-for-the-poor-for-free/article33209231.ece
30 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. failed to help cyclone-hit farmers: Ayyanna||Former Minister and TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has alleged that the YSR Congress Party government has miserably failed in reaching out to the farmers, whose crops are damaged by cyclone Nivar. In a video statement, released to the media on Sunday, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu said that crops in thousands of acres were destroyed by the cyclone in the State but none of the Ministers and MLAs had gone to meet the farmers. Referring to the ‘Nadu – Nedu’ programme of the government, he said it was time people compared the administration of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy with that of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. Saying that cyclones had occurred even during the rule of Mr. Naidu, the TDP leader recalled as to how the former Chief Minister had supervised the field-level operations during the Hudhud cyclone. Now, the victims were shifted to the relief camps but the government was not bothered about providing them food and other basic amenities, he alleged. Ridiculing the announcement of the Chief Minister that Rs. 500 would be given to each victim at the relief camps, he wondered what a person would get with that amount in these days of skyrocketing prices of essential commodities. He also found fault with the fixation of Rs. 6,500 an acre as compensation to the farmers and said it was an indication of the lack of knowledge of agriculture on the part of the Chief Minister and most of his Cabinet colleagues. Recalling the election promise of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that he would pay the crop insurance premium on behalf of the farmers, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu sought a clarification either from the Chief Minister or Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu, on whether the insurance premium was paid by the government. The TDP leader alleged that Mr. Jagan was confining himself to activities in Kadapa district, forgetting that he was the Chief Minister. Similarly, Mr. Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy was confining himself to Chittoor, while the remaining districts in the State were being neglected. Procurement centres Alleging that paddy procurement centres were not to be seen, he sought their opening in all villages so that farmers need not carry the discoloured paddy and other farm produce over long distances to sell them. While appealing to the government to render justice to farmers, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu called upon leaders of farmer associations to pressurise the government for a fair deal to the food producers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-failed-to-help-cyclone-hit-farmers/article33209199.ece
30 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction workers stage protest near Minister’s residence||Building construction workers threatened to picket the Assembly, if the State government failed to concede their demand for payment of Rs. 10,000 a month for the loss of livelihood. The workers under the aegis of CITU, AITUC and IFTU went in a rally to the residence of Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao in the city on Sunday and staged a protest demanding payment of compensation to the construction workers. They said that the stoppage of sand mining in the name of change in sand policy, led to sand scarcity for several months before the pandemic broke out. This and the pandemic had crippled the workers financially. They had demanded payment of Rs. 10,000 a month to each worker for the loss of livelihood during the pandemic but the State government had taken an adamant stand and declined to pay compensation. There were adequate funds in the Workers Welfare Board and this could have been paid to the workers. They had also sought payment of rice and other essential commodities. The workers demanded sanction of funds during the ongoing Assembly Session, failing which they would picket the Assembly. CITU State secretary M. Jaggu Naidu alleged that building construction workers were deprived of their livelihood ever since the YSR Congress Party government came to power about one-and-a-half years ago. He demanded paying of Welfare Board funds for welfare of the construction workers. AITUC leader Padala Ramana, IFTU State vice president P. Venkateswarlu, Building Construction Workers Union general secretary B. Venkata Rao were among those who participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-workers-stage-protest-near-ministers-residence/article33209283.ece
30 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 36 new cases and two deaths||The district reported 36 fresh COVID-19 infections and two deaths in the last 24 hours, as on Sunday evening. This is said to be the third least number of COVID-19 cases reported in a day after November 23 (21) and November 16 (25). This is for the fifth time, the single-day tally was less than 50 cases and consecutively for 21 days, the day tally was less than 100. The case load has increased to 58,664 and the death toll to 509 according to the bulletin. from Visakhapatnam district. As many as 127 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered. The recoveries have further increased to 57,274, and active cases have dropped to 881.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-36-new-cases-and-two-deaths/article33209285.ece
30 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die in roof collapse||Two persons died when the ceiling of a steel goods shop reportedly collapsed at Library Street, near the Old Bus Stand, at Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday afternoon. The deceased were identified as M. Nooka Raju (70), owner of the shop, and B. Ramana (56), a worker. According to the police, the building, especially the roof, was in a dilapidated condition and fell on the two persons. Fire personnel launched rescue operations. While Nooka Raju was trapped under the roof and died on the spot, Ramana was shifted to a hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-in-roof-collapse/article33209200.ece
30 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||820 kg ganja seized, 2 from Uttar Pradesh arrested||In yet another huge catch, the district police arrested two inter-State smugglers, while they were allegedly transporting about 820 kg dry ganja in a lorry at Gokulapadu under S Rayavaram police station limits, in the district on Sunday. The police found that the smugglers were transporting the weed to Uttar Pradesh, where it is estimated to be sold for more than Rs. 80 lakh. Both the arrested are from Uttar Pradesh. According to reports, the smugglers have reportedly procured the ganja from interior pockets of Sileru in Visakhapatnam district. Based on credible information, the police intercepted the lorry and seized the ganja. In order to divert the attention of the police, the smugglers dumped salt bags on the gunny bags containing ganja. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/820-kg-ganja-seized-two-from-uttar-pradesh-held/article33209201.ece
30 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist posters surface at G Madugula||Ahead of the banned CPI (Maoist) People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) week, scheduled from December 2 to 8, posters allegedly surfaced in Visakhapatnam Agency, on Sunday. The posters, issued in the name of CPI (Maoist), Visakha East-Division Committee, were pasted on the walls at Maddigaruvu and other areas in G Madugula mandal. The extremists conveyed through the posters that this year marks the 20th anniversary of the PLGA week and appealed to the tribals to participate in week-long celebrations and make it a success. The Maoists also appealed to the tribal youth to join the PLGA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-posters-surface-at-g-madugula/article33209287.ece
30 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation camp organised as part of Navy Week||A blood donation camp was organised at the Naval Station at Bheemunipatnam here on Sunday as part of the Navy Week celebrations. Surgeon Rear Admiral C.S. Naidu, Command Medical Officer (CMO), Eastern Naval Command, inaugurated the camp, which was conducted in collaboration with AS Raja Voluntary Blood Bank, Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-donation-camp-organised-as-part-of-navy-week/article33209281.ece
30 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||WRT’s gesture to PAPA Home||Waltair Round Table (WRT) 92, affiliated to Round Table India, organised several initiatives like distribution of monthly groceries in PAPA Home (police barracks), beach clean up drive as part of Go Green initiative near YMCA and blood donation camp in AS Raja Blood bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wrts-gesture-to-papa-home/article33209288.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lift curbs on media outfits: Naidu||“It is through the media that the people will get to know about the crucial discussions and debates taken up by the law-makers in the legislative bodies,” he pointed out, and sought to remind how the YSRCP government’s attempt to gag the media through G.O. 2430 in the past had come in for sharp criticism not only by the local but also national media. “When media representatives are allowed in Parliament, why are they being restricted from entering the legislative bodies in the State?” he questioned. “This is against the spirit of the Constitution,” Mr. Naidu observed. Meanwhile, TDP Polit Bureau member and leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Sunday appealed to the Council Chairman to allow all the media houses to cover the proceedings of the House in tune with the spirit of the Constitution and freedom of expression. In a letter to the Chairman, Mr. Ramakrishnudu asserted that people had a right to watch their representatives participating in the debates in the legislature. “It is the fundamental right of the voters to know how their leaders are responding to public issues and problems inside the House,” he observed. Transparency The TDP leader said it was their government that had first introduced the live telecast of the proceedings of the House in 1998. “The measure has ensured transparency in the conduct of the legislature and parliamentary business. The live telecast, the constitution of the Ethics Committee and disclosure of properties by the elected representatives have enhanced the prestige of the legislative bodies,” he said. Besides allowing all the media houses into the Council premises, Mr. Ramakrishnudu urged the Chairman to initiate steps for setting up a ‘media point’ there. The Chairman should also take measures to protect the democratic rights of the media representatives, he said. “The decisions taken by the Assembly Speaker against the media should not be applied on the Council premises,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lift-curbs-on-media-outfits-naidu/article33209207.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour/article33209278.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The aftermath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-aftermath/article33209219.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour/article33209205.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Holiday mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/holiday-mood/article33209290.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Next level of urban mobility awaited||Good public transport is the fulcrum of a modern city and Hyderabad is no exception. Apart from buses, MMTS Phase I connecting Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Falaknuma and Lingampally of 42 km more than two decades ago and the recent Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) Phase-I connecting L.B.Nagar to Miyapur, JBS to MGBS and Nagole to Raidurg help citizens move in a faster and eco-friendly manner. However, the city seems to have reached a cul de sac on the next phase of public transport. If the city’s growth rate is to be maintained along with other civic amenities of roads, stormwater drains, sewage, drinking water, etc., plans and execution for the public transport for the next few decades is imperative. Also, because “Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai and other cities have already started work on next phase of metro or suburban train works,” point out senior officials, seeking anonymity. MMTS plans MMTS Phase-II of 85 km, a joint venture project between Railways and the State government can be completed with better coordination between them. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy mentioned this project in the campaign blaming the Telangana government for the delays. It is true the government owes close to Rs. 500 crore as part of the earlier pact to fund two-thirds of the total cost that escalated to Rs. 1,000 crore from Rs. 813 crore, but surely the Union Minister realises the government is under a funds pump so a via-media solution could be thrashed out. The math goes like this: the Railways spent Rs. 730 crore when its share is Rs. 240 crore and Rs. 70 crore demand raised to buy new trains was rejected while the government gave just Rs. 129 crore. But, then Phase-I trains were launched in 2003. “Five lakh people can travel daily between suburbs once Phase-II is ready and railways infrastructure gets improved in the process,” they affirm. The Local Military Authority also needs to be nudged to allow work on 4 km between Ammuguda and Sanatnagar on the Sanatnagar-Moula Ali route, that’s hanging fire for five years now. MMTS line extension till Yadadri from Ghatkesar as requested by the government will only help pilgrims to reach the Sri Lakshi Narasimha Swamy temple, besides boosting connectivity to townships en route. Metro rail It has been eight years since the first metro pier construction began and before the pandemic struck, five lakh passengers were travelling by Hyderabad metro rail. It took years of planning to build this Rs. 20,000 crore biggest public-private partnership project. It has also been three years since metro rail phase-II construction of 60 km connecting Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) of 31 km from Gachibowli, Nagole to L.B. Nagar of 5 km and BHEL-R.C. Puram to Lakidikapul of 21 km, was announced. Detailed project reports prepared by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation are with the government but there has been no headway. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had again committed himself to the Airport Link expected to cost up to Rs. 9,000 crore at Rs. 300 crore a km. It could translate into slim chance for MGBS to Falaknuma link (incidentally closer to RGIA) and other routes. Plan for the 20-km, Rs. 2,400 crore Elevated Bus Rapid Transit System linking Kukatpally Housing Board with Financial District in Gachibowli under public-private partnership is also awaiting final nod. “Earmarking land parcels, innovative financial planning and tapping infrastructure investors can be done if governments, be it Central or State, give impetus to funding for public transport systems in cities,” point out senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/next-level-of-urban-mobility-awaited/article33209101.ece
30 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP brings fear, we bring with us development, says KTR||Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao wound up his road shows for GHMC elections on Sunday evening with a full blast attack against the Bharatiya Janata Party and posing questions to a stream of BJP leaders visiting the city for election campaign. Attack on Shah “We brought the world’s best companies like Apple and Amazon to Hyderabad while you are bringing fear,” he said in response to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s earlier promise of changing Hyderabad’s landscape to make it the country’s top IT region. “In fact, it is the BJP government which cancelled the ITIR project sanctioned by the UPA government for Hyderabad and acted against the hopes of youth in Telangana,” he said. The Minister continued his tirade against the BJP throughout his road shows in Goshamahal, Sanath Nagar, and Secunderabad constituencies, saying, “BJP knows only two things, first is jumla and second is hamla,” in an apparent reference to the ‘surgical strike on Old City’ comment by BJP president Bandi Sanjay. Furthering his attack on Amit Shah, he said, “The Home Minister is saying ours is Nizam culture but he should remember that Mahatma Gandhi, who hails from his own Gujarat, described Hyderabad culture as ‘Ganga-Jamuna tehzeeb’ and people coexist here peacefully. The city stands as an example for India.” Responding to Mr. Shah’s statement on no communal riots in the county, KTR recalled the communal clashes that took place in Delhi during US President Donald Trump’s visit to India right under the Centre’s police jurisdiction. “The news hogged headlines in the US top newspapers like New York Times and Washington Post damaging the brand of Delhi.” Shifting his focus to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who visited the city on Saturday, KTR referred to the Hathras case and said that it happened under Yogi’s government in UP. “You know right what will happen in Telangana when crimes happen on women?” he said. “They only want to divide people in the name of religion. I urge you all not to support such parties.” ‘TRS for growth’ Appealing to the people that TRS stood for construction of roads and infrastructure, two BJP leaders were only talking about destruction. Responding to Bandi Sanjay’s promise of giving a car for car, bike for a bike to flood victims, KTR said, “I want to ask him if he was an insurance agent or a party president.” “Some say we are soft on AIMIM. Last time, we won five seats and this time we will defeat AIMIM in 10 to 12 seats in Old City, he said, signing off his hectic road shows over the last one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-brings-fear-we-bring-with-us-development-says-ktr/article33209116.ece
30 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TRS is threatening people and BJP is communalising’||The contribution of BJP and TRS to Hyderabad’s development is nil, says Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy. While the TRS is threatening people that the city would be destroyed unless it was elected in the GHMC polls, the BJP is instilling fear among people by raking up communal issues, he points out in an interview with The Hindu .Excerpts: Congress is not being seriously in these elections and the fight seems to be between TRS and BJP. What’s your view on this perception? Both the BJP and TRS are creating a media hype through packages and raking up sensational issues. Since we are unable to spend [money], we are blacked out. The intention of BJP is clear while inviting national leaders for the campaign. There is no talk of betterment of Hyderabad anywhere. TRS has failed on all fronts and that is why it is following the BJP’s narrative and trying to threaten people to vote for it by projecting BJP as a danger as it has nothing else to show. Not a single promise of 2016 manifesto has been fulfilled. Do you think Hyderabadis will buy the communal argument that the political parties are putting up? There is a clear understanding between the BJP and MIM in helping each other. MIM-West Bengal chief has exposed it saying MIM was helping BJP polarise the voters and he left the party. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejrival also made the same allegations. Here too, both BJP and MIM are trying to incite communal feelings. But Hyderabadis are aware of these divisive forces and they will not fall into their trap. What is Congress’ objection to BJP national leaders visiting the city for campaigning? What does Yogi Adityanath have to do with Hyderabad? And he comes and talks about changing the city’s name. Hyderabad is a big brand in itself and no one is asking for the name-change. Other leaders are here to just whip up the emotions on religious lines. Actually, it reflects the poor quality of BJP leadership in the State. What is your party’s poll plank? We are explaining our achievements. We have a fantastic track record. The Pharma Hub visited by the Prime Minister came into existence during Congress governments. People should remember that the city’s prestigious institutions like BHEL, HAL, ECIL, NFC, HMT, DRDO and Midhani were established by the Congress. We built the new airport and Outer Ring Road, and the metro rail is our achievements. We brought Krishna and Godavari river water to Hyderabad; neither BJP nor TRS has any contribution to it. People should see our achievements rather than simply falling for emotional issues. ‘Defeat corrupt TRS and communal BJP and MIM’ is our slogan. The same issues dominated in 2016 GHMC elections and 2018 Assembly elections without much success. Has the party failed to take the achievements to the people? In 2016 GHMC elections, TRS had just come to power and people had great expectations. After seven years of rule in Telangana and five years in GHMC, people have realised the true face and colour of TRS. They are only good at sloganeering. Claims of KTR about Rs. 67,000 crore being spent on the city development are just hollow and most of it is pocketed by the TRS leadership. TRS and BJP have done incalculable damage by abolishing the Information Technology and Investment Region project sanctioned by the Manmohan Singh government with Rs. 2.5 crore investment. That had the potential of generating 50 lakh jobs. Have the defections from Congress hurt it and sent a message to people that BJP is the alternative? It is wrong. It is just media hype and TRS and BJP are trying to damage the party. Show me one big leader who has left Congress. A couple of people who were suspended by the party have gone and no one else.  What does Yogi Adityanath have to do with Hyderabad? Hyderabad is a big brand in itself and no one is asking for the name-change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-is-threatening-people-bjp-is-communalising/article33209108.ece
30 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||GHMC budget has grown by merely 11% in 11 years||Sprawled across 650 square kilometres, Hyderabad is bigger than over 19 countries in the world. Formed on April 16, 2007, the civic body has a massive budget that would dwarf some of the biggest companies in the country. Holding the keys to this kitty are 150 corporators who decide how the money is spent, where it is spent, and also, who gets it. In 2009, the GHMC budget was Rs. 3,159 crore while in 2020 it is Rs. 6,983 crore — a 121% jump. But factor in 11 years and the growth is just about 11%. Spending to improve  The GHMC elections will decide how the civic body functions and how the money is spent in improving it. How the civic body is functioning can be seen from its budgetary provisions and spending. The budget for Telangana has leapt by 58% from Rs. 1,15,689 in 2015 to Rs. 1,82,914 in 2020. In contrast, the budget for GHMC has gone up by 24% from Rs. 5,550 crore after the formation of Telangana in 2015 to Rs. 6,983 crore in 2020. For 2020, the budget of Bangalore civic body was Rs. 10,893 crore, Mumbai Rs. 33,441 crore and Pune Rs. 7,390 crore. A study prepared by the 15th Finance Commission on state of municipal finances in India reached this conclusion: “The first three years of the 14th Finance Commission (2015-16, 2016-17, and 2017-18), we find that the per capita CFC grants to urban local governments increased for all major states. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Telangana have the lowest per capita CFC grants to urban local governments among major states in 2017-18.” A mere appendange? The civic body now looks like an appendage of Municipal Administration and Urban Development Ministry with development projects and objectives dictated by bureaucrats instead of being decided in the civic hall after a noisy debate. For a 500-year-old city, the budgetary provisions for preserving heritage has been abysmal. In the 2015-16 budget, Rs. 130 crore was earmarked under Environment, Heritage, Culture and Tourism of which Rs. 40 crores were marked for heritage corridors and preservation. But nothing more has been heard of the conservation effort except for the restoration of Moazzam Jahi Market, clock towers and Char Kaman near Charminar. Hyderabad has perhaps the best budgetary provision to create and maintain good libraries across the city. Out of the property tax that is collected from citizens, 8% is earmarked as library cess that should go towards improving libraries in the city. Instead of getting nearly Rs. 100 crore that is collected as cess, the libraries are getting about Rs. 1.8 crore for maintenance. Hyderabad is the engine that is powering the growth of Telangana in all sectors. The GHMC election will shape how the city changes in the next few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-budget-has-grown-by-merely-11-in-11-years/article33209109.ece
30 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth blames KCR for BJP’s rise in Telangana||Telangana Congress working president A. Revanth Reddy blamed Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for the “rising aspirations of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by weakening Congress with unconstitutional measures and Telangana will be forced to pay a price for it”. “You have merged 12 Congress MLAs against all moral and legal norms apart from encouraging defections at the village level, just to ensure your son K.T. Rama Rao doesn’t face strong opposition. BJP is now using that space to target the TRS itself,” he said speaking to reporters along with AICC Secretary Madhu Yashki Goud. “If you sleep with a snake, it is bound to bite you one day and the TRS is facing a similar situation now,” the Malkajgiri MP said. “Unfortunately, for all the illegal activities of KCR, Telangana will suffer,” he said, adding that Congress, however, would fight back to ensure communal peace and brotherhood. Mr. Reddy also saw a deliberate attempt by the TRS and BJP of relegating the development narrative in the campaign and bringing communal politics and polarisation to the forth. “TRS wants to escape from its failures and BJP has no answers for its contribution to Telangana, and both are good at diverting the issues,” he claimed. He wanted to know why the BJP leaders were desperate to visit Bhagyalakshmi temple near Charminar if it was not for elections. Arguing that TRS has failed to contribute for the city’s development, he reminded that all the historic constructions of the city were built by the Nizams while the modern day facilities like ORR, Metro Rail, Airport, IT parks and Godavari and Krishna water projects were the contribution of the Congress. The TRS ran away from the development plank to take refuge under attacking the BJP’s communal plank, he said, arguing that none of the promises it made in 2016 manifesto were fulfilled. “I want to ask KTR where are the one lakh double bedroom houses promised, super speciality hospitals around the city and the six-lane roads along the Musi river? KTR as a Municipal Minister did not take a delegation to the Chief Minister even once on these issues. How can he now seek votes?” he asked. “Now the manifesto has been taken out of TRS website.” “The claims of spending Rs. 76,000 crore for Hyderabad is nothing but hollow. With such kind of money, a new capital could have been created,” the Congress leader claimed. “Failures of TRS are many and it was exposed during the corona times when people were left to their fate and the government was silent as private hospitals looted the common man capitalising on the fears.” The Congress MP also said TRS failed utterly in helping people during the floods and the Chief Minister confined himself to Pragathi Bhavan. The flood assistance of Rs. 10,000 was done with elections on mind and in that too, about Rs. 250 crore was swindled by the TRS leaders, he alleged. He also ridiculed the BJP’s request to give them one opportunity saying people had given them two opportunities in 2014 and 2019 but Hyderabad didn’t get anything. “You have Rs. 20 lakh crore budget at the Centre but failed to contribute anything. How can you transform the city with just Rs. 12,000 crore budget of the GHMC,” he asked. He said that Congress had every right to seek votes given its contribution to the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-blames-kcr-for-bjps-rise-in-telangana/article33209113.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Campaign ends for bitterly fought polls||The guns fell silent to undoubtedly the bitterest local body elections in Hyderabad at the conclusion of campaign on Sunday evening. As never in the past, the campaign for GHMC polls witnessed communal polarisation to the maximum extent with the BJP and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen throwing challenges freely at each other. Close on the heels of its victory in Dubbak Assembly by-election, the BJP was on the upswing compared to previous polls but how much its strength would reflect in end-result was premature to predict because there were 45 eligible ex-officio members who could call the shots in the indirect election of the Mayor. In the direct election by public, of course, the BJP would have won a moral victory if it could not wrest the Mayorship. The rise of BJP was also attributed to the decimation of the Congress. The ruling TRS found itself on the defensive in the matrix as, hitherto, its hand of friendship to AIMIM, though not in this election because both their candidates were in fray in over forty divisions, yielded space for the BJP to consolidate the majority vote bank. Barring a common charge against the BJP and AIMIM for trying to vitiate a peaceful atmosphere, the TRS did nothing to distance itself from the latter party. It, therefore, appeared that the battle was between TRS and AIMIM on one side and the BJP on the other. Also, the distribution of flood relief of Rs. 10,000 which was suspended without covering all families could impact its fortunes. The freebies given by TRS government, mainly drinking water and property tax relief, were neutralised by the communal divide of people, sources said. On the other hand, the Congress and the Telugu Desam left their winning chances to the potential of their candidates to swim against the tide. The BJP roped in its national president J.P. Nadda, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Union Ministers Amit Shah, Prakash Jawadekar and Smriti Irani besides a few other national leaders realising that the TRS politics in this election could be a game changer in future. By making deep inroads in Hyderabad, the party saw an opportunity to capture power in the State in next general elections. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao minced no words in criticising the presence of top guns from the BJP. The BJP threatened to convert the old city into Bhagyanagar even as its leaders, including Amit Shah, offered prayers at Bhagyalaxmi temple beside Charminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/campaign-ends-for-bitterly-fought-polls/article33209123.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Will voter turnout improve?||The high decibel campaigning for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections finally came to an end on Sunday and the city will go to polls on Tuesday. As per instructions of election authorities, civic body officials have taken measures to increase the poll percentage this time, including improved awareness programmes and distribution of voter slips to as many voters as possible. During the 2016 GHMC elections, the overall poll percentage was less than 50%. Of the total 74,24,096 electors, only 33,62,688 or 45.29% cast their vote. As far as individual wards are concerned, the highest of 59.19% polling was recorded in Erragadda (ward number 101), closely followed by 58.30% in Ramchandrapuram (ward number 112) and 57% in Cherlapally (ward number 3). 89k electors Of the 150 wards, the highest number of voters were registered in Subash Nagar (ward number 130). There, out of the 89,159 electors, just about 38,963 cast their vote. The lowest polling of 33.98% was recorded in Vijayanagar Colony, followed by 34.28% in Medipatnam and 35.82% in Rein Bazar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-voter-turnout-improve/article33209104.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Growing clamour to extend Metro Rail to the Old City||Will the Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) chug into the Old City? That is a question which several voters are asking ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. Residents of areas such as Noor Khan Bazaar, Dabeerpura and Kalapather said while the second phase of the HMR is slated to reach Shamshabad and Mehdipatnam, not much has been spoken about extending it to the Old City. Mohammed Abdul Rafe, a businessman and resident of Noor Khan Bazaar, pointed out that several young men and women from the area are employed in the IT and ITeS industry in Hitec City and also work as salespersons in malls and other showrooms in the newer parts of town. Depriving them of the metro rail would mean excluding them from a fast and efficient mode of transport. “Bringing the metro rail to the Old City is important. While many from Old City work within this area, there are thousands of others who travel to the other parts of the city such Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills, Sanathnagar and Miyapur on a daily basis for work. This means those travelling from point-to-point would greatly benefit due to the metro rail. It will reduce travel time and the frustrating experience of driving amid the city’s heavy traffic,” Mr Rafe says. Old City residents said that while those living in neighbourhoods such as Malakpet and Azampura may benefit from existing Miyapur to L B Nagar corridor, the larger issue is that of access of those living further south to metro lines. Shareef Mohiuddin, a resident of Dabeerpura, says that his work requires travelling to the newer parts of town and political parties must come together to extend the HMR line to Falaknuma as had been decided in the past. “I do not know the reason behind the delay. But I think a people’s movement in required to put pressure on the government and political parties to get this done,” he said.  A people’s movement in required to put pressure on the government and political parties to extend metro line to Falaknuma. Shareef Mohiuddin, Dabeerpura resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clamour-for-extending-metro-rail-to-old-city-grows/article33209111.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shah failed to stop ‘genocide’: Asad||After an intense fortnight of canvassing, and at the final public meeting ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi accused Union Home Minister Amit Shah of being unable to stop a ‘genocide’ in Delhi ‘right under his nose’. Mr. Owaisi was speaking in Khilwat, where he reiterated that injured youths were forced to sing the national anthem. One of the youths, identified as Faizan, succumbed to his injuries. “Till now, not a single officer of the Delhi Police, which is under Amit Shah, has been suspended. This is BJP’s great work. There were riots in Delhi, over 20 places of worship were damaged or burnt. Over 50 died, including our Hindu and Muslim brothers,” he said. He also criticised UP CM Yogi Adityanath for his handling of the Hathras rape, and said that the parents of the victim were not allowed to attend the last rites. During the public meeting, and days after his announcement of fielding candidates in the upcoming WB polls, Mr. Owaisi’s party sought to reach out to the city’s Bengali community. The party brought on stage Deepa Das and Himanto Sardar, both members of this community and residents of the Old City, who said that they have been living in Hyderabad for several years and have taken part in its development. They also said that they had supported other parties, but the MIM had come forward to help them. In the run-up to the polls, the MIM campaigned vigorously, criss-crossing across wards in its bastion of the Old City and other parts of the town as well. Interestingly, the party did not release its list of candidates officially. However, according to data, which the GHMC shared with the media, as many as 51 of its candidates are in the fray, nine less than those it fielded in the 2016 civic polls. It did not field candidates in wards such as Attapur, Amberpet and Old Bowenpally. Those in the know said that the party was not contesting in divisions where they had contested previously as it would result in a straight contest between the TRS and BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shah-failed-to-stop-genocide-in-delhi-says-asaduddin/article33209120.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coronavirus cases in Telangana on decline||The number of daily COVID-19 cases in Telangana are on the decline. In October, when 40,000 to 42,000 samples were examined in a day, over 1,400 positive cases were detected, and over 1.500 people tested positive when over 45,000 samples were tested. However, the cases in correlation with tests started to decline from November 20. Thereon, when over 42,000 samples were tested, less than a 1,000 cases were detected. On Saturday, 46,280 samples were put to test and 805 were found to have the coronavirus. In the past six days, from November 23-28, the highest of 47,593 samples were put to test on November 24, and 993 tested positive. However, the threat from virus has not passed yet. Officials in the Health department on multiple occasions have alerted people about possibility of another surge in cases if precautions are not maintained. Campaigning for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections is the latest opportunity for the virus to spread as large number of people gathered for rallies and did not maintain six-feet distance. Many did not wear masks either. The new 805 cases on Saturday include 131 from GHMC limits, 82 from Medchal- Malkajgiri and 58 from Rangareddy. The lowest of two cases were reported from Narayanpet and three from Jangaon. Four more COVID patients died. So far, 2,69,223 have been detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 10,490 are active, 2,57,278 have recovered, and 1,455 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coronavirus-cases-in-telangana-on-decline/article33209242.ece
30 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP candidate alleges attack by TRS MLA||Tension prevailed at Mailardevpally on Sunday after BJP candidate for upcoming GHMC polls T. Srinivas Reddy alleged that Rajendranagar MLA Prakash Goud and his supporters assaulted his father and others. Mr. Reddy along with his supporters staged a protest in front of the police station to take action against the TRS MLA. Later, BJP national Vice President D.K. Aruna, who rushed to the spot, said that when their supporters objected to distribution of cash by TRS supporters, Mr. Goud along with others attacked the BJP supporters. “They attacked Mr Reddy’s father Srisailam Reddy, and a few others for objecting to their undemocratic act,” she said. Shamshabad DCP N. Prakash Reddy said that based on the complaint lodged by the BJP candidate on Sunday, a case was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-candidate-alleges-attack-by-trs-mla/article33209112.ece
30 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Professor hangs himself||A professor of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) was found dead in his official quarters on campus here on Sunday. Police said that Prof. Rishi Baradhawaj (40) of Medical Sciences department committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan due to family disputes. He hailed from Una district in Himachal Pradesh.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/professor-hangs-himself/article33208695.ece
30 November 2020||PATANCHERU (SANGAREDDY DT.),TELANGANA||Possible shift of Congress vote to BJP worries the ruling party||Will the Opposition vote get consolidated towards the BJP in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections on December 1? That is the question haunting the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). Three divisions of Sangareddy district — Patancheru, Bharati Nagar and Ramachandrapuram — come under GHMC limits. Every political party has been making all-out efforts to win the elections but less presence of main Opposition party, Congress, has been worrying the TRS. “Winning the Dubbak byelections has given additional strength to the already aggressive BJP and created a trust among the public that there is a strong alternative to the TRS. In the previous GHMC elections, voters did not dare to think beyond TRS. But the situation seems to have changed now and locals are raising their voice.” That means their perspective has changed. This translates into change of mind,” said Anjaiah, a resident of this assembly headquarters town. The general opinion was that the BJP has pushed the Congress to the next place as Opposition after Dubbak elections and that wave seems to continue. Congress candidates not moving as aggressively as BJP candidates among voters and not getting support from senior colleagues were stated as reasons for poor presence of the party in the campaign. “It seems a majority of voters, who voted for the Congress are switching to the BJP this time as the party has failed to create confidence as a formidable alternative to TRS,” said Prakash, another voter. “Being the ruling party, TRS will have the advantage. Unlike Dubbak, here the minority vote will be around 20% and that will go to ruling party.” A Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader “Knowingly or unknowingly, we have weakened the Congress by attracting their leaders and the vacuum was filled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/possible-shift-of-congress-vote-to-bjp-worries-the-ruling-party/article33209245.ece
30 November 2020||RAMCHANDRAPURAM (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Hectic activity on last day of campaigning||At Patancheru, a few women were found sitting on the roadside chapta of a closed shop. All of them reside in the nearby slum area and were hired to campaign for a political party. They were also served food on Sunday afternoon and were expected to take part in a meeting that was held in the evening. But, unable to walk till the meeting venue, they decided to sit there for some time and then return home. Are they going to vote for the party that hired them? No, was the ‘firm’ answer from them. “We know whom to vote for. My neighbour got flood assistance of Rs. 10,000 while we were denied. There are several such examples in our area itself, leave alone other places. Why should we vote for them?” asked the women, who preferred not to get identified. Many voters feel that the competition is between the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) though Congress is also vying for a seat. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao campaigned on the last day in all the three divisions. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is the true Hindu in India. He has performed several yagas and homas. The Brahmin Corporation was established with a corpus fund of Rs. 100 crore. Telanana is the only State in India where priests are being paid Rs. 6,000 per month,” he said at Bharathi Nagar while addressing a Brahmins’ meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hectic-activity-on-last-day-of-campaigning/article33209117.ece
30 November 2020||sangareddy,TELANGANA||Body of AEO traced||The body of Aruna (34), agriculture extension officer, who had committed suicide by jumping into river Manjeera on November 27, was traced on Sunday. She jumped into the river from the bridge at Rayipally in Manoor mandal. It was stated that she had been suffering from psychological problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/body-of-aeo-traced/article33209124.ece
30 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Rush of devotees||A large number of devotees visited Komuravelli Mallikarjuana swamy temmple at Komuravelli on Sunday, the day being the Karthika Poornami (full moon day). They offered Bonalu, Odi Biyyam and special prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rush-of-devotees/article33209246.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||TDP’s disconnect with local electorate||Telugu Desam Party, which has been a force to reckon with in the city and its surroundings in the 2014 elections to Assembly and 2016 elections to GHMC, appears to have lost intensity in this election to GHMC although it has fielded 106 candidates for the 150-member council. One clear indication is the keeping away of top party leadership away from the campaigning. The publicity material used by TDP contestants have a disconnect with the local electorate as the songs used in the campaign here were apparently made for the last Assembly elections in Andhra Pradesh. The audio songs give a call to supporters to strengthen the hands of party chief Nara Chandrababu Naidu terming him the creator of ‘Swarnandhra’.   The high decibel campaigning for GHMC elections was not short of one for a major State or national election. As put by national secretary of Communist Party of India (CPI) K. Narayana, BJP has followed the approach of “killing a small snake with a big stick” (literal translation of a Telugu proverb). “When the farming community is camping outside Delhi to protest against the farm bills, the BJP leadership, unable to answer them, has made a beeline to Hyderabad to find some lost pride in communal politics one more time,” Dr. Narayana said on Sunday.     TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao has expressed displeasure over educated sections not casting vote. Mr. Rama Rao vented his ire at a meeting convened by industrialists the other day. “The educated sections will engage in tweets, but do not vote. Stay away from the Twitter, Facebook and other social media for a while on December 1 and cast your vote,” he said. The TRS working president asked people to vote for NOTA, “if you don’t like me or the TRS”.  (B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tdps-disconnect-with-local-electorate/article33209121.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||People’s Voice||GHMC must focus on keeping the slums free of garbage and clean them up regularly. In many of the slums, there are no garbage bins for residents to dispose of trash, and as a result, they dump it on the streets. The overall neatness of a city must not only be confined to posh areas but also take into consideration small localities. Philip Joshua, Bansilalpet    Several representations have been made earlier to GHMC and Traffic Police to install traffic signals on the main road near Maangalya showroom at Ameerpet to help pedestrians cross the road safely. It is literally a do-or-die situation for those on foot. K. Durga Prasad Rao, Srinagar Colony    I am happy as a common citizen of Hyderabad that the State government as part of election campaign has declared free drinking water supply. In the same way, if the Central government also announces a cut in petrol prices and fix it at Rs. 50 down from Rs. 85.64 per litre, it will be a great relief to citizens during this ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. T. Kailash Ditya, Barkatpura    Waterlogging at Saradanagar colony is mainly due to uneven roads and that is causing a mosquito menace too. Immediate action is required to level the road to prevent stagnation of water. There is no bus shelter at Vanasthalipuram Rythu Bazaar Junction and the road to the market too is in a poor condition. The metro rail should also be extended up to Hayathnagar taking into consideration the increasing traffic density. G.Venugopala Rao, Vanasthalipuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/peoples-voice/article33209106.ece
30 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||One-fourth real estate units in Gurugram are stressed: RERA chief||Around 70,000 real estate units – almost one-fourth of the total units being monitored by the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA) in the Millennium City – across 30-odd projects are stressed for various reasons, disclosed HRERA Gurugram Chairman K.K. Khandelwal. He was speaking to The Hindu on a variety of issues concerning the sector and the authority. Mr. Khandelwal said RERA was ordering refund to the unit owners for the projects that seemed doomed, but supporting those projects that could still be completed keeping in mind the interests of the large number of unit-holders. “In many cases, the unit owners are approaching us with the appeal for refund in stressed projects since they bought units at higher rates and now the market prices have dwindled. But if we find that the project can be completed, we don’t order for refund since it will harm the interests of other unit-holders and the developer. In such cases, we only order penalty for the delays. If a project is unlikely to be completed, we order refund,” said Mr. Khandelwal. Five of these projects belong to Raheja group, he added. 13,031 complaints Set up on February 5, 2018, after the Haryana government notified The Haryana Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017 on July 28, 2017, the HRERA Gurugram has received 13,031 complaints so far and disposed of around 9,900. Mr. Khandelwal said that a majority of these complaints were regarding delay in possession and refund. “Out of the 9,900 complaints, 7,000-odd were settled summarily and the rest required detailed hearings,” said Mr. Khandelwal. He conceded that in the initial years many RERA orders were challenged in the Appellant Tribunal and the Punjab and Haryana High Court leading to delay in execution of the orders, but these were all “teething troubles” and the orders of the authority were now all executed except 703, which were pending for various reasons such as the developer being on the run. He added that it took time for the law to settle. “We have two ways to get our orders executed. The Section 40 of the RERA Act puts the private dues of the allottees against a developer, such as penalty, compensation and the interests ordered by the authority, at par with the government dues and the same can be recovered as arrears of land revenue. We also have the powers of the Civil Court. We have the power to attach the bank accounts of the builder if a payment is not made to the allottee even after two months of the order. The money is paid to the allottee through a cheque from the bank account of the builder. In case there is no money in the account, we can issue arrest warrants against the developer and send him to jail for three months,” said Mr. Khandelwal. Around 400 projects are registered with the authority with the total area of nearly 1.0 lakh acres (1,06,657 acres). Around 2,50,000 units are under monitoring of this authority as of now, of which 60,000 units are in the Affordable Housing segment. Mediation forum With the aim to reduce petitions and expedite grievance redress, the HRERA Gurugram recently set up a mediation forum. “Two types of cases fall under the ambit of this forum. First, the applications made for mediation at pre-filing of formal complaint stage. These will be taken up by grievance redress cell and our chief public relations officer Deepa Malik, a paralympian, on an individual basis. It will save the time and money of the complainants. The second type of cases are the complaints referred by the authority to a retired district and sessions judge and adjudicating office. It is a new experiment unlike the reconciliation centres set up by RERAs in other States,” said Mr. Khandelwal. He added that HRERA Gurugram had been “pioneering” in many ways and delivered some “path-breaking” decisions setting up precedents for others to follow. “Pronouncing judgment in a case pertaining to e-auction of a project by a creditor company, the HARERA ruled that the rights of the allottees are not subservient to those of the bank. The order emphasised that in case of failure of the banks to ensure that the funds were applied for the purpose they were granted, banks cannot be allowed to supersede the rights of the allottees,” said Mr. Khandelwal. He stressed that the RERA could intervene in all those cases where the builder had failed to fulfil its obligations towards the consumers, including lack of infrastructure, and action was initiated in case a complaint was received. He added that recently, complaints were received from flat owners about developers forcing them into signing settlement bonds to avoid delayed compensation and these were also being looked into. Mr. Khandelwal said that several malpractices were prevalent in the real estate sector before the setting up of RERA, such as delay in possession, diversion of funds by developers, lack of quality control and unilateral changes in the layout plans by the developers, but the authority had put checks on them through a law. “Before RERA, the consumers were fast losing trust in the developers. The RERA has reinstated the faith of the common man in the real estate sector. It is a win-win situation for both the developers and the consumers. This, I believe, is the biggest achievement of the authority,” said Mr. Khandelwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-fourth-real-estate-units-in-gurugram-are-stressed-rera-chief/article33208828.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers continue to protest at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders||Claiming that camping at the Nirankari Ground in Burari was akin to being lodged in an open jail, farmers protesting at the Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders refused to move there on Sunday. On Friday, the Delhi Police had allowed the entry of protesting farmers into the city and designated the Nirankari ground in Burari for the same. However, on Sunday evening, only around 500 farmers were present in the north-west Delhi venue that often hosts large religious congregations and other events. ‘We don’t believe PM’ “We listened to ‘Mann Ki Baat’ [radio address] of Prime Minister where he supported the new agriculture laws and asked farmers to support it. But we don’t believe him anymore because he was the one who supported demonetisation and rest all we know how much damage it caused to the economy. We won’t be allowing him to damage the agriculture sector,” said a farmer from Amritsar, Harjeet Sandhu. The agitators said nothing less than a rollback of the controversial laws will placate them, and provided details on how they had come prepared for the “long haul”. “We have not come to Delhi to sit at Nirankari ground, we are here to make the government accept farmers’ demand and take back the new agriculture laws. We will block the National Highway and will achieve our objective, we have come here with two months’ ration. We are cooking food and serving three meals for our brothers protesting at Delhi’s borders,” said Kishan Pal, a farmer from Patiala. ‘Why the conditions?’ Adding that they also had adequate beddings and tents, the farmers at Burari insisted that the government should come forward with no condition and wondered why the Union Home Minister was putting conditions before holding meeting. “We will be staying in Burari till further orders from our leaders. We have no issue in sleeping in open as we are farmers and we never had a bed of roses. We have hundreds of langars at protest sites and we are also offering food to security persons or whosoever needs it,” said Inder Singh, a farmer from Sonepat. A senior officer said a team held a round of talks with the protesters to make them shift to the Nirankari ground, but they were unsuccessful. “We have managed to move many protesters from the borders to the Nirankari ground but many are still at the borders. We had a talk with their leaders but the conditions they are putting up are beyond the jurisdiction of the Delhi Police. We are trying to convince them and are hopeful that things will get sorted peacefully,” the officer said. Meanwhile, on Sunday evening, a large group of farmers broke the police barricade and entered Delhi. After moving about 200 meters inside Delhi, they stopped and sat down. The police said as per their report, around 20,000 protesters were at the Singhu border, and around 30,000 protesters at the Tikri border. “We never asked for any new agriculture law. Why is the government forcing this black law? We are protesting for the last three months but no one from the Centre come forward to talk to farmers. After we blocked Delhi’s borders, the government has agreed to talk. If they can pass the law overnight, then why can’t they amend it overnight?” said Gurbachan Singh, a farmer from Hoshiyarpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-continue-to-protest-at-tikri-singhu-and-ghazipur-borders/article33208822.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Address farmers’ demand, find solution’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Centre should hold talks with protesting farmers, who are camping along Delhi’s borders, unconditionally and immediately. The Aam Aadmi Party urged Home Minister Amit Shah to listen to the demands raised by the farmers and find an immediate solution. Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said AAP is with the farmers and will fight shoulder to shoulder with them. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed these ‘anti-farmer’ laws, which show that the BJP has no intention to solve their [farmers] problems. The BJP is anti-farmer,” Mr. Singh said. He added that it is unfortunate that the BJP government is treating the farmers as terrorists by lathi-charging them, using water cannons, and firing tear gas shells to disperse them. “We demand that Union Home Minister Amit Shah must permit the farmers to protest wherever they want. We also believe that the Union Home Minister should not give the excuse of pandemic to stop the protest. By using this excuse, the BJP-ruled Central government passed these anti-farmer laws,” Mr. Singh said. AAP leader Saurabh Bhardwaj said: “AAP believes that Mr. Shah has shown utter irresponsibility by leaving Delhi to campaign for Hyderabad municipal election when lakhs of farmers are waiting to talk to him at the Delhi border.” He also said Mr. Shah was telling the farmers that because of their protest, the COVID-19 cases will rise in Delhi. But at a press meet in Hyderabad on Sunday, there was massive participation of people in his [Mr. Shah] roadshow, Mr. Bharadwaj said. “How can COVID-19 spread at one gathering and not spread at another. This is utter hypocrisy,” Mr. Bharadwaj added. AAP chief spokesperson Raghav Chadha alleged that Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amrinder and Mr. Modi are conspiring to destroy the farmers. He questioned why Mr. Singh did not lead the farmers of his State to protest in Delhi.  ‘Çentre was intolerant’ Party MLA and spokesperson Atishi at another press meet said the Centre was “intolerant” towards thousands of farmers sitting at the border. “Posing conditions, the government is saying that it will not talk to the farmers unless they concede to its demands of moving to a particular place to hold a dialogue,” she added.  PM Modi hailed these ‘anti-farmer’ laws, which show that the BJP has no intention to solve the problems of the farmers. Sanjay Singh Rajya Sabha MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/address-farmers-demand-find-solution/article33208824.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. must summon Assembly session, says Congress||The Delhi Congress on Sunday said if the AAP government is really interested in the welfare of farmers, then it should immediately summon a session of the Legislative Assembly and pass a resolution against the law made by the Centre. At a press meet, Congress leader Alka Lamba said the Delhi BJP was “play-acting” to mislead the farmers by spreading lies about the three anti-farmer Bills. The government was shedding “crocodile tears” on the issue. “Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal needs to clarify whether his government would implement the Bill or not. If the Delhi government is really interested in the welfare of farmers, then the Delhi Congress demands that Mr. Kejriwal immediately summon the Assembly session and pass a resolution against the law made by the Centre and clearly state that anti-farmer law will not be enforced in Delhi,” Ms. Lamba said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-must-summon-session-of-legislative-assembly/article33208825.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air quality in city remains ‘poor’: SAFAR||The air quality in the Capital remained in the “poor” category on Sunday with the 24-hour average AQI based on readings from 35 monitoring stations at 256. Air quality monitoring agencies have forecast that the quality is likely to deteriorate over the next few days due to calmer winds and a fall in the temperature. The minimum temperature in the city settled at 7 degrees Celsius, which was 3 degrees below normal. The maximum settled at 26.4 degrees Celsius. According to government-run agency, SAFAR, ventilation conditions are likely to slow down further by November 29. “Stubble fire counts with sufficient potential as estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products have increased to 464. Hence, the stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air is estimated as 6% for Sunday,” the bulletin read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-in-city-remains-poor-safar/article33208826.ece
30 November 2020||Mumbai,||Centre treating farmers like terrorists, says Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws are being treated as if they are “terrorists”, and it is sad that they are not being allowed to enter Delhi. The government should consider the farmers’ demands sympathetically, Mr. Raut told reporters in Mumbai. Thousands of farmers, protesting against three agriculture laws enacted by the Centre, have gathered at border points of the national capital as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march. “Farm laws is one issue. Consider all other demands sympathetically. Different States are not doing well. It is up to the Centre to step in and help them,” the Rajya Sabha member said. Replying to a query, Mr. Raut claimed that farmers were being dubbed as “divisive” because they come from Punjab. “Do you want to create instability by reminding the Punjab farmers of the Khalistan movement period?” he asked the Centre. Thousands of farmers continued their protest for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, staying put at the Singhu and Tikri border points, with farmer leaders deliberating upon their future course of action about proposed talks with the Central government. With many roads and entry points of Delhi being blocked, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had appealed to the farmers to shift to the Burari ground, and said the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them as soon as they move to the designated place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-treating-farmers-like-terrorists-says-raut/article33208755.ece
30 November 2020||Nashik,||Body of CRPF official to be brought to Nashik||The body of an Assistant Commandant of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who was killed in an improvised explosive device (IED) blast triggered by Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district, will be brought to his native place Nashik in Maharashtra for the last rites, an official said on Sunday. Nitin Bhalerao, 33, an officer of the CRPF’s jungle warfare unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), was killed, while nine commandos were injured in the IED blast in Chhattisgarh on Saturday night, officials said. Bhalerao was a resident of Devpur village in Niphad taluka of Nashik, sources in the district administration said. “After the post-mortem, Bhalerao’s mortal remains will be brought to Mumbai from Raipur and later to Nashik. His last rites will be performed with full State honours at the time decided by his relatives,” District Collector Suraj Mandhare said. Maharashtra’s Food and Civil Supplies Minister and NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal, who is also the Guardian Minister of Nashik, in a message said the nation has lost a brave son. “I and my family are with Bhalerao’s family in this hour of grief and I offer him tribute on behalf of the State government,” he said. Bhalerao joined the CRPF in 2010 and had joined the CoBRA unit in 2019. The CoBRA was raised by the CRPF in 2009 as a special guerrilla combat wing for undertaking anti-Naxal operations as well as combating insurgents in the Northeast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/body-of-crpf-official-to-be-brought-to-nashik/article33208756.ece
30 November 2020||New Delhi,||Caught on the wrong foot||Weddings have become smaller. Social distancing norms are being enforced rigorously in congested city markets. The enforcement of Rs. 2,000 fine for protocol violations, after an unprecedented surge in COVID-19 cases, could not have been timelier. According to Delhi Police, close to 2,000 people were issued fines ranging from Rs. 500 to Rs. 2,000 over the past week. The maximum prosecution for COVID-19 offences, with a total of 1,501 fines, was issued on November 22. Each fine amounted to Rs. 500. Since these were upped to Rs. 2,000, 1,474 individuals were issued challans, according to police data. Intimate proceedings Curbs on the number of people allowed at gatherings have made weddings more intimate affairs. Having invited nearly 200 guests as per previous guidelines, before it was reduced to 50 as per the new norms, some complained they were forced to book adjacent venues to accommodate everyone on their original guest list. Some of them complained they were forced to apologise to relatives for retracting invites. Rahul Puri, multi-property general manager at The Westin, says the hotel has to continually adapt to local regulations in response to COVID-19 but weddings are being celebrated with enthusiasm in completely different ways. The wedding segment, he says, has been key in driving revenues and helping recovery. “The big fat wedding has given way to intimate weddings, adhering to social distancing norms. As weddings become smaller affairs, quality in weddings has become even more important with precautionary measures like contact-less serving of dishes, spacing, larger tables with less chairs and designated servers for every dish,” says Mr. Puri. Easy adapting On whether guests are adhering to COVID-19 guidelines at weddings, Mr. Puri said the guests have adapted well to the new norms and are appreciative of the measures taken to address safety and hygiene. However, for a marketing executive employed in south Delhi, the restriction at weddings came as a bolt out of the blue. He complained of spending more time on downsizing his brother’s marriage function and apologising to relatives while retracting invites than he had on the initial arrangements. “They [the government] should have given families like mine some notice at least. Our reputations are on the line for no fault of ours,” he complained, requesting anonymity. “The only way for those stuck in the middle like my family is either to risk infection to invitees, including elderly relatives more susceptible to COVID-19 or to fold our hands and politely retract the invite citing the circumstances. My parents and I have been doing the latter since the decision was announced,” he said. Others such as a publishing professional, who had booked a prominent city hotel for a wedding, complained he had to book an adjacent hall to accommodate half of the 100 invitees at the 25th hour. “What else could we have done except postponing the whole affair? We have had to book the hall next to the one we had originally paid for at the same price, going way beyond our budget. But the hotel management was nice enough to give us a slight discount,” he said. “Arrangements have been made to telecast the ceremony from the main hall to the other, which will mainly serve as a dinner hall. The guests in the second hall will take turns to give the bride and groom their blessings before leaving, so that only 50 people are in either hall at any given time,” he explained. As they walk a tightrope between avoiding infection and keeping business alive, market representatives said they had put several measures in place across markets. They don’t want to lose business in an already ravaged year, wherein they have incurred massive losses during the lockdown.   Measures aplenty At north Delhi’s bustling wholesale markets in Sadar Bazar and Chandni Chowk, at least one staff member has been deputed to sanitise customers’ hands. The number of individuals allowed inside shops is being regulated as well. “Each of the 40,000-plus shops in the market has face masks of varying qualities which are offered to customers not wearing them free of cost as soon as they arrive. Only three people are allowed in most shops with someone from the staff attending to excess customers outside it while they wait to enter,” said Rakesh Kumar Yadav, president, Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Association. Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said shopkeepers had decided to restrict customers without face masks from entering the premises but other issues related to the possible spread of COVID-19 still remained. “The authorities are yet to take any action against encroachments outside shops which affect effective social distancing. Infection can be avoided by regulating entry into shops but not outside,” he complained. At 6 p.m. on Friday, there were hundreds of people at south Delhi’s Sarojini Nagar market, but almost everyone was wearing masks and stood socially distanced. There were even boards put up by some shops, with their names on it, asking people to maintain “two meter distance”. But there were no temperature checks to enter the market, while some people were seen spitting and there was hardly any police presence. “Around Deepavali there was a huge rush for about three to four days. Don’t know from where so many people came from,” said Jitender Sachdeva, 46, owner of Mahendra Sweet House. Mr. Sachdeva removed tables outside the shop where people used to stand and eat. “When we had tables, people used to spend more time here and also there was a rush. Now it is better,” he said. But the traders are also wary of their shops being shut down in case of violations. “Please limit your display outside your shops tomorrow. SDM Inspection team will visit our market tomorrow and take action against violators [sic],” read a message in one of the WhatsApp groups of the traders. Karthik, who is the president of the market association said: “We are taking all measures to prevent the spread of the disease and the government is conducting COVID-19 tests every day in the market.” A garment seller, he said he would allow entry to only those who want to buy clothes to avoid crowding.  (With inputs from Jaideep Deo Bhanj, Nikhil M Babu, Saurabh Trivedi and Jatin Anand)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/caught-on-the-wrong-foot/article33208750.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Daily COVID-19 cases in Delhi continue to see dip||The Capital recorded 4,906 new COVID-19 cases and 68 deaths on Sunday, according to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The bulletin added that 64,186 tests were conducted over the past 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 7.64%. Out of the total tests conducted, 29,839 were RT-PCR, while 34,347 were rapid antigen tests. The total number of cases now stands at 5,66,648, with 9,066 total deaths and 5,22,491 recoveries. There are 35,091 active cases and 5,441 containment zones. Currently, 21,337 patients are under home quarantine and out of the 18,661 hospital beds available for COVID-19 patients, 10,418 are vacant, the government said. After peaking at 8,593 cases on November 11, the number of daily cases has been reducing in the city and Sunday was the second consecutive day that the number of cases was below 5,000 and the positivity rate below 8%. At 68, the number of deaths was lowest since November 6, when the city recorded 64 deaths. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted “...Our doctors, nurses and all other Corona warriors are working round the clock. I urge you all to continue to observe all precautions [sic.].” Congress leader Alka Lamba, meanwhile, alleged that the State has adopted a testing model to hide the actual spread of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/daily-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-continue-to-see-dip/article33208753.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||50% govt. employees to work from home: DDMA||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has issued work from home orders for 50% Delhi government employees associated with non-essential services. It has asked private companies to follow staggered office timings and reduce presence and quantum of staffers.   The order does not cover departments concerned with essential services, including health, police, home guards and civil defence, district administrations, fire, electricity and water, municipal services among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/50-govt-employees-to-work-from-home-ddma/article33208751.ece
30 November 2020||Panaji,||‘Air passenger traffic in Goa returning to normal’||Domestic passenger traffic at Goa airport is getting back to normal as the facility has recorded about 75% footfall so far this year compared to the same period last year during pre-COVID-19 times, an official said on Sunday. Goa airport’s director Gagan Malik said that the number of domestic flights are also increasing amid the unlock process, even as scheduled and chartered international travel continues to remain suspended. ‘Expected to pick up’ After the lockdown in March this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, India resumed its scheduled domestic passenger flights from May 25. Mr. Malik said that since the airport reopened for domestic travel, the passenger flow has returned to 70-75% now compared to last year, and is expected to pick up further next month, which is the peak tourist season in the State. “The domestic passenger footfalls are expected to cross 80% in December,” he said. On an average, 11,000 passengers arrive and depart from the Goa airport on weekdays, while on weekends, the number reaches about 13,500, he said. Goa has been witnessing an inflow of visitors as hotels, restaurants and other places of tourist interests have opened up as part of the unlock process. New routes Mr. Malik said 50% of the domestic flights have resumed, and are likely to go up to 60-65% next month. Besides reactivating older routes, airlines have also connected new routes like Lucknow, Nagpur, Chandigarh during the unlock phase, he said. As per the standard operating procedures laid down by the State government, two thermal scanners have been installed to check the outgoing and incoming passengers, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/air-passenger-traffic-in-goa-returning-to-normal/article33208754.ece
30 November 2020||Pune,||5,500 new cases in Maharashtra; active cases cross 90,000 mark||Maharashtra reported 5,544 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday as opposed to only 4,362 recoveries. The total case tally now stands at 18,20,059, with the number of active cases crossing the 90,000 mark to reach 90,997. The cumulative recoveries have reached 16,80,926, with the State’s recovery rate decreasing to 92.36%. As many as 85 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 47,071. “Of a total of 1,08,04,422 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,20,059 (case positivity rate of 16.85%) have returned positive with over 82,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.59%. 800 new cases in Pune Pune district reported over 800 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,52,565, while 25 deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,443. As per the district administration, the active cases have risen to 11,397, while its recovery rate has dipped to 94.31%. Mumbai city, too, reported 940 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,82,821, of which 15,610 are active. With 18 more fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 10,865. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 400 new cases, taking the district’s case tally to 1,13,644, of which 4,132 are currently active. Six deaths took the total death toll to 2,980. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported four deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,666. As many as 151 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 52,421, of which 2,370 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 42 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 48,614, of which just 985 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,710. Kolhapur reported just 16 cases and two deaths as its case tally reached 48,489. Its active case tally stands at 260. The total death toll remains constant at 1,645. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 380 cases and one death as its total case tally reached 104,694, of which 1,907 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,709. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported over 60 cases and two deaths as its case load reached 54,015, of which only 1,231 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,400. Dr. Awate informed that currently a total of 5,26,555 people across the State are in home quarantine and 6,814 are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/5500-new-cases-in-maharashtra-active-cases-cross-90000-mark/article33208758.ece
30 November 2020||Pune,||Udayanraje Bhosale targets MVA govt. over failure to secure Maratha quota||Udayanraje Bhosale, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP, on Sunday hit out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, accusing it of adopting delaying tactics which has ensured that the Maratha quota law has not yet been implemented in Maharashtra. Mr. Bhosale, a former Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and direct descendant of the Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, censured NCP chief Sharad Pawar, without naming him, for failing to implement the quota for the community despite being hailed as a stalwart Maratha leader in the MVA government. “This long delay [in getting the Maratha quota law implemented] seems to be an attempt to repress the Maratha community and deny it its true rights. However, I do not speak as a member of my community but on the basis of the principle of equality that was advocated and practised by King Shivaji which ensured justice for every caste and community in Maharashtra,” said the Rajya Sabha MP from Satara. He said all communities except the Marathas were given reservations under the Mandal Commission when V.P. Singh was the Prime Minister in the early 1990s. Mr. Pawar was the Congress chief minister of Maharashtra at the time. In a thinly veiled criticism of Mr. Pawar, Mr. Bhosale warned that those leaders in whom people had reposed so much faith for all these years would not vote for them anymore if they failed to champion the cause of the Maratha community. “Some leaders [read Mr. Pawar] have been given the title of ‘Maratha Strongman’… people have respected them for all these years. But make no mistake, the very people will pull them down as today they stand in danger of losing this faith among the Maratha community because of their inaction over implementing the Maratha quota law,” he said. The BJP MP questioned why leaders like Mr. Pawar had failed to take the initiative despite his party being part of the ruling government. “The people have lost patience and will question such leaders,” he said. Criticising the State government for failing to make progress in the Maratha quota issue, Mr. Bhosale said the Maratha community was disgruntled that the MVA government’s lawyer had ‘missed’ a hearing on the quota issue in the Supreme Court. In contrast, Mr. Bhosale heaped plaudits on former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, remarking that it was only during his chief ministership that a law was enacted to give reservation to the community. Mr. Bhosale said the Maharashtra Public Services Commission exams should be conducted now by keeping aside seats that will be part of the Maratha quota as the issue was now being heard in the apex court. Earlier, Mr. Bhosale had demanded that if the MVA government failed to get the Maratha quota law implemented in the State, then reservation for all communities ought to be scrapped. He had called for a merit-based approach instead. A maverick politico known for his hell-raising antics, Mr. Bhosale was earlier with the NCP. He joined the BJP before the Lok Sabha elections last year, only to be trounced by the NCP’s Shriniwas Patil. The storm of the Maratha agitation throughout 2018 saw Mr. Bhosale cast in the role of a possibly important mediator between the community’s interests and the then BJP government. Mr. Bhosale had chaired a ‘Maratha Parishad’ in Pune in August 2018. However, a council on the Maratha quota issue that was to be held in Pune last month under Mr. Bhosale’s leadership was abruptly cancelled. He had also skipped a ‘round table’ conference in Satara that was held soon after. The Maratha Kranti Morcha has warned that they would stage a march to Mr. Thackeray’s residence, Matoshree, if the government fails to resolve the impasse.  They stand in danger of losing this faith among the Maratha community because of their inaction over implementing the Maratha quota law Udayanraje Bhosale BJP MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/udayanraje-bhosale-targets-mva-govt-over-failure-to-secure-maratha-quota/article33208760.ece
30 November 2020||GHAZNI,||31 Afghan soldiers killed in attack on base||At least 34 people were killed on Sunday in two separate suicide bombings in Afghanistan that targeted a military base and a provincial chief, officials said. There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the attacks, which took place as Afghan government representatives and the Taliban hold face-to-face talks in Qatar for the first time to end the country’s decades-long war. In eastern Ghazni province, 31 soldiers were killed and 24 others wounded when the attacker drove a military humvee full of explosives onto an Army commando base before detonating the car bomb, according to an official in Afghanistan’s National Security Council, who spoke anonymously. Ghazni provincial health department chief, Zahir Shah Nikmal, also confirmed the death toll and casualty figures from the attack. Afghanistan’s Defence Ministry released a statement claiming 10 soldiers were killed and nine wounded. The Ministry also offered a different account of what happened than the official at the National Security Council, saying the vehicle exploded near the army base after security forces opened fire on the car. It was not immediately clear why there was a discrepancy. Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said a suicide bombing took place, though he did not provide further details. The soldiers stationed at the base were responsible for conducting night raids, providing support to the army and police forces under siege, and taking part in large-scale operations against the Taliban and Islamic State group in eastern and southern provinces of Afghanistan. The base is located in a desert region, about 5 km outside the city of Ghazni. Parts of the base and a nearby police building were partially destroyed by the powerful explosion. Windows were also blown out in buildings of the city near to where the bombing occurred. Surge in attacks In southern Afghanistan, another suicide car bomber targeted the convoy of a provincial council chief in Zubal, killing at least three people and wounding 21 others, including children, according to provincial spokesman Gul Islam Sial. The provincial council chief, Attajan Haqbayat, survived the attack on Sunday with minor injuries, though one of his bodyguards was among those killed, said provincial police spokesman Hikmatullah Kochai. There has been a sharp rise in violence this year and a surge of attacks by the Taliban against Afghanistan’s beleaguered security forces since the start of peace talks in September. There have also been deadly attacks this month claimed by Islamic State militants in Afghanistan, including a horrific attack on Kabul University that killed 22 people. The U.S., meanwhile, plans to withdraw an estimated 2,500 troops before January, leaving about 2,000 soldiers in Afghanistan. Afghan officials, however, have expressed concerns that a rapid reduction in American troops could strengthen the negotiating hand of the Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/31-afghan-soldiers-killed-in-attack-on-base/article33208494.ece
30 November 2020||Washington,||Trump loses another election challenge in court||The U.S. state of Pennsylvania’s Supreme Court dismissed another legal challenge to the election by supporters of President Donald Trump on Saturday, further reducing his odds of overturning the results. A Republican lawsuit had sought to invalidate mail-in ballots in the battleground state that President-elect Joe Biden won by about 81,000 votes — or to throw out all votes and allow the State’s legislature to decide the winner. The court dismissed both claims in a unanimous decision, calling the second one an “extraordinary proposition that the court disenfranchise all 6.9 million Pennsylvanians who voted in the general election.” The lawsuit argued that a Pennsylvania law from 2019 allowing universal mail-in voting was unconstitutional. The judges said that their November 21 challenge to the law was filed too late, coming more than a year after it was enacted and with the election results “becoming seemingly apparent.” Pennsylvania officially certified Mr. Biden’s victory there on November 24. The lawsuit had also sought to stop certification. Saturday’s decision follows a long line of similar ones, including a ruling the day before in which a federal appeals court flatly dismissed Trump’s claim that the election was unfair and refused to freeze Mr. Biden’s win in Pennsylvania. Mr. Trump has refused to give up on his claims of fraud in the November 3 election despite his repeated court defeats, tweeting bizarre conspiracy theories. On Thursday, he said for the first time that he would leave the White House if Mr. Biden is officially confirmed the winner by the Electoral College on December 14. But on Friday he tweeted that “Biden can only enter the White House as President if he can prove that his ridiculous ‘80,000,000 votes’ were not fraudulently or illegally obtained.” Mr. Biden, who is to be sworn in on January 20, won 306 votes in the Electoral College to President Trump’s 232. The President-elect has said that Americans “won’t stand” for attempts to derail the vote outcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-loses-another-election-challenge-in-court/article33208506.ece
30 November 2020||Kathmandu,||Chinese Defence Minister meets Nepal’s top leadership||China’s Defence Minister General Wei Fenghe on Sunday met Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli and held talks with Nepal Army chief Generl Purna Chandra Thapa on various issues of bilateral interest, aimed at bolstering bilateral military cooperation and taking the existing friendly ties to a new height. Gen. Wei, who is also a State Councillor, held bilateral talks with Army chief Gen. Thapa at the army headquarters here during his day-long “working visit” to Nepal, said a statement issued by the Nepal Army. “The two held a cordial discussion on various issues of bilateral interest,” it said. “Bilateral discussions were then held at the delegation-level mainly on issues pertaining to resumption of training and student exchange program and follow up on defence assistance that have been impacted due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” the statement said. The Chinese Defence Minister is leading a 21-member delegation. It said the Chinese Minister viewed both the proposals “positively and affirmed that the bilateral cooperation should resume as soon as possible, including exchange of high level visits.” COVID-19 assistance He also pledged to provide additional assistance to the Nepali Army in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, the statement said. The Nepali Army expressed confidence that “the visit will help in further strengthening and expanding the cordial military-to-military relations between the two countries.” Gen. Wei also took part in various programmes organised at the Army Headquarters. “After the bilateral meeting, General Wei and his delegation were given a short presentation on the history and roles of the Nepali Army, the army statement said. He was also presented with a Guard of Honour. The Minister paid courtesy calls on President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister Oli, who also holds the defence portfolio. Earlier in the day, Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa welcomed Gen Wei at the Tribhuvan International Airport. Gen. Wei told reporters that his visit is aimed at implementing bilateral understandings reached between the two governments in the past. He said that his visit will promote military cooperation between Nepal and China, and take the existing friendly relations between the two neighbours to a new height. “China and Nepal have been enjoying a strong, friendly and close relationship for a long time, and I am here to take that relationship to a greater height,” he said. This is the highest-level visit from China after President Xi Jinping’s two-day state visit that took place in October last year. India’s outreach Gen. Wei’s visit comes days after India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla wrapped up his maiden two-day visit to Nepal. In the first week of November, Indian Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane paid a three-day visit to Nepal aimed at resetting bilateral ties that came under severe strain following a bitter border row between the two countries. Gen. Wei’s visit also comes amidst an ongoing political rift in the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) that resurfaced following a meeting between Prime Minister Oli and his rival Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ China’s political profile in Nepal has been on the rise in recent years with billions of dollars of investments under Beijing’s multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), including the building of the Trans-Himalayan Multi-Dimensional Connectivity Network. Besides the investments, China’s Ambassador to Nepal Hou Yanqi has made open efforts to garner support for Mr. Oli, who faced a massive rebellion in his party headed by ‘Prachanda’ In August, President Xi said that he attached great importance to the development of China-Nepal ties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-defence-minister-meets-nepals-top-leadership/article33208503.ece
30 November 2020||Abuja,||At least 110 civilians killed in Nigeria attack, says UN||The weekend attack on a village in northeast Nigeria blamed on Boko Haram left at least 110 dead, the UN humanitarian coordinator in the country said on Sunday. “At least 110 civilians were ruthlessly killed and many others were wounded in this attack,” Edward Kallon said. The massacre took place in the village of Koshobe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-110-civilians-killed-in-nigeria-attack-says-un/article33208495.ece
30 November 2020||Islamabad,||‘Loneliest elephant’ heads to Cambodia from Pak.||Following years of public outcry and campaigning by American pop star Cher, the “world’s loneliest elephant” embarked on Sunday on a mammoth move from Pakistan to retirement in a Cambodian sanctuary. The famed singer and Oscar-winning actress has spent recent days at the Islamabad zoo to provide moral support to Kaavan — an overweight, 36-year-old bull elephant — whose pitiful treatment at the dilapidated facility sparked an uproar from animal rights groups and a spirited social media campaign by Cher. “My wishes have finally come true”, Ms. Cher said in a statement. Kaavan’s case and the woeful conditions at the zoo resulted in a judge this year ordering all the animals to be moved. Experts spent hours coaxing a slightly sedated Kaavan into a specially constructed metal crate — at one point using ropes to help pull him in — that was to be hoisted onto a lorry and taken to Islamabad airport. From there, Kaavan will be sent via a Russian transport jumbo jet for the lengthy flight to Siem Reap in northwestern Cambodia. The plane will stop for refuelling in New Delhi. Kaavan is the only Asian elephant in Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/worlds-loneliest-elephant-heads-to-cambodia-from-pak/article33208501.ece
30 November 2020||ADDIS ABABA/NAIROBI,||Ethiopia launches search for Tigray leaders||The Ethiopian government launched a manhunt on Sunday for leaders of a rebellious faction in the northern region of Tigray after announcing federal troops had taken over the regional capital Mekele and military operations were complete. The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said hospitals in Mekele are running low on supplies such as gloves to care for the wounded, and one hospital is lacking body bags for the dead. Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has been trying to quell a rebellion by the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), a powerful ethnically-based party that dominated the central government for nearly three decades before Mr. Abiy came to power in 2018. He said on Saturday federal troops had taken control of Mekele, allaying fears of protracted fighting in the city of 5,00,000 people. TPLF leader Debretsion Gebremichael later told Reuters that his forces were withdrawing from around the city but would fight on, raising the spectre of a drawn-out guerrilla war. Thousands of people are believed to have been killed and nearly 44,000 have fled to neighbouring Sudan since fighting began on November 4. The conflict has been another test for Mr. Abiy, who is trying to hold together a patchwork of ethnic groups that make up Ethiopia’s 115 million people. The flow of refugees and attacks by the TPLF on neighbouring Eritrea have also threatened to destabilize the wider Horn of Africa region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rockets-from-tigray-target-eritreas-capital/article33208504.ece
30 November 2020||Paris,||French police face charges over black man’s beating||Four French police officers should face charges over the beating and racial abuse of a black music producer, Paris’s top prosecutor said on Sunday, an incident that intensified controversy over a new security law. Tens of thousands protested across France on Saturday against the security Bill — which would restrict the right of the press to publish the faces of on-duty police — with the rally in Paris ending in bitter clashes. The beating of music producer Michel Zecler — exposed in video footage published last week — has become a rallying cause for anger against the police in France, accused by critics of institutionalised racism, including singling out blacks and Arabs. The protests in Paris saw a brasserie set alight, cars set on fire and stones thrown at security forces, who responded with tear gas and anti-riot tactics. Among those hurt was an award-winning Syrian photojournalist Ameer al-Halbi. Remy Heitz said all four policemen should be investigated and called for three of them to be charged specifically for racial abuse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/french-police-risk-charges-over-black-mans-beating/article33208499.ece
30 November 2020||Colombo,||Four killed in Sri Lanka prison riot||Guards opened fire on Sunday to contain a prison riot near Colombo where at least four inmates were killed and 24 wounded while protesting a surge of COVID-19 infections, officials said. Police spokesman Ajith Rohana said elite police commandos were deployed to the Mahara prison, where inmates rioted against overcrowded conditions and demanded their release. “Guards at Mahara have used force to control an unruly situation,” Mr. Rohana said. Police said one prisoner was killed, but doctors at the nearby Ragama hospital said they received the bodies of four inmates, while another 24 were admitted with wounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/four-killed-in-sri-lanka-prison-riot/article33208989.ece
30 November 2020||London,||London, Nov 29, 2020 (AFP) -||Dave Prowse, the British weightlifter-turned-actor who was the body, though not the voice, of arch-villain Darth Vader in the original Star Wars trilogy, has died. He was 85. Born in Bristol, England, in 1935, Prowse represented England in weightlifting at the 1962 Commonwealth Games. Director George Lucas saw Prowse in a small part in A Clockwork Orange and asked the actor to audition for the villainous Vader or the Wookie Chewbacca in Star Wars . Prowse later told the BBC he chose Darth Vader because “you always remember the bad guys.” Prowse donned Darth Vader’s black armour and helmet for Star Wars (1977), The Empire Strikes Back (1980) and Return of the Jedi (1983).AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-nov-29-2020-afp/article33208497.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Clear the fog, draw up a clear vaccination policy||Vaccines play a major role in human mastery over infectious diseases. Vaccine can induce immunity only in the vaccinated individual. So, vaccination is ‘preventive medicine’. When a vaccine is rolled out as a national or global programme and increasing proportions of people are vaccinated, ‘herd immunity’ level increases and disease frequency decreases in the vaccinated population. That decelerates transmission of the microbe in the whole community, resulting in decreasing disease frequency even in the unvaccinated segment of population — a phenomenon called the ‘herd effect’ of vaccination. Disease burden and control Herd immunity plus herd effect reduce the overall disease burden in the community; in other words, the disease is controlled. In epidemiology, the common word control has a specific meaning: ‘deliberate reduction of disease frequency to a desired level, validated with evidence’. For evidence, disease frequencies must be documented both at baseline and on an ongoing basis, through systematic surveillance. So, control interventions include a vaccination programme and disease surveillance. The extreme form of control is ‘elimination’ of transmission of the microbe in a whole country. For example, measles and rubella have been eliminated in Sri Lanka through sustained vaccination achieving high coverage. Eradication is global elimination of an infectious disease. In summary, the hierarchy of human mastery over infectious microbes using vaccines ranges from individual protection and community control, to elimination and eradication. So far, smallpox and cattle plague have been eradicated using their respective vaccines. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) was eradicated in 2003 without a vaccine, using ‘non-pharmacological interventions’, or NPI, systematic case detection, contact tracing and quarantine. Success was possible because virus transmission occurred only after individuals developed fever. History of travel from affected countries and fever-screening identified potentially infectious persons who were quarantined for breaking transmission chains. COVID-19 novel coronavirus transmission occurs from infected persons before the onset of fever and from infected but totally asymptomatic individuals. So, we cannot stop transmission; but with NPI (face masks, hand hygiene and avoiding crowds), we can retard transmission. Vaccine candidates and India Three COVID-19 vaccines have claims of about 90-95% protective efficacy — BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNTech), mRNA-1273 (Moderna) and Sputnik-V (Gamaleya Institute). Hopefully they will soon get registration for general use in their respective countries of origin. Sputnik-V is under phase 2-phase 3 vaccine trials in India, by Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories. Another vaccine, ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 (Oxford-AstraZeneca), manufactured under licence by Serum Institute of India as Covishield, is undergoing phase 2-phase 3 trials in India. The likelihood of Sputnik-V getting registration in India is probably high, possibly before end-2020. An indigenous vaccine candidate, Covaxin (Bharat Biotech), found safe and immunogenic in phase 1 and phase 2 trials, is now under phase 3 trial. If found safe and effective, it will, hopefully, get registration in the first or second quarter of 2021. Should vaccination be used in India as preventive medicine for individual protection, community control or elimination? This is India’s call — what is in the best interests of the country? In India’s national Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP), policy is defined, vaccines procured and supplied by the Union government and vaccination implemented by State governments. So, policy development is the function of the central government — States must implement the action plan emerging from policy. States have the freedom to surpass policy limits if no fund is sought. There are precedents: Delhi used the Measles-Mumps-Rubella vaccine when the central government policy was only for Measles vaccine and Sikkim unilaterally used human papillomavirus vaccine to prevent cervical cancer in women. Mixed signals A comprehensive vaccination policy is yet to emerge as evidenced by the divergent views expressed by different dignitaries. On October 22, Union Finance Minister announced NDA’s Bihar election manifesto: “The NDA government in Bihar has set an example before the country in the fight against corona. It is our resolve that once the vaccine…has been cleared by the ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research], we will make it available to the people of Bihar free of cost.” Note the faux pas — the Drugs Controller General of India is the clearing agency, not the ICMR. On November 3, the Union Health Secretary said in a press conference: “Union Health Ministry has asked State governments to refrain from making isolated plans for vaccine distribution. The Union government has set up an expert committee on vaccine administration. States were asked to set up committees under Chief Secretaries of each State to ensure time-bound implementation of the Union government’s direction”. On November 19, the Puducherry Chief Minister announced that COVID-19 vaccination will be provided free under the State Budget. On November 20, the Union Health Minister identified the priority sequence for vaccination: health-care workers and ‘corona warriors’; citizens above 65 years; those between 50 and 65; those below 50 who have co-morbidities; and finally general public; workers in essential services are missed out. This represents a preventive medicine approach. Obviously, the government has not considered a public health goal of control or elimination. Unanswered policy issues Fortunately, the three front running vaccines for India — Sputnik V, Covishield, Covaxin — need only the standard cold chain available to the UIP, except that any new vaccine will require significant additional cold chain space. All vaccines in the UIP are available in the private sector too. Under the UIP, vaccines attract no user fee, but the private sector bills the beneficiary. Will this style be maintained for COVID-19 vaccines also? Will insurance companies reimburse the recipients of a vaccine in the private sector? An important policy issue is whether vaccination should be confined to only uninfected individuals. Or should it be for all people? In the first case, how should uninfected individuals be identified? All test results of infected subjects are available on a computer data base and that is one way to identify those who were already infected. For others, should COVID-19 antibody or T-cell immunity be tested for reserving vaccination for non-immune persons? What will be the policy for vaccinating children? Will not vaccinating teachers and students make school reopening safe? Many senior citizens are protected from exposure to infection by cocooning within homes. How will they be reached at home? If COVID-19 control is the policy objective, there will be additional questions. Experts must determine the age groups to be covered for disease control. Where will vaccination be conducted? If at fixed stations, will they be at health-care clinics or elsewhere? Will vaccination be with or without user-fee? In case of any adverse reaction, how and where will that be diagnosed and treated? India does not practise public health surveillance. How then can India monitor the control trajectory of COVID-19 over time? The COVID-19 control plan of actions can be the nucleus for building a much-needed public health infrastructure in India. The vaccination stations should be staffed with trained personnel and supervised by medical doctors. The site must have a waiting area and a post-vaccination staying area to manage any untoward reaction during the first hour. A computerised master list with details and mobile numbers of all vaccinated subjects needs to be maintained for the purpose of post-vaccination follow up to document rare side-effects. Data management has to be meticulously planned and executed The central and State governments in general and Health Departments in particular have a mammoth task ahead of them. It is a big challenge to protect the life and the health of citizens, and also a huge opportunity to eliminate the novel coronavirus from India, setting an example to the rest of the world. With will and wisdom we can, and should, accomplish this. T. Jacob John is former Professor and HOD, Clinical Virology Department, CMC Hospital, Vellore, and former President, Indian Academy of Pediatrics. M.S. Seshadri is former Professor and HOD, Clinical Endocrinology Department, CMC Hospital, Vellore, and is currently Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/clear-the-fog-draw-up-a-clear-vaccination-policy/article33208480.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The Paris Agreement is no panacea||Nothing that U.S. President Donald Trump touched turned into gold, except perhaps his business empire, but ironically, he was the alchemist who turned the Paris Agreement, once considered the product of a conspiracy hatched by the U.S. and China to change the course of negotiations away from the Rio Declaration (1992) and the Kyoto Protocol (1997), into a holy grail worth pursuing. Many developing countries, including India, which hesitated to sign the Agreement because it had exempted developed countries from their mandatory obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, turned into its devout supporters the moment Mr. Trump denounced it as a hoax and announced his decision to withdraw from it. Today, the Paris Agreement is deemed as the panacea for all environmental ills when the truth is that it is a repudiation of the principles of ‘common but differentiated responsibilities’ and ‘the polluter must pay’. Mr. Trump was not the only one who called the Paris Agreement a hoax. Many scientists and environmentalists expressed deep disappointment when it was adopted, as the national and international actions envisaged under it were far below the optimum levels. They did not add up to limiting the rise of global temperature to below 2°C, the minimum necessary to save the globe from disastrous consequences. It merely opened a new path to protect the lifestyles of industrialised nations by denying the developing countries their right to development. Efforts over the years The most hopeful time for global cooperation in protection of the planet was between the time of the Stockholm Conference (1972) and the time of the Rio Conference (1992). That was when mounting scientific evidence about the role of anthropogenic emissions in global warming led to political initiatives to harmonise development and environment. Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s resounding address at Stockholm declaring poverty as the worst polluter reverberated in many conference halls. The historic consensus in Rio led to the adoption of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC), which was a model global instrument balancing the right to development of the developing countries and the obligations of the developed countries. A distinction was made between the ‘‘luxury emissions” of the developed countries, which were reduced mandatorily, and the survival emissions of the developed countries, which were allowed to increase. Moreover, a huge financial package was approved to develop environment-friendly technologies in developing countries. But by the time the Conference of the Parties was held in Berlin in 1995, the developed countries had backed off from their commitments. They made a determined effort to impose mandatory cuts on developing countries. Though the G-77 was split, we managed to maintain the Rio principles with the assistance of the Chairperson, Angela Merkel. The Kyoto Protocol enshrined the Rio principles. It fixed emission targets for developed countries and a complex set of provisions was included to satisfy their interests. But it was never ratified by the U.S. Congress and the U.S. withdrew its support in 2001. The end of the Kyoto Protocol and the abandonment of the spirit of the Rio principles were reflected in the Copenhagen Accord (2009), engineered by the U.S. and China and sold to some key countries including India on the argument that a global climate action plan would be possible only if all reductions of the greenhouse gases were made voluntary. The basic terms of the Copenhagen Accord were brokered directly by a handful of key country leaders including the U.S., China, India and Brazil on the final day of the conference. It took another full day of tense negotiations to arrive at a procedural compromise allowing the deal to be formalised over the bitter objections of a few governments. There was a virtual revolt by the developing countries, but the Paris Agreement was virtually born in Copenhagen, and adopted later in 2015. A fundamental change The Paris Agreement marked a fundamental change in the principles of Rio and for the first time brought all nations into a common cause to undertake ambitious efforts to combat climate change. It requires all parties to put forward their best efforts through nationally determined contributions (NDCs) and to strengthen these efforts in the years ahead. This includes all parties to report regularly on their emissions and on their implementation efforts. The Paris Agreement moved away from the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and all countries were placed on an equal footing by making reduction of greenhouse gas emissions voluntary. The NDCs so far submitted will not result in the desired objective of limiting increase of global warming to below 2°C. The Paris Agreement requires that all countries — rich, poor, developed, and developing — slash greenhouse gas emissions. But no language is included on the commitments the countries should make. Nations can voluntarily set their emissions targets and incur no penalties for falling short of their targets. It sets forth a requirement for countries to announce their next round of targets every five years, but does not include a specific requirement to achieve them. The scientific community has already rejected the Paris Agreement as a solution. Further temperature rise, even of 1.5°C, may result in catastrophic and irreversible changes. At 1.5°C, 70%-90% of coral reefs across the world would die. At 2°C, none would be left. Even a 1°C hotter planet is not a steady state, says a report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The techno-optimism that the wonders of technology will be able to find answers to the dilemma we face without our having to alter our patterns of living is a delusion. The IPCC report acknowledges that “the pathways to avoiding an even hotter world would require a swift and complete transformation not just of the global economy but of society too”. This will only be possible if the world rejects nationalism and parochialism and adopts collaborative responses to the crisis. The Paris Agreement falls short of that imperative. U.S. President-elect Joe Biden has declared that the U.S. will have the most progressive position on climate change in the nation’s history. He has already laid out a clean energy and infrastructure plan, a commitment to return to the Paris Agreement, and a goal of net-zero emissions by 2050. The appointment of former Secretary of State John Kerry as Climate Change Envoy is a clear indication of the importance that Mr. Biden attaches to addressing global warming issues. Having been one of the architects of the Paris Agreement, Mr. Kerry must be aware of its merits and deficiencies. It is hoped that he will also be aware of the development imperatives of the developing nations. If Mr. Kerry and Mr. Biden insist on matching cuts by the developing countries as a conditionality to return to the Paris Agreement, the whole debate of equity and climate justice will emerge, with India and the U.S. on opposing sides. T.P. Sreenivasan, a former Ambassador, was the Vice Chairman of the first Conference of Parties to the UNFFCC from 1992 to 1995||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-paris-agreement-is-no-panacea/article33208492.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Seasoned faces who could aid the return of America||The President-elect of the United States, Joe Biden, recently announced nominations for some key national security posts. During the campaign, Mr. Biden argued for a liberal internationalist foreign policy to “once more place America at the head of the table”. Whereby, Washington would reassume the role of a steward on global governance issues, lead in the advocacy of democratic values and human rights, and sustain its network of alliances from western Europe to northeast Asia. Given this restorationist agenda for “rescuing” U.S. foreign policy after Donald Trump’s ‘America First’ conduct, most of Mr. Biden’s nominations are veterans of the Barack Obama administration. However, the decision to nominate his former colleagues also seems to be a very calculated one. The band back together With Mr. Trump overseeing America’s withdrawal from the UN Human Rights Council and UNESCO, Mr. Biden has tapped career diplomat Linda Thomas-Greenfield to represent Washington at the global high-table. Biden will also restate the post to cabinet rank, since Trump had it downgraded. Moreover, Ms. Thomas-Greenfield’s experience as Barack Obama’s Assistant Secretary of State for Africa (at the critical time of responding to the Ebola outbreak) would be particularly relevant in the U.S.’s effort to “increase trust with non-Western diplomats”, at a time when China has sought to do the same to expand its influence at the UN. From the standpoint of rekindling America’s relationship with its prime allies, Mr. Biden’s nomination of former Deputy Secretary of State Antony Blinken for Secretary of State is significant. After Mr. Trump’s derision of Europe as America’s “foe” and for allegedly having “ripped off” Washington on collective security, European capitals will now deal with someone who is fluent in French and considers them as partners of “first resort, not last resort.” In addition, the decision to tap former Secretary of State John Kerry as Special Presidential Envoy for Climate is reflective of the high priority Mr. Biden would accord to the issue. Apart from Mr. Biden’s pledge to reverse Mr. Trump’s withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement (which Mr. Kerry helped negotiate), he is expected to elevate the position as part of his National Security Council. Finally, Jake Sullivan, who most recently served as National Security Adviser to Vice-President Biden, will “take on the same title — but now to a President Biden”. His appointment as the gate-keeper of Mr. Biden’s national security agenda, will most definitely have bearing on Mr. Biden’s pledge to rejoin the Iran nuclear deal, since Mr. Sullivan was a key player in the secret negotiations that led to the 2015 deal. During his time as the Deputy Chief of Staff to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Mr. Sullivan also worked on the implementation of her ‘Pivot to Asia’ policy — arguably the early precursor to the Indo-Pacific strategy.  The India outlook Most analyses already predict considerable continuity when it comes to U.S.-India ties under Mr. Biden. With the nominations, that assessment gains further credence, with key members having had the experience of being part of the modern-day development of America’s ties with India. Mr. Blinken for instance, was staff director on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, when as its chairman then-Senator Biden oversaw the passage of the U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Agreement. Similarly, Mr. Sullivan reportedly had been a supporter of U.S.-India ties being a central component of the ‘Pivot to Asia’ policy. In addition, the Biden administration’s agenda on India will hardly be different, given Mr. Trump’s own continuity on the Obama years’ progress on the U.S.-India portfolio. For instance, during the campaign, Mr. Blinken touted two Obama-era developments to underscore Mr. Biden’s commitment to U.S.-India ties. On both those developments — India’s designation as ‘Major Defence Partner’ and the initiation of the United States-India Defense Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI), Mr. Trump has only built on the Obama-Biden record by classifying India under the Strategic Trade Authorisation-1 and finalising the Industrial Security Annex for the actualisation of the DTTI. Hence, while Mr. Blinken as Mr. Biden’s top diplomat would adopt a restorationist agenda towards most partners of the U.S., in case of India, the priority will be to further build on Mr. Trump’s record. One aspect where things would depart from the Trump precedent however, is with respect to U.S. apprehensions over some of India’s domestic policies. Mr. Blinken for instance, has already spoken about there being “real concerns” over India “cracking down on freedom of movement and freedom of speech in Kashmir, [and] some of the laws on citizenship”. But he has pragmatically called for working on those “differences”, even as the U.S. and India continue to “build greater cooperation and strengthen the relationship.” Handling China Whereas on China, Mr. Blinken has reportedly been receptive to the idea of construing America’s approach on ideological lines. Whereby, in a sign of shedding the Obama-era baggage of over prioritising cooperation with China (to even ignore its transgressions), Mr. Blinken has rallied against Mr. Trump’s “signals of impunity” on Beijing’s human rights record. Towards now overseeing America’s reemergence to “a position of strength from which to engage China”, Mr. Blinken has notably invoked Mr. Trump’s ‘Indo-Pacific’ construct to call on India to be “a key partner in that effort”. Hence, while differences over India’s domestic policies could emerge, increased attention on the China challenge by Mr. Biden’s team of Obama-era liberal internationalists could inform a pragmatic approach towards New Delhi. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), New Delhi, and Professor of International Relations at King’s College London. Kashish Parpiani is Research Fellow at the ORF, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/seasoned-faces-who-could-aid-the-return-of-america/article33208484.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The political economy of journalism||Though I handle complaints and examine The Hindu ’s compliance with its editorial values and core journalistic principles, there are compelling reasons for me to dwell on media literacy. It’s important not to conflate the fortunes of the news media industry with the demands of journalism. Yet, journalism and the news media industry are linked through a complex network of political economy, which contributes to a sustainable model for credible journalism. The plague of disinformation is not new. In 1939, the journalist-turned-educator, Clyde R. Miller, delivered a powerful lecture, ‘How to detect and analyse propaganda’, at New York’s Town Hall. His major recommendations remain valid today. He said: “There are three ways to deal with propaganda — first, to suppress it; second, to try to answer it by counterpropaganda; third, to analyse it.” He established the Institute for Propaganda Analysis (IPA) which came up with efficient tools to sift facts from propaganda. The most potent tool of IPA was media literacy. I believe that it is true for the digital era too. The lack of a sustainable model is haunting legacy media and also hurting new digital initiatives. If the steady decline in revenue is forcing legacy media to scale down its operations in multiple ways, the lack of a model is causing existential angst to digital initiatives. There are overt and covert pressures to convert public interest media organisations into government-led media organisations. Bringing the curtain down On November 24, Huffington Post closed its two country-specific news sites, HuffPost India and HuffPost Brasil. Interestingly, both India and Brazil are governed by strongmen leaders. The Editor-in-Chief of HuffPost India, Aman Sethi, tweeted: “Today is @huffpostIndia’s last day. Pound for pound, story for story, reporter for reporter, this is the greatest newsroom I have worked for; (and I still can’t quite believe I had the privilege to lead)”. From its exhaustive investigations into the controversial electoral bonds scheme to a story on how the BJP turned a women’s NGO, the Association of Billion Minds, into a secretive but highly influential propaganda machine, HuffPost India established itself as a credible, investigative news platform. The wide consensus is that the death of the portal happened because the Government of India tweaked the stakeholding pattern for digital platforms in such a manner that it was nearly impossible for international players to continue to be in the news sector. The Sinhala radio broadcast service of the BBC World Service is also being stopped. Labour MPs Grahame Morris and John McDonnell have tabled a motion in the British Parliament expressing concern over this move. They argue that the accent on digital reach is misplaced because “currently 7% of the Sinhalese population listen to the radio service each week, compared to just 0.6% who use digital services”. The National Union of Journalists is also alarmed at the prospect of the closure. Its statement read: “BBC World Service radio remains an essential service in Sri Lanka, delivering credible local and international news to the population. The prospects of a government shutdown of websites and social media is real, and this has not been factored into the BBC’s plans.” Sustainability of journalism Given the magnitude of the crisis, the Forum on Information and Democracy, an international entity founded by 11 independent organisations from different backgrounds and regions, has created a working group on the sustainability of journalism. It aims to seek structural recommendations from experts, media stakeholders, academics and jurists on how to make quality journalism sustainable. According to the Forum, “the dramatic fall in income is threatening the survival of many news media, affecting the quality of their content and, ultimately, posing a major danger to democracies”. Hence, it has mandated its working group to identify “good practices (including business models, commercial cooperation and editorial partnerships), recommend a favourable regulatory environment (including an overhaul of the media economy’s legislative framework and innovative funding) and propose public policies of a non-market nature (such as state funding, non-financial benefits, tax concessions and development assistance).” While we wait for the recommendations, we need a cohort of media literate readers and viewers to distinguish news from propaganda. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-political-economy-of-journalism/article33208486.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Assassination and its aftermath||Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, the Iranian scientist who led Iran’s nuclear weapons programme until it was disbanded, was assassinated last week. Suspicion immediately fell on Israel, which has been widely held responsible for assassinating several Iranian nuclear scientists early last decade. Three U.S. intelligence officials have said that Mossad assassinated Fakhrizadeh. Assassinations in which Israeli hands were suspected had stopped after the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) imposed strict restrictions on Iran’s nuclear programme. After Iran, in retaliation for the U.S.’s withdrawal from the agreement and re-imposition of stringent sanctions, began enriching uranium and stockpiling it beyond JCPOA limits, the strategy of targeted assassinations seems to be back. A red flag in Israel This strategy has assumed urgency with the election of Joe Biden in the U.S., who has expressed his desire to return to the JCPOA if Iran agrees to conform to its parameters. Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif declared that Iran is willing to comply with the agreement if Mr. Biden lifts sanctions. This has raised a red flag in Israeli government circles. Israel has been the most enthusiastic cheerleader for President Donald Trump’s policy of putting “maximum pressure” on Tehran to force it to give up permanently its quest for nuclear enrichment, freeze its ballistic missile programme, and end its support to regional allies perceived as threatening American and Israeli interests. The Benjamin Netanyahu government is apprehensive that Mr. Biden will imperil Israel’s nuclear monopoly in West Asia. It is, therefore, working towards engineering a major confrontation between the U.S. and Iran, while Mr. Trump is still in office. Mr. Trump, because of his dislike for former President Barack Obama, may be willing to order air strikes on Iranian nuclear installations in order to pre-empt the U.S.’s return to the nuclear agreement that was the foremost achievement of Mr. Obama’s foreign policy. This presumption is strengthened by reports  that he was contemplating an attack on the Natanz nuclear facility in early November but was dissuaded by his senior advisers from doing so. The assassination of Fakhrizadeh appears to be part of a larger Israeli plan in conjunction with Saudi Arabia to force the U.S. into taking military action against Iran. Mr. Netanyahu’s recent semi-clandestine trip to Saudi Arabia to meet with the Crown Prince along with the U.S. Secretary of State was aimed at cementing the anti-Iran front and putting pressure on the Trump administration to destroy Iran’s nuclear installations. Riyadh considers Tehran to be its principal adversary and the primary threat to its leadership aspirations in West Asia. According to leaked U.S. diplomatic cables, the late Saudi King Abdullah exhorted Washington in 2008 to “cut off the head of the snake”, a clear reference to Iran, by launching military strikes to destroy Tehran’s nuclear installations. An Israeli-Saudi nexus on this issue when combined with President Trump’s predilection for dramatic, even if irresponsible, actions could culminate in a major military strike on Iran before he leaves office. A win-win situation Fakhrizadeh’s assassination creates a win-win situation for Israel. If the Iranian government launches revenge attacks on Israeli targets or those of America’s Arab allies, Mr. Netanyahu would be able to persuade the U.S. to attack Iran’s nuclear facilities. If Iran shows restraint, Israel would have shown up the Iranian regime as weak while augmenting anti-American feelings in the country that would make it difficult for the Biden administration to resume negotiations with Tehran on reviving JCPOA. Either way, the fallout of the assassination, while benefiting Israel, will add to the instability in the region. Mr. Biden will have to decide if Israel has become an albatross around the U.S.’s neck forcing it to adopt policies and undertake actions that run counter to its larger interests in West Asia. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/assassination-and-its-aftermath/article33208489.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Historic recession||The fact that India’s economy entered a technical recession in the July-September period has now been confirmed by National Statistical Office data. Provisional estimates of gross domestic product for the second quarter of the year ending in March 2021 show economic output shrank by 7.5%, following the 23.9% contraction in the first quarter. Not only has the economy shrunk for a second successive quarter, marking a recession for the first time in independent India’s history, but the overall GDP figure of Rs. 33,14,167 crore (at 2011-12 prices) reveals output has slid back to the lowest level in 12 quarters. This one fact alone ought to give cause for serious concern, notwithstanding the apparent improvement in economic momentum that helped narrow the contraction from the preceding period’s precipitous fall. Even there, a closer look at both the expenditure side and the gross value added across various industry categories leaves little room for comfort. Private consumption expenditure — the single biggest component propelling GDP with a share exceeding 50% at constant prices and edging toward 60% in current prices — continued to shrink albeit at a slower pace (-11.3%), reflecting both consumer wariness to spend amid the pandemic and the impact of lost jobs and reduced incomes. And, government consumption spending that was hitherto a bulwark and what kept the bottom from falling out in the first quarter when it grew 16%, contracted by 22% revealing the precarious state of public finances. Taken together, demand was largely missing. And even though the contractions in gross fixed capital formation, exports and imports all narrowed, it was a puzzling almost fourfold growth in ‘discrepancies’ at Rs. 56,962 crore that limited the extent of decline in the overall GDP. In the real economy, electricity and other utility services joined agriculture in posting growth, expanding 4.4%, as the post-lockdown resumption of industrial activity lifted power and water consumption. Surprisingly, manufacturing GVA inexplicably jettisoned its correlation with official IIP data on the sector: while the latter had signalled an average contraction of 6.7% in the July-September period, GVA data from the NSO on Friday showed manufacturing rebounding to a marginal 0.6% expansion after a 39% collapse in the preceding quarter. One possible explanation for this uptick in provisional manufacturing GVA is that the year-earlier period had witnessed a contraction and the statistical effect of a low base coupled with inventory restocking likely lifted the figure. Financial, real estate and professional services, which contribute about a fourth of the GVA, widened contraction from the first quarter, shrinking 8.3%. Clearly, the financial services sector is not in good health and is an ominous portent for the economy given its crucial role in credit intermediation. The economy urgently needs a robust demand stimulus if a protracted slump is to be prevented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/historic-recession/article33208474.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Reaping the whirlwind||Farmers of India have felt exploited for long. The reforms that the Centre brought in, apparently to make the agriculture sector more efficient and lucrative in the form of three ordinances in June, have had the effect of upsetting large sections of them further. Parliament passed them into Acts in September. More than 500 farmers’ unions are now on a path of agitation. Thousands of farmers from the neighbouring States, stopped by the police on their way to Delhi, are camping at several points around the national capital. They have refused to move to a designated site, a condition set by the Centre for talks. The Centre has aggravated its original mistake of rushing through these laws without wide consultation and political consensus by taking a condescending attitude towards critics. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that farmers stood to benefit from the new measures, and this may well be true. The trouble is that most farmers are not convinced by the assurances and fear that their precarity will increase as a result of the changes. Farmer leaders have pointed out that the Centre has refused to address their specific concerns regarding the new laws, which they are concerned will render them helpless in the face of exploitative market forces. At the heart of the fears is the potential end of the MSP and guaranteed government procurement of the produce. The new legal architecture allows farmers more choices in selling their produce, in theory, and creates a national market for their produce. The end of a monopoly market could theoretically lead to more efficiency, but procurement at MSP has been the backbone of India’s food security edifice. If the new laws lead to a dismantling of the MSP and the mandi system, the farmers fear that they will have little leeway in contracts with private buyers. There are loopholes in the existing system and the case for reforms is strong. But railroading a raft of measures cannot be the way forward. If the Centre is open to legislating a guarantee of procurement at MSP, farmers could be convinced to accept the new laws. Agitating farmers are also pressing for the withdrawal of the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, fearing it will end subsidised electricity. While market factors must be taken into consideration, any country’s agriculture sector must find an equilibrium of the interest of the producers and consumers, and account for uneven environmental factors across different regions. The apprehensions of the farmers are not unfounded. The onus is on the government to win their confidence. It must unconditionally reach out to the farmers and empathetically listen to them and not precipitate a crisis by high-handedness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reaping-the-whirlwind/article33208475.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Life of the Prophet||Under the auspices of the Tanjore Khilafat Panchayat Committee a public meeting was convened on the 24th instant at 6 P.M. in Mr. P.V. Kistnasami Baig’s bungalow under the Presidency of Mr. Maulana Sahib, President, Khilafat Committee, Madura, to commemorate the birthday of Mahomed the Prophet. There was a fairly good attendance of Hindus and Mahomedans. Mr. V.V.S. Aiyer, Editor, Desabaktan, Madras, who was specially invited for the purpose delivered an interesting and highly educative lecture on the life of the Prophet and his teachings and their applicability to the present situation. He illustrated from the life of the Prophet how any man without riches, advantages of birth or high education or other prestiges, that counted much in society, could rise to an eminent position of universal usefulness by mere soulforce, purity of heart and nobility of purpose coupled with an unconquerable will and indomitable spirit that carried all obstacles before it. He explained the object of the meeting which was to give expression to the fraternity that was now being formed between the Hindus and Mahomedans and to strengthen the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/life-of-the-prophet/article33208487.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Illegal import of arms into Pakistan||Political leaders in Pakistan have been expressing concern over a recently discovered illegal import of large quantities of arms and ammunition into Pakistan. Mr. Mumtaz Daultana, President of the Council Muslim League said in a press statement that “it is indeed most intriguing to note that while officials claim to have recovered arms worth over Rs. two crores from Karachi and Rawalpindi, silence is being maintained about the source of this lethal merchandise.” Pakistani newspapers have quoted Mr. Daultana as having said that “it is also very surprising that most of these arms bear the markings from countries like Russia and Czechoslovakia with which no private gun-runner can negotiate directly. The nation wants to know how these huge quantities of arms could come into the country and who are the people responsible for importing them in such large quantities.” Mr. Daultana has further warned the people and the Government of Pakistan that unless stern measures were taken to recover all the arms, the total price of which is estimated at about Rs. 75 crores, the country could be plunged at any time into a devastating civil war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/illegal-import-of-arms-into-pakistan/article33208488.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I have been working as a freelancer since November 2019 after I quit my regular job. I have been getting the payment deposited, after TDS, into my account. The total payment is equal to Rs. 15 lakh. Please guide me for filing ITR for FY 2019-20. Mohammed Arif  A.You may opt for Presumptive Tax Scheme for Professionals under section 44ADA of the Act if your profession is eligible under the scheme and gross receipts are less than Rs. 50 lakh. As on date, the following professions are notified viz. interior decoration, technical consulting, engineering, accounting, legal, medical, architecture. Other professionals, as mentioned below: a.Movie artistes including a producer, editor, actor, director, music director, art director, dance director, cameraman, singer, lyricist, story writer, screenplay or dialogue writer and costume designers b.Authorised representative, meaning a person who represents another person for a fee before a tribunal or any authority constituted under any law. As your gross receipts are lower than Rs. 50 lakh, you may be eligible under this scheme if your profession is covered and you are required to declare a profit/gain under profession of minimum 50% of the gross receipts based on the expenses incurred in connection with your profession. You will be required to file ITR-4 and calculate tax according to the slab rates and in consideration of your other income, if any. If your profession is not covered in the above list, you may choose to opt for Presumptive Tax under section 44AD of the Act as your gross receipts are lower than Rs. 2 crore. Mention your profession properly under the business codes available. Under this scheme, you will be required to declare a profit/gain of minimum 8% (other modes) and 6% (digital modes) based on the expenses incurred in connection with your profession. You will be required to file ITR-4 and calculate tax according to the slab rates and in consideration of your other income, if any. Benefits under the above schemes are maintenance of books of accounts are not compulsory and there is no need for auditing. Q.I retired from the Southern Railway and get a monthly pension of about Rs. 40,000. I also get a monthly family pension of Rs. 30,000. What is the eligible amount that can be deducted from my family pension?  K.M. Krishna  A.Deduction of a sum equal to one-third of family pension received or Rs. 15,000, whichever is lower, can be claimed under section 57(iia) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. In your case, you will be eligible for a deduction of Rs. 15,000 for AY 20-21. The same is to be declared as “Income from Other Sources” in the respective ITR as applicable to you. Q.I am a 30-year-old male working in an IT firm. I plan to create an HUF. I need information on funding the HUF account.  S. Venkatesh  A.HUF can be funded by the members of the HUF by gifting monies into the HUF account thus forming the capital of the HUF. You may use your funds derived from any source, including salary, to gift the HUF. This does not attract any tax in either the HUF’s hands or in your hands and there is no limit of gifting by members of the HUF to the HUF. However, any income derived by the HUF from the monies gifted by you by way of investments/business through the HUF will be taxed in your hands under the clubbing provisions of the Income Tax Act. However, if the HUF invests in any tax-free instrument, the returns, along with the initial investment in the instrument, can be invested in any manner and no clubbing provisions will apply, post which the tax will be charged at rates/slabs as applicable to the HUF.  (The author is partner, GSS & Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article33208470.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article33208472.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Gomes emerges Blasters’ hero||Chennaiyin FC was left to rue a missed penalty as it was held to a goalless draw by Kerala Blasters in an evenly fought contest at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Sunday. In the 75th minute, Jakub Sylvestr’s strike was guessed right by Blaster ’keeper Albino Gomes, who dived to his left to stop the Slovakian’s strike. The penalty was won, thanks to a brilliant run from Reagan Singh on the left as he set it up for Crivellaro inside the box. The latter was brought down by Blasters skipper Sergio Cidoncha, giving Chennaiyin a golden chance to go ahead. However, that was not to be. Earlier, in the first half, Chennaiyin got off the blocks quickly. In the seventh minute, Lallianzuala Chhangte produced a sizzling run on the right off a long ball and passed to Anirudh Thapa, but the latter’s shot went wide. In the 16th, Chennai had its best opportunity of the first period when Gomes slipped, providing Crivellaro a chance to fire a shot. However, Bakary Kone saved Blasters’ blushes with a timely clearance. Once the Kerala side found its rhythm in the second part of the first half, it started to dominate possession and also exerted pressure on the Chennai outfit. At the half-hour mark, Rohit Kumar came up with the only shot on target from either team from outside the box, but an acrobatic Chennaiyin ’keeper Vishal Kaith pushed the ball wide. In the second half, both sides failed to break the deadlock as they hardly created any chances. In the day’s first match at Tilak Maidan in Vasco, Odisha FC rallied from 2-0 down to hold Jamshedpur FC. Substitute Diego Maurico’s brace earned Odisha a point after Jamshedpur striker Nerijus Valskis had scored twice for his side.  The results: Jamshedpur FC 2 (Valskis 12 & 27) drew with Odisha FC 2 (Mauricio 77 & 90+2).   Chennaiyin FC 0 drew with Kerala Blasters FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gomes-emerges-blasters-hero/article33208607.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Third time lucky for Arjun||Coimbatore veteran Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) clinched the title in the premier Indian Touring Class in his third attempt in the MRF MMSC-FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship, which concluded at the MMRT, here on Sunday. Arjun, who was runner-up in the previous two seasons, endured a difficult, rain-affected weekend and did just enough to pick up crucial points by winning Race-1 and finishing second in Race-2 before retiring in Race-3 after a shunt. Also clinching the drivers’ titles in their respective categories were Mamallapuram’s Raghul Rangasamy of Performance Racing (Super Stock), 17-year-old Bengaluru lad Tijil Rao of Momentum Motorsport (Formula LGB 1300) and Thrissur’s T.S. Diljith (MRF Saloon Car series). Mohite wins double Dhruv Mohite of FB Motorsport won a double to help his team take the team championship. A hugely relieved Arjun, after sealing the championship with a race to spare, said: “After winning Race-1, I knew I needed just seven points from Race-2 to clinch the championship. So, I held position through the 10 laps for P2. “This championship win is most special and most satisfying for me,” he said, having finished second in previous two seasons.  The results (provisional, 8 laps, unless mentioned):   Indian Touring Cars: Race-1: 1. Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) (15mins, 31.003secs); 2. Keith D’Souza (FB Motorsport) (15:35.528); 3. Dhruv Mohite (FB Motorsport) (15:42.847). Race-2 (10 laps): 1. Mohite (19:34.316); 2. Balu (19:36.706); 3. D’Souza (19:37.940). Race-3: 1. Mohite (15:49.069); 2. D’Souza (15:49.378); 3. Varun Anekar (Race Concepts) (16:31.373).   Super Stock: Race-1: 1. Alisha Abdullah (Race Concepts) (16:41.042); 2. Vineet Abhiram (Race Concepts) (17:02.885); 3. Sridhar Nagaraj (Race Concepts) (17:24.841). Race-2 (10 laps): 1. Raghul Rangasamy (Performance Racing) (20:27.517); 2. Raja Rajan (Performance Racing) (20:28.739); 3. Rithvik Thomas (Race Concepts) (20:43.616). Race-3: 1. Raghul (16:33.837); 2. Alisha (16:50.086); 3. Sridhar Nagaraj (16:52.214).   MRF Saloon Car Series: Race-1: 1. Sreeram Sridhar (Chennai) (17:30.244); 2. T.S. Diljith (Thrissur) (17:31.226); 3. Chandresh Tolia (Mumbai) (17:42.636). Race-2 (10 laps): 1. Chetan Korada (Chennai) (19:35.644); 2. Diljith (19:38.741); Sreeram (19:42.939). Race-3: 1. A Balaprasath (Chennai) (17:24.875); 2. Korada (17:26.241); 3. Diljith (17:27.661).   Formula LGB 1300: Race-1: 1. Viswas Vijayaraj (DTS Racing) (15:30.277); 2. Tijil Rao (Momentum Motorsport) (15:30.408); 3. Prithveen Rajan (Joba Racing) (15:30.588). Race-2 (10 laps): 1. Prithveen Rajan (Joba Racing); 2. Mohamed Ryan (M Sport); 3. Tijil Rao. Race-3: 1. A. Balaprasath (M Sport) (15:23.138); 2. Raghul Rangasamy (M Sport) (15:29.350); 3. Ryan (15:29.724). Race-4 (7 laps): Viswas Vijayaraj (15:26.300); 2. Chirag Ghorpade (Momentum Motorsport) (15:27.162); 3. Tijil Rao (15:28.427).   National Champions: Indian Touring Cars: Driver: Arjun Balu (Coimbatore, Race Concepts, 151 points). Team: FB Motorsport (262).   Super Stock: Driver: Raghul Rangasamy (Mamallapuram, Performance Racing, 154). Team : Race Concepts (289).   MRF Saloon Car Series: T.S. Diljith (Thrissur, 113).   Formula LGB 1300: Driver: Tijil Rao (Bengaluru, 122). Team: Momentum Motorsport (215) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/third-time-lucky-for-arjun/article33208609.ece
30 November 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI proposes a curtailed domestic season for 2020-21||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has presented State associations with four options for a truncated domestic cricket season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The associations have been asked to revert with their preferred option by December 2. The options In an email to all affiliates, accessed by The Hindu , BCCI secretary Jay Shah has specified the options for the senior men’s domestic season:    Option 1: Only Ranji Trophy; Option 2: Only Syed Mushtaq Ali T20; Option 3: Ranji Trophy and Syed Mushtaq Ali T20; Option 4: Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 and Vijay Hazare Trophy. The BCCI plans to stage the tournament/s in “six biosecure hubs”. “The BCCI will have to create a total of 6 bio-secure hubs across the country. The 38 teams will be divided into 5 Elite groups and 1 Plate group. The Elite groups will consist of 6 teams each while the Plate group will have 8 teams,” the email states. The Ranji Trophy will require 67 days, Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy 22 days and Vijay Hazare Trophy 28 days for completion, BCCI states. Proposed windows The proposed windows are January 11 to March 18 (Ranji), December 20 to January 10 (Mushtaq Ali) and January 11 to February 7 (Vijay Hazare).  The Hindu understands that the BCCI is positive about starting the season with the domestic T20s to try out the “hub” and then extend it for the Ranji Trophy. The BCCI is also understood to be in touch with two top hospital groups for managing the biosecure hub. According to the email, each of the six staging cities will have to have at least three digital broadcast-friendly venues. The venues that are being shortlisted include Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Puducherry, Vadodara, Surat, Nagpur, Indore, Pune, Hyderabad and Kolkata. Responses It was confirmed that at least two associations had responded to the email by Sunday evening. While the Haryana Cricket Association isn’t keen on getting the season rolling in a hurry, the Arunachal Pradesh office-bearers have preferred only T20s to be staged. A few State associations may request the BCCI to consider smaller groups — of five or four teams each — to restrict the duration of the tournament. However, it would result in increasing the number of venues, something that the BCCI isn’t keen on.  Necessitates creation of biosecure hubs Six staging cities to be identified||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-proposes-a-curtailed-domestic-season-for-2020-21/article33208596.ece
30 November 2020||Mount Maunganui,||Phillips headlines Kiwis’ series-sealing win||Glenn Phillips smacked the fastest Twenty20 century by a New Zealander as the Black Caps whipped the West Indies by a comprehensive 72 runs in the second Twenty20 International here on Sunday to wrap up the series with a game to spare. Phillips clubbed his century off 46 deliveries, the 10th fastest in the world and one ball faster than the previous New Zealand record held by Colin Munro. When he was dismissed off the penultimate delivery of the New Zealand innings, Phillips had scored 108 off 51 balls, with eight 6s and ten 4s, and having featured in a 184-run stand with Devon Conway, who was not out 65 as New Zealand finished on 238 for three. The West Indies facing the second-highest chase in Twenty20 history to win, could manage only 166 for nine. After his stunning turn with the bat, Phillips starred in the field with the sharp run-out of Andre Fletcher and a diving catch on the boundary to remove Kyle Mayers. New Zealand openers Tim Seifert (18) and Martin Guptill (34) were rarely tested as they raced to 49 off 34 deliveries before both fell in quick succession. Conway and Phillips wasted no time re-establishing the innings. Phillips received a life on 88 when he belted a high full toss that was caught on the boundary, only to be recalled when replays showed it was a no-ball above waist height. New Zealand, which won the first match by five wickets, leads the series 2-0 with the third and final match to be played here on Monday.  The scores: New Zealand 238/3 in 20 overs (Martin Guptill 34, Devon Conway 65 n.o., Glenn Phillips 108) bt West Indies 166/9 in 20 overs (Shimron Hetmyer 25, Kieron Pollard 28, Keemo Paul 26 n.o.; Kyle Jamieson 2/15, Mitchell Santner 2/41); Toss: WI; MoM: Phillips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/phillips-headlines-kiwis-series-sealing-win/article33208598.ece
30 November 2020||Hyderabad:,||Exclusive Blue claims Kinnerasani Plate||Exclusive Blue, ridden by Suraj Narredu, claimed the Kinnerasani Plate, the chief event of Sunday’s (Nov. 29) races. The winner is owned by G. Narasa Reddy. Laxman Singh trains the winner. Suraj Narredu had two more successes, while trainer R.H. Sequeira saddled three winners on the day.  1. BHONGIR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, (Cat. III): FOREVER SPLENDOUR (Suraj Narredu) 1, Exclusive Art (B.R. Kumar) 2, Days Of Reckoning (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and Aibak (Gaurav Singh) 4. Dist, Hd, 1-1/2. 1m, 12.77s. Rs. 7 (w), 6, 19 and 11 (p). SHP: 43, THP: 152, FP: 117, Q: 56, Tanala: 1,113. Favourite: Forever Splendour. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Vijay Kumar Gupta rep. Vijay Racing & Farms Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Susheel Kumar Gupta. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  2. ELUSIVE HERO PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat.II): GREEK’S ACE (Gaurav Singh) 1, Total Darc (Afroz Khan) 2, City Of Bliss (Ashad Asbar) 3 and November Rain (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 3/4,1, 3/4. 1m, 16.74s. Rs. 185 (w), 18, 24 and 38 (p). SHP: 32, THP: 49, FP: 7,071, Q: 591, Tanala: 7,562. Favourite: Best Buddy. Owners: Mr. Sarasam Madhusudan Reddy & Mr. Kunwar Digvijay Singh Shekhawat. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  3. VEGHAVATI PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): PRIVATE EMPIRE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Horus (B.R. Kumar) 2, Ruletheworld (Surya Prakash) 3 and Miss Marvellous (G. Naresh) 4. Not run: Flamboyant Lady. 1/2, 9, Hd. 1m, 27.81s. Rs. 9 (w), 5, 5 and 11 (p). SHP: 29, THP: 33, FP: 99, Q: 61, Tanala: 218. Favourite: Private Empire. Owners: Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta & Mrs. Sudha Gupta. Trainer: R.H. Sequeria.  4. AMOROUS WHITE PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SUPER ANGEL (Akshay Kumar) 1, Spicy Star (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Eagle Bluff (Abhay Singh) 3 and Balma (Gaurav Singh) 4. 1-1/2, 2-3/4, 3/4. 1m, 43.25s. Rs. 6 (w), 5, 5 and 23 (p). SHP: 10, THP: 104, FP: 49, Q: 59, Tanala: 1,817. Favourite: Super Angel. Owners: Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Dr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeria  5. BHONGIR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): FOUR ONE FOUR (Afroz Khan) 1, Lacrosse (Akshay Kumar) 2, Sea Wolf (G.Naresh) 3 and Blink Of An Eye (Ashad Asbar) 4. 3/4, 2, Nose. 1m, 14.38s. Rs. 53 (w), 10, 7 and 79 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 91, FP: 153, Q: 76, Tanala : C/F. Favourie: Lacrosse. Owners: Mr. Syed Abdul Subhan. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  6. KINNERASANI PLATE (1,200m), rated 80 and above, (Cat. I): EXCLUSIVE BLUE (Suraj Narredu) 1, Titus (Akshay Kumar) 2, Highly Acclaimed (Surya Prakash) 3 and Rikki Tikki Tavi (Gopal Singh) 4. Not run: Pontius Pilate. 1, 3-1/4, 1/2. 1m, 13.86s. Rs. 12 (w), 13, 5 and 5 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 13, FP: 102, Q: 52, Tanala: 184. Favourite: Exclusive Blue. Owner: Mr. G. Narasa Reddy. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  7. VEGAVATHI PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): RENO STAR (Rohit Kumar) 1, City Of Wisdom (Ashad Asbar) 2, Conscious Gift (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Blazer (Afroz Khan) 4. 3/4, 1-1/4, 2. 1m, 28.17s. Rs. 36 (w), 10, 7 and 5 (p). SHP: 23, THP: 54, FP: 153, Q: 81, Tanala: 391. Favourite: City Of Wisdom. Owner: Mr. H. Thambusway. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  8. GOLCONDA PLATE (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o and upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): CITY OF PASSION (Suraj Narredu) 1, Peaky Blinders (Akshay Kumar) 2, Saffron Art (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Royal Pal (Nakhat Singh) 4. Not run: Turf Monarch. 1-1/4, 2, Nk. 1m, 29.96s. Rs. 9 (w), 8, 6, 7 (p). SHP: 23, THP: 40, FP: 67, Q: 35, Tanala: 114. Favourite: Peaky Blinders. Owners: Mr. K. Thribhuvan Reddy & Mr. K.Vivek Reddy. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 2, 561 (43 tkts.) & 30%: 344 (137 tkts.). Treble: (i) 744 (17 tkts.), (ii) 163 (37 tkts.), (iii)275 (28 tkts.); Mini Jackpot: (i) 7,527 (C/F), (ii) 1,563 (2 tkts.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/exclusive-blue-claims-kinnerasani-plate/article33208611.ece
30 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Bajrang’s coach upbeat about upcoming US training stint||Bajrang Punia’s coach Shako Bentinidis is upbeat about the triple World championships medallist wrestler’s forthcoming USA training stint. Bajrang’s stint will be from December 4 to January 3 at the Cliff Keen Wrestling Club, Michigan, at an approximate cost of Rs. 14 lakh. The trip has been approved by the Government’s Mission Olympic Cell. Bajrang, who got married to wrestler Sangeeta Phogat recently, will be accompanied by Bentinidis and physio Dhananjay. During the one-month period, the 26-year-old — who qualified for the Tokyo Olympics by claiming a bronze medal at the World championships in Nur-Sultan last year — will get to train with top international wrestlers in his weight category (65kg) under head coach and two-time Olympic champion Sergei Beloglazov. He may also get a competition. Bentinidis hoped the exposure would help Bajrang, who had been training at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centre in Sonepat. “Here, there is no partner. Most of the top wrestlers here are from heavier weights. We must give the best for the Olympics,” Bentinidis told The Hindu from Georgia. He will directly join Bajrang in the USA. “We will focus on the technical side — how to move faster, leg defence etc.” Asked about concerns relating to the large number of COVID-19 cases in the USA, Bentinidis said one must focus on the training without bothering about the pandemic. “Otherwise, how is it possible to do well in the Olympics?” said Bentinidis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bajrangs-coach-upbeat-about-upcoming-us-training-stint/article33208614.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Walelegn and Yehualaw win||With a reworked route and smoother corners, the 16th edition of the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon expectedly produced new champions and course records on Sunday. Ethiopians Amedework Walelegn and Yalemzerf Yehualaw claimed the men’s and women’s titles respectively. Among the Indians, National 3000m steeplechase record-holder Avinash Sable led the charge, finishing 10th overall in 1:00:30s — the first time an Indian has run under 61 minutes over the distance and smashing the Indian half-marathon record by more than three minutes and the event record by more than four minutes. Close finish It was a close finish in the men’s event with last year’s runner-up Walelegn edging past compatriot and two-time defending champion Andamlak Belihu by a second in a course record time of 58.53s, the third fastest time of the year. The top three, in fact, bettered the course record of 59:06s with Ugandan Stephen Kissa finishing third in 58.56s. Among the elite women, Yehualaw surged ahead to win in a course record time of 1:04:46s, bettering the earlier mark of 1:06:00s by compatriot and defending champion Tsehay Gemechu, who finished fifth. Yehualaw, who finished second last year and third at the 2020 World Championships, also set the second fastest women’s time ever over the distance in 64:46s. Sable’s record The 26-year old Sable, who has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics and has been rewriting the National 3000m steeplechase records over the past couple of years, had last participated in a half-marathon in 2018 here, finishing second. Lack of competition this year had forced him to enter the ADHM and his decision to run an aggressive race paid off. ‘Feels great’ “It’s great to break the National record. I have not competed in any tournament for a year and I have been only practising, so I wanted to compete in an event. Coming into the race, I wanted to stay as close as possible to international runners and I am happy I was able to do that," said Sable. The previous National record (1:03:46s) was set by Kalidas Hirave while defending champion Srinu Bugatha held the ADHM record of 1:04:33s set last year. Bugatha came in second this time in 1:04:16s while Durga Bahadur Budha was third, clocking 1:04:19s. Among the women, Sable’s training partner Parul Chaudhary, second last year, won in 1:12:18s while Sanjivani Jadhav (1:13:00s) and Komal Jagdale (1:14:04s) were second and third.  The results:   Overall men: 1. Amdework Walelegn (Eth, 00:58:53s); 2. Andamlak Belihu (Eth, 00:58:54s); 3. Stephen Kissa (Uga, 00:58:56s).   Overall women: 1. Yalemzerf Yehualaw (Eth, 01:04:46s); 2. Ruth Chepngetich (Ken, 01:05:06s); 3. Ababel Yeshaneh (Eth, 01:05:21s).   Indian men: 1. Avinash Sable (01:00:30s); 2. Srinu Bugatha (01:04:16s); 3. Durga Bahadur Budha (01:04:19s).   Indian women: Parul Chaudhary (01:12:18s); 2. Sanjivani Jadhav (01:13:00); 3. Komal Jagdale (01:14:04).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/walelegn-and-yehualaw-win/article33208998.ece
30 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Rahul backs bowlers||Despite India’s bowling unit conceding 763 runs in the first two games, vice-captain K.L. Rahul backed it to the hilt. “I wouldn’t say that they’re struggling. It’s different conditions, different formats. The pitches in the UAE were way different from the one here. The challenge is to adapt to the conditions quickly... you also have to admit that the opposition batsmen played really well,” said Rahul at the virtual media interaction on Sunday. “We haven’t done a whole lot wrong. It’s a learning curve for us... we have to think how we can do better when we play on such good batting wickets.” Pandya bowls again The only bright spot was Hardik Pandya’s performance with the ball. The all-rounder, who bowled for the first time after recovering from back surgery, got the important wicket of Steve Smith. “Refreshing, isn’t it! He starts bowling, takes a lot of load off the skipper and the team,” Rahul said. “Knowing Hardik, he loves to get into a contest and contribute for the team. It sets up the rest of the series well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-backs-bowlers/article33208567.ece
30 November 2020||BARCELONA,||Messi salutes Maradona as Barca wins big||Lionel Messi paid a personal tribute to the late Diego Maradona after scoring on Sunday as Barcelona returned to winning ways in LaLiga with a resounding 4-0 home win over Osasuna. Messi adorned a brilliant team display with a thumping strike into the top corner in the second half, after Martin Braithwaite had broken the deadlock and Antoine Griezmann and Philippe Coutinho had scored either side of halftime. The Argentine then lifted his shirt to reveal a red and black replica kit of his hometown club Newell’s Old Boys bearing the number 10 which Maradona wore during his brief spell at the Rosario side in 1993. Meanwhile on Saturday, champion Real Madrid slid to a shock 2-1 defeat at home to Alaves, its third in 10 league games. Edinson Cavani produced a master-class, scoring twice and creating another goal as Manchester United hit back from a two-goal deficit to beat Southampton 3-2 in a Premier League cracker on Sunday. On Saturday, Riyad Mahrez scored a hat-trick as Manchester City hammered Burnley 5-0.  Serie A titleholder Juventus was held to a 1-1 draw away to promoted side Benevento on Saturday after resting Cristiano Ronaldo.  Important results:   LaLiga: Barcelona 4 (Braithwaite 29, Griezmann 42, Coutinho 57, Messi 73) bt Osasuna 0.   Serie A: AC Milan 2 (Romagnoli 17, Kessie 27-pen) bt Fiorentina 0.   Premier League: Southampton 2 (Bednarek 23, Ward-Prowse 33) lost to Manchester United 3 (Fernandes 59, Cavani 74, 90+2).   Friday: LaLiga: Valencia 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 1 (Lato 79-og); Real Madrid 1 (Casemiro 86) lost to Alaves 2 (Perez 5-pen, Joselu 49).   Premier League: Manchester City 5 (Mahrez 6, 22, 69, Mendy 41, Torres 66) bt Burnley 0; Everton 0 lost to Leeds 1 (Raphinha 79).   Serie A: Benevento 1 (Letizia 45+3) drew with Juventus 1 (Alvaro Morata 21).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-salutes-maradona-as-barca-wins-big/article33208564.ece
30 November 2020||Chennai,||Will focus on both men’s and women’s teams: Sudha Shah||Ask Sudha Shah about being made a member of TNCA’s Cricket Advisory Committee and her answer is spontaneous. “I was a bit surprised,” she says. The former India women’s team captain had also donned the role of National team coach and selector. Cricket has always kept her occupied. And now comes the role in the CAC. She told The Hindu , “It’s good for women that they have a representative in the CAC. I will have my focus both on the men’s team, where winning the Ranji Trophy is our goal, and the women’s team.” Delighted Sudha, now 62, is delighted about Rupa Gurunath being the president of the TNCA. Sudha said, “She really broke the glass ceiling. A few years ago if anyone had said a woman was going to become the president of a State Cricket Association, everyone would have laughed.” Sudha said she had not met Rupa after her appointment. “I am keen to meet her, and, in particular, discuss the State’s women’s cricket with her.” Sudha felt the Tamil Nadu women’s team, despite talent, had not really been performing well in the domestic competitions. She noted, “Not too long ago, Tamil Nadu was a force in women’s cricket. That is not the case now. We are not even qualifying for the next stage.” Sudha added, “Because they do not make it to the later phases of a tournament, their visibility is low. Their performances do not get noticed. Girls from other States score over them.” But for an odd name, the Indian team is largely bereft of players from Tamil Nadu. Sudha observed, “It’s sad. But if we take the right steps, our girls will be back in contention.” Sudha said the focus should be on women’s junior cricket to make the senior team strong. “A lot of thought and effort is needed to improve our junior structure. Once that happens, our bench-strength will improve.” Sudha believes the CAC can turn things around for the State with the help of the cricketers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-focus-on-both-mens-and-womens-teams-sudha-shah/article33209015.ece
30 November 2020||Pune:,||Questina on top in DRC Cup||Trainer Imtiaz Sait’s ward Questina, piloted by A. Sandesh, won the DRC Cup, the main event of the Mumbai races held here on Sunday. The winner is owned by Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd., Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP & Mr. Mukul Sonawala.  1. ASTRAL FLASH PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: FALCONETTE (Kaviraj) 1, Julio Cesaro (J. Chinoy) 2, Periwinkle (Nazil) 3 and Pezula (Pranil) 4. 3/4, Nk, 2-1/2. 58.60s. Owners: Mr. Vijay V. Shah & Mrs. Pooja V. Shah rep. Vs Zaia Thoroughbred Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Syed Mehmood Ahmed & G. Shewakramani. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.  2. ARISTOS PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: TIGRIO (Neeraj) 1, Exotique (Yash Narredu) 2, Royalty (Srinath) 3 and Resolute (C.S. Jodha) 4. 1-1/2, 3/4, 4. 1m, 24.66s. Owners: Mr. Pallon S. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd., Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP & Mr. Mukul Sonawala. Trainer: P. Shroff.  3. KIARA PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only: LUMINOUS (Zervan) 1, Taimur (Bhawani) 2, Arcadia (Neeraj) 3 and Who Dares Wins (Dashrath) 4. 2-3/4, 1, Sh, 1m, 25.75s. Owners: M/s. Ram H. Shroff & Raj H. Shroff rep. Stride Livestock Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Chetan Shah, Ravi Vasudeo Goenka & Charudatta P. Palwe. Trainer: Vishal Gaikwad.  4. GRAND PASSION PLATE (1,600m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: LORITO (Trevor) 1, Chezza (Merchant) 2, Retained Asset (Malam) 3 and Miss Scarlett (Sandesh) 4. Not run: Brianna. 1-1/4, Sh, 1/2. 1m, 41.10s. Owner: Mr. Kishore M. Dingra. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  5. KIARA PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) maiden 3-y-o only: NOBLE QUEEN (Yash Narredu) 1, Casanova Prince (Sandesh) 2, North Star (Trevor) 3 and Memorable Moments (Dashrath) 4. 1-1/2, 3/4, 2-3/4. 1m, 26.43s. Owners: Mrs. B.E. Saldhana & M/s. Gautam Thapar & Sultan Singh rep. Sohna Stud Farm Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Deepesh Narredu.  6. DRC CUP (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: QUESTINA (Sandesh) 1, Dandi March (C.S. Jodha) 2, Hidden Gold (Trevor) 3 and Storm Breaker (Yash Narredu) 4. 2-3/4, 1-3/4, 3/4. 1m, 10.01s. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd., Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. D.T. Racing & Breeders LLP & Mr. Mukul Sonawala. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  7. ASTRAL FLASH PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: BONAFIDE (S. Kamble) 1, Exotic Queen (Peter) 2, Godsword (J. Chinoy) 3 and Sky Fall (Trevor) 4. 4-3/4, Nk, Snk. 58.23s. Owner & Trainer: Mr. Deepesh M. Narredu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/questina-on-top-in-drc-cup/article33209186.ece
30 November 2020||Tokyo,||Delayed Games to cost additional $1.9bn: report||The coronavirus-delayed Tokyo Olympics could cost $1.9 billion more than its original budget of $13 billion, a 15% increase, a report said on Sunday. The Olympics organisers will formally decide the increased budget for the Games as early as mid-December after communicating with the Japanese government and the host city Tokyo, the Yomiuri Shimbun reported, citing unnamed Olympic sources. The 2020 Games were pushed back a year as COVID-19 spread around the globe, and are now scheduled to open on July 23, 2021. But the delay has thrown up a plethora of new costs, from rebooking venues and transport to retaining the huge committee staff. With many countries experiencing second or even third waves of infection, there have been doubts about whether the event can be staged, but organisers and Olympic officials insist it can be done safely. The extra 200 billion yen ($1.9 billion) on the pre-coronavirus estimate of 1.35 trillion yen ($13 billion) comes despite organisers last month slashing $280 million by cutting everything from staffing to pyrotechnics, but the new figure does not include costs of the coronavirus-related measures, the report said. Govt. to bear costs Officials expect the virus-linked measures will be paid by the Japanese government, it said. Plans for a lower-key, lower-cost Olympics were unveiled in September, with fewer free tickets, athlete welcome ceremonies being scrapped and savings on banners, mascots and meals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delayed-games-to-cost-additional-19bn-report/article33208761.ece
30 November 2020||Sydney,||A brand new innings!||While Australia and India were fighting the onfield battle in the second ODI, there was a man who succeeded to find his life partner in the stands at Sydney Cricket Ground on Sunday. A man wearing an Indian team jersey went down on one knee and proposed to his partner while the visitors were chasing the big target. The girl was supporting the home side. The girl accepted the proposal as the commentators and the players enjoyed a light-hearted moment in the match. Australia all-rounder Glenn Maxwell congratulated the couple by applauding them from the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-brand-new-innings/article33208560.ece
30 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Sudip is Kalighat’s hero||Sudip Chatterjee’s unbeaten 60 (38b, 6x4, 2x6) helped Kalighat Club beat East Bengal by two wickets in the Bengal T20 Challenge here on Sunday. Choosing to bat, EB aggregated 138 for five. Kalighat made heavy weather of the chase before sealing victory with a ball to spare. After the departure of Abhishek Bose (10) and Jayojit Basu (25, 27b, 3x4, 1x6), Sudip and Subham Chatterjee (32, 27b, 1x4, 2x6) gathered 70 runs for the third wicket. Subham Chatterjee and Subham Sarkar fell to Mukesh Kumar and three other batsmen were run out as Kalighat found itself in trouble in the death overs. With his side needing 13 off the last over, a calm Sudip unleashed two pulled sixes to see Kalighat home. Earlier, EB’s left-handed opening duo of Shreevats Goswami (28, 36b, 3x4) and B. Amit (68, 60b, 6x4) began cautiously against off-spinners Aamir Gani and Mithlesh Das before accelerating to add 67. Amit then built a 44-run stand with captain Arnab Nandi (17, 14b).  The scores: East Bengal 138/5 in 20 overs (B. Amit 68, Satyaki Dutta 2/25) lost to Kalighat Club 140/8 in 19.5 overs (Sudip Chatterjee 60 n.o., Subham Chatterjee 32, Kanishk Seth 2/17, Mukesh Kumar 2/18).   On Saturday: Town Club 146/3 in 20 overs (Purab Joshi 51, Naved Ahmed 43) bt Tapan Memorial Club 118 in 18 overs (Tarun Godara 46, Aritra Chatterjee 3/16, Mohd. Kaif 3/17, Ayan Bhattacharjee 2/22) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sudip-is-kalighats-hero/article33208733.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Bond of bhakti||Sati Devi speaks of the greatness of Siva's hallowed feet that is sought by many who seek peace of mind and release from samsara. She is sad and angry that Daksha represents the evil-minded, whose habit is to insult the Lord wantonly. The truth of Siva’s fame that confers only auspiciousness and grace on His devotees is amply illustrated in the lives of Nayanmars and other saints steeped in Siva Bhakti, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. In Kali Yuga, there is no greater solace for the disturbed and restless mind than placing total faith in God that engenders the bond with His devotees. Kannappan Nayanar represents devotion of an extraordinary type that is not in keeping with the general conventional practices. A hunter by birth, he gets attached to the Siva linga atop the hill in Kalahasti. Amid his busy hunting schedule, he would take water in his mouth for ablution of the deity, wild flowers and the meat he had cooked and tested for taste as special offering for the Lord. The priest who does daily puja every morning is shocked to find all these around the deity. To allay his fears and to reveal the essence of true bhakti, Siva makes the priest observe the way Kannappan worships Him. On that particular day, Kannappan sees blood trickling from the eyes of deity. Without any hesitation, he plucks his eye and places it on the deity. Seeing that the other eye too is sore, he places his foot at the appropriate place and gets ready to remove his other eye. Who is there that cannot be moved by such spontaneous and selfless love? Is this not the essence of true devotion, is the message the Lord conveys through the unconventional form of worship Kannappan adopts. Adi Sankara pays high tribute to Kannappan and his bhakti bhava in the hymn Sivanandalahari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bond-of-bhakti/article33208556.ece
30 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai too runs in Delhi’s ADHM||Around 13,500 people from around the world took part in the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon (ADHM) in their respective locations on Sunday. As many as 254 runners participated from Chennai. A Chennai runner said it was a “great experience.” “I had a great time running the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon through the ADHM app. It was a smooth and excellent experience. I enjoyed the special features in the app. It was amazing to receive a detailed analysis of my run after completing the marathon," said V.P. Senthil. Ethiopians Amedework Walelegn and Yalemzerf Yehualaw claimed the men’s and women’s titles. Sable sets record Among the Indians, National 3000m steeplechase record-holder Avinash Sable led the charge, finishing 10th overall in 1:00:30s — the first time an Indian has run under 61 minutes over the distance and smashing the Indian half-marathon record by more than three minutes and the event record by more than four minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-too-runs-in-delhis-adhm/article33209016.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen, So enter final||Magnus Carlsen overcame the loss of the opening game to hold Ian Nepomniachtchi 2-2 while Wesley So squandered clear winning opportunities in two first games during his all-drawn 2-2 result against Hikaru Nakamura in the second set of semifinals of the $100,000 Skilling Open online chess tournament on Saturday. As a result, Carlsen and So advanced to the final riding on their victories in Friday’s first set. So, who took the much-needed draw in a winning position in the final game after Nakamura blundered away a knight, reflected on the first two games and said, “It’s always very tricky, because Hikaru’s very tactical and slippery and he makes use of all his chances and he never gives up. He has this tremendous fighting spirit.” Carlsen, after walking into a checkmating net in the first game and bouncing right back to take the second, admitted, “It’s been like most others, frankly, very difficult! I haven’t been able to gain much momentum. Even the game that I won was very unclear, and I was at some point even worse.”  The results: Semifinals: Set Two: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) drew with Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) 2-2; Wesley So (USA) drew with Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 2-2 (Carlsen, So advance to the final by virtue of winning the first set).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-so-enter-final/article33208610.ece
30 November 2020||New Delhi,||Irfan, Shivpal, Dutee in TOPS core group||The Olympics-bound duo of race walker K.T. Irfan and javelin thrower Shivpal Singh along with sprinter Dutee Chand have been included in the core group of the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS), the Sports Ministry said on Sunday. Also, star javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics, and top sprinter Hima Das were retained in the core group after a performance review. Others included in the core group were Annu Rani (women’s javelin), Arokia Rajiv (men’s 400m and 4x400m relay), Noah Nirmal Tom (men’s 400m and 4x400m relay), Alex Anthony (men’s 400m and 4x400m relay), M.R. Poovamma (women’s 400m and 4x400m relay).  Shot putter Tajinder Pal Singh Toor was also retained in the TOPS core group, along with Neeraj Chopra and Hima, after a performance review while triple jumper Arpinder Singh was dropped from the scheme. High jump National record holder Tejaswin Shankar, Harsh Kumar (men’s 400m and 4x400m relay), V. Revathi (women’s 400m and 4x400m relay), R. Vithya (women’s 400m and 4x400m relay), Shaili Singh (women’s long jump), Sandra Babu (women’s triple jump) and Harshita Sehrawat (women’s hammer) were those included in the developmental group. Neeraj and Shivpal qualified for Tokyo Olympics early this year in competitions in South Africa while 20km race walker Irfan did it last year during the Asian race walking championships in Japan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/irfan-shivpal-dutee-in-tops-core-group/article33208612.ece
30 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State TT c’ships in December||The State Table Tennis championships will be held in Alappuzha in December subject to clearance from the State Government. This was decided at the AGM of the Table Tennis Association of Kerala (TTAK) which met at the YMCA, Alappuzha, here on Sunday. The district secretaries have been advised to hold the district meet before December 20 after getting the mandatory clearances.  Competitions will be held in singles events only in men, women, youth, junior, sub-junior and cadet categories. The TTAK has advised all players to register with the respective district associations. Only registered players will be allowed to participate in the district championships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-tt-cships-in-december/article33208762.ece
30 November 2020||SYDNEY,||Warner likely to be ruled out of series||Australia opener David Warner’s participation in the remainder of the limited-overs series against India was thrown into doubt after he suffered a groin injury during the second ODI here on Sunday. Warner hobbled off the field after he struggled to get up following a dive in the fourth over of the Indian innings. Considering the way Warner grimaced in pain, it appears he could miss the final ODI as also the three-match T20 series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warner-likely-to-be-ruled-out-of-series/article33208561.ece
30 November 2020||PAARL,||England wins series||Man-of-the-match Dawid Malan and Eoin Morgan steered England to a series-clinching, four-wicket win over South Africa in the second Twenty20 international on Sunday. The 33-year-old scored 55 (40b, 7x4, 1x6) balls to help the visitors reach a modest target of 147. Earlier, the home team found itself choked by the English bowling, especially spinner Adil Rashid who took two wickets in successive balls and finished with two for 23.  The scores: South Africa 146/6 in 20 overs (de Kock 30, van der Dussen 25 n.o., Linde 29, Rashid 2/23) lost to England 147/6 in 19.5 overs (Malan 55, Morgan 26 n.o., Ngidi 2/51 Shamsi 3/19) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-wins-series/article33208562.ece
30 November 2020||Sydney,||We were outplayed, admits Kohli||India skipper Virat Kohli had no qualms conceding that the visitors were outplayed by a confident and ruthless Australia in the series-deciding second ODI here on Sunday, pinning the blame on the ineffective and inconsistent bowling by his side. “We were completely outplayed. I think with the ball, we were not that effective, we didn’t hit the areas that we wanted to consistently and they have a strong batting line-up, they know the conditions and the angles well,” Kohli said at the post-match presentation. “...credit to them, they bowled much more consistently and used the dimensions well.” Kohli said the two catches which led to his and Shreyas Iyer’s dismissal were the “defining moments” of the game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-were-outplayed-admits-kohli/article33208565.ece
30 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Otamendi stars for Rajnigandha Achievers||Daniel Otamendi fired home five goals to power Rajnigandha Achievers to a thumping 8-3 victory over Achievers ONN in the final of the Baroda Cup 10-goal polo tournament at the Jaipur Polo ground here on Sunday. Mrs. Malvika Singh and Mrs. Sunny Kalaan presented the trophies.  The result (final): Rajnigandha Achievers 8 (Daniel Otamendi 5, Padmanabh Singh, Kuldeep Singh Rathore, Allan Shaun Michael) bt Achievers ONN 3 (Dhruvpal Godara 2, Abhimanyu Pathak) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/otamendi-stars-for-rajnigandha-achievers/article33209070.ece
30 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Boxer Negi tests positive||Boxer Duryodhan Singh Negi (69kg), who is presently training at NIS Patiala, has tested positive for COVID-19. He is asymptomatic and has been shifted to a hospital. Negi, who took Diwali leave, was in quarantine after his return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boxer-negi-tests-positive/article33208603.ece
30 November 2020||November 30 2020 07:53 IST,||Sudoku - November 30, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-30-2020/article33209332.ece
30 November 2020||PUNHANA (NUH),||Haryana woman kills her four daughters, tries to kill self||A woman in Nuh allegedly killed her four daughters, aged two months to six years, by slitting their throats, and then then tried to slit her own throat as well. She was taken to the Civil Hospital in Mandikhera and later referred to the medical college in Nalhar. Police said that the woman was the prime suspect in the case, but her statement was yet to be recorded. ‘Out of danger’ “She is out of danger. But the doctors are yet to declare her fit for statement,” said Punhana Deputy Superintendent of Police Vivek Chaudhary. Her husband Khurshid Ahmed, 45, a resident of Piproli village here, said he had gone to condole deaths in a family in the village. When he returned to his single-room home around 2 a.m., he heard faint whines emanating from the room. “I peeped inside through the cracks in the door to see one of the girls lying in a pool of blood with her throat slit. I heard my wife Farmina crying in pain holding a knife and trying to slit her throat. I raised an alarm and soon neighbours gathered,” said Mr. Ahmed, a farmer. People broke open the door to see the four girls lying in a pool of blood on two beds with their throats slit. Ms. Farmina, too, had injured herself with the knife. The couple were married eight years ago.  Second marriage It was Ms. Farmina’s second marriage. She had a daughter from the first relationship, now aged around 13 years, who was away with Ms. Farmina’s former in-laws at the time of the incident. The woman’s family was not present at the village. Superintendent of Police Narendra Bijarniya said the police were investigating the matter from all angles. “The woman remains the prime suspect,” said Mr. Bijarniya.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-woman-kills-her-four-daughters-tries-to-kill-self/article33208743.ece
30 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Hooda accuses Chief Minister of insulting Haryana farmers||Leader of opposition in Haryana Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday accused Chief Minister Manohar Lal of insulting farmers of the State by giving an impression through his recent remarks that farmers from Haryana were not a part of the ongoing agitation against Centre’s farm laws. Besides, Haryana Congress chief and former MP Kumari Selja has demanded the BJP-JJP government to immediately withdraw the FIR registered against farmers in the State. Mr. Hooda said Haryana farmers have been agitating against the three agricultural laws for several months but the indifferent and ignorant attitude adopted by the BJP-led government towards such a big movement was indeed ‘shocking and disturbing’. “The Chief Minister should tell whether he does not consider the agitating farmers as residents of Haryana? If the farmers of Haryana are not part of the movement, then who did the government lathi-charge in Pipli? Who are the people who were detained by Haryana Police before their Delhi march? Who where are the farmers against whom the Haryana government has filed cases,” quipped Mr. Hooda. Ms. Selja, accusing the State government of adopting an anti-farmer stance, said, “First the government committed atrocities on the farmers, who were agitating against the agriculture laws, now FIR has been lodged against the same farmers. The BJP government at the Centre and the BJP-JJP government of the State are bent on completely crushing the farmers,” she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hooda-accuses-chief-minister-of-insulting-haryana-farmers/article33208741.ece
30 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha Assembly ends 30 days before schedule||The winter session of the Odisha Assembly was abruptly adjourned amidst protests by the Opposition Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party here on Sunday, 30 working days before schedule. Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro adjourned the House sine die soon after the passage of the Appropriation Bill. The winter session was scheduled to be held till December 31. The session lasted only for 10 days. Only two adjournment motions were issued. Seven Bills passed The short session saw passage of seven bills. After Assembly passed Appropriation Bill of Rs. 11,700 crore, Pramilla Mallick, chief whip of ruling party, moved proposal to end the session. It was supported by the Biju Janata Dal. The BJP and the Congress said many important issues were to be discussed and that the ruling party ended the session unconstitutionally. The BJD, however, said since most of the important businesses were transacted in first 10 days, there was no need to stretch the session. “We regret the abrupt end of the winter session. The BJD took advantage of its crude majority,” said Pradipta Naik, Leader of the Opposition. Veteran Congress legislator Narasingha Mishra said they were not consulted for ending the session prematurely and it was a one-sided decision by the government. “Early adjournment of the House is not new. When there is nothing significant to discuss, such decision can be taken. The Opposition leader never tried to take any issue to its logical conclusion,” said BJD MLA Pratap Deb.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-assembly-ends-30-days-before-schedule/article33208740.ece
30 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab govt. inks pact in health field||The Punjab government and International Digital Health-Artificial Intelligence Research Collaborative (I-DAIR) have inked a Memorandum of Understanding for developing models of people-centric digital technologies and infrastructures in the health sector. The MoU on behalf of Punjab was signed by Additional Chief Secretary (governance reforms) Anirudh Tewari, who said that the COVID-19 pandemic has brought to centre-stage the importance of public health for the personal, social and economic well-being of citizens. “Data and artificial intelligence can play an important role in combating infectious diseases,” he said. Hussan Lal, principal secretary (Health) said the Punjab government and I-DAIR will be laying the groundwork for key projects in the coming months that will include data interoperability, real time epidemiology and benchmarking of digital health solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-govt-inks-pact-in-health-field/article33208745.ece
30 November 2020||Guwahati,||Two more parties floated in poll-bound Assam||The list of new regional parties in Assam continues to expand ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections. Two parties have been formed within a fortnight since November 15, this time from the Bengali-dominated Barak Valley in southern Assam. The Assamese-dominated Brahmaputra Valley has already seen the birth of four regional parties this year, with a fifth, a political platform for some tribes, in the works. The Barak Democratic Front (BDF) was floated on November 28 by a group that had espoused statehood for the Bengali-speaking Barak Valley after the exclusion of 19.07 lakh people — a bulk of them presumed to belong to the linguistic group — from the updated National Register of Citizens in August 2019. “The party has been formed to protest the discrimination against the people of Barak Valley. We plan to contest all the 15 Assembly seats in the Valley,” said Pradip Dutta Roy, the chief convenor of BDF and the founder-president of All Cachar Karimganj Hailakandi Students’ Association. The Barak Ekta Party, formed on November 15, has also decided to contest all the 15 seats. “Our focus is on fighting for the rights of the people of Barak Valley and working to fulfil their demands,” said the party’s chief convenor, Amit Roy. The influential All Assam Students’ Union and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chhatra Parishad had in September launched the Assam Jatiya Parishad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-more-parties-floated-in-poll-bound-assam/article33208744.ece
30 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Farmers plan protests in Odisha from December 5||Farmers in western Odisha districts have threatened to hit the streets over the alleged flawed paddy procurement process from December 5. Farmers under the aegis of Western Odisha Farmer Orgnisations Coordination Committee (WOFOCC) threatened that if the government fails to streamline the paddy procurement process by December 4, farmers would stock up their produce on roads from December 5. “Paddy procurement had been decentralised for the benefit of farmers for many years. But from the past couple of years, the government has been taking decision on paddy procurement from Bhubaneswar,” said WOFOCC convener Ashok Pradhan. “Earlier, district level committees were deciding on the volume of paddy per acre to be procured in their respective districts. Now, it has been decided to procure 19 quintal of paddy from irrigated areas and 13 quintal from rainfed region. It is applicable to all districts,” pointed Mr. Pradhan.  Huge losses Farmers in Sambalpur, Bargarh, Kalahandi and Subarnapur are going to incur huge loss due to the process. Due to favourable weather condition this year, farmers have managed to produce 25 to 30 quintal per acre at many places. According to farmer organisations, if only 19 quintal paddy per acre is procured at Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies, farmers would not find proper market to sell rest of their produces due to this year’s bumper production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-plan-protests-in-odisha-from-december-5/article33208739.ece
