02-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel to allow work from home all year round ||Domestic steel maker Tata Steel on Monday announced a new work model for its employees which allows them to work from home for up to 365 days a year. The new 'Agile Working Models' policy is effective from Sunday, Tata Steel said in a statement. Tata Steel said that it is moving towards a "trust and outcome-based working culture" and to give more flexibility to its employees. Under the new models, effective November 1, even officers who are required to be based out of a particular location can now work from home for unlimited days in a year, it said. Once the pandemic situation normalises, the policy will enable company's officers to move to a location of choice, giving the employee the flexibility to operate out of any location in the country, the company said adding the policy will be piloted for a year and based on adaptability and feedback, the policy will be reviewed after one year. Suresh Dutt Tripathi, Vice-President, Human Resource Management, Tata Steel said that flexible working not only portrays an organisation's intent to create a workplace for the upcoming generations but also solidifies its intent to cater to the needs of its diversified workforce across geographies. The pandemic has helped move away from the traditional thinking of productivity being contingent upon fixed hours of work within an office environment and bust many of the myths around remote working, he said. The policy will ensure better work-life balance, will give more flexibility to choose where one lives as the daily work commute shifts out of consideration, provides working opportunities to new parents at their convenience, and ensures continuity of work for persons with disabilities in their respective work enabled environment. "Flexible working provides greater freedom to choose locations and make essential life decisions such as supporting families, be it ageing parents or spouses with non-transferrable jobs. This will help in retaining and enriching our key talent from across the country and attract workforce for location agnostic roles," Tripathi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||A CIO virtual session: The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic discuss innovative tech solutions||Organizations are now increasingly beginning to turn to technology to solve the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. To figure out how different companies are accepting these challenges, The Telegraph Online and We-Bridge Solutions had organized a CIO virtual session in association with NTT Netmagic. With the focal theme ‘Transforming Today’s Business through Innovation’, the session was attended by over 20 CIOs from several companies from the eastern
region. Let’s find out what the CIOs shared during the virtual session: G Subramanium DGM-IT, Star Cement “We are evaluating our ERP migration to SAP - HANA, although it is in a nascent stage. During this pandemic period, we are driving some digital initiatives through Retailers Management programs, Digital Signage Solutions for Customer Connect and also evaluating to incorporate AI, ML BI and RPA technologies to benefit different business stakeholders and automate our shop floor urgently with these technologies to get an immediate benefit. We are already into cloud-based applications for our sales force and dealers, technical man force. During this COVID-19 situation, the biggest challenge we faced with respect to cybersecurity and providing secure infrastructure services for our remote PCs from where data is being pushed to our central server. This year our main focus is to drive digital transformation projects by involving cutting edge technologies and building a secure network and infrastructure services through cybersecurity solutions.” Jayanta Bhowmik Group CIO, Kesoram Industries “The pandemic did not impact us in terms of dealer connectivity since our applications are already in the cloud. We only had to ensure proper data security. We have major plan to migrate our core ERP to the cloud in the coming months. AI and ML applications are also in the center stage for considerations. We have embarked on the migration of ERP landscape to cloud as well as an upgrade to S/4 Hana, along with a few RPA automation. During the last one year we had some digital
transformation initiative like analytics and few RPA initiatives across business processes for productivity improvements. To adopt the digital-first mindset we faced a few challenges as well like standard change resistance in a legacy manufacturing environment, slow adoption and churn in business process ownership over time impacted the continuous improvement path.” S K Rudra GM and Head – IT, Titagarh Wagons Ltd “We adopted the detection first and logical analysis approach. While we got our VAPT done and had internal analysis based on - who, what, when, where and how. Subsequently to counter threats emanating from both the sources – internal and external, we initiated multiple information security technologies implementations, that are relevant to the line of our business – starting from dual-authentication based application access to centralized Firewall system to End-user data security to DLP, etc. with the technologies integrated to a single centralized authentication system. We have also started working towards the process of achieving ISO27001 standard by this December. I sincerely believe VDI is going to play a very crucial role in securing end-user device, protecting the data residing there and preventing threats emanating from end user devices. Alike any business our ERP system serve as the backbone for us, running mission-critical application. In terms of modernization, from the very beginning, we opted for having our entire SAP workload on the cloud. Considering that we went live last year only, the requirement of scaling up our ERP systems hasn’t come yet. However, we are certainly expecting certain additional value from having SAP on the cloud.” Tushar Kumar Nath Dy Manager-Systems, Chandras Chemicals Enterprises Pvt Ltd “Cloud offers an ability to progress digital transformation without requiring immediate updates to your enterprise application.  The only question to answer regarding cloud integrations is really when and where? We are already working on a cloud platform. We installed SAP and all official emails on the cloud. Being a manufacturing organization, we felt the impact of this pandemic probably more than any other industry. The entire value chain slashing from the inbound and outbound supply chain, production, and other operations has been impacted badly since a lot of it needs to be done
physically. For the manufacturing sector, other than the priority sector, the economic activity came to a total halt. However, since the virtual world was functional, we could manage to get in touch with the customers, vendors, employees and other stakeholders and could keep a tab on the situation. Having our main ERP and mail system on the cloud helped us in this matter.” Vikas Gupta CFO, Rashmi Group “Last year I focused on getting  the ERP implementation by scrapping the manual accounting/records processes by fixing assets records since the beginning of the organization and their location; automation of expense requisitions / approvals / submissions / recording with minimizing hard copy records and manual interaction; implementing HRMS to make the HR process from manpower requisition to goal setting and appraisals online and in the process of getting customized dashboards for the top management for their day to-day decision making and giving them real time data for plan vs actual with possible reasons. The challenges we faced were multifold. Cost reduction and then benefits in terms of results and process automation and approvals thereon from all stakeholders. Getting the old data reconciled in absence of proper information available and getting confirmation thereon with third party to avoid any dispute later on. Getting the operational team educated who always unaccepting the automation as accustomed to manual giving much scope to deviate and get
the work through personal discretion. In the future, we are planning to get all the business function/MIS dashboards without going into ERP applications/decision support through automation in ERP or using artificial intelligence tools leaving planning, controlling and decision making on the core management and working with core employees on roll only. Last year I was working in the safety industry having multiple production and business locations in India and overseas supporting
the management in financial management and decision support with taking the processes fully complaint and automated. From last 6 months working in steel iron and steel (DI Pipe), contract manufacturing of electronics items, execution of projects for river dredging and supporting the management in financial and commercial decision making/controls/processes with getting all possible automation through SAP/Oracle implementation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||A CIO virtual session: The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic join hands to analyse digital transformation  ||Technology during this pandemic has helped us to manage the crisis, both professionally and personally, in various ways. COVID-19 has encouraged technology innovations that are changing our world. To stay competitive in this new business and economic environment requires new strategies and practices. But how much the organizations are willing to adopt the new practices? The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic organized a CIO virtual session with the focal theme ‘Transforming Today’s Business through Innovation’. CIOs from several companies attended the session and discussed various topics like delivering exceptional user experience,enterprise applications on Google Cloud Platform, digital transformation post pandemic and adopting a digital first mindset. Let’s find out what our CIOs said during the session: Prasenjit Roy Sr EVP and Chief Marketing Officer, NTT Netmagic Prasenjit has more than two and half decades of experience on the business side – spanning across several multinationals in India and abroad. An accomplished and dynamic Strategic Marketing and Strategy specialist - he is a Council member and mentor to NASSCOM’s 10,000 Start-ups and nationwide SME program and Council member of CII. He is the winner of numerous industry awards and advisor of many institutes and universities. He has advanced degrees in Engineering and
Business Management, and also did a Post Graduate certificate course in Modern Information Systems from IIT Mumbai. “In the digital age, consumers are looking at personalized, frictionless and effective mediums for communication. With new delivery channels emerging every day, it is challenging for enterprises to establish a consistent customer experience across different delivery channels. This is imperative in the digital age where customers expect their companies to interact with them in real-time. A Walker study states that by 2020, customer experience is expected to overtake price and product as the key brand differentiator. This is reflected in the huge success of companies like Amazon, Airbnb, Uber and closer home, Ola, which have redefined customer experience. The CIO is at the center stage of this digital era where customer experience is extremely critical in a brand’s success. From measuring the satisfaction of the customer to understand the true voice of the customer, the CIO has a critical role to play. Globally, and in India too, we have examples of several firms that have used digital technologies to truly transform the customer experience. Technologies like IoT, Augmented Reality (AR) and Artificial Intelligence are being widely used in various sectors for improving customer experience. Understanding that account opening is a tedious process, many banks in India have smartly used a combination of different technologies. As more customers actively engage themselves on digital channels, expect virtual assistants or bots to be the norm than the exception. Thanks to the combination of technologies such as AI, analytics and IoT, enterprises can proactively enhance customer experience and deliver hyper-personalized experiences at every touchpoint.” Subir Hore GM-IT, Berger Paints India Ltd “During the COVID-19 crisis, we had a paradigm shift of meetings from face-2-face to virtual environment. In this field we made extensive usage of MS Teams including the various training programs and product/scheme knowledge with dealers and painters. We increased the internet bandwidth of the central location to accommodate more remote users through VPN connectivity. We have been migrating more and more users to O365 platform from On-premise exchange. Almost 70% of the relevant employees has been shifted to WFH (Work From Home) environment with laptops/desktops and hotspots. We have no plan in changing the landscape of ERP, and shall continue as On-premise. With introduction of virtual platform like NTT-Netmagic and Google Cloud, there is huge saving potential in travelling expense.” Sujoy Sen CIO, Linde Group “We have done some extensive work using Robotics Process Automation (RPA) and AI based technology solution adoption. Also with the integration brought us opportunity to re-engineer the IT application landscape and make the solution more suitable for current business needs. Digital first mindset is a change in the management process. We in IT, have a major role to play in adoption of the same. We need to ‘walk the talk’. On one hand constantly communicate the benefit of digital solutions, and on the other, welcome the ideas that come and see through the realization. In future, we plan to deliver exceptional user experience with information whenever required and faster processing.” Sanjay Prasad CIO, RP-SG, CESC Power group “Besides COVID-19 which was global in nature, we had our fair share of one of the gravest cyclonic impacts not seen in recent times, in the form of Amphan. Unprecedented damage to trees and poles brought physical and virtual connectivity to a standstill. Amidst the lockdown, the teams on the ground worked round the clock to bring restoration of service in about a week’s time, comparing favorably with restoration of similar catastrophes even in the developed world. Providing secure, reliable and scaled up work from home and collaboration services during COVID was a big challenge unless you were already operating in the knowledge and IT services sector. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has also taught us to behave differently and for a cause, especially during the lockdown by taking care of team members, both professionally and personally, especially those who were not in the forefront of day-day interaction; acceptance by business and user stakeholders of cloud-based services, including virtual collaboration platforms and for statutory meetings which require recording and heightened confidentiality and adapting to new ways of working whilst using these tools. I see the maturity this roadmap in three stages for any utility: 1) Delivery – reliable and consistency –as the base levels 2) Convenience – enabling interaction, querying and transacting using the internet and ecommerce platforms and 3) Enhanced customer experience roadmap – some examples - be it exploring beyond our existing chatbot service to voice interactions given the challenges of vernacular phonemes maturity in our market, or planning GIS-CRM-Asset maintenance last mile integration to improve uptime, or exploring home automation solutions with consumers for greater
engagement, etc. Extending these initiatives to the workforce in terms of team work through virtual collaboration,support to secure work from home setup and aiming towards more democratization of analytics at source of operation, will also lead to productivity and higher work fulfillment.” Sumit Dutta Gupta Group CIO and Head-IS, Haldia Petrochemicals Ltd “The COVID-19 pandemic has completely disrupted the business scenario and established a new normal in conducting our business. A new normal business model is getting evolved and some business scenarios it is getting shape. The business-technology landscape across the world is also changing with more emphasis on Cloud and mobile based technology. To stay relevant in today’s changing business scenarios and stay functional and productive, businesses must navigate the
operational and financial challenges, while rapidly addressing the needs of their customers, suppliers and people. In the current situation, enterprise technology leaders will have to display strong leadership abilities and commitment to drive the digital journey with positive business outcomes. An enterprise technology decision maker will also have to set up an IT resiliency team with digital dashboards across functions, ensure there is a seamless information exchange across stakeholders and in essence make all stakeholders feel confident to adapt more of the digital solution in day to day life
including work from home scenario. This also calls for a strong cyber security framework, be proactive about phishing scams and above all leverage data in a secured way to emerge as Data Centric organization. Digitalization as a whole has helped and is helping our organization to tide over the present business disruption due to COVID 19. The Robotic Process Automation (RPA) in lot of business function is driving contactless process and thereby increasing the operational efficiencies of the business. The predictive technology is proving to be a game changer in the way to see and run the business. Technology has also enabled remote monitoring of the plants and has also pushed collaboration among stakeholders to a different level ensuring seamless operations with improved reliability and operational efficiency. Technology has also enabled new business model like Financial or HR Shared services across group companies and large organizations. The Digital chain of seamless information flow across the organization right from PLANT to BOARDROOM is an important milestone achieved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||A CIO virtual session: The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic unclog the future||The world is suddenly facing business continuity challenges. Now, it’s the greatest challenge the world has faced in decades. In just a few short months, the pandemic transformed people’s lives on an unprecedented scale, impacted every industry, and altered the course of companies’ growth. But the pandemic has not slowed innovation — it is rather boosted to historic levels. During the COVID-19 pandemic, technologies are playing a crucial role in keeping society and businesses function in a time of lockdowns and quarantines. Organizations are now highly dependent on digital platforms. Work from home is a new trend and companies are getting adjusted to the new normal. But the question is: Are the organizations ready to seize these opportunities? To address this, The Telegraph Online and We-Bridge Solutions had conducted a CIO virtual session in association with NTT Netmagic with the focal theme ‘Transforming Today’s Business through Innovation’. Some of the topics for discussion were: Let us see what the CIOs from different organizations who were a part of the virtual session has to
say: Seema Ambastha Senior Executive Vice President - India &amp; Global – Sales &amp; Business Development, NTT-Netmagic Seema is a strong industry leader with over 30 years of experience across various roles in IT industry. At NTT-Netmagic, Seema spearheads India and Global Business. She is also in charge of developing and executing strategic plans to maintain existing business partnerships and develop new business relationships. Seema holds master’s degree in Computer Science and Applications from Mumbai. Seema is a swimmer and a gold medalist for 100 meters breaststroke style. She is also a passionate globetrotter. “COVID-19 has impacted every life. CIOs roles and priorities have changed drastically as this pandemic is forcing them to consider its long term impact on their IT organization and business as a whole. CIOs are expected to concentrate on strategic projects enhancing capability internally and with stakeholders. Resilience and customer experience have taken the central stage now. Companies across diverse industries are fully dependent on cloud. We are talking about hybrid cloud
for last 4 years. Now it is the most important consideration for infrastructure strategy and selection of appropriate vendor. Companies that adapt to the changing needs of customers will have faster path to recovery than others. Digital engagement has accelerated tremendously leading companies to innovate quickly to replace or complement traditional models. Data and analytics, in the next normal, companies will need to be more proactive and nimbler as well as able to anticipate customer expectations and needs well ahead of time. Rethinking contactless commerce to promote safety across products, services and processes will be critical to put customers at ease and increase their satisfaction. Cyber security, cloud, AI, ML and analytics will play significant role in shaping the future of companies’ digital roadmap.  The change in customer behavior is quite reversible for foreseeable future. Organizations have to quickly change gear from traditional approach to market to building trust and confidence, which is way more important than ever before; Virtual and digital workforce; Every business will have angle to health, safety and security; Move every product and service to digital channel; Adopt newer and more agile IT; Reorient the current skills to cloud first, AI and ML driven innovation and more
proactive approach to technology adoption for customer experience.” Amit Khan CIO, Mjunction Services Ltd “Current pandemic has created huge opportunity for e-Commerce. Digital and platform driven business model has become an obvious choice for any business. The pandemic has accelerated the pace of digital transformation in true terms - there is a sense of urgency not only to ride the digital wave but the enterprises are desperate in adopting design thinking, leveraging technologies like AI and ML and innovating new digital offerings. Some of the initiatives of last year which we are working on are Remote work and Virtual collaboration; Cloud adoption; Leveraging the Open Source solution. The challenges that are being faced are bandwidth and quality of connectivity which is still a problem specifically at home; work life balance is a growing area of concern and resistance to change.” A R Pal CGM (Technical), GRSE “COVID-19 has caused huge business disruption. During complete lockdown, GRSE could manage many of its operation, viz. Materials Management, Finance, HR &amp; training through online mode by using its DC at Kolkata and DR at Mumbai. Business critical IT platform like SAP ECC, MS-share point, MS Exchange were running unaffected. In addition, we did video calling through Webex, Zoom, MS teams extensively. We are also using cloud services like Google Cloud, Webex, etc. where ever allowed under the company policy.” Atul Pandharpurkar Sr VP-IT, NU Vista Ltd “COVID-19 did not impact much on our business working environment. Only traditional work culture has changed from office environment to work from home. There was a drop of revenue but also a push to technology innovation for bringing down the operating cost. In terms of customer experience, sales force used to visit regularly but now that has been reduced drastically. However, through sales force automation we have built the connectivity. Our ERP is on premise application but
sales force application is based on cloud. At present we need to focus on Cybersecurity which is now a bigger challenge.” Bibek Maity CIO, LUX industries “Our management always aims to implement various innovations through digital platforms which are cost-efficient, flexible and secure analytics cloud solutions with micro services across the company. The management&#39;s mindset is radical digital transformation across the company to achieve the financial target and customer benefits with speed, transparency and experience. Though poor internet connectivity at few areas made accessibility difficult, the overall business functioning was smooth during this unforeseeable situation. Invoices are being raised for any customer from anywhere and payment receipts were done without a hitch. Customers could access their order, invoices and payment data, etc. from anywhere through web portal or mobile application. We conducted board meetings, AGM, internal office meetings, distributor meets and many more using Microsoft Teams. In addition, our employee attendance and salary processing structures were already on an online platform. We have ERP - SAP HANA at 54 locations with 5 legal entities for efficiently managing the entire process chain. We have planned for SAP HANA frontend application update in 2021. Also, we have developed various mobile apps to enhance the data transparency, business intelligence, and analytics for internal and external customer. We are also planning to get connected with our more than 3 lakh retailors through digitalization by use of mobile apps. Majority of our systems were already cloud based before this unfortunate circumstance. ERP - SAP HANA, HR System, Distributor Management System (DMS), and Salesmen Ordering Systems were already cloud-based. Our SAP disaster recovery (DR) server is also on cloud.” Biswajit Bosu CTO, RICE Group “During COVID-19, university and schools were the very first institutions who have transformed almost the entire classroom teaching into effective digital classrooms. All effective and efficient IT services and solutions are being provided timely and in a helpful manner and as a result, all our teachers are taking classes online through various online teaching platforms (like Microsoft Team,Google Meet, Zoom, etc.) and by using LMS (Learning Management System) services and also other social media platforms. RICE Group uses state-of-the-art ERP software for universities and other in-house developed software packages and CRM solutions hosted both in cloud and on-premises. Some of the challenges faced to adopt a digital-first mindset were inadequate knowledge of mobile uses, non-availability of high speed internet, unavailability of smart devices for students and knowledge of online classes for non-metro students. In future for an exceptional user experience, we are planning for a complete shifting of on premise applications to cloud and deployment of integrated university management software.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||A CIO virtual session: The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic explores tech innovation ||The COVID-19 pandemic has shown the importance of digital readiness which helped companies and people’s lives to continue during as usual during this time. Building the necessary infrastructure to support the digitized world and stay current in the latest technology is necessary for any business to remain competitive in a post-COVID-19 world. To see how organizations are ready to accept these changes, The Telegraph Online and We-Bridge solutions in association with NTT Netmagic hosted a CIO virtual session. Over 20 CIOs from different organizations took part in this session where various topics like digital transformation post-pandemic, adopting a digital first mindset, delivering exceptional user experience and enterprise applications on Google Cloud Platform were discussed. Hear what our CIOs have to say: Anil Valluri Senior Director, Google Cloud Anil is the Senior Director at Google Cloud and is responsible for driving business across various focus initiatives such as solution sets, digital natives and tech OEM partnerships. Anil Valluri is an industry veteran with over 30 years of experience in sales, marketing and technology leadership roles in the hi-tech Industry. Anil is an alumnus of Stanford University and believes in amalgamating lessons from leadership and entrepreneurship in what he does. Anil is a passionate audiophile with interest in analog audio and is an avid amateur golfer. “Google touches multiple points in every person’s life. Google cloud is a 12 billion company, growingmalmost 100% every year. The job is not only to provide infrastructure but also satisfy customers as per their need and give value to them including speech API, vision API, AI, analytics, etc. I had joined Google during COVID-19. I have not seen the Google office, did not meet any of my colleagues and not even my managers as I am operating from my home. It is completely a different and new experience for me. I don’t have any badge and not even any visiting cards. That’s the new way of doing things now and it becomes the new normal. With every business and service embracing digitalization, customer experience has become center of the focus. It’s about convenience, time and place of choosing, device independence and above all a great user experience. Added to this use of advanced speech assist, Analytics, AI models and vernacular tech is making this rich UX and reach far and wide. Companies are benefiting from knowing who is using their service and in what way. They are able to profile their customers better and offer more relevant services and products. This pandemic has preponed adoption of digital transformation for many businesses and entities. Today the keyword is agility and that comes from digital transformation. Ability to offer new services, fail fast, low cost of experimentation through DevOps models. Cloud is enabling us to save capex costs and pay for what we use with virtually unlimited scale in times of need. All of these ensure that we are ready to adapt fast and keep pace with changes. The entire promise of open source - which is flexibility, affordability, no lock in and security is being realized as most of the
technologies used in a cloud world are open source based.” Malabika Saha Ex-CIO, Graphide India “The challenges faced by industry due to the pandemic are myriad. Economic slowdown needs to be given a strong boost in the form of various incentives from the government. From the viewpoint of enterprises, they should relook their business models and think how they can continue conducting their business from any part of the world with emphasis on work from home which might be the new normal. While there is no ideal roadmap, they should be in a position of wrap up the day being prepared to continue work from wherever they are the next morning. This translates to boosting the IT infrastructure. In India, the telecom industry needs to gear up and get their act together and be more customers sensitive. Enterprises like NTT and Google Cloud need to educate the industry with new technology by organizing more workshops and discussions. Virtual meetings have shown that these are more effective than hiring hotels and hosting seminars.” Manik Paul CIO, Century Plyboards Ltd “At Century Ply we are transforming the challenges into opportunities. The use of digital technology is leading the transformation journey. The company has used digital tools like SFA App, Dealers/Distributor App, Retailer database, e-gallery portal application, Sales Performance reviews to focus on both primary and secondary sales. A new culture of ‘Sharing and working together’ is evolved through various Google suites application – Meet, Google Drive and Google sheets. At Century Ply, we have decided to gradually move all our applications to cloud. The users are encouraged to keep their own business critical data in their personal Google Drive. The company has also taken common cloud space at Google to store and share business data. The company is also exploring SDWAN solution to connect all factories, branch offices and sales offices. The unprecedented challenges of pandemic and the super cyclone Amphan had convinced us to move our applications from On-premise to cloud. While the SAP was already moved to Netmagic Private Cloud, the mailing solutions and many of the home grown non-SAP applications were running from our Kolkata data center. All these applications were down for almost 15-20 days during cyclone Amphan. The DR was never designed and it majorly affected our business. During the lockdown period, we have successfully migrated from On-premise ZIMBRA to Google suite of products and many of the applications were also moved to Public Cloud. The company is very keen to move ahead with the digitization journey. We are exploring the RPA tools to automate some of the business process. The company also wants to use the IoT and ML to implement predictive maintenance and automatic quality checking. A new position is created – Head New Initiative to bring in more traction in this area. The company will soon begin the SAP S4 HANA journey.” Partha Bhattacharyya AVP-IT, Graphide India ltd “Technology helped a lot in connectivity, virtual meeting, soft-based discussion and overall planning to run our business. Work from home concept is accepted by almost every company to run the business and support. We are already in SAP HANA landscape and we are planning to develop Fiori based application for analysis.” Rajat Sikdar Manager - IT and Customer Care Associate, Primarc Projects Pvt Ltd “In mid-March, we have raised alarm by an advisory to the management that we should move our On-premises server to cloud as soon as possible. We migrated the whole system to Cloud within March 31. The challenge was to provide the environment to the users. So we had categorized the users and provided the VPN login to users who were using Tally. The next requirement was all the meetings to be organized between the departments so that work from home can function in reality. We have organized a group of departmental champions and made them understand the process of Zoom meeting. Now the champions are organizing and moderating the meetings for their department
independently. Our ERP ‘In4Velocity’ is a web based ERP which is integrated with Tally. Due to Tally's involvement in checking the data, we have to take the remote client software which is less secure. We are trying to get the total accounting package independently on the ERP. We think we are blessed, as we have got a partner who is so obedient and keeps transparency in their work that every work with them is hassle free. We wish that as the companies like NTT - Netmagic and Google Cloud are now getting huge numbers of customers on cloud, they should reduce the rates as much as possible.” Rajesh Dutta GM-IT & CIO, Usha Martin Group “Since I have joined Usha Martin Group recently, hence my major initiatives for last year were with Emami. It was a journey of 3 years where the key initiatives were in three major areas: Total revamp of the network infrastructure at plants and offices using SDWAN technology; Cloud Adoption for hosting business critical applications like E-way Bill ,Sales Force automation (SFA)and SAP Landscape migration; Developed a security framework for Emami Agrotech with selection of the best of breed products at end points to peripheral devices and email gateway solutions and MDM solution for device management; Active directory and Office 365 implementation with teams been used widely post COVID-19 situation and application level prioritization to enhance user experience; Ware house automation at plant using robotics automation to increase the throughput to supply chain. At Usha Martin Ltd, there is e-Invoicing solution implementation, automated purchase order implementation, email gateway security solution and SAP analytics cloud solution and we are also planning to set up disaster recovery setup for SAP landscape. As I was working in FMCG earlier and now at manufacturing, the major challenge we faced was the adoption rate until been forced to. The adaptability of MS Teams was the classic example for increase in adoption rate due to COVID-19. Hence the key to adopt digital initiatives is the adoption rate of the initiatives. To deliver exceptional user experience cloud adoption would be the key along with secured and robust network infrastructure so that the users have seamless access and better experience from anywhere across the globe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||Coal India expects its supplies to catch up with last year by November||Coal India expects its supplies to catch up with last year by November. Over the seven months of April and October 2020, supplies at 305.7 million tonnes (mt) have been less than the corresponding seven months a year ago by 3.4 per cent. Supplies between April and October 2019 stood at 316.3mt. Buoyed by an uptick in demand from power plants, Coal India officials on Sunday said they have arrested the decline in supplies by as much by half in October. The decline in supplies has fallen from 7.6 per cent between April and September to 3.4 per cent between April and October. “Though the progressive growth in output was nominal, we could wipe off the negative trend and now look forward to consolidating the positive pattern for the rest of the fiscal,” a senior official of the company said. In October, coal offtake was 50.5mt, a growth of 25 per cent over October 2019. Production in October rose 18.7 per cent to 46.8mt. Production during the first seven months of the fiscal was 282.9mt, which is 2.5mt more than the production in the comparative year ago period. Mahanadi Coalfields played a crucial role in the improved performance of Coal India with production and offtake of the subsidiary growing 44.8 per cent and 56.4 per cent, respectively, in October. The official also pointed out that a revival in coal demand has helped to stop the slide in infrastructure production in September, which fell 0.8 per cent for the month, thanks mainly to the 21.2 per cent growth in coal output. This was the highest among the eight  industries that make up the infrastructure sector that also include crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity. Coal has a 10.33 per cent weightage in the eight core sector index. The miner supplied 36.4mt of coal to the power sector in September 2020 against 29.2mt in the same month a year ago. Growth in electricity generation was 3.7 per cent during September in the core sector index.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||Coal block auction to take off today||Companies such as Vedanta, Jindal Steel and Power, Adani Enterprises, Hindalco Industries and JSW Steel are in the race for the the first-ever auction of 19 coal blocks for commercial mining, which will start from Monday. The auction, under which 19 coal blocks will go under the hammer, will be held for eight days, from November 2-9. On Monday, the electronic auction would be held for five coal blocks — Chakla, Jharkhand; Marki Mangli-II, Maharashtra; Radhikapur (west), Odisha; Takli-Jena-Bellora (North) and  TakliJena-Bellora (South), Maharashtra; and Urtan, Madhya Pradesh. Companies such as Hindalco Industries and Adani Enterprises will be vying for the Chakla coal block in Jharkhand. Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) and Vedanta Ltd will be keen on the Radhikapur (west) asset in Odisha. Yazdani International Pvt Ltd, Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation Ltd and Refex Industries Ltd will be competing against each other for the Marki Mangli-II block in Maharashtra. Aurobindo Reality and Infrastructure Pvt Ltd and Sunflag Iron and Steel Company Ltd are in the race for the Takli-Jena-Bellora (North) and TakliJena-Bellora (South) coal block in Maharashtra . JMS Mining Private Ltd and Stratatech Mineral Resources Pvt Ltd would be vying for the Urtan block block in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||Maruti scores in rural markets||The share of rural sales in Maruti Suzuki’s total sales rose during the pandemic to 41 per cent in October from 38.5 per cent a year ago While the rural sales growth has been happening over the past seven to eight years, post pandemic this growth story will continue to run its course while sales from urban centres might slow down because of decreasing income levels. Talking to The Telegraph, Shashank Srivasta, head of sales and marketing, MSIL said: “During the pandemic rural sales have grown because of a number of factors. Since rural economy is largely dependent on agriculture, a good monsoon, excellent rabi crop and the relatively less spread of the virus in rural areas has helped in the continued growth in sales. While urban centres have witnessed a contraction, rural sales grew by 3 per cent.” With the average rainfall at 891mm, which is a seven per cent increase over last year, rabi crop production was at 152 million tonnes, which is a six per cent rise from last year’s 134 million tonnes. Except barley, urad and moong dal, there has been a good growth in cereals and pulses. The government has raised the minimum support price of rabi crops. Besides, the area under kharif crops has increased to 11,000 lakh hectares from 10,050 lakh hectares last year. “All these factors combined with the fact that Covid concentration is in urban areas will contribute to the rural growth story in 2021 too. While it is hard to predict how the urban centres will perform next year given the GDP fall, one can safely say that rural growth will continue,” said Srivastava. Share of rural sales has been increasing because of the greater motorisation of the country, spread of income, better infrastructure and more roads.An increasing need for mobility and greater integration brought aspiration levels of rural India closer to urban India, said the marketing head.  Post pandemic income levels of urban India will come down as the urban economy is more dependent on services and manufacturing. To make the most of this rural growth story, MSIL will continue to expand its network. “At present we cover 3.5 lakh villages where we sold at least one car. But India has 6.5 lakh villages. Digital sales has definitely picked up even in rural areas but we still need to have a physical showroom because people while making a high value purchase will want to see the vehicle before they buy,” said Srivastava. Talking about the need for a rural portfolio of cars, he said: “Our Eeco vans and small cars including the Alto and Wagon R sell well in the rural areas.” Asked if the absence of diesel will hurt Maruti in its rural penetration, Srivastava said: “Barring a few places like Punjab and Telengana, all other places have switched to petrol following the BS VI adoption. We are also communicating with our customers about the positives of petrol vehicle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Pent-up demand revs up car sales||Passenger vehicle sales bounced back in October, with Maruti Suzuki India and Hyundai Motor posting double-digit growth on the back of pent up demand and improved buying sentiment in the festive season The country’s largest carmaker — Maruti Suzuki India — said its sales increased 19.8 per cent in the domestic market last month to 1,72,862 units from 1,44,277 units in October 2019. Hyundai Motor India reported its best monthly sales in the domestic market last month at 56,605 units, up 13.2 per cent from 50,010 units in October 2019 last year. Among two-wheeler makers, Hero MotoCorp Ltd sold 806,848 units in October —  its highest in a month. However, one should bear in mind that 2019 being a year of downturn, provides a low base. “Much of the sales happening now is pent-up demand pushed by positive sentiments of a festive season that follows a prolonged period of downturn and pandemic hit recession,” said an industry insider. Mahindra & Mahindra reported a marginal increase in passenger vehicle sales in the domestic market last month at 18,622 units compared with 18,460 units in October 2019. In the utility segment, Mahindra sold 18,317 vehicles in the month against 17,785 vehicles a year ago, a growth of 3 per cent. Honda Cars India registered monthly domestic sales of 10,836 units in October 2020 against 10,010 units in the corresponding month last year, a rise of 8.3 per cent. Toyota sold 12,373 units in the month, clocking a growth of four per cent over the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Diesel use rises 6.6%||India’s diesel consumption in October rose 6.6 per cent from a year earlier, the first such increase since Covid-related restrictions were imposed in late March, preliminary data showed on Sunday, signalling a pick-up in industrial activity. Diesel sales by the country’s three state fuel retailers totalled 6.17 million tonnes in October, according to provisional data compiled by Indian Oil Corp, the country’s biggest refiner and fuel retailer. Sales of diesel, which account for about two-fifths of India’s fuel demand, rose 27.5 per cent from September. Rising diesel sales in the world’s third-biggest oil consumer and importer should help refiners, who had to cut crude-processing runs during the coronavirus crisis. IOC hopes to operate refineries at full capacity in a couple of months, up from 95 per cent at present, as local fuel demand is rising, company chairman S.M. Vaidya has said. Rising gasoline and diesel demand in India should also aid other markets hit by slow demand recovery. Local gasoline sales in October rose above pre-pandemic levels for a second month in a row. Gasoline sales rose 4 per cent in October from a year earlier to about 2.4 million tonnes, about 8.6 per cent higher than September, the data showed. State companies IOC, Hindustan Petroleum Corp and Bharat Petroleum own about 90 per cent of the country’s retail fuel outlets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Rural banks get Rs 670cr prop||The Union government has provided Rs 670 crore to regional rural banks (RRBs) considering their importance in agriculture finance during these difficult times. Of the 43 RRBs, about one-third, especially from the northeastern and eastern regions, are facing losses and needed funds to meet the regulatory capital requirement of 9 per cent, sources said. According to the current scheme for recapitalisation of RRBs, the capital support is provided to these banks by the Centre, the concerned state governments and the sponsor banks in the ratio of 50:15:35 to enable them to meet the regulatory requirement of capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) of 9 per cent. Sources said matching funds were released by the sponsor banks and many of the state governments. This round of infusion would take care of their capital needs till March 31, 2021, sources added. RRBs as a group reported a net loss of Rs 2,206 crore in the fiscal ended March 31, 2020,  against a Rs 652-crore net loss in 2018-19, according to data published by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard). The gross non-performing assets as a percentage of gross loans outstanding of RRBs marginally declined to 10.4 per cent as on March 31, 2020, from 10.8 per cent as on March 31, 2019, the data showed. Deposits and advances of RRBs increased 10.2 per cent and 9.5 per cent, respectively, during 2019-20. The gross outstanding loans stood at Rs 2.98 lakh crore against Rs 2.80 lakh crore in 2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Ficci call for growth push  from govt||Ficci president Sangita Reddy on Sunday said India’s strategy of dealing with the Covid-19 crisis has paid off and the country’s economy is set to bounce back and emerge stronger. She said it was time to take bold actions and push the growth agenda vigorously. “The dilemma for governments across the world was creating a balance between protecting lives and livelihoods. India took the path of a strict lockdown to ramp up health infrastructure and focused on human lives. This strategy has paid off,” Reddy said. She observed that science evolved to give better cures, medical infrastructure was created, supplies such as PPEs ramped up and our death rate has been contained. “It’s clearly time for bold actions on the livelihood front. The recent monetary policy assures that the government and the regulator will do everything it takes to keep the economy afloat. Let us start pushing our growth agenda vigorously,” said Reddy. “As we can see the initial green shoots of recovery have begun,” she added. Reddy noted that the PMI for manufacturing and services has recovered to 56.8 and 49.8, respectively, in September 2020. Besides, there has been a pick-up in e-way bill volumes, improvement in revenue earning freight traffic of major commodities, positive growth in exports and most significantly increase in the September GST collections to almost pre-Covid level. “Initiatives like consumption vouchers must continue to remain focused on demand generation,” Reddy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Stock options settlement plan extended||Market regulator Sebi has extended till December 31 the one-time settlement scheme for entities that executed reversal of trades in the stock options segment of the BSE during 2014 and 2015. The settlement scheme, introduced by the regulator in July, commenced on August 1, 2020 and was supposed to end on October 31, 2020. However, amid the disruption caused by the pandemic, Sebi received many representations seeking extension of the period of the scheme, the regulator said in a public notice issued late on Saturday. “Upon consideration of the same, the authority has approved the extension of the period of the scheme till December 31, 2020,” it added. The Direct Taxes Professionals’ Association (DTPA) welcomed Sebi’s move. However, Narayan Jain, chairman of the DTPA representation committee,  urged the market regulator to review the scheme and lower the settlement fee. “The minimum settlement fee as prescribed is Rs 5 lakh which is prohibitive in small cases. Rather there should be no prosecution in smaller cases  where up to two transactions have been made. There is widespread resentment as the transactions are of 2014-2015 and so long BSE and Sebi did not find any fault with such reversal tradings,” Jain noted. According to the notice issued by Sebi in July, entities who do not avail the one-time settlement opportunity will be liable for action after the expiry of the scheme. An entity willing to make an application for a one-time settlement under the scheme is required to submit an application in the specified format along with the applicable application fee, it had said. Under the scheme, the entities which executed trade reversals on the stock options segment of the BSE during April 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015 and against whom any proceedings are pending, are eligible to avail the settlement opportunity. To arrive at an indicative settlement amount, Sebi considered three objective parameters - artificial volume, number of non-genuine trades and number of contracts resulting in creation of artificial volume or non-genuine trades. Further, a uniform consolidated settlement factor in all cases wherein the entities had executed reversal trades would be applicable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||October GST mop-up rises||The goods and services tax (GST) collected in October rose to Rs 1.05 lakh crore, crossing the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark for the first time since February this year, reflecting a pick-up in economic activity and demand. The finance ministry in a statement said on Sunday that the total number of GSTR-3B returns filed till October 31, 2020 is 80 lakh. The gross GST revenue collected in October 2020 is Rs 1,05,155 crore, of which CGST is Rs 19,193 crore, SGST is Rs 5,411 crore, IGST is Rs 52,540 crore (including Rs 23,375 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,011 crore (including Rs 932 crore collected on import of goods), the ministry said. The revenues for the month are 10 per cent higher than Rs 95,379 crore collected in the same month last year. The GST collections fell from the psychologically important Rs 1-lakh-crore mark as the lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 spread dented economic activity. “The (tax collection) trend shows that it did decline for the past few months but it is not only on the path of recovery but is also picking up. In the month of September, GST collection was 4 per cent higher than what was there in the corresponding period last year. In the month of October, it has risen by 10 per cent year on year with a collection of above Rs 1.05 lakh crore,” finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said. GST revenue in February was Rs 1.05 lakh crore, March Rs 97,597 crore, April Rs 32,172 crore, May Rs 62,151 crore, June Rs 90,917 crore, July Rs 87,422 crore, August Rs 86,449 crore and September Rs 95,480 crore. GST revenue had topped Rs 1 lakh crore in eight out of the 12 months of 2019-20 fiscal. Deloitte senior director M. S. Mani said the numbers indicate the definitive revival of consumption and festival spends across the economy. “Continuance of this trend will help in narrowing the fiscal deficit for 2020-21 and will go a long way in reviving business confidence across sectors as the impact of the unlockdown process across states gets translated into GST collection figures,” Mani said. PwC India partner and leader Pratik Jain said given the surge in the number of returns filed and the fact that there is clear uptake in demand because of the revival of economy as well as the upcoming festive season, it’s not surprising that collection in October has exceeded Rs 1 lakh crore. “Given the festivities, collections in November could also be robust. We would need to see if this trend continues after November as well,” Jain added. EY tax partner Abhishek Jain said that some potential reasons for this surge could be the jump in demand on account of the festivities and input tax credit/other similar reconciliations which were due for businesses in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Future rejects arbitration order||Future Retail on Sunday said the emergency order given to Amazon by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) putting its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Industries Limited on hold was not “enforceable and binding”, and any move to enforce it would be “resisted” by the company. Last week, US retail giant Amazon had written a letter to market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) and the stock exchanges urging them to take into consideration the Singapore arbitrator’s interim judgment. In the interim arbitration award, a single-judge bench of V.K. Rajah barred Future Retail Limited (FRL) from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issue any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Both the Future group and Reliance have hinted they will go ahead with the deal. In a filing to the stock exchanges on Sunday, FRL said that the interim award of the arbitrator was “void and coram non-judice”, meaning the proceedings were not conducted by a judge. The company said the order was passed by invoking an arbitration clause in a contract to which it was not a party. “FRL is advised that an Emergency Arbitrator (EA) has no legal status under Part I of the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and therefore, the proceedings before an Emergency Arbitrator are void and coram non-judice,” the company said, adding the order passed by an authority without jurisdiction is a nullity under Indian law. The Biyani company said it participated in the proceedings before the arbitrator expressly without prejudice to its jurisdictional objection and under protest. “The EA order is not enforceable under the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and is not binding on FRL. Any attempt on the part of Amazon to enforce the EA order shall be resisted by FRL to the fullest extent available under Indian law. FRL is also in the process of taking appropriate legal action to protect its rights,” the Future group company said. It further asked the BSE and the NSE not to take cognizance of Amazon’s letter or the EA order. According to FRL, it has  complied with all the requirements of obtaining the requisite approval from its step-down firm Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) as was required in the shareholders agreement executed by FRL with its promoters. The letter said Future Retail was undergoing serious financial difficulties, particularly in light of the unprecedented impact of the pandemic, and the proposed scheme was the only way, it can come out of the situation. The scheme is in the best interest of all stakeholders that includes shareholders, financial institutions, vendors and suppliers, and its employees and delay in the implementation will cause irreparable losses, the letter said. Amazon’s letter to Sebi, Future Retail said, painted a picture that the public shareholders of the company were being misled. “It is a bit rich for such an argument to be made from someone who is not even a shareholder in FRL. Evidently, Amazon’s letter is motivated by other considerations,” the letter said. “It is submitted that Sebi regulations are very clear in terms of the information that needs to be disclosed when a listed company approves a scheme of arrangement, and FRL has complied with all Sebi requirements. “At best, Amazon’s claims are a contractual dispute between Amazon and the promoters of FRL, and Amazon has already initiated arbitration for the same,” FRL said. It further observed that Sebi and the stock exchanges should consider the scheme independently on its merits. “A contractual dispute between the promoters of FRL and Amazon cannot restrict or interfere with the authority of Sebi and the stock exchanges to approve the  scheme involving the listed entity. To be clear, the EA order cannot and does not in any manner restrict Sebi or the stock exchanges from considering and approving the scheme,” Future  Retail said. Amazon had last year acquired a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons Private Ltd, the promoter entity which owns a 7.3 per cent in FRL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Piffling benefit||In a year marked by complex policy decisions on retail lending comes yet another decision. The government of India recently took the decision to refund some of the interest incurred by small borrowers during the six-month period ending August 2020. The decision came after weeks of deliberation in the Supreme Court on how to alleviate the burden of the additional interest borrowers must pay following the moratorium. The almost seven-month long break from EMIs was necessitated by the pandemic which wiped out incomes, making loan repayments impossible for many. Following the moratorium, we’ve also had the announcement of a one-time loan restructuring scheme for stressed borrowers, and now there’s an interest refund. Let’s make sense of it all. According to Oxford Dictionary, “ex-gratia” means “as a gift or favour, not because there is a legal duty to do it”. The scheme will grant an ex-gratia payment equal to the difference between the simple interest and compounded interest on eligible loans for the six-month period between March and August. Lending institutions such as banks and home finance companies will have to pay borrowers this amount by November 5. The taxpayer will foot the bill. The scheme aims to aid small borrowers — even those who hadn’t availed themselves of the moratorium. Therefore, loans from banks, co-operative banks, NBFCs, HFCs, and other eligible lenders,which were standard (not NPAs) as on February 29, 2020, with dues of Rs 2 crore or less on that date, are eligible for the interest refund. MSME, home, education, automobile, personal, consumer durables, credit card and consumption loan categories are eligible for the scheme. Additionally, you could avail the scheme on multiple eligible loans assuming the total dues is up to Rs 2 crore. Not much, as it turns out. For most retail loans, the payout would range from a few hundred to a few thousand rupees. Let’s take the example of a home loan of Rs 50 lakh where the first 12 EMIs have been paid on time and moratorium was availed for EMIs 13 to 18. Assuming the rate of interest to be 8.50 per cent and the tenure to be 20 years, the simple interest for the six months works out to just over Rs 2.08 lakh. The compound interest for the same period is under Rs  2.12 lakh. The borrower will get paid around Rs 3,700, the difference between the two amounts. The lender must deposit the amount in the borrower’s bank account by November 5. Consider this a small Diwali bonus. Stressed borrowers had to avail the moratorium because their incomes vanished. They still need to find a way to deal with the additional debt that will be created by the deferment of EMIs. In the above example, if you deferred EMIs 13 to 18, your interest on the whole loan goes up from Rs 54.13 lakh to Rs 65.81 lakh — an additional debt of nearly Rs 12 lakh. The number varies from one loan to another. But the closer you are to the start of your loan, the more the moratorium will cost you. A little interest waiver will provide little respite in the long run. The dues still need to be paid. If you are experiencing income stress, you could also avail yourself the one-time loan restructuring. The interest waiver scheme and the restructuring scheme aren’t at odds with each other. You could benefit from both.What both schemes have in common is that your loan needs to be standard at the end of February. If you were in default by then, you can’t avail either scheme. To deal with the interest on interest, you must have a bounce-back plan. To simplify the math using the above example of Rs 50 lakh, if you pre-paid 120 per cent of your deferred EMIs within 12 months of the last deferred EMI, you could wipe out most if not all the additional interest you were going to pay. Pre-paying regularly in any way would help you close the loan sooner and provide tremendous interest savings in the long run. While the government has directed lenders to deposit the interest directly into the borrower’s banks, you could reach out to your lender for greater clarity. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
