03-11-2020||Business||SC nod to Punjab National Bank for terminating 'overqualified' peon ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to accept the contention that overqualification cannot be a ground for disqualification as it upheld an order of Punjab National Bank terminating the service of a peon who had suppressed the fact that he was a graduate. The top court set aside two orders of the Orissa High Court by which it had asked the bank to allow the peon to discharge his service, saying a candidate having suppressed the material information and/or giving false information cannot claim the right to continuance in service. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah allowed the appeal filed by the bank, noting that it had stated in its job advertisement that the applicant should not be a graduate. The court also observed that instead of challenging the qualification criteria, Amit Kumar Das had applied for the job and hidden his qualification. On the ground that Das "deliberately, willfully and intentionally suppressed the fact that he was a graduate, the High Court has erred in directing the appellant Bank to allow the respondent - original writ petitioner - to discharge his duties as a peon,” the court said. Referring to an earlier verdict of the top court, the bench said that the suppression of material information and making a false statement have a clear bearing on the character and antecedents of the employee in relation to his continuance in service. It said, “An employee is expected to give correct information as to his qualification. The original writ petitioner failed to do so. He was, in fact, overqualified and therefore ineligible to apply for the job.” The top court said that another righteous candidate has suffered due to this mischievous act by Das. Das relied on the top court's verdict of 2000 and said that a higher qualification cannot be a ground for his disqualification from the job as rightly held by the Orissa High Court. The bench noted that the Bank has invited the applications for the post of peon by giving a newspaper advertisement in which it was specifically mentioned that a candidate should have passed 12th class or its equivalent with basic reading/writing knowledge of English and should not be a graduate as of January 1, 2016. It said that as per the eligibility criteria mentioned in the advertisement, a candidate with a graduate degree was not eligible even to apply. The bench said that Das applied for the post of peon but in his application/bio-data did not disclose that he was a graduate degree holder since 2014 and only mentioned his qualification as 12th pass. It said looking at the nature of the post of peon, a conscious decision was taken by the bank providing eligibility criteria/educational qualification that a graduate candidate shall not be eligible for the post of peon/subordinate staff. The top court said that Das never challenged the eligibility criteria/educational qualification mentioned in the advertisement and instead participated in the recruitment process. Therefore, once having participated in the recruitment process as per the advertisement, thereafter it is not open for him to contend that acquisition of higher qualification cannot be a disqualification and that too when he never challenged the eligibility criteria/educational qualification mentioned in the advertisement, it said. The top court stated that it is for the employer to determine and decide the relevancy and suitability of the qualifications for any post and it is not for the courts to consider and assess. Greater latitude is permitted by the courts for the employer to prescribe qualifications for any post. There is a rationale behind it. “Qualifications are prescribed keeping in view the need and interest of an institution or an industry or an establishment as the case may be. The courts are not fit instruments to assess expediency or advisability or utility of such prescription of qualifications,” it said. The bench, however, said that at the same time, the employer cannot act arbitrarily or fancifully in prescribing qualifications for the posts. Therefore, the High Court has clearly erred in directing the appellant Bank to allow the respondent original writ petitioner to discharge his duties as a peon, though he as such was not eligible as per the eligibility criteria/educational qualification mentioned in the advertisement, it said. It noted that Das in his bio-data did not mention that he was a graduate and very cleverly he suppressed the material fact and declared his qualification as Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC), whereas he was holding a degree in the Bachelor in Arts. Had it been known to the bank that he was a graduate, he would not have at all been considered for selection as a Peon in the bank. That thereafter when scrutiny of the documents was going on and when the respondent - original writ petitioner produced a graduation certificate, at that time, the bank came to know that he was a graduate and therefore not eligible, it said. The top court said that therefore the bank rightly canceled his candidature and he was not allowed to join the bank in the subordinate cadre. The court said it was not imposing costs on Das though his mischievous act had deprived another candidate for the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
03-11-2020||Business||Bank of Baroda withdraws charges, finance ministry confirms move ||The Finance Ministry on Tuesday said that there has been no increase in service charges by any public sector bank even as Bank of Baroda decided to withdraw changes made with regard to the number of free cash deposit transactions in a bank account per month. Bank of Baroda had made certain changes with effect from November 1, 2020, with regard to the number of free cash deposits and withdrawals per month, a Finance Ministry statement said. The numbers of free cash deposits and withdrawals have been reduced from five each per month to three each per month, with no change in the charges for transactions in excess of these free transactions, it said. “Bank of Baroda has since informed that in the light of the current COVID-related situation, they have decided to withdraw the changes. Further, no other PSB has increased such charges recently,” it said. Although, as per RBI guidelines, all banks, including public sector banks (PSBs), are permitted to levy charges for their services in a fair, transparent and non-discriminatory manner, based upon costs involved, other PSBs have also intimated that they do not propose to raise bank charges in the near future in view of the COVID pandemic, it said. With regard to Basic Savings Bank Deposit (BSBD) accounts, it said, no service charge is applicable on the 60.04 crore such accounts, including 41.13 crore Jan Dhan accounts opened by the poor and unbanked segments of society, for the free services prescribed by RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel announces new work from home model for employees||Domestic steel maker Tata Steel on Monday announced a new work model for its employees which allows them to work from home for up to 365 days a year. The new “Agile Working Models” policy is effective from Sunday, Tata Steel said in a statement. Tata Steel said the new work policy is a move towards a “trust and outcome-based working culture” and will give more flexibility to its employees. Under the new models, effective November 1, even officers who are required to be based out of a particular location can now work from home for unlimited days in a year, it said. Once the pandemic situation normalises, the policy will enable the company’s officers to move to a location of choice, giving the employee the flexibility to operate out of any location in the country. The policy will be piloted for a year and based on the adaptability and feedback, it will be reviewed after one year. To start with, 10 per cent of its 7,000 strong office staff will get this benefit. Later, up to 30 per cent will shift to the new policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||CESC  to consider delisting from the Calcutta Stock Exchange||CESC Ltd is going to consider a proposal to delist from the Calcutta Stock Exchange, drawing the curtains on the decade old association with the local bourse.  The board of the company will take a decision on the proposal on November 6, a move that indicates how the pandemic could nudge corporate houses to look hard at ways to trim the flab and lower the compliance burden to stay in shape. Like many other companies that have registered offices in the city, CESC continued to remain listed on the CSE even as the shareholders questioned the rationale of doing so at every opportunity. There has been no official trade at Lyons Range since 2013. The payment crisis that engulfed the Indian stock markets following the Ketan Parekh scam in 2000 rang the death knell for the bourse. Old timers recall CESC — then a British company having pound sterling stock listed on both the London and Calcutta stock exchanges — used to be a hit among general investors. Often called by a shortened name — ‘Electric’ — as the company was then known as Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation Ltd, it was in a select class of stocks that had dual listing. “Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation used to be a blue chip stock, popular because of its consistent dividend history,” said Ajit De, former president of CSE. Registered in London on January 15, 1897 with a capital of £1,000, the company was first listed on London Stock Exchange. It debuted on CSE on March 3, 1957 to become one of the dual listed entities. The British identity gave way to an Indian one in 1979, after which it was renamed as Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (India) Ltd. The name was later changed to CESC Ltd in 1987. The company continued to remain listed on the London Stock Exchange till 2013. “For years, there has been no dealing in our shares on the CSE. Hence we are seeking the approval of our board of directors for the proposed delisting. CESC shares will continue to be listed with the BSE and the NSE,” a CESC spokesperson said. Gautam Ganguly, who used to be a company secretary in EIH and Kesoram, said some of the firms retained CSE listing on emotional grounds. “Being registered here, they had to be listed on CSE first. Only later they were listed on BSE and NSE,” he recalled. “It used to be the largest stock exchange in the country, competition evenly with Bombay. The payment crisis of 2000 changed everything. I feel sad talking about it any more,” De signed off. While CESC and host of other companies of the RP-SG Group, owned by Sanjiv Goenka and family, will seek delist, many other Calcutta-based companies continue to remain listed here, notable among them are ITC Ltd, EIH Ltd, Tata Consumer Products Ltd and Bata India Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Auction of coal blocks kickstart with strong bids||The auction of coal blocks for commercial mining, which kickstarted on Monday, saw Vedanta bidding the highest for a mine in Odisha, while Hindalco bid the most for a block in Jharkhand. Vedanta stumped up the highest bid for Radhikapur West by offering to share 21 per cent of the revenues, the coal ministry said in a statement. The mine has an estimated reserves of about 312 million tonnes of dry fuel. Hindalco bid the highest for Chakla coal mine in Jharkhand at 14.25 per cent revenue sharing. The mine has an estimated reserves of 76 mt. With regard to MarkiMangli II mine in Maharashtra, Yazdani International bid the highest at 30.75 per cent revenue sharing. JMS Mining bid the highest for Urtan mine in Madhya Pradesh at 10.50 per cent revenue sharing. For Takli Jena Bellora North and Takli Jena Bellora South block in Maharashtra, Aurobindo Realty and Infrastructure made the highest bid of 30.75 per cent revenue sharing. All the five blocks will generate an annual revenue of Rs 1,556.68 crore for the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Bandhan Bank charts diversification plan||Bandhan Bank has charted a diversification plan involving a change in the asset mix and expansion of the city-based bank’s presence beyond eastern India over the next five years. The asset mix of the bank by 2024-25 is estimated to comprise 30 per cent each of emerging entrepreneurship business (including microlending), mortgages and commercial loan (including SME credit), while retail lending will comprise the remaining 10 per cent. As of September 2020, around 65 per cent of the bank’s asset book is in emerging entrepreneurship, 25 per cent in mortgages and the remaining 10 per cent in commercial and retail loans. Although the share of high interest earning micro loans will go down in the overall asset mix, the bank has charted an aggressive expansion plan by adding more banking units outside its core geographies to shore up its business and protect margins. The overall share of banking units in the east will go down from around 53 per cent to around 23 per cent with south India being a focus market for the lender. The bank’s managing director and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh on Monday said plans are afoot to open 574 outlets by March 2021. As of September 30, 2020, total banking outlets were 4701. “Retail lending will be a big opportunity for the bank. With the newly introduced retail advances vertical, we have also developed new products. We are also expanding our network and adding more banking units outside our core geographies,” said Ghosh. The bank’s profit in the second quarter fell 5.3 per cent to Rs 920 crore from Rs 971.8 crore a year ago as provisions for Covid ate into the bottomline. During the quarter, the bank has taken an additional provision of Rs 300 crore on standard advances. With this provision, the total additional provision on the books stand at Rs 2096 crore, or close to 2.8 per cent of the portfolio. “On the deposits front, we have witnessed the best ever quarter whereas on the disbursement front, we are close to pre-Covid level. Collections have seen a steady improvement month on month and are expected to reach near normal in the next 90 days,” Ghosh said. “In the second half of the financial year, we expect the advances growth to accelerate much faster than the first half and that is when the excess liquidity will get utilised,” said Sunil Samdani, CFO, Bandhan Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Centre borrows Rs 6,000 crore to pay 6 states GST compensation||The Centre has borrowed Rs 6,000 crore from the markets and transferred the money to 16 states and three Union Terrtories on Monday as part of the exercise to meet the shortfall in GST cess collections which are paid to states to meet any gap in their revenue collections on account of the shift to the new indirect tax regime three years ago. The finance ministry said it has borrowed the sum at a rate of interest of 4.42 per cent which is less than what the lenders would have offered to the states. On October 23, the Centre had transferred Rs 6,000 crore to the 16 states and the Union territories of Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir. In the present round, Puducherry has been added to the list of Union territories. So far 21 states and 3 Union territories have opted for the special borrowing window to meet the GST cess shortfall. The loans have been released to Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka. The other states are Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Last month, the Centre gave in to the demands of Opposition ruled states to borrow and fund the GST compensation shortfall. The finance ministry said the Centre would borrow from the market to pay the GST compensation shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore to states and then act as an intermediary to arrange back-to-back loans to state governments. This arrangement will not reflect on the fiscal deficit of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Government extends Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for MSMEs||The government on Monday decided to extend the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for MSMEs by one month till November 30 as the scheme has failed to meet the target to disburse Rs 3 lakh crore. The scheme has been extended till November 30 or till such time that Rs 3 lakh crore is sanctioned under the scheme, whichever is earlier, the finance ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||India’s manufacturing sector activity expands at fast pace||India’s manufacturing sector activity expanded at its fastest pace in over a decade in October as demand and output continued to recover strongly from Covid-19 disruptions even as firms cut more jobs, a monthly survey said on Monday. IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 56.8 in September to 58.9 in October, and pointed to the strongest improvement in the health of the sector in over a decade. In April, the index had slipped into contraction mode, after remaining in the growth territory for 32 consecutive months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. “Levels of new orders and output at Indian manufacturers continued to recover from the Covid-19 induced contractions seen earlier in the year, with the PMI results for October highlighting historically-sharp monthly rates of expansion,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima said: “Companies were convinced that the resurgence in sales will be sustained in coming months as indicated by a strong upturn in input buying.” Manufacturers indicated that the ongoing relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions, better market conditions and improved demand helped them to secure new work in October. Both output and new orders grew at their sharpest rates in more than 12 years and foreign demand expanded at its quickest pace since December 2014. But firms cut staff for the seventh month in a row, a streak not witnessed since the survey began in 2005, signaling a quick recovery in the consumer-driven economy may be a distant possibility. Meanwhile, the yearly SBI Composite Index has gone above the psychological level of 50 and stood at 53.0 (moderate growth) in October 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||SC asks Centre to file a status report on Vijay Mallya extradition||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to file a status report within six weeks on the confidential legal proceedings pending in the United Kingdom on the extradition of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to India. The Centre had on October 5 told the apex court that Mallya cannot be extradited to India until a separate “secret” legal process in the UK, which is “judicial and confidential in nature is resolved”. On being asked about the status of the proceedings in the UK, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, said he had “no information from London high commission”, and sought  time from the court to collect the necessary information. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan posted the matter for further hearing to January, though no specific date has been fixed . The bench also refused to accept the plea of advocate E. C. Agarwala, appearing for Mallya in the apex court, seeking discharge from the case. The Centre had last month said it was not aware of the secret ongoing proceedings against Mallya in the UK as the government of India was not party to the process.  Mallya, an accused in the bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Former HDFC Bank managing director Aditya Puri joins Carlyle Group||Aditya Puri, former HDFC Bank managing director, has joined The Carlyle Group as a senior adviser in Asia. The global investment firm said in an early morning statement that Puri will advise the Carlyle team on investment opportunities across Asia. It added that he will  provide guidance on the evolving market landscape and new investment opportunities, while also advising Carlyle’s investment professionals and portfolio management teams on building differentiated high quality businesses. Puri, who led HDFC Bank since its inception over 25 years ago, retired last Monday after a highly successful career which has made the bank  the largest among private sector lenders with over $210 billion in assets. Puri had previously spent over 20 years at Citibank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||HDFC reports better than expected numbers for second quarter||HDFC on Monday reported better than expected numbers for the quarter ended September 30. The net profit of the mortgage lender came in at Rs 2,870.12 crore, down 27.55 per cent from Rs 3,961.53 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting HDFC to report net profits in the region of Rs 2,200 crore. The profit was lower as components such as profit on sale of investments and dividend income declined during the quarter compared with the same period of the previous year. A year ago, HDFC earned  Rs 1,627 crore from profit on sale of investment which included its stake sale in Gruh Finance to Bandhan Bank. Its dividend income fell to Rs 322.97 crore from Rs 1,073.80 crore as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority asked banks and insurers to not declare dividends because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Adjusting for these components, HDFC would have reported a 27 per cent rise in net profits for the quarter. The stock markets responded positively to the numbers with the HDFC share ending 6.24 per cent higher at Rs 2,042.65 on the BSE. At a virtual press conference soon after the results announcement, Keki Mistry, vice-chairman and managing director of HDFC, said the business environment showed a good improvement during the second quarter. He disclosed that during the second quarter, individual loan disbursements were at 95 per cent of what they were in the second quarter of the previous year and if one were to break down the performance from July, there has been an improvement with every passing month. For instance, in September, loan approvals showed a growth of 31 per cent over last year and disbursements were higher by 11 per cent. It has improved further in October with loan approvals growing 58 per cent and disbursements 35 per cent. HDFC said the low interest rates and soft property prices will benefit the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
03-11-2020||Business||Manipal Hospitals to acquire Columbia Asia Hospitals in India||Leading multi-specialty healthcare provider Manipal Hospitals on Monday said it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Columbia Asia Hospitals in India. According to the sources in know of the matter, the acquisition will be for Rs 2,100 crore. The company intends to acquire a 100 per cent stake in Columbia Asia Hospitals Pvt Ltd (Columbia Asia). The transfer of ownership to Manipal Hospitals is expected to be completed post regulatory approvals, the healthcare providers said in a statement. “We are very pleased to welcome Columbia Asia Hospitals to the Manipal family and proudly acknowledge their outstanding track record of healthcare delivery of a very high standard over the years,” Manipal Education and Medical Group (MEMG) chairman Ranjan Pai said. “This is the start of an exceptional journey for us and together with Columbia Asia, we are now bigger, stronger and uniquely positioned to meet the growing expectations of the communities we serve across the country,” he added. Together, the combined entity will have a presence of 27 hospitals across 15 cities with over 7,300 beds and a pool of more than 4,000 doctors and over 10,000 employees, the statement said. Columbia Asia Hospitals commenced operations in India in 2005 in Hebbal, Bangalore and operates 11 hospitals across the country, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
03-11-2020||Business||Reliance stock falls its most in seven months||The Reliance stock fell its most in seven months on Monday taking with it Rs 1.20 lakh crore of lost shareholder wealth while promoter Mukesh Ambani suffered a massive Rs 61,000 crore erosion in his net worth. Investors resorted to profit booking amid concerns of expensive valuation and disappointment over the performance of its refining division even as they awaited fresh triggers to re-enter the counter. The RIL scrip has witnessed an extraordinary run since March — rising almost 172 per cent from its 52-week lows as it mobilised nearly Rs 1.90 lakh crore in its digital services and retail subsidiaries and became a net debt-free firm. However, observers had been cautioning about a pause in the rally as they felt that all the good news is already factored in the price with some even feeling that valuations in the stock have become aggressive. Analysts at BNP Paribas said the company had become a net cash company and its valuation multiples have expanded with a shift towards growth-oriented businesses. “With a large part of the stake sales done, we think RIL’s shares should remain range bound in the near term, awaiting a potential recovery in its oil to chemicals (O2C) business, especially in the light of the muted earnings prospects over the next few quarters,” they said. Investors on Monday fretted over the poor showing of the O2C business in the second quarter. Though the consolidated profit beat estimates, gross refining margins dipped to $5.7 per barrel against $6.3 per barrel in the previous quarter and $9.3 per barrel in the same period of last year. Turnover from this segment fell to Rs 62,154 crore against Rs 97,229 crore a year ago.The RIL stock opened on a lower note at Rs 2033.50 and hit an intra-day low of Rs 1,860,  a drop of almost 9.50 per cent. It later ended at Rs 1,877.30, marking down Rs 177.05, or 8.62 per cent, over its previous close which is its biggest single-day correction since March. Market capitalisation on the BSE plunged Rs 1.20 lakh crore to Rs 12.69 lakh crore. Though most of the brokerages have a buy call on RIL, some remain sceptical. Macquarie, which has a “under-perform” rating, has a target price of Rs 1,195 per share which implies a 42 per cent downside from Friday’s closing price of Rs 2,054.35 in the BSE. The “cautious” foreign brokerage said it did not see any economic moat particularly in retail even as RIL reported a largely expected sequential rebound in the second quarter. Analysts said investors to the O2C business would serve as the next triggers for the stocks. In retail, the investments by global players Silver Lake, KKR, General Atlantic, Mubadala, GIC, TPG and ADIA of Rs 37,710 crore have been along expected lines. The stock can only rally if a global strategic player which has interest in the retail business takes stake in the company. “Upsides may come if Aramco buys into O2C at $75 billion enterprise value, valuing its stake at $60 billion, global strategic majors enter retail, and Jio-Retail get listed,” analysts at Emkay said. Emkay has a hold rating on RIL and has a 12-month target price of Rs 1,970. Moody’s on Monday said the firm’s earnings are expected to gradually recover to pre-pandemic levels. The rating agency said RIL’s credit metrics will remain strongly positioned for its Baa2 rating because of its zero net debt status . Meanwhille, Reliance plans to start the delayed production from the second wave of discoveries in its eastern offshore KG-D6 block in November/December, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
