04-11-2020||Business||Shanghai Stock Exchange suspends initial public offering of Ant Group||The Shanghai Stock Exchange suspended the initial public offering of Ant Group, the internet finance spinoff of the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, an extraordinary turn of events for what had been set to be the largest share sale in history. In a notice to Ant posted online late Tuesday, the stock exchange said that the company’s proposed offering may not meet the conditions for listing after Chinese regulators summoned company executives, including Jack Ma, the Alibaba co-founder who is also Ant’s controlling shareholder, for a meeting on Monday. Neither the regulators nor Ant have said in detail what was discussed at the meeting. But the timing of the rendezvous, coming just days before Ant shares were expected to begin trading concurrently in Shanghai and Hong Kong, suggested discord with the company or with Ma. Shortly after the Shanghai exchange made the announcement, Ant said it was suspending the Hong Kong leg of its listing as well. Ant did not immediately have further comment. Over the past decade, Ant has transformed the way people in China interact with money. The Alipay app has become an everyday payment tool for hundreds of millions of smartphone users, as well as a platform for obtaining small loans and buying insurance and investment products. Ant’s Alipay app is used by hundreds of millions of shoppers for everyday purchases, including at farmer’s markets. But in the process, Ant has challenged the dominance of China’s state-run banks and other institutions, which have long enjoyed a privileged place in the country’s financial and political system. Regulators have looked warily upon Ant’s fast growth in certain areas, fearful it might become too big to rescue in the event of a meltdown. Ant has pivoted in response. Instead of primarily using its own money to extend loans, the company now effectively acts as an agent for banks, introducing them to individual borrowers and small businesses that they might not otherwise reach. This business model works just fine for many of Ant’s investors, evidently. The group’s dual IPO had been set to bring in at least $34 billion. The company’s market valuation after the listing, of around $310 billion, would make it worth more than many global banks. NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
04-11-2020||Business||Merchandise exports fall 5.4 per cent to $24.82 billion in October||Merchandise exports fell 5.4 per cent to $24.82 billion in October because of a fall in shipments in sectors such as petroleum products, gems and jewellery, and leather, according to preliminary trade data released by the government on Tuesday. Exports stood at $26.23 billion a year ago. Imports also fell 11.56 per cent to $33.6 billion during October. “India was thus a net importer in October 2020 with a trade deficit of $8.78 billion compared with a trade deficit of $11.76 billion a year ago, an improvement of 25.34 per cent,” it added. After contracting for six straight months, India’s exports rose 5.99 per cent to $27.58 billion in September for the first time in 2020-21. “The October exports show a nominal single-digit negative growth of 5.4 per cent because of supply side challenges with signs of revival as both order booking positions and manufacturing PMI have risen,” Sharad Kumar Saraf, president of FIEO, said. Saraf said the nominal decline in exports during the month has been mainly because of the huge container shortage and hike in sea freight which has upset exports, particularly for those who have negotiated on CIF (Cost, Insurance, Freight) or C&F (Cost & Freight) basis. During April-October 2020, exports declined 19.05 per cent to $150.07 billion, while imports fell 36.28 per cent over the same period last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
04-11-2020||Business||Royal Enfield to invest in two overseas facilities||Royal Enfield is investing in two overseas facilties. The company said a plant in Thailand will  be operational next year, while the Brazil unit will come up in 2022. The company is banking on launches to revive sales which fell 7 per cent in October compared with a year ago. Enfiled will roll out the much awaited Meteor 350 on November 6 to replace the Thunderbird 350. Talking to the media on the eve of the launch, Siddhartha Lal, managing director, Eicher Motors, of which Royal Enfield is a subsidiary, said: “We have created and grown the mid-size segment. We are focused on our ambition of playing a global role and becoming a premium consumer brand from India.” The company, which will step into its 120th year in 2021, “remains a strong profitable business that helped it navigate these challenging times”. “We have a strong balance sheet and we continue to spend cash and have the ability to look forward,” said Lal. When asked about investments, Vinod K Dasari, CEO of Royal Enfield, said: “We continue with our investment plans and we are investing heavily on products, on network expansion both in India and export markets and on the CKD (complete knocked down) plants that we plan to set up.” While its exports too dipped to 9 per cent in October 2020 as compared to same period last year, the company remains bullish about its international operations. “The Continental GT and the Interceptor 350 are top in terms of registration in UK,” said Lalit Malik, COO of Royal Enfield. The company has a tech centre in Leicestershire. In Thailand, the company has a market share of six per cent having sold 3450 units in 2019. In Brazil it has a 1.1 per cent market share having sold 1445 units in 2019. In both these countries, the company will set up CKD plants. It already has one running in Argentina which it set up last year where it has a market share of 2.4 per cent. The company also exports to France, Germany, Korea, USA, Columbia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Quantum of GST borrowing should be reasonable: Finance secretary||The quantum of borrowing to meet states’ GST revenue shortfall has to be “reasonable” considering its economic impact and the Centre will continue to request the Opposition-ruled states to opt for the proposed borrowing plan, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey has said. He said while extending the loan, the Centre would take authorisation from states that repayment would be made only from the GST compensation cess, which is being collected, and repayment schedule will be set in such a manner that the collections in the cess pool post June 2022 would be enough to repay the interest arising out of borrowings. So far, 21 states and three Union Territories have opted for the borrowing plan proposed by the Centre to meet the Rs 1.83 lakh crore shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection of states. Under the borrowing plan, the Centre would borrow from the market Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the revenue shortfall on account of GST implementation. However, states like Kerala, Punjab, Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand are yet to opt for the proposed borrowing plan saying the Centre should borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore shortfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Adani Group firm Stratatech Mineral Resources wins Dhirauli coal mine||Adani Group firm Stratatech Mineral Resources has won the Dhirauli coal mine in Madhya Pradesh, which has an estimated coal reserves of 586 million tonnes, by offering to share 12.50 per cent of the revenues on the second day of the commercial coal mining bidding on Tuesday. In contrast, the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation has bagged the Brahmadiha coal mine in Jharkhand at a 41.75 per cent revenue share. The mine has an estimated dry fuel reserves of 5mt. Aditya Birla group’s EMIL Mines and Mineral Resources bid the highest for Bandha coal mine in Madhya Pradesh by offering to share 21 per cent of revenues. The mine has a reserve of about 441mt. Sarda Energy has bid the highest for Sahapur West coal mine in Madhya Pradesh at 26 per cent revenue share for the mine which has reserves of 52mt. Of the four coal mines under the hammer, three were in Madhya Pradesh and one in Jharkhand and they have total geological reserves of 1,085mt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Punjab National Bank to raise Rs 7,000 crore through QIP of shares||Punjab National Bank on Tuesday said it will raise Rs 7,000 crore through the qualified institutional placement (QIP) of shares by December that will boost its capital reserves. “We have got approval from the central government to raise Rs 7,000 crore through QIP. We are in the process of finalising the book running lead manager. We are planning to go for QIP in the second or third week of December, depending on the road shows and the selection of the lead manager,” PNB managing director and CEO S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao said. Rao expects the credit growth to pick up in the second half but it would be less than 5 per cent for the entire fiscal. PNB has taken permission of its board to raise Rs 14, 000 crore in Tier-II bonds, additional Tier-I bonds and qualified institutional placement. It has already raised Rs 2,500 crore in Tier-II bonds  and will raise an additional Rs 1,500 crore in such bonds and Rs 3,000 crore in additional Tier-I bonds by this month. The remaining Rs 7,000 crore will be in qualified placements. Bank of Baroda on Tuesday said it would not charge for basic banking services following a public outcry. The announcement came just a day after the bank said it would begin charging customers for basic transactions, including deposits and withdrawals, above certain limits. “In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on the economy, it has been decided to withdraw the above circular with immediate effect,” BoB said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Future Group files caveat before Delhi HC requesting to be heard||The Future Group has filed a caveat before the Delhi high court requesting it to be heard if any plea is filed by e-commerce giant Amazon over its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Industries Ltd. A PTI report said Amazon has also filed a caveat in the Delhi high court to ensure the court does not pass any adverse order without the company’s plea being heard. Amazon declined to comment . Future group company Future Retail had said last Sunday that “an Emergency Arbitrator (EA) has no legal status” under Part I of the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996. Future Retail had added that any attempt  on the part of Amazon to enforce the EA order will be resisted “to the fullest extent available under Indian law’’. The Singapore International Arbitration Centre on October 25 had passed an interim award in favour of Amazon, with a single-judge bench barring FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issue any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. After the award, Amazon had written to Sebi and stock exchanges urging them to take into consideration the interim judgment. Since then, there have been speculation that Amazon may move a high court in India to enforce the order. Anticipating a move by Amazon, the Future Group has moved the Delhi high court. “Let no order of any kind be passed … or any other petition and application, which may be filed by the petitioners Amazon.com against the respondent Future Retail, without due notice under section 148A of the code of civil procedure,” the Future Group firm stated in its urgent caveat petition. A caveat is filed by a litigant in high courts and in the Supreme Court to ensure that no adverse order is passed without it being heard. The Future group firm has already served a copy of the caveat petition to Amazon. Moratorium hearing The Supreme Court on Tuesday deferred to November 5 the hearing relating to charging of interest on interest by banks on borrowers who availed of the loan moratorium scheme. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested the bench to defer the hearing as he would be arguing on behalf of the Centre on the Central Vista project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Sun Pharma reports 70.36 per cent jump in consolidated net profit ||Drug major Sun Pharmaceutical Industries on Tuesday reported a 70.36 per cent jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 1,812.79 crore for the September quarter  mainly on the back of robust sales and exceptional tax gains. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,064.09 crore in the corresponding year-ago period, Sun Pharma said in a regulatory filing. Consolidated total revenue from operations stood at Rs 8,553.13 crore for the quarter against Rs 8,123.35 crore a year ago. “The tax gain (exceptional) is on account of the creation of deferred tax asset of Rs 288.28 crore arising out of subsequent measurement attributable to restructuring of an acquired entity,” the filing said. Dabur profit Homegrown FMCG major Dabur India on Tuesday reported a 19.62 per cent increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 482.86 crore for the second quarter ended September on account of higher revenue from operations. The company had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 403.64 crore in the same quarter last year, Dabur India said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 2,516.04 crore in the second quarter against Rs 2,211.97 crore in the year-ago period, a growth of 13.74 per cent, it added. Adani Ports Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ) on Tuesday reported a 31.57 per cent increase in its consolidated profit at Rs 1,393.69 crore for the September quarter of 2020. The integrated logistics player had clocked a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,059.20 crore in the corresponding period a year ago, the company said in a BSE filing. Its total consolidated income increased to Rs 3,423.16 crore for the second quarter against Rs 3,326.90 crore a year ago. Adani Gas Adani Gas on Tuesday reported a record net profit in the September quarter as sales returned to pre-Covid levels quicker than anticipated. Net profit in the July-September quarter at Rs 136 crore was 13 per cent higher than a profit of Rs 120 crore a year ago, Adani Gas CEO Suresh P Manglani told reporters during an earnings call. The board of the company approved raising $400 million (about Rs 2,950 crore) in dollar denominated bonds to fund capital expenditure for the next two years, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||PM Modi to chair conference with world’s top pension and sovereign wealth funds||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday chair a conference with the world’s top pension and sovereign wealth funds to attract investment in infrastructure which had shrunk almost 15 per cent in the first half of the fiscal. On the eve of the mega event the government on Tuesday granted Abu Dhabi’s Sovereign Wealth Fund — MIC Redwood 1 RSC — 100 per cent income tax exemption for investments in specified infrastructure sectors. Economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj on Tuesday said the world’s top 20 pension and global wealth funds would participate in the rountable with the Prime Minister on Thursday. The meet will also be attended by the top guns of India Inc, including Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani, Sun Pharmaceuticals’ Dilip Shanghvi and Kotak Mahindra Bank CEO Uday Kotak. The pension and sovereign wealth funds have total assets under management of about $6 trillion and represent key regions, including the US, Europe, Canada, Korea, Japan, West Asia, Australia and Singapore. The meet will focus on discussions around India’s economic and investment outlook, structural reforms and the government’s vision for the path to a $5 trillion economy. The event will provide an opportunity to leading global investors and Indian business leaders to engage and deliberate with senior policymakers on how to accelerate the growth of investments in the country. Stimulus Bajaj said the government plans to come out with another set of stimulus measures . “We are actually discussing that. It is difficult for me to commit a date but we have received a lot of requests and comments from various sectors and we are looking into it. Very soon it will be unveiled. The finance minister will come out and speak to you on that,” Bajaj said. Abu Dhabi fund Income of MIC Redwood, the sovereign fund, from interest, dividend and long-term capital gains for its investment in India’s priority sectors has been exempted, the finance ministry said. “Abu Dhabi's Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF)  — MIC Redwood 1 RSC Limited — has become the first foreign SWF that has been notified and granted 100 per cent income-tax exemption for the long-term investments to be made in the specified priority sectors in India,” it said. A tax official said that to expedite foreign investment in India’s priority areas during the pandemic , the process of notification of MIC Redwood 1 RSC was completed in a record time. On September 18, MIC Redwood 1 RSC filed an application seeking tax exemption and the notification granting 100 per cent tax exemption was issued on November 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Reliance plans to start production from R-Series fields in KG Basin ||Reliance Industries plans to start production from the R-Series fields in KG Basin before the end of December. The fields are expected to have a peak output of around 28 million standard cubic metres per day by 2023-24 when all three projects will be up and running. The company in an investor presentation said Reliance is working on three projects in the Krishna Godavari basin KG-D6 block, where production from older fields stopped in February this year. R-Series will be the first of the three fields to go live. “All wells (have been) drilled, completed, tested and connected; sub-sea installation and testing work completed,” RIL said in an investor presentation after announcing second-quarter earnings. Balance works on control and riser platforms are currently underway and “pre-commissioning and commissioning is expected in the third quarter of 2020-21”, it said. Sources said the gas from the R-Series field was expected in June but the Covid-19 lockdown disrupted the supply chain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Markets ignore heavy profit booking in Reliance Industries Limited||Markets on Tuesday ignored the heavy profit booking in Reliance Industries Limited and shrugged off the pessimism over the economy as the Sensex rallied more than 500 points on the back  of banking and finance stocks. Investors picked up their cues from the purchasing manager’s index of IHS Markit India for October which rose to 58.9 from 56.8 in September amid positive commentary by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in an interview where she said economic data is pointing to a rebound. A print above 50 in PMI means expansion and below that contraction. Encouraging second quarter results and positive inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) lifted sentiment.
However, the shares of Reliance witnessed volatility and ended in the red after tumbling 8.6 per cent on Monday. Brokerages are offering  different perspectives on the company, with some suggesting the stock could even touch Rs 1,400 because of lack of traction in its refinery operations. Reliance on Tuesday opened marginally higher at Rs 1,888 and rose to an intra-day high of Rs 1,909.50. That led to selling and the counter settled at Rs 1,849.45, a fall of 1.48 per cent, or Rs 27.85, over the last close. Reliance did not affect the benchmark Sensex as global markets moved higher with the start of polling in the US.
The Sensex opened higher at 39990.75 and rose to the day’s high of 40354.73 after which it ended at 40261.13, showing a gain of 503.55 points or 1.27 per cent. The broader NSE Nifty jumped 144.35 points, or 1.24 per cent, to 11813.50.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
