05-11-2020||Business||HPCL board approves Rs 2,500-crore share buyback plan||The board of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL) on Wednesday approved a Rs 2,500-crore share buyback plan as the company management feels the share price is lower than the value it deserves.
In a stock exchange filing, HPCL said it will buy back up to 10 crore shares for no more than Rs 250 apiece. The company plans to buy back 6.56 per cent of the total shares. HPCL, a subsidiary of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), has no immediate history of a share buyback. Post buyback, ONGC shareholding in the firm will rise to 54.70 per cent from the current 51.11 per cent. Public shareholding will fall to 45.30 per cent from 48.89 per cent, the firm said. HPCL shares settled at Rs 186.75 apiece on the BSE, up 0.54 per cent over the previous close.
The rate is about a third of Rs 473.97 per share that ONGC paid in January 2018 to acquire the government’s 51.11 per cent share in HPCL. HPCL is the nation’s third-biggest oil retailer after Indian Oil and Bharat Petroleum. It owns two refineries – a 7.5 million tonnes unit in Mumbai and another 8.3 million tonnes facility at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. It also owns half of the 11.3mt Bathinda refinery in Punjab and is a 16.95 per cent owner of the 15 million tonnes a year Mangalore Refinery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
05-11-2020||Business||Legal battle over MP Birla Group spills into company boardrooms||The ongoing legal battle over the control of MP Birla Group is spilling over into the boardroom of the companies following an order of the division bench of Calcutta High Court last month. The Birlas, who want to dislodge Harsh Vardhan Lodha from the control of the group, won the first round when Lodha was not allowed to participate in the board meetings of five key investment companies of the group that were held in October. However, the score will be levelled when Lodha takes part in the board meeting of Birla Corporation, the largest company in the group by market capitalisation and revenue, on Thursday. The company will finalise its second quarter results along its fundraising plans. A day before the meeting, the Birlas shot off letters to the key managerial persons of the company, individual directors on the board and Lodha to honour the division bench (DB) order which, according to them, has asked Lodha to stay away from the affairs of the group entities. The Birlas argued that the division bench has not modified the single bench judgment of September, which restrained Lodha from holding any position within MP Birla group entities, which include around 22 trusts, societies and companies. The single bench had held that the committee of administrator pendent lite (APL Committee), appointed by the court to oversee the estate of late Priyamvada Birla, is in control of the group. The APL committee has been recommending since 2019 that Lodha be ousted from all the listed manufacturing companies including Birla Corp. A Birla family member went to court to ensure the implementation of the committee decision. Mohit Shah, a retired judge and a member of the APL committee, is the chairman of all investment companies. Sources say he cited the division bench order to bar Lodha. Lodha, ironically, will flaunt the same division bench order to take part in the Birla Corp board meet. He also chaired the board meeting of a wholly owned subsidiary of Birla Corp and the audit committee of the board in the run-up to the November 5 meeting, apart from a meeting of Bombay Hospital. Lodha argued that the DB had paved the way for him to continue on the boards of all the entities of the group as the restriction on Lodha would be “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of Priyamvada Birla”. Lodha says such a number would be 1,260 shares, only a fraction of the promoter holding  in the firms. “What happened in the investment companies is patently illegal,” said Debanjan Mandal, partner, Fox & Mandal. “We are taking necessary steps for redress and we are confident that what we are doing is completely legal.” The legal battle began in 2004 after Late Priyamvada died bequeathing her estate to Harsh’s father late Rajendra Lodha by a will, which the Birlas contested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
05-11-2020||Business||Adani Gas acquires city licenses for Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Kutch||Adani Gas on Wednesday said it has acquired the city gas licences for Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Kutch (East) from Jay Madhok Energy for an undisclosed amount. Jay Madhok Energy Pvt Ltd has been show-caused by oil regulator Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) over defaulting on timelines and alleged irregularities in the acquisition of the city gas licence. “Adani Gas has signed a definitive agreement for the acquisition of three geographical areas namely Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Kutch (East),” the firm said in a statement. It, however, neither disclosed the name of the city gas licence holder for the three cities nor the acquisition price. “All three geographical areas (GAs) have high volume potential in terms of demand of over 6.5 million standard cubic metres per day over a period of 10 years. These GAs are under Phase 1 of Bharat Mala Pariyojana by NHAI which will further boost the development and volume growth,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
05-11-2020||Business||Coal India reverts to pre-Covid coal auction structure||Coal India has reverted to a pre-Covid coal auction structure from November, allowing its subsidiaries to determine the pricing as sales pick up. With the onset of the pandemic, the public sector miner had brought down the reserve price of the fuel sold through auctions close to zero during the first half of the ongoing fiscal. This was done to keep sales buoyant during the pandemic amid cash flow concerns among coal consumers. Subsequently in October, the miner set an upper limit of 10 per cent over the notified price for coal sold through e-auctions. Coal India officials said the objective was to test the market demand. Under the new rules, auctioned coal fetched 13 per cent premium over the notified price, while a special spot auction for importers fetched a 14 per cent increase over the notified value. Overall 16.8 million tonnes (mt) of coal was sold through the auction route in October compared with 5.8mt in the corresponding month of the previous year. “From November onwards, we have reverted back to the pre-Covid status where subsidiaries of Coal India would determine their own add-ons. Gauging the response, we are confident of stable auction sales and increased premium in the ensuing months,” a senior executive of the company said on Wednesday. According to CIL, the unorganised coal market consisting of consumers and traders with no direct access to purchase coal have shown a healthy appetite in spot auctions, comprising 32 per cent of the overall auction sales during October and posting a growth of 125 per cent over the September volume of 2.4mt. A forward auction meant specifically for the power sector booked 6.5mt in October, accounting for 38.7 per cent of the total booked quantity and posting a a 225 per cent growth over September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
05-11-2020||Business||Jindal Power Ltd bags Gare Palma coal mine IV/1 in Chhattisgarh||Jindal Power Ltd, a subsidiary of Jindal Steel & Power, has bagged the lucrative Gare Palma coal mine IV/1 in Chhattisgarh, pipping Adani Enterprises and Hindalco Industries by offering the highest revenue share. The Jindals offered 25 per cent revenue share for the Gare Palma mine with geological coal reserves of 84 million tonnes and peak capacity of six million tonnes per annum, an official statement said. Total extractable reserves of Gare Palma IV/1 are around 39 million tonnes. Before the coal block deallocation in 2014, this mine was operated by Jindal Steel and Power. When the auction regime was brought in, Vedanta’s Balco and JSPL had emerged as the highest bidders but the government did not consider the bids on account of low valuation. The mine is close to the Raigarh steel and Tamnar power plant of the firm, which would lower the transportation cost of the dry fuel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||ICAI says CA exams cannot be conducted online||The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that it would not be possible to hold the CA exams in the online mode and the tests would be held at various centres as scheduled on November 21 and December 14. The ICAI assured the apex court it would follow all the standard operating procedures (SOP) for the tests.
The court asked the ICAI to display on its official website the SOP and the other measures being taken to allay apprehensions among the students. A bench of Justices A.M.Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna disposed of a petition filed by advocate Astha Sharma on behalf of a group of aggrieved candidates seeking the cancellation of the exams on the ground of an imminent threat to their lives on account of the pandemic. In an earlier hearing, Sharma had argued some of the centres were located in the containment zones.
Besides, there were no separate isolation centres for students affected by the virus. At the hearing on Wednesday, advocate Bansuri Swaraj on behalf of the students said the matter had been resolved although the ICAI had declined their plea to hold the exams online. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan appearing for the ICAI told the court that the institute was not in a position to conduct the exams in the online mode or provide any isolation centres for Covid-19 affected students. He said there were also no centres in any containment zones as averred by the candidates. Referring to the plea for online exams, he said: “We cannot do that because the format is different and it cannot be held online.” The counsel said the institute was strictly complying with the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs with regard to the standard operating procedures to be followed. Hence, there need not be any concern for the candidates. Srinivasan also turned down the plea for isolation centre saying “…we cannot, however, provide isolation centres and take risk with Covid patients coming in and putting other students at risk”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||Rupee plunges 35 paise, closes at 74.76 against the dollar||The rupee on Wednesday plunged 35 paise to close at its weakest level in over 10 weeks at 74.76 against the dollar as investors appeared cautious while looking for clarity on the US election outcome and the latest tranche of fiscal stimulus. The rupee opened at 74.74 against the greenback and witnessed an intra-day high of 74.57 and a low of 74.90. It finally settled at 74.76 — its lowest level since August 21 this year. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback against a basket of six currencies, rose 0.35 per cent to 93.88.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||RBI can buy gold and AAA rated corporate bonds||Flush with the inflow of dollars, the Reserve Bank of India is exploring the possibility of buying gold and AAA rated corporate bonds as its traditional investment in government securities is witnessing diminishing returns in the wake of an easy monetary policy being followed by  central banks across the world. Foreign exchange reserves of the apex bank have jumped to more than $560 billion at present from $478 billion in March, with gold holdings valued at $36.86 billion. The central bank has taken a liking to the yellow metal in recent times and has stepped up its investments.
By the end of March, the apex bank held 653.01 tonnes of gold, with 360.71 tonnes overseas with the Bank of England and the Bank for International Settlements. During the previous fiscal, the RBI bought more than 40 tonnes. In value terms, measured in dollars, the share of gold in the total foreign exchange reserves increased to 6.40 per cent in March from 6.14 per cent. However, at the same time, forex reserves have swelled with a rise in both foreign direct investment and portfolio inflows. Reliance Industries, for instance, has mobilised close to $25 billion by selling stakes in its digital services and retail arms. FPIs have also invested close to Rs 49,000 crore in the equity markets so far this calendar year. But, the central bank has been intervening in the forex markets by purchasing dollars and keeping a lid on the rupee’s appreciation. For instance, in August, it made a net purchase of $5.3 billion in the spot markets.
Reports now say that the RBI is looking to diversify its investments. A Reuters report said that the Indian central bank which has seen its returns fall is likely to increase its gold investments and also look at buying AAA rated corporate bonds which provide better returns than sovereign credit. “Large interventions by the RBI in the forex market stalled a major hardening of the rupee. Given the already high forex reserves, the extent of intervention by the RBI may contract,” a recent note from Anand Rathi Research said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||Bombay HC rejects bail applications of DHFL promoters||The Bombay high court on Wednesday rejected bail applications of Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL), in the Yes Bank fraud case, holding that procedures were followed when a chargesheet was filed. Justice S.V. Kotwal rejected the arguments made by the Wadhawan brothers’ lawyers, senior advocates Amit Desai and A.M. Singhvi, that the CBI failed to follow procedure while filing a chargesheet in the case. The Wadhawans had sought “default bail”, claiming that the Central Bureau of Investigation, the prosecuting agency, had not complied with the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) while filing a chargesheet in a special CBI court here. A default bail is given when procedural aspects such as filing a chargesheet within the stipulated period are not followed. Advocate Desai had argued that under CrPC section 173, a court can take cognisance of a chargesheet only if the probe report is complete. In the present case, the CBI’s probe report was not complete and yet the court had taken cognisance, he said. The probe report was not even submitted to the court, but was filed in the court registry, he contended. Advocate Singhvi had argued that the CBI added the offence of criminal breach of trust under section 409 of the IPC later and not while registering the FIR. This was a “subterfuge”, he argued. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, who appeared for the CBI, opposed the bail applications saying that the CBI had followed all procedures. If there were any deviations from the procedure, they took place due to the coronavirus pandemic situation, during which the court had taken precautionary measures for handling of documents, the ASG said. Accepting the central agency’s arguments, Justice Kotwal held that the probe report “complied with all the requirements of law and hence was a proper report”. Filing the report in the registry was not illegal, the judge added. ”Since requisite report under Section 173 of CrPC was filed within time, the right to seek default bail never accrued in favour of the Applicants (Wadhawans),” the HC said. As per the FIR registered in the case by the CBI, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018, for which the Wadhawans allegedly gave a kickback of Rs 600 crore to the bank's then CEO and managing director Rana Kapoor. These kickbacks were in the form of a loan to a company registered in the name of Kapoor's daughters, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||Government optimistic about economy recovering||The government is optimistic about the economy coming back on the rails at “more speed than expected”. After a review by the Union cabinet, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar cited the increase in rail freight and  GST (goods and services tax) collections along with a rise in power demand and improved FDI inflows to suggest the economy was doing better in the second quarter. The monthly economic report of the finance ministry expected GDP growth in the current year to be higher than what is being projected by various agencies though it didn’t give any numbers. Satluj project funds The cabinet committee on economic affairs on Wednesday approved investments of Rs 1,810.56 crore for the 210 mega watt (MW) Luhri Stage-I hydro electric project on the river Satluj in Himachal Pradesh. This project, being implemented by the Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd (SJVNL) on built-own-operate-maintain basis, will generate 758.20 million units of electricity annually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||Activity in services sector expands with pick-up in demand||Activity in the services sector expanded for the first time in eight months with a pick-up in demand, but firms continued to shed jobs on account of the pandemic. The India Services Business Activity Index, compiled by IHS Markit, stood at 54.1 in October compared with 49.8 in September. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion in business activity and below 50, contraction. With manufacturing activity climbing to its highest in over a decade, the Composite PMI Output Index rose to 58 in October from 54.6 in September, the strongest in close to nine years. “It’s encouraging to see the Indian service sector joining its manufacturing counterpart and posting a recovery in economic conditions from the steep deteriorations caused by the Covid-19 pandemic earlier in the year,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima noted that “while a revival of the manufacturing industry began in August, only now has the service sector started to heal. Service providers signalled solid expansions in new work and business activity during October”. Services companies reported an increase in new work intakes, which they attributed to successful marketing efforts and strengthening demand. In jobs, there was another monthly decline in employment. The pace at which jobs were being shed was high and matched that of September. “Survey participants indicated that workers on leave had not returned and that widespread fear of Covid-19 contamination continued to restrict staff supply,” Lima said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||SBI reports 52 per cent rise in standalone net profits||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Wednesday reported a 52 per cent rise in standalone net profits for the September quarter as provisions against bad loans fell. The country’s largest lender posted a net profit of Rs 4,574.16 crore compared with Rs 3,011.73 crore a year ago. The results were ahead of analyst estimates who had pencilled in a bottomline of around Rs 3,500 crore. The bank’s provisions fell to Rs 10,118.31 crore from Rs 13,138.93 crore in the year-ago period, of which provisions for non-performing assets (NPAs) declined to Rs 5,619.28 crore from Rs 11,040.72 crore a year ago. Quality of assets also showed an improvement during the quarter with bad loans in absolute terms showing a decline of almost 3 per cent on a sequential basis to Rs 1,25,863 crore from Rs 1,29,661 crore at the end of the June quarter. In percentage terms, the ratio of gross NPAs stood at 5.28 per cent, which was lower than 5.44 per cent during the preceding three months and 7.19 per cent in the year-ago period. SBI pointed out that the Supreme Court in its September interim order had directed that the accounts which were not declared as NPAs till August 31 shall not be declared  bad loans till further orders. The bank said if it had classified these loans in accordance with RBI norms, its gross NPAs in absolute terms would have increased to Rs 1,40,251 crore, while the percentage of gross bad loans would have been 5.88 per cent. These were the first quarterly numbers to be announced since the new SBI chairman Dinesh Khara took over last month. Speaking to reporters, Khara said credit growth in the retail segment is back to pre-Covid 19 levels even as collection efficiency has improved to around 97.5 per cent. In the bank’s retail book there has been a good traction in both home and auto loans with home loan sanctions showing a growth of 29 per cent over the same period last year and disbursements witnessing a rise of 12 per cent. Khara disclosed that the bank has received restructuring requests for loans worth Rs 6,495 crore, of which
Rs 2,400 crore was from the retail segment and Rs 4,000 crore from the corporate segment. Within the retail category, around Rs 1,600 crore was for SMEs, while the rest were individual loans. It expects restructuring requests of around Rs 13,000 crore to come by the end of December this year, mostly from SMEs and corporates. During the second quarter, the bank’s core net interest income increased 14.56 per cent to Rs 28,181 crore. Total deposits grew 14.41 per cent over the same period last year, of which current account deposits grew 8.55 per cent, while saving bank deposits showed a rise of over 16 per cent. Credit growth stood at 6.02 per cent, mainly driven by retail advances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
