06-11-2020||Business||WhatsApp rolls out payment service in India||WhatsApp on Friday said it is rolling out its payments services in India after receiving nod from the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). In 2018, the Facebook-owned company had started testing its UPI-based payments service in India, which allows users to utilise the messaging platform to send and receive money. The testing was limited to about a million users as it waited for regulatory approvals to come in. On Thursday, NPCI - which runs the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) used for real-time payments between peers or at merchants' end while making purchases - allowed WhatsApp to start its payments service in the country in a "graded" manner, starting with a maximum registered user base of 20 million in UPI. "Starting today, people across India will be able to send money through WhatsApp. This secure payments experience makes transferring money just as easy as sending a message. People can safely send money to a family member or share the cost of goods from a distance without having to exchange cash in person or going to a local bank," WhatsApp said in a blogpost. It added that the payments feature has been designed in partnership with NPCI using UPI, an India-first, real-time payment system that enables transactions with over 160 supported banks. In June this year, WhatsApp had launched 'WhatsApp Pay' in Brazil - making it the first country where the service was widely rolled out. In India, WhatsApp - which counts India as its biggest market with over 400 million users - will compete with players like Paytm, Google Pay, Walmart-owned PhonePe and Amazon Pay. "Payments (service) on WhatsApp is now available for people on the latest version of the iPhone and Android app... We're excited to join India's campaign to increase the ease and use of digital payments, which is helping expand financial inclusion in India," it said adding that users will need to have a bank account and debit card in India to send money through the platform in India. WhatsApp said it is working with five banks in India - ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, the State Bank of India, and Jio Payments Bank - and people can send money on WhatsApp to anyone using a UPI supported app. "In the long run, we believe the combination of WhatsApp and UPI's unique architecture can help local organisations address some of the key challenges of our time, including increasing rural participation in the digital economy and delivering financial services to those who have never had access before," it added. WhatsApp noted that its payments service is designed with a strong set of security and privacy principles, including entering a personal UPI PIN for each payment. "There is no fee... because its WhatsApp, you know its secure and private too. With UPI, India has created something truly special and is opening up a world of opportunities for micro and small businesses that's the backbone of the Indian economy," Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a video message. He added that the payments service will be available in 10 Indian language versions of WhatsApp. Interestingly, the approval for WhatsApp came on the same day as NPCI limited a single third party like WhatsApp or its rivals like Google Pay or Walmart's PhonePe to handle only 30 per cent of overall UPI transaction volumes by putting a cap. This is expected to allay fears of potential monopolisation. Recently, PhonePe had announced crossing the 250 million registered user milestone and over 100 million monthly active users (MAU), and had 835 million UPI transactions in October with a market leading share of over 40 per cent. Google had 67 million monthly active users in September last year, and on the merchant side, it had over three million active merchant's data for June 2020. Google Pay has not shared any updated stats since September 2019. UPI processed over 2.07 billion transactions in October (worth Rs 3.86 lakh crore), up from over 1.8 billion in the previous month, as per data from NPCI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
06-11-2020||Business||10 lakh consumers postponed  car purchase during lockdown||About 10 lakh consumers postponed their car purchase plans because of the pandemic-induced lockdown between April and July 2020. This was revealed in an internal study conducted by Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL). Eighty per cent of such buyers will be driving the sales of cars till March 2021, Tarun Garg, executive director, sales and marketing, HMIL, told reporters after the launch of the new i20. However, Garg warned that the pent-up demand witnessed now may not continue in the next fiscal. The South Korean company on Thursday launched the fourth-generation i20, a premium hatch that will be priced in the range of Rs 6.79 lakh to Rs 10.79 lakh till December 31. Thereafter, the introductory prices are likely to be revised. Suzuki Gujarat plan Japanese auto maker Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC) is preparing to begin production from its third unit in Gujarat from April next year. Maruti Suzuki India said Suzuki Motor Gujarat Pvt Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of SMC, has completed construction of its third plant at Hansalpur, Gujarat. Eeco recall Maruti Suzuki India  is recalling 40,453 units of its multi-purpose vehicle Eeco to fix an issue with the headlamp. The recalled units were manufactured between November 4, 2019 and February 25, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
06-11-2020||Business||Birla Corporation posts highest ever cash profit in single quarter||Birla Corporation has posted its highest ever cash profit and EBIDTA in a quarter amid a heightened tussle over the control of the company and the MP Birla group to which it belongs. Harsh Vardhan Lodha chaired the meeting of the board which approved the results. The Birla family has vowed to file a contempt petition against Lodha and others before Calcutta High Court. Lodha claimed that a division bench order had allowed him to continue as chairman (except on the strength of the shares of Priyamvada Devi Birla’s estate), a legal position strongly opposed by the Birlas. While the Birlas argued that the estate holds sway over the controlling block of shares of BCL, Lodha claims the share to be only a fraction of the promoters’ block.  Lodha is expected to chair the board meetings of the other listed manufacturing companies of the group — Universal Cables, Vindhya Telelinks and Birla Cable — over the next few days. A fresh legal challenge by the Birlas will be possible only after the HC resumes after the puja vacation. Stellar performance The steller performance by BCL — which also reported an 88.6 per cent year-on-year net profit jump at Rs 166.62 crore and a cash profit for the jute division — was highlighted by the Lodha camp on Thursday to blunt the Birla narrative that performance of the company has deteriorated during the reign of Lodha. The compounded annual growth rate of revenue and net profit stood at 11.41 per cent and 16.9 per cent, respectively, between 2003-04 and 2019-20.  EBITDA for the September quarter at Rs 403.85 crore and cash profit at Rs 327.86 crore saw a growth of 21.7 per cent and 43.2 per cent, respectively. Revenues at  Rs 1,675.41 crore were up 1.7 per cent. Emami profit Post-tax profit of Emami has increased 19.7 per cent to Rs 114.52 crore during the September quarter compared with Rs 95.67 crore a year ago.  Revenue from operations increased 10.4 per cent to Rs 653.86 crore from Rs 592.12 crore a year ago Spencer’s Retail Spencer’s Retail on Thursday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 45.05 crore for September quarter of 2020. The company had posted a net loss of Rs 39.56 crore in the July-September period a year ago.  Revenue from operations stood at Rs 616.65 crore against Rs 699.48 crore in the year-ago period. EBIDTA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation) margins of the company during the quarter increased to 32.1 per cent compared with the similar period last fiscal at Rs 185.58 crore. It said that the company closed the second quarter with a sound performance defying the Covid challenge. The growth momentum was sustained by the health and hygiene segment along with sequential recovery in the personal care brands.     During the quarter, rural markets continued to perform better aided by government packages. All the channels posted convincing growth with e-retailing tripling it's revenues during the quarter.     International business grew 11 per cent in terms of both profits and margins, the company said, adding that cost control measures and benign raw material prices helped in the betterment of the margins. While that may still be 10 days away, the Birlas had been sending letters to the directors on the board of the listed companies and key management persons not to allow Lodha to participate in the meetings, and threatening to file contempt petition. Lodha camp said such tactics were not new as repeated attempts have been made over the last 16 years to disrupt and obstruct the functioning of the companies. They cited three attempts by Birla side to thwart business expansion plans of BCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
06-11-2020||Business||RBI's new co-lending scheme  for banks and NBFCs||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday came up with a new scheme for co-lending, which allows banks and NBFCs to jointly provide loans in the priority sector. The rules replace the earlier norms framed two years ago. Banks are permitted to co-lend with all registered NBFCs, including housing finance companies, based on a prior agreement. The earlier scheme was limited to NBFCs-non-deposit taking-systemically important (NBFC-ND-SIs). The RBI said NBFCs shall now be required to retain a minimum 20 per cent share of the individual loans on their books. Banks and NBFCs shall prepare board-approved policies for co-lending and place them on their websites. A “master agreement” may be inked between the two partner institutions which shall include the terms and conditions of the arrangement, the criteria for the selection of the partner institutions, the specific product lines and the areas of operation, along with provisions related to the segregation of responsibilities as well as customer interface and protection issues. The RBI notification further said that NBFCs will be the single point of interface with the customers and shall enter into a loan agreement with them. The agreement should clearly contain the features of the arrangement and the roles and responsibilities of the non-banks and banks. The ultimate borrower may be charged an all-inclusive interest rate as may be agreed upon by both the lenders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
06-11-2020||Business||Quess Corp sees gradual uptick in demand for blue and grey collar jobs in India||Fairfax-backed hiring services firm Quess Corp sees a gradual uptick in demand for blue and grey collar jobs in India after the Covid-19 pandemic pushed up the unemployment rates in the months of April and May. The staffing firm, which had acquired online jobs platform Monster in 2018, estimates an annual potential of 60-65 million transactions in these segments (including migrant workers) as it launched an app based hiring platform called QJobs on Thursday. “Blue-collar workers have been among the hardest hit in the wake of Covid-19 and the need of the hour is to ensure that the workers are able to find employment, based on where they are located and what they are able to do,” said Suraj Moraje, group CEO and executive director, Quess Corp. Blue collar jobs typically include employment opportunities in industrial establishments and factories whereas grey collar jobs include low level tech jobs, entry level associates, BPO specialists, delivery personnel etc. The bulk of demand is expected to come from sectors such as e-commerce, telecom, re etail, manufacturing and security services, according to the firm. Sectors such as banking and fintech are also seeing a growing demand for back office roles. The annual potential estimate factors in new additions, unemployment and attrition in these segments. Around 56 per cent of the hiring will happen from job portals followed by referral programmes and recruitment agencies. “We think that the worst is behind us. Going forward we should see healthy recruiting behaviour across segments,” he said in response to a query from The Telegraph adding that the company has seen more that 1000 employers who have already come on board on QJobs. In the beta phase, the app already has over 70,000 jobs posted across the country and has crossed more than 150,000 installs. “With QJobs, we aim to offer a smooth and seamless job search experience that helps job seekers find the best suited job as per their requirements, while also ensuring that employers have access to a large pool of talent,” said Ajit Issac, CMD, Quess Corp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||New players in commercial coal mining||Commercial coal mining is attracting new players with Fairmine Carbons bagging a block in Jharkhand and Chowgule and Company emerging as the highest bidder for another mine in Madhya Pradesh. Fairmine Carbons was the highest bidder for the Rajhara North (Central and Eastern) block in Jharkhand, offering 23 per cent revenue sharing. The firm pipped Adani Enterprises and two others to bag the mine. The Ranchi-based company was formed in July 2020 and is involved in the manufacturing of coke, refined petroleum products and nuclear fuel, according to reports. For the Shahpur East block in Madhya Pradesh having geological reserves of 63.36 million tonnes, Chowgule and Company made a final bid offer of 41 per cent revenue share. Chowgule is a Goa-based shipyard company. JMS Mining Pvt Ltd and Sarda Energy & Minerals Ltd were in the race for the block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||Securities Appellate Tribunal dismisses RIL appeal||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has dismissed an appeal filed by Reliance Industries (RIL) against a March 2017 disgorgement order passed by Sebi. The tribunal on Thursday said there was no question of the regulator’s direction to disgorge over Rs 447 crore being “harsh or a penal action” as it was an equitable remedy. Sebi’s order had pertained to the sale of Reliance Petroleum Ltd’s (RPL) shares by RIL in November 2007. “Nothing has been taken out of the appellant’s own funds/assets in the process. Since it is only an equitable remedy there is no question of that being harsh or a penal action,” the majority order by the two members — C K G Nair and M T Joshi — said. RIL on Thursday said it will challenge in the Supreme Court the dismissal of its plea by the SAT. “The company will examine the order passed by the SAT. All trades carried out by the company were genuine and bona fide. No irregularity can be attached to these transactions. The company, under proper legal advice, will prefer an appeal to the Supreme Court of India and is confident of vindicating its position,’’ RIL said in a regulatory filing on the bourses. The whole-time member of Sebi had in the 2017 order prohibited RIL and 12 other entities from dealing in equity derivatives in the F&O segment of the stock exchanges, directly or indirectly, for a period of one year from the date of the order. It also directed RIL to disgorge an amount of Rs 447.27 crore along with interest of 12 per cent per annum with effect from November 29, 2017 onwards till the date of payment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||Saudi Arabia’s PIF to invest Rs 9,555 crore in RRVL||Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) is investing Rs 9,555 crore ($1.3 billion) for 2.04 per cent in Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL), the retail arm of Reliance Industries (RIL). With this funding, RRVL has mobilised Rs 47,265 crore from global investors such as Silver Lake, KKR, General Atlantic, Mubadala, GIC, TPG and ADIA. These investors had also acquired stakes in Jio Platforms — the digital services subsidiary of RIL. PIF had acquired a 2.32 per cent stake in Jio Platforms for Rs 11,367 crore. The investment by PIF in RRVL values it at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.587 lakh crore ($62.4 billion). This is 7 per cent higher than the valuation of Rs 4.285 lakh crore for the other investors. All of them have so far cumulatively picked up 10.54 per cent in RRVL. The announcement, which did not come as a surprise, was made after the market hours. Earlier, the RIL scrip settled with gains of around 2.18 per cent or Rs 41.65 at Rs 1,955.10 on the BSE. A statement from RIL said the investment will strengthen PIF’s presence in India’s economy and in the promising retail market segment.The transaction is in line with PIF’s strategy to invest  in innovative and transformative companies globally and develop strong partnerships with leading groups in their respective markets, the statement said. “We have a long-standing relationship with Saudi Arabia. PIF is at the forefront of the economic transformation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. I welcome PIF as a valued partner in Reliance Retail,” said Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||US election results set investors to gobble up stocks||Investors across the world were in a tearing hurry to gobble up stocks as they dumped the possibilities of adverse policy consequences in the wake of a fractured mandate in the US that is yet to pick their next President while a divided US House is expected to keep regulatory excesses in check. The positive sentiment swept the domestic bourses, too, aided by better-than-expected corporate results. The equity benchmarks on Thursday settled at near nine-month highs with the Sensex closing above the 41000-mark for the first time since mid-February. Rallying for the fourth straight session, the BSE Sensex surged 724.02 points or 1.78 per cent to close at 41340.16. The Sensex also wiped off all its losses for the calendar year; the bellwether had closed at 41306.02 on January 1, 2020. The broader NSE Nifty zoomed 211.80 points, or 1.78 per cent to finish at 12120.30. State Bank of India was the top gainer, soaring 5.63 per cent following strong second-quarter results. The rally came even as a tight US presidential battle saw Democratic candidate Joe Biden inching towards victory. However, the attention of investors was focussed on the policy environment under the new administration. According to investors, even if Biden wins, a Republican held Senate would block any moves by the the Democrats to tighten regulation and raise corporate taxes.  Investors are also expecting less confrontational trade policies with China and other countries under a possible Biden and Republican-controlled Senate. The optimism led to stocks ignoring factors such as rising number of Covid-19 cases globally and poor economic growth.  Derivatives The BSE on Thursday said US regulator Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) has allowed the exchange’s brokers to accept derivatives orders from US clients. The move will enable trading members to accept futures and options (F&O) orders from customers located in the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||Modi seeks investments worth $1.5 trillion, offers lower tax rates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday made a strong pitch for investments in the country’s infrastructure sector at a virtual meet with the world’s top 20 sovereign wealth funds and pension funds and the shoguns of India Inc. Modi sought investments worth as much as $1.5 trillion while offering lower tax rates and other incentives to manufacturers while stating that his government was determined to tread the path of fiscal prudence. “If you want returns with reliability, India is the place to be. If you want stability with sustainability, India is the place to be. If you want growth with a green approach, India is the place to be,” Modi told the Virtual Global Investor Roundtable (VGIR) 2020. The government aims to attract funds of up to $1.5 trillion into its ports, roads, and other projects under the National Infrastructure Pipeline. The Prime Minister promised foreign investors “returns with reliability” if they came to India. The government is banking on infrastructure to be the growth driver of the economy which is expected to contract by double digits in 2020-21. The efforts to attract foreign investments in infrastructure come at a time around half of the proposed funds by 2025 will have to come from the private and foreign investors. The pandemic has severely hurt the sector, which has shrunk 15 per cent in the first half. The government also needs to convince investors about swiftness in the execution of infrastructure projects. As many as 441 infrastructure projects, each worth Rs 150 crore or more, have been hit by cost overruns of over Rs 4.35 lakh crore owing to delays and other reasons, according to a report by the government’s ministry of statistics and programme implementation. The roundtable was attended by pension and sovereign wealth funds, including Singapore-based GIC Pvt. Ltd and Temasek Holdings, Qatar Investment Authority, International Development Finance Corporation, Pension Danmark, Japan Post Bank and Korea Investment Corporation. Together, these funds have assets under management worth about $6 trillion. The government has already announced tax reliefs in this year’s budget, making their incomes exempt from long-term capital gains, interest and dividend tax. Indian business leaders Mukesh Ambani, Ratan Tata, Deepak Parekh, Nandan Nilekani and Uday Kotak attended the virtual meeting. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and RBI governor Shaktikanta Das also attended the meet. Modi will now meet the investors separately over the next couple of weeks. The Prime Minister said he was addressing “some of the best financial brains who can convert new areas of innovation and growth into sustainable business propositions”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
