07-11-2020||Business||Sebi creates new 'Flexi Cap Fund' under equity schemes||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Friday created a new category called “Flexi Cap Fund” under the equity schemes of mutual funds. This comes after the market regulator had issued a circular last month on multi-cap funds where it stipulated that they must have a minimum corpus of 75 per cent invested in equities, of which 25 per cent each should be in large cap, mid-cap and small cap companies. Fund managers were worried that the poor liquidity of small and mid-cap stocks would sharply increase the risk for investors investing in these schemes. In a circular on Friday, Sebi said to give more flexibility to mutual funds, a new category named “Flexi Cap Fund” under equity schemes will be available. At least 65 per cent of their assets will have to be invested across large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap stocks, but there will not be any minimum investment cap as in multi-cap schemes. Moreover, Sebi added that mutual funds will have the option to convert an existing scheme into a flexi cap fund, subject to compliance with the regulations. Debt funds Sebi also made it mandatory for debt mutual fund schemes to hold at least 10 per cent of their net assets in liquid assets. Besides, it mandated debt schemes to conduct stress testing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
07-11-2020||Business||Imported single malts and cognacs to become cheaper in Bengal||Imported single malt whisky and cognac could become more affordable for connoisseurs in Bengal. Following the rollout of the new excise structure in the state, some of the imported brands such as Glenfiddich, Glenlivet, Glenmorangie and Hennessy are seeing a downward revision in prices. According to an industry source, the price of a 750 ml bottle of Glenmorangie 10-year single malt scotch had gone up from around Rs 8,400 to Rs 10,800 after the government imposed an additional sales tax to shore up revenue during the early months of the Covid period. The new price, which has been disclosed by the excise department, shows that MRP has come down to Rs 6,580. More expensive brands such as a 700-ml bottle of Hennessy XO Cognac is set to see a much sharper correction from Rs 38,138 (without sales tax) to Rs 17,900. The industry suggests that a simplified duty structure for ‘Bottled in Origin’ (BIO) liquor is bringing down the price of imported liquor. The state excise has come out with a 16-slab pass fee structure for imported liquor based on ex-customs price and the pass fee ranges between Rs 372 and Rs 3,916 per bulk litre. “Premium BIO segment should see a growth in volume. Even as the BIO is becoming cheaper, IMFL rates are going up. Consumers may now be encouraged to try BIO brands,” the source said. But the IMFL industry, where prices have seen an upward revision, more prominent in the higher price bracket, feels this move will discourage domestic manufacturers, especially Indian single malt brands such as Amrut and Paul John. Moreover, the number of pass fee slabs at 16 for imported liquor is less compared with the 22-slab excise and additional excise duty in case of IMFL. “It defies logic to reduce prices of imported liquor in Bengal when prices of Indian made premium products are being increased. A policy that favours direct import at the expense of India made products is flawed. It discourages investment in the country, affects prospects of lakhs of Indian workers and farmers and causes the government to lose taxes in the value chain,” Vinod Giri, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies, told The Telegraph. The industry body has estimated that in the second quarter, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Telangana have seen a rise in IMFL sales but Andhra, Chattisgarh, Bengal, and Rajasthan saw a decline. With the exception of Chhattisgarh, the remaining states had imposed steep Covid taxes. Government supports and promotes their own products worldwide. This policy seems to be doing exactly the opposite. We urge the government to review it and roll back||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
07-11-2020||Business||ITC records 18.23 per cent decline in net profit||ITC has recorded a 1.7 per cent growth in consolidated net income and an 18.23 per cent decline in net profit for the September quarter as the cigarette and hotel businesses continue to be a drag on its performance. The company posted revenues of Rs 13,730.06 crore during the July-September quarter compared with Rs 13,497.27 crore a year ago. Net profit fell to Rs 3,413.44 crore from Rs 4,174.69 crore last year. Non-cigarette FMCG business, which includes food and health and personal care among others, continued its impressive run with a 19.24 per cent jump in segment revenue at Rs 3,930.63 crore. The segment profit of non-tobacco FMCG grew threefold to Rs 282.85 crore, up from Rs 92.04 crore in the same period last year. While the hotel business posted a segment loss of Rs 193.97 crore because of Covid disruptions, it managed to reduce the loss sequentially from Rs 257.39 crore. The cigarette segment revenue and profit (pre-tax) was down year-on-year but showed significant growth sequentially, signifying an improved business environment. CESC profit CESC Ltd has reported a marginal rise in its consolidated net profit at Rs 371 crore in the second quarter compared with Rs 366 crore a year ago. Total income stood at Rs 3,010 crore compared with Rs 3,049 crore a year ago. Bosch loss Auto components major Bosch on Friday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 64.57 crore in the second quarter ended September 30. The company had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 98.40 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 2,479.18 crore against Rs 2,312.68 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||Govt extends airfare band till February 24||The government has extended the airfare band till February 24 and has promised to increase passenger travel cap to about 75 per cent of normal capacity in the coming days to meet the festive season demand. The bands with upper and lower limits was introduced on May 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||SC stays Spicejet payout to Kalanithi Maran||In a huge relief to low-cost carrier SpiceJet, the Supreme Court on Friday ordered a stay on a Delhi high court order which had ordered the private airline to pay Rs 243 crore to its former promoter Kalanithi Maran. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde while staying the high court order of September 7 issued a notice to Maran for his response on the appeal filed by SpiceJet which challenged the high court order. “Issue notice returnable within four weeks. There shall be stay of operation of the impugned order until further order,” the bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said. A single judge headed by Justice Rekha Phalli had passed the earlier order directing the airlines to pay the Marans Rs 243 crore within six weeks. If it doesn’t, the court had said the Marans will be allowed to press their claims for status quo on the shareholding of the budget airline. The Marans had earlier signed a share purchase agreement with Ajay Singh the present owner of the airline on January 29, 2015 and transferred their entire 58.46 per cent shareholding to the businessman. Interest not paid Though the Marans had received the sum in two tranches — the first Rs 250 crore on April 30, 2019 and another Rs 58 crore on October 4, 2019 — the interest was  not forthcoming, following which it had approached the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||Rajasthan accepts Centre’s proposal on shortfall in GST cess||Congress-ruled Rajasthan has broken ranks with some Opposition-ruled states, including Bengal, Punjab and Kerala, to accept the Centre’s proposal on the shortfall in GST compensation cess that envisages the Centre borrowing on behalf of the states to meet the shortfall. On Monday, the Ashok Gehlot-government will get the first instalment of the sum borrowed by the Centre on its behalf. The Centre has so far borrowed Rs 12,000 crore on behalf of the states in two instalments and has passed on the sum to 21 states and 3 Union territories. “Now the government of Rajasthan will receive funds raised through this window. The next instalment of borrowings is likely to be released on November 9, 2020,” the finance ministry said. The ministry said the state would get Rs 4,604 crore from the Centre through the special borrowing window and has also received permission to raise additional Rs 5,462 crore through borrowings on its own. Besides the Centre borrowing on their behalf through a special window, the states can borrow without any conditions 0.5 per cent of their domestic product as part of the 2 per cent additional borrowing allowed to them in May to meet the expenditures of the pandemic. The package, one of the two options offered by the Centre to meet their compensation cess shortfall and promising a sum of Rs 1.1 lakh crore, has been accepted by the 21 states and the three Union territories. The GST Council had failed to hammer out a consensus forcing the Modi government to agree to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore and pass on the dues to the states. Opposition-ruled states like Kerala, Punjab, Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand are yet to opt for the borrowing plan saying the Centre should borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore shortfall. In the first tranche of borrowing, Rs  6,000 crore was released to the states and the Union territories according to their entitlement at an interest rate of 5.19 per cent, while in the second tranche another Rs 6,000 crore at interest rate of 4.42 per cent. The amount of borrowing to meet the states’ GST revenue shortfall has to be “reasonable” considering the impact of the pandemic and the Centre will continue to request the Opposition-ruled states to opt for the proposed borrowing plan, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey has said earlier this week. "So far the compensation is concerned, the entire compensation amount is payable. GST Council, the central and state governments, all supported extension of cess. So, the states'' compensation which they are entitled to is fully secure. Compensation cess has been extended beyond June 2022. So far as the borrowing is concerned as to how much one should borrow and what is the optimum level of borrowing, that gets decided within the parameters of Articles 292 and 293," he told PTI earlier this week. Article 292 of the Indian Constitution states that the Government of India can borrow amounts specified by Parliament from time to time, while Article 293 mandates that state governments can borrow only from internal sources. Pandey said there has to be a "reasonable level" of borrowing because if a balanced approach is not taken then interest burden will increase which would impact the economy.  "That is the reason while full compensation will be given, a part of that could be borrowed at this point of time. That has been kept at Rs 1.10 lakh crore," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||Amazon Web Services to set up second data centre in India||Amazon Web Services (AWS) on Friday announced the setting up of its second data centre in India in Telangana that will be operational by mid-2022, and will see the tech giant invest about Rs 20,761 crore. While AWS did not comment on the investment detail, Telangana IT and industries minister K.T. Rama Rao tweeted that AWS will invest Rs 20,761 crore ($2.77 billion) to set up multiple data centres in the state. “Happy to announce the largest FDI in the history of Telangana!” Rao said. Rao said AWS is investing to set up an AWS region with three availability zones (AZs) in the state. AZs consist of multiple data centres in separate distinct locations within a single region that are engineered to be operationally independent of one another.  The minister had met officials from AWS during his Davos visit earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||Govt frames work from anywhere guidelines for tech and BPO firms||The shackles have finally come off the technology industry. The Modi government has framed new guidelines that will allow the Big Boys of the tech world and the scatter dust of business process outsourcing (BPO) firms in the country to introduce the concept of Work from Anywhere — opening up the scope for creating technology sector jobs in the remotest corners of the country. The industry had been badgering the government to remove a host of technology-related and procedural restrictions that corralled its ambitions to break out of the confining environment of Tier-1 cities, which had severely limited outreach possibilities and their ability to pare costs. When the Covid pandemic ripped through the Indian economy in March, technology companies had to scramble to get their employees to work from home. More than 3.5 million desktops moved out of offices and into homes almost overnight. But there were problems that the industry had to wrestle with. The first step was to declare the tech industry as an essential service. The government then relaxed rules relating to special economic zones and software technology parks so that people could work from home. But firms ran smack into one problem over the bank guarantees they needed to pay for each data centre that they operated, roughly Rs 1 crore per centre. If workers started working from home, there was just no way that the companies could pay a bank guarantee for every remote worker. Finally, there were data security issues that barred companies from allowing workers from accessing data centres over virtual private networks. The government relaxed all these restrictions — but for three months at a time — in the hope that the workers would drift back to work sites as the pandemic eased. The new guidelines sweep aside all those restrictions permanently, fulfilling a major demand from industry where leaps in technology solutions and innovations make it possible for both geeks and low-end call centre executives to work from the remotest corners in a glitch-free environment. “This is truly long term, progressive thinking by the government which will make our technology industry much more competitive. Working from anywhere has become the new reality,” tweeted Rishad Premji, chairman of Wipro Ltd and a former Nasscom chairman. “This breakthrough announcement will see jobs going to people more than people going to work. We envisage the rise of a work-from-office and work-from-home hybrid operating model and an intelligent workforce blend of full-time employees and gig workers,” said Keshav Murugesh, chief executive officer of the WNS Group, and also a former Nasscom chairman who actively pushed for these changes. “A much-needed reform for the IT industry,” tweeted C.P. Gurnani, CEO and managing director of Tech Mahindra. “This ‘new normal’ will not only allow greater flexibility & agility but will also boost productivity and tech innovation,” he said. Big changes The biggest relief for industry is that they will not have to stump up bank guarantees for “any facility or dispensation under these guidelines”. None of the OSP centres will require registration certificates and they will be able to carry big data traffic over the virtual private network (VPN). In the first months after the lockdown, the government had permitted the firms to use VPN with static internet protocol (IP) addresses. This was later relaxed to VPN with dynamic IP address. The Centre has now allowed companies to step up the game by allowing OSPs to collect, convert, carry and exchange data received on PSTN/PLMN/ISDN and share them over virtual private networks. Most data traffic flows over public switched telephone network (PSTN) which is a combination of telephone networks, including telephone lines, fibre optic cables, switching centres, cellular networks, satellites and cable systems. A public land mobile network (PLMN) is any wireless communications system intended for use by terrestrial subscribers in vehicles or on foot. Such a system can stand alone, but often it is interconnected with a fixed system such as the PSTN. An Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) is a set of communication standards for simultaneous digital transmission of voice, video, data, and other network services over the traditional circuits of the public switched telephone network. Says Murugesh of WNS: “The biggest advantage of this policy change is that it will open the doors for us to tap into a new talent pool such as the young workforce and retired people with domain knowledge who want to work for a few hours remotely.” “Also, the 110 million strong potential workforce of women with secondary degrees can find employment. They can devote 3-4 hours per day but currently don’t participate in the workforce. In the long run, this flexible model can lead to the inclusion of a vast untapped workforce across the country, including tier-2/3 cities,” he added. He reckons that serious Indian states will now change their IT policies to “enable more tech infrastructure upgrades, last-mile fiber deployment, cyber safety and policing, employment generation, diversity of workforce, creation of new Centers of Excellence (CoEs) and differentiation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
