08-11-2020||Business||Carlsberg auditor quits amid commercial dispute||PwC’s India affiliate has resigned as the auditor of Carlsberg India, declining for a second year in a row to give an opinion on its financial results, the brewer and two people familiar with the matter told Reuters. Denmark’s Carlsberg A/S has been locked in a commercial dispute with its joint venture partner in India, Nepal-based Khetan Group, amid an internal probe into the brewer’s local practices that sparked a boardroom battle and concerns from its auditor. “The divergent views among the Carlsberg India board is the reason for the disclaimer of opinion made by the auditor,” said Steve Deng, corporate affairs director for Carlsberg Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||Bansal chips in for Hero EV start-up||Hero MotoCorp-backed electric two-wheeler maker Ather Energy on Saturday said it has raised funds worth $35 million in a funding round led by Flipkart co-founder Sachin Bansal’s investment of $23 million. Besides Bansal, Hero MotoCorp has invested $12 million as part of the Series D round in the EV start-up. This round of investment will allow Ather Energy to accelerate its expansion plans and speed up the deliveries of its electric scooter, Ather 450X, the Bangalore-based start-up said. Ather Energy was one of the earliest start-up investments of Bansal, who chipped in as an angel investor with $0.5 million in the firm in 2014. With this round, Bansal’s total investment in the start-up stands at $53 million. The continued investment by the existing investors is a manifestation of their confidence in the brand and the sector, the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||Gland Pharma in cash chase ahead of share sale ||Gland Pharma has raised Rs 1,944 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial share sale that opens for public subscription on Monday. The anchor investors include the Government of Singapore, Nomura, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, SBI Mutual Fund, Axis Mutual Fund, SBI Life Insurance Company and Fidelity. ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund, HSBC Global Investment Funds, Small Cap World Fund and The Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Trust PLC are the other investors. Gland Pharma announced that the IPO committee of its board on November 6 and the selling shareholders in consultation with the book running lead managers to the IPO “finalised the allocation of 1,29,59,089 equity shares in aggregate to anchor investors at an allocation price of Rs 1,500 per equity share’’. Hyderabad-based Gland Pharma is backed by China’s Fosun Pharma. Its initial public offer is the largest by a pharmaceutical company in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||‘Slow pickup in corporate credit likely’||Credit demand from private corporate houses for investment is expected to take longer because of low capacity utilisation in the wake of the Covid pandemic and lockdown affecting business. But working capital requirements could recover sooner, according to SBI chairman Dinesh Khara. Corporate credit demand did not rise in September 2020 compared with a 2.7 per cent growth rate in September 2019, according to RBI data. Speaking at the annual general meeting of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Saturday, Khara said when a credit recovery cycle starts, borrowings in personal accounts tend to go up first. “We are almost back to our pre-Covid number when it comes to retail lending. Similar trends are seen across other banks also,” he said. Corporate credit is a function of both capacity utilisation and demand on ground. With growth in individual demand reflected in the rising e-commerce sales volume, inventory levels of firms are coming down. “Perhaps firms will start utilising their working capital limits,” Khara said. But for lenders credit demand will take longer to come in, especially from private corporates. “Capacity utilisation in the economy stands at around 69 per cent, so investment demand from the private corporate looks quite unlikely for some more time to come. I feel the cash rich public sector entities also would probably embark on their capital expenditure plan. That will be the first lever that will generate investment demand. We are seeing enquiries for brownfield capacities awaiting resolution in NCLT,” he said. The SBI chairman also said that corporates unlike past instances, have become more responsible in leveraging. “In the last couple of years, we have seen people can lose control of their enterprises. That has led to a situation where borrowers have become quite conscious. At a personal level also people are quite mindful about their bureau scores,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||Future Retail files suit in Delhi High Court||Future Retail on Saturday said it has approached the Delhi high court seeking relief against an arbitration order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) with regard to the Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Industries  (RIL). Future Retail has maintained that the emergency order which puts on hold the sale of its retail assets to Reliance was not “enforceable and binding”, and any move to enforce it would be “resisted”. It had also said that the order is not enforceable under the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and is not binding on Future Retail. The company had added that it is also in the process of taking appropriate legal action to protect its rights. The Future Group had recently filed a caveat before the Delhi high court requesting it to be heard if any plea is filed by e-commerce giant Amazon. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Saturday, Future Retail said it has filed a suit in the Delhi high court on Saturday to seek necessary reliefs against Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC from interfering with the transaction by “misusing’’ the interim order passed on October 25 by an Emergency Arbitrator appointed by the SIAC. The date on which the matter will be heard by the Delhi High Court is not known yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||Goldman to invest in Biocon Biologics ||Goldman Sachs is investing Rs 1,125 crore ($150 million) in Biocon Biologics which will value the latter at $3.94 billion. Biocon Biologics is a subsidiary of Biocon. The Bangalore-based firm on Saturday said the board of its subsidiary approved the capital injection from Goldman Sachs. According to the terms of the proposed agreement, Goldman Sachs will be issued optionally convertible debentures at a post money equity valuation of $3.94 billion. The transaction is subject to customary approvals and conditions. The investment will enable Biocon Biologics to make investments in R&D and high-quality manufacturing as well as establish a global commercial footprint. “We are extremely pleased to welcome a capital injection by Goldman Sachs at this inflection point of Biocon Biologics’ journey in its quest for global leadership in providing affordable access through Biosimilar drugs,” Biocon executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said. She added that the transaction is part of the overall strategic plan of value creation for the company’s shareholders through Biocon Biologics Biocon Biologics said that it is engaged in developing affordable biosimilars (a drug which is similar to a biologic or medicines that are derived from living organisms) that expand patient access to a class of therapies across the world. The company has one of the largest bio-similar portfolios globally for oncology, immunology and other chronic disease areas. According to Som Krishna, managing director in the merchant banking division at Goldman Sachs, the global growth of biosimilars is taking place at a rapid pace. He added that Biocon Biologics is well positioned to continue to grow and be a major global player in this dynamic segment of the pharmaceutical industry. “With three of our products commercialised in the US market, we continue to strive towards expanding access for our patients and unlocking value for our shareholders. This capital injection by Goldman Sachs will enable us to make prudent investments in R&D, high-quality manufacturing as well as establish a global commercial footprint. The company is confident of achieving the aspiration of serving five million patients through its biosimilar portfolio and attaining a revenue target of $1 billion by 2021-22,” Christiane Hamacher, CEO of Biocon Biologics, said. Shares of Biocon ended with marginal gains of 0.38 per cent at Rs 414.75 on the BSE on Friday. Biocon Biologics has the full spectrum of insulins in its pipeline and the global scale necessary as it looks to make its presence in the anti-diabetic segment. With the demand for biosimilars expected to grow as patents of originator biologics expire and patients demand lower priced drugs, Biocon Biologics added that it is well positioned to expand access.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
