09-11-2020||Business||Rupee closes at 74.15 against USD after going down by 7 paise||The Indian National Rupee declined to settle 7 paise lower at 74.95 on Monday against the US dollar, tracking weaker counterparts of Asia against the latter. Higher crude oil prices were also responsible for the dip in the domestic currency. The rupee had opened at 73.95 against one dollar in the interbank foreign exchange, gaining a further strength of 73.83 through the day but could not hold on to its gains. According to Forex traders, the Indian currency declined despite record  buying in equities as the US dollar strengthened against major Asian as well as other rivals. This emerged unfavourable at the domestic forex market. Meanwhile, the dollar index, that determines the greenback’s strength against a group of six countries, rose to 92.35 at 0.14 per cent. Global oil benchmark Brent crude futures ascended to USD 40.35 a barrel at 2.15 per cent. According to Senior Research Analyst at Reliance Securities Sriram Iyer, the rupee may “appreciate marginally over the next few days amid portfolio flows into the domestic markets and a weaker US dollar. The only factor limiting the gains of the currency will be RBI coming in and mopping up the flows”. Foreign investors bought equities on a net basis stood at Rs 4,548.39 crore, exchange data showed on Monday. Registering a record closing high on the equity market front, the BSE Sensex settled at 704.37 points or 1.68 per cent higher at 42,597.43 on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Gold has touched an all-time high||Gold this year has touched an all-time high on both Comex as well as the domestic market. The yellow metal consolidated after touching an all-time high although the overall uncertainties are providing a strong floor for the metal at the lower levels. The yellow metal gave a massive 40 per cent return this year in just six months supported by strong fundamentals. Prices gained at the start of the year as investors were worried about the impact of the trade war between the US and China. The accommodative stance of the central banks, stimulus measures, excess liquidity, the Covid-19 relief bill and lower bond yields were the other concerns among investors. However, the far reaching impact of the pandemic and the elections in the US forced market participants to take a cautious approach. All these factors, including the volatility in the rupee, have impacted gold prices on the domestic front. US election impact Over the past few months, there has been a lot of speculation in the market about the US elections and its impact on gold. After Joe Biden won the race to become the next US President, investors will now watch out for the approach of his party in supporting the economy. There are a lot more variables supporting gold than there were previously. Hence, the above mentioned factors will continue to support the market, irrespective of the party in power. Though historical trends suggest that some caution on a short-term basis should be considered. Central bank policies Central banks have been using all their tools to support the economies that have been going through a very rough patch. Global economy started getting affected by the trade tensions between the US and China and then the uncertainties kept piling on, thereby supporting the bullion. Central banks had cut interest rates and provided liquidity to the market to support the ailing economies. Global interest rates are currently near zero and are expected to remain low for some time. US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell in his past policy statements has mentioned that rates will be kept low till 2023. Demand watch According to the World Gold Council, India’s gold demand in the fourth quarter is expected to recover after falling 30 per cent in the third quarter as festivals are expected to strengthen retail jewellery purchases. Demand for precious metals usually spikes towards the end of the year in India as buying gold for weddings and major festivals such as Diwali and Dussehra is considered auspicious. Jewellers have reportedly stocked up inventory to satisfy the festive and wedding demand needs. Indians celebrated Dussehra earlier this month and jewellers reported improvement in footfalls and sales. There are two scenarios here that are a little concerning. The impact of the pandemic and the lockdown situation is affecting physical demand. Further, higher prices have forced investors to take some time before they start to accumulate. Hence, demand during the fourth quarter could be lower than 194.3 tonnes recorded last year as consumers are struggling to adjust to near record high prices. India’s gold demand in the first three quarters fell 49 per cent from a year earlier to 252.4 tonnes as coronavirus-triggered lockdowns hit jewellery demand. While overall gold consumption fell, demand for coins and bars, known as investment demand, jumped 51 per cent in the third quarter as rising prices attracted investors, keeping the sentiment high. According to WGC, global net flows of 1,003 tonnes in 2020 have taken gold ETF AUM to an all-time high of 3,880 tonnes, suggesting that even though gold’s popularity seems to have been temporarily affected, its long-term strategic positioning is intact. Diwali show Normally, investors buy gold as a hedge against inflation and uncertainty, although Indians have another purpose of investing in gold, which protects their purchasing power against the depreciation of the rupee over longer periods. Over the last decade, gold in India has given a return of 159 per cent. The Dow Jones has given around 154 per cent and domestic equity index Nifty 50 has given 93 per cent return in the same period, which makes gold a decent performer and justifies the objective of Indian investors to use the metal as a shield against inflation and a depreciating rupee. Except for the small dips in between, gold prices have not disappointed investors. The outlook Now that the US elections are over, the next few months will be very important to define gold’s short to medium-term trajectory. One can expect the yellow metal to cover a lot of ground if the macro-economic situation as explained above plays out. Sentiments do look positive for this Diwali, keeping the hopes high for the bullions. In the short term, Comex gold could be forming a base of around $1,880-1,840 per ounce, while rallies are likely to be capped in the range of $1,940-1,975 per ounce. On the domestic front, dips towards Rs 49,500-48,500 per 10 gm is a good range to buy with short-term upsides being capped around Rs 52,000-53,000 per 10 gm. The writer is vice-president-commodities research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Poll din masks US game-changers||In this US election, the din has buried the consequence. The narrative is of a festering society amid a ravaging pandemic, with warts of racism and inequality stoked by boorish political theatre. The emotional fallout is searing the republic. Dazed by such antics, we ought not to ignore the overarching theme that is relevant to India: that the contemporary American saga has been one of economic growth and revival that creates unprecedented opportunities for India. Technology and energy — the two fuels of the economy have been dramatically upended. Brought up in a world of energy shortage, policy makers are adjusting to the shale boom. Enabled by drilling innovation, pipeline infrastructure and prudent eminent domain laws US has surpassed both Saudi Arabia as the largest oil producer and Russia as the largest gas producer. Energy consumption is evolving as rapidly. Tesla electric cars, launched at the same time as Tata’s Nano, is the world’s most valuable automaker. Powerwall home batteries are reducing electricity bills by three-fourth by deploying solar panels on roofs and backyards. All this portends an energy revolution that will favour consumers. Emissions from solar and gas are a fraction of coal. India is a major net buyer — and the notion of cheap, clean fuel whose supply doesn’t depend on West Asian politics is welcome. Contrast this with the dominant narrative of energy during this election: the perils of fracking and of nepotism in Ukraine. These problems may be real, but not as cataclysmic as the spectre of a world running out of energy. The news from the technology sector is also dour, chronicling giant tech companies that have spawned cyber gestapos bent on prying secrets and eradicating small businesses. The five companies — ominously called FAANG — have a market capitalisation of nearly $6 trillion and data security and business concentration need legal safeguards, but should be seen alongside the fact that global economies are operating above 90 per cent levels through the pandemic because of such technology. As a businessperson, I have promoted new products on social media and sold goods through e-commerce at a fraction of the fixed cost and reached global customers — something only multinationals had the resources to do earlier. India has been a partner in the success of the US-led IT industry. Whether as a customer of TCS and Infosys, an investor in Indian start-ups, or as Indian-origin CEOs at Google and Microsoft, our countries have shared interests and opportunities. While data and oil strengthen the US economy, people drive productivity. To quote the play Hamilton, immigrants get the job done. Despite political broadsides, immigrants have been an unmitigated blessing to America — adding to GDP growth, receiving majority of patents and seasoning the melting pot culture. Indian immigrants have assimilated seamlessly into the US and are now the most successful, educated and highest-income group in the nation. Deep people-to-people exchange is the most resilient foundation of the India-US partnership. People also drive consumption and the US has been a consumer of last resort to the world economy. Many nations — Japan, Korea and China — have grown rich on the back of US buyers, and reinforcing India’s export competitiveness is key. The revocation of the General System of Preferences (GSP) last year hurt Indian exports. India’s policy to propel champion industries and to work with US to have preferential access to their markets needs to be our priority post elections. Having rationalised corporate taxes and unlocked labour market bottlenecks, Indian industry has a historic opportunity to take on competition and massively scale up exports to the US. Democracy creates heat and dust, unlike the ostensibly serene but ultimately brittle autocratic systems. In the clamour, candidates occasionally bait and jostle. Admittedly, it isn’t pretty and sometimes the missives cut close to the bone. However, it is in this spectacle around the festival of democracy that US and India are tied together. Irrespective of the party in power, there is much to cherish between our two countries. An alumnus of Columbia University, Rudra Chatterjee is a businessperson with interests in both India and the US||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Bigbasket faces data leak fear||Grocery e-commerce platform Bigbasket has faced a potential data breach which could have leaked details of its around 2 crore users, according to cyber intelligence firm Cyble. The company has filed a police complaint in this regard with the Cyber Crime Cell in Bangalore and is verifying claims made by cyber experts. Cyble said that a hacker has put data allegedly belonging to Bigbasket on sale for around Rs 30 lakh. “In the course of our routine dark web monitoring, the research team at Cyble found the database of Big Basket for sale in a cyber crime market, being sold for over $40,000. The leak contains a database portion; with the table name ‘member_member’. The file contains close to 20 million user data,” Cyble said in its blog. It added the data put on sale includes names, email IDs, password hashes, contact numbers (mobile and phone), addresses, date of birth, location, and IP addresses of login.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||ONGC seeks allies for mature fields||State-owned ONGC has invited bids from global oil and gas companies to undertake work to boost production from its ageing fields as it looks to reverse its declining output. The 15-year production enhancement contract (PEC) will require firms to commit to investing in capital and operating expenditure to increase production, higher than the existing baseline output, according to the tender document. A tariff will be paid in dollar per barrel of oil and dollar per million British thermal units for gas for any incremental hydrocarbon produced and saved over the baseline. ONGC on October 27 issued the expression of interest (EoI) notice offering the 15-year PECs to outside contractors for an unidentified number of “mature” fields. The company did not name the oil or gas fields in the notice, but sources said the fields are largely in Assam and Gujarat, the country’s oldest producing basins. This is the second attempt by ONGC to induct partners in its mature or ageing fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Opec treads with caution after Biden win||Key members of Opec are wary that strains in the Opec+ alliance could reemerge with Joe Biden as US President, sources close to the organisation said, and would miss President Donald Trump who went from criticising the group to helping bring about a record oil output cut. Biden could modify US diplomatic relations with three members of Opec — de facto leader Saudi Arabia, and sanctioned countries Iran and Venezuela, as well as with key non-Opec producer Russia. Russia is the leader of oil producers allied with Opec, a group known as Opec+. Strict enforcement of US sanctions on Iran and Venezuela has kept millions of barrels of oil per day off the market, and if Biden should relax measures on either in years to come an increase in production could make it harder for Opec to balance supply with demand. Biden has said he would prefer multilateral diplomacy to the unilateral sanctions Trump has imposed, although that may not mean a relaxation in sanctions any time soon. In his campaign, Biden said he’d return to Iran’s 2015 nuclear deal if Tehran resumes compliance with the pact. Trump quit the pact in 2018, reimposing sanctions that cut Iran’s oil exports. Some in Opec fear that a return of Iranian volumes will add to oversupply without cutbacks elsewhere and worry about Moscow’s continued participation in Opec+. “Iran sanctions can be re-evaluated and then Iran will be back to the market, so again there would be oversupply and the current cut deal will be at risk,” an Opec source said before the election result was known. Global threat Biden has named Russia as Washington’s most serious global threat. During his campaign, he also pledged to reassess ties with Saudi Arabia. Trump in April was involved in talks that led to a deal in which the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Saudi Arabia worked with allied producers led by Russia to agree a record oil supply cut as the coronavirus outbreak hammered demand. Trump stepped in to put political pressure on Saudi Arabia and Russia to end a dispute that had sparked a price war and resulted in both countries planning to raise output just as the pandemic led to restrictions on travel. The result was an unprecedented global deal to cut oil supply by about 20 million barrels per day, or around 20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Stable visa regime hope after Biden win ||Nasscom on Sunday welcomed Joe Biden’s win in the US Presidential election, and said the Indian IT industry looks forward to working with the new administration in pivoting technology, skills and digital transformation for the US. The US is the biggest market for the Indian IT sector, accounting for a lion’s share of the industry’s revenue. “Nasscom congratulates US #PresidentElect JoeBiden on his win. We look forward to working with him and his administration in pivoting technology, skills and digital transformation for the United States,” it said in a tweet. Nasscom has projected a revenue growth of 7.7 per cent at $191 billion for the IT sector in the ongoing fiscal. The industry has added a net 2 lakh jobs, taking the overall workforce to 4.36 million. Indian IT players will keep a close watch on Biden’s approach and policies related to H-1B work visas that are used by a large number of Indian technology professionals. In June, during the Covid-19 pandemic, US President Donald Trump banned the entry into the US of workers in several key non-immigrant visa categories, including H-1B, until the end of the year, arguing that they eat into American jobs. Those affected include the family members of the H-1B, L-1 and certain categories of J1 visas. Later, the Trump administration announced certain exemptions in H-1B and L-1 travel bans for those continuing employment with the same employer, a move that could help Indian IT professionals and those working in the healthcare sector. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries such as India and China. In a statement, Nasscom said its member companies have an important history in the US. “They work with over three-quarters of the Fortune 500 companies in the US, providing them vital technology services and helping them innovate, compete, and grow,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Premium hatches a favourite during festive season||The premium hatch segment seems to have caught the attention of most manufacturers with each pitching new variants to attract buyers during the festive season. With personal mobility becoming a necessity forced by the pandemic, the hatch is back in business. “Its not just the entry-level cars but the premium hatches are also in demand as customers and the market in India mature. Many of the buyers of premium hatch are first-time car buyers,” said an industry source. If Hyundai made a pitch with its fourth-generation i20, Tata Motors launched a new variant of its Altroz, both this week. In August, Honda launched its “niched brand” Jazz. Maruti continues with its Baleno which recorded its highest sales in October. Toyota Glanza and Volkswagen Polo complete the segment that has a market size of 30,000 to 33,000 units per month. The price segment ranges from Rs 5.44 lakh to Rs 11.18 lakh. The segment has recorded over 50 per cent growth year-on-year compared to 2019. The premium hatches constitute 26 per cent of the overall hatchback segment and contribute 13 per cent to the total sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Sahaj to double service centres||Sahaj Retail Limited, a Kanoria Foundation initiative, plans to more than double its network and expand its services across verticals over the next two years. The company, which offers last-mile facilities such as government-to-citizen services, financial inclusion, utility bill collection and e-learning, has a network of 93,000 service centres across 23 states. “Our plan is to double the network capacity to 2 lakh service centres across 30 states over the next two years,” said Amit Kumar Singh, CEO, Sahaj Retail Limited. “We can expand in markets such as the south where we have thin presence and also deepen our presence in the existing markets. The idea is to make our network reach available to the rural parts of the country and take the services to the doorstep of these customers. One centre can employ 2-3 youths. So, this will also open up employment opportunities,” said Singh. Telangana, Daman, Sikkim are among the new markets where the company is looking to expand. The company is always exploring opportunities in different services and markets to compensate for the losses in other segments. “One business goes down but another comes up and we are looking at extending geography and increasing business,” he said. Sahaj had turned EBITDA positive in 2019-20 having reworked the business model. “Earlier, we were focusing more on government to citizen services. We have now added several B2C services. We are today a business correspondent for banks, we distribute insurance products, offer utility services, facilitate e-commerce and e-learning services,” Singh said. The company is also expanding its service offerings. “The vertical that we see coming up is e-learning where we will tie up with various educational service provider companies. Micro insurance is another segment where there is potential as insurance penetration is lower in the rural area. We will also scale up our current portfolio. We will tie up with more banks to offer business correspondent services and we are also looking to ramp up a few of the government projects,” said Singh. The company has also recently tied up with Amazon to increase the e-commerce firm’s reach in the rural parts and facilitate customer acquisition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
09-11-2020||Business||Ircon impetus to Centre's selloffs||The government plans to sell about a 15 per cent stake in Ircon International through an offer for sale of shares in the current fiscal even as the budget divestment target of Rs 2.1 lakh crore appears to be a daunting task. Finance ministry officials admitted the target may not be achieved this fiscal. A revised target is being worked out, and some PSUs are being lined up for stake sales and strategic sales.  “Ircon would be one of the railway firms which could hit the market under the OFS mode and measures are being taken to this effect,” the officials said. At the present price, Ircon can fetch the Modi government Rs 545 crore. The government currently holds an 89.18 per cent stake in the rail construction company, which has projects in India and abroad. It had raised Rs 466 crore by selling a 10 per cent stake in the PSU through an initial public offering in 2018-19. The other railway companies that could see stake sales in the current fiscal include IRCTC and Rail Vikas Nigam (RVNL). The disinvestment department has so far raised only Rs 6,138 crore in the current fiscal which includes close to Rs 5,000 crore by selling a 14.82 per cent stake in Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd through an offer for sale and Rs 771 crore through another offer for sale of Bharat Dynamics. The ambitious divestment plans of the Modi government have been hit hard this year. The pandemic has delayed several big-ticket proposals, including the strategic stake sale in Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd and an initial public offering of Life Insurance Corp of India. The government has now eased the norms for BPCL privatisation by allowing the interested parties to submit their preliminary bids for the acquisition of the country’s second-biggest oil refiner via e-mail. A notice issued by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said, “The IPs (interested parties) if they so desire, may submit the complete EoI (expression of interest) in electronic form via e-mail with all the requisite documents in pdf format by the EoI due date.” In September, the Centre had extended the deadline to bid for Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) by one-and-a-half month to November 16. In LIC, Deloitte and SBI Caps have been appointed the pre-IPO advisors to list out the items of compliance.  The legislative amendment, to facilitate the IPO, by making changes in the LIC Act is being worked out by the department of financial services. The plan is to amend Sections 24, 28 and 37 of the LIC Act. Section 24 deals with the way the corporation handles its corpus, Section 28 is about dividend distribution and Section 37 provides government guarantee on all its policies. At present, LIC pays 5 percent of its  surplus to the government, while the remaining 95 per cent goes to its policyholders. In comparison, private insurance companies pay 10 per cent of their surplus to shareholders and the rest to policyholders. The amendment to the LIC Act could possibly bring the state-owned insurance firm on a par with other insurance companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
