10-11-2020||Business||Gland Pharma IPO subscribed over 4 per cent||The initial public offer of Gland Pharma was subscribed over 4 per cent on the first day of subscription on Monday. The initial share sale received bids for 12,69,110 shares against 3,02,37,879 shares on offer, according to data available with the NSE. The initial public offer comprises a fresh issue of Rs 1,250 crore and an offer for sale of 34,86,3635 shares. The price range for the offer, which would close for subscription on Wednesday, has been fixed at Rs 1,490-1,500 per share. While market circles expect the response to improve over the next two days, Gland Pharma has raised Rs 1,944 crore from anchor investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||L&T Finance Holdings approves raising up to Rs 3,000 crore||L&T Finance Holdings (LTFH) on Monday said its board has approved raising up to Rs 3,000 crore through a rights issue. “The board approved the offer and issuance of fully paid-up equity shares of the company for an amount not exceeding Rs 3,000 crore by way of a rights issue to the eligible equity shareholders of the company,” the company said in a communication to the stock exchanges. L&T Finance added that the details of the rights issue, including price and entitlement ratio, will be determined in due course. Shares of the company ended with marginal losses at Rs 67.45 on the BSE on Monday. Banks and lending institutions have been in a fund mobilisation drive over the past couple of months to fund growth and provide for a possible rise in bad loans because of the pandemic. LTFH is a non-banking finance company (NBFC) engaged in rural, housing and infrastructure finance. It reported robust numbers for the second quarter ended September 30 when consolidated net profits rose 52 per cent to Rs 265 crore following a strong revival in the rural economy. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 174 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2019-20. Total income for the quarter fell to Rs 3,508.91 crore against Rs 3,711.85 crore in year-ago period. LTFH had said it witnessed excellent revival in the rural and renewable sector and gained market share to become the No. 1 farm equipment financier during the quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||SEBI to reclassify Motilal Oswal Multicap 35 Fund to flexi cap fund||Just days after the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) announced a new category of equity funds — the Flexi Cap Fund — Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company on Monday said it would be reclassifying its “Motilal Oswal Multicap 35 Fund” from the multi cap fund category to a flexi cap fund. It thus becomes the first fund house to switch after the market regulator allowed the sector to convert their existing multi cap schemes into flexi cap where they will not be mandated to invest a specific portion of funds into large cap, small cap and medium cap companies. “The proposed name of the fund could be ‘Motilal Oswal Flexi Cap 35 Fund’. There would be no change in the way the fund is being managed currently and Akash Singhania will continue to be the fund manager as well,’’ a statement from the fund house said. While multi-cap schemes had total assets under management of Rs 1.45 lakh crore, it is expected that more fund houses will convert these schemes into the new category. The main investment objective of the Motilal Oswal Multicap 35 scheme was to achieve long term capital appreciation by primarily investing in a maximum of 35 equity and equity-related instruments across sectors and market capitalisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||Four SoftBank directors to leave board||SoftBank on Monday said four of its directors, including Vision Fund head Rajeev Misra, will leave its board to ensure better corporate governance. Besides Misra, chief operating officer of SoftBank Marcelo Claure, chief strategy officer Katsunori Sago and Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, the representative of Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund, will leave the board, according to reports. “More external directors mean better governance,” SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son said. He said the exercise was meant to separate management from its operations. The board will be reduced to nine members with the changes. According to Son, the company thought about making the board changes in June, but they weren’t ready. The company also did not want to wait until the next annual shareholders meeting next June. “The changes to our board build upon the enhancements we made in June, including ensuring we have a greater proportion of external board directors, and further highlight SoftBank’s commitment to corporate governance,” Son said in a statement. Meanwhile, SoftBank Group on Monday reported $6.1 billion in quarterly profit as a broad upswing in tech valuations brought its mammoth Vision Fund back into positive territory. The Vision Fund recovery is likely to be welcome news for investors unnerved by some of SoftBank’s recent stumbles, even as overall earnings were tainted by a $1.3 billion-hit from bets on technology stocks and derivatives. “I’m not that hung up on the numbers,” Son said of the group’s earnings at a briefing on Monday, reiterating the company’s view that net asset value, not earnings, are the primary measure by which SoftBank should be judged considering its shift away from running businesses to tech investing. SoftBank reported a net income attributable to shareholders of 627 billion yen ($6.1 billion) for the three months through September, versus a loss of 700 billion yen in the same period a year earlier. It booked a gain of 1.04 trillion yen in the quarter from investments via its two Vision Funds, though much of that typically reflected unrealised profit from portfolio companies. The figure compared with a loss of 944 billion yen a year earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||First commercial coal mining auctions end||The first auction of coal mines to be used for commercial purposes ended on Monday with Sarda Energy and Minerals winning the Gare Palma 4/7 mine in Chhattisgarh. Coal minister Prahlad Joshi said the states where the 19 blocks that went under the hammer were located would get an annual revenue of around Rs 6,656 crore and generate nearly 70,000 jobs, with peak capacity to touch 51 million tonnes per annum. In the bidding for Gare Palma 4/7, Sarda Energy outbid Adani, JSPL and Hindalco with a revenue sharing of 66.75 per cent. The mine is estimated to have 234 million tonnes (mt) of geological reserves and could garner Rs 210 crore in annual revenue to the Chhattisgarh government. The coal minister downplayed the apprehensions of the Jharkhand government over the auctions  being held during the pandemic. He said the state would grt revenues of Rs 2,690 crore from mining, the most among its peers. The Jharkhand government has filed a case in the Supreme Court on the auctions. “Out of 38 mines put on auction, 19 mines were successfully auctioned. The success of the auction is 50 per cent. I appeal to the state governments to co-operate with the bidders,” the minister said. “The sooner these coal blocks are operationalised, the sooner the state governments will get revenue from these blocks,” Joshi said. City gas relief Oil sector regulator PNGRB has given up to eight-and-a-half months of extra time to companies such as Indian Oil Corporation, GAIL and Adani Gas to fulfil their city gas project rollout commitments that had been impacted by the lockdowns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||CCI orders detailed probe against Google Pay unfair business practices||]The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Monday ordered a detailed probe against internet giant Google for alleged unfair business practices with respect to Google Pay as well as Google Play’s payment system. Google Pay is a popular digital payments platform, while Google Play is the app store on its Android ecosystem. The watchdog has ordered a detailed probe by its director-general, which is the investigation arm, for alleged anti-competitive practices with respect to Google Pay. According to the regulator, it is of “the prima facie view that said conduct of Google amounts to imposition of unfair and discriminatory condition, denial of market access for competing apps of Google Pay and leveraging on the part of Google, in terms of different provisions of Section 4(2) of the Act”. Indian app developers have been voicing concerns over Google’s move to charge 30 per cent commission on paid apps and In-App Purchases. Many such developers have said that Google cannot force domestic app developers/owners to sell digital services by compulsory use of its billing system. A Google spokesperson said in a statement the company was confident that the CCI will find that GPay operates in an extremely competitive environment, and owes its success to its ability to offer consumers a simple and secure payments experience. “Numerous distribution channels exist for apps on the Android platform; Play is not the only app distribution option for Android. Users choose Google Play because we ensure a safe, secure, and seamless experience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||15th Finance Commission submits report to the President||The 15th Finance Commission, tasked to recommend the devolution of the central taxes among the Union government and the states, has submitted its report to the President. The commission, headed by N.K. Singh, is learnt to have recommended the transfer of 41 per cent of the central taxes to the states, same as the suggestion it made in its interim report for the current fiscal. It has also reportedly suggested a non-lapsable defence fund for capital expenditure meant for the defence forces, the paramilitary and state police. Sources said the Modernisation of Defence and Internal Security Fund (MDISF),  would get resources from the Consolidated Fund of India, the sale of defence land and the sale of government stakes in defence public sector enterprises. With Covid-19 putting the focus on health spending, the commission is said to have recommended the expenditure of the Centre and states combined on health should  be over 2 per cent of the country’s GDP compared with 0.9 per cent now. The report for 2021-22 to 2025-26 is unlikely to be made public anytime soon and will possibly be tabled in Parliament, along with an action-taken report by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman when she presents the Union budget next year in February In its interim report for the current fiscal, the commission had proposed 41 per cent revenue share to the states, which is identical to the share recommended by the previous Fourteenth Finance Commission but for the fact that the share was reduced by one percentage point because of allocations made for the newly formed Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The Fourteenth Finance Commission had raised the share of the states to 42 per cent from 32 per cent. However, with the Centre increasingly resorting to cess, the states’ share in overall tax collections by the Centre has gone much below the recommendations of the finance commissions in the recent years. The commission was also asked to recommend performance incentives for the states in many areas such as power,  adoption of direct benefit transfer and solid waste management. As per the terms of reference (ToR), the Commission was mandated to give its recommendations for five years from 2021-22 to 2025-26. The Commission was asked to give its recommendations on wide-ranging issues. Apart from the vertical and horizontal tax devolution, local government grants, disaster management grant, it was also asked to examine and recommend performance incentives for states in many areas like power sector, adoption of direct benefit transfer, solid waste management etc. The Commission was also asked to examine whether a separate mechanism for funding of defence and internal security ought to be set up and if so how such a mechanism could be operationalised. The Commission has sought to address all its ToRs in this report to the Union government, the statement added. This report has been organised in four volumes. Volume I and II, as in the past, contain the main report and the accompanying annexes. Volume III is devoted to the Union Government and examines key departments in greater depth, with the medium-term challenges and the road map ahead. Volume IV is entirely devoted to states. The Commission has analysed the finances of each state in great depth and has come up with state-specific considerations to address the key challenges that individual states face, the statement added. The report would be made public after it is tabled in Parliament by the government. The cover and title of the report are also unique and the use of scales on the cover indicates the balance between the states and the Union, it said. There were fears that funds to the southern states would be curtailed since one of the terms of reference to the 15th finance commission called for giving weightage to population. However, that fear may be allayed since the commission is likely to more or less neutralise it by giving more funds to those which have done better in terms of population control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||Foreign investors to take management control of Darjeeling Organic Tea Estates||A clutch of foreign investors from Europe is taking over the management control and picking up a bigger ownership of the largest tea producer of Darjeeling. The Indian promoter, Sanjay Prakash Bansal and his family, will take a backseat in Darjeeling Organic Tea Estates Pvt Ltd (DOTEPL), which owns celebrated gardens such as Happy Valley and Ambootia, among others. With 14 gardens under the kitty, the company’s estimated crop from Darjeeling stands at about 1.5 million kg, a little over 15 per cent of the entire annual production of the hills. The overseas investors from Switzerland and Germany are being led by Artava AG and Auwa GmbH, who are called the ODAT Group. Even though some of them had invested in the DOTEPL for a while now, Bansal was at the helm as the chairman and managing director with a significant holding. Bansal has now stepped down from the post, stopped managing the company actively and Rembert Johannes Biemond, a nominee of one of the overseas investors, is set to become the non executive chairman of the reconstituted board. Bansal and his family members will not be on the board even as they will continue as a small shareholder. A communication from the company to its key stakeholders suggested that the move was required to ring-fence DOTEPL from financial difficulties being faced by Bansal’s other business ventures. “We had to take the step of changing ownership of the company because the company was facing extreme financial difficulty and lacked professional management; also the company needed fresh investments to operate smoothly. Unfortunately, other companies of the Bansal family had come into financial difficulties and without intervention and support, DOTEPL was facing the danger of being dragged along,” a letter sent out by acting chairman Biemond, read. In June this year, the company proposed a rights issue of zero coupon compulsorily convertible preference shares to be subscribed by the overseas entities, including Artava and Auwa, bringing fresh capital to the DOTEPL and further raising stake in the privately held company . A change in ownership and management control will make DOTEPL the second such planter in Darjeeling with a foreign holding. The world’s largest bulk tea producer Camelia Group Plc and its Indian subsidiary Goodricke Group own and manage some of the top gardens in Darjeeling such as Castleton, and Margaret’s Hope. When contacted by The Telegraph, Biemod declined to go into details pointing out that the process of transfer is still on but explained the rationale for the investment. “In general the investor group believes strongly in certified organic agriculture and in the future of organic certified Darjeeling tea, despite some issues during the last years. The company will strive to continue to be the top exporter of high quality organic certified Darjeeling tea,” Biemond told this newspaper. The shake up takes place in a year  Darjeeling — which produces the  finest of teas — will see production drop by 20 per cent, induced by the lockdowns. The Darjeeling Tea Association apprehends production to barely touch 7 million kg and exports may range between 3-3.5 million kg. The most sought after first and second flush teas, which are plucked in the summer months, are mostly exported. The lockdown dented the production to a large extent. In a good year, the 80 gardens in Darjeeling produce around 8.5 million kg tea and export 5-5.5 million kg tea, mostly to Europe and Japan. Darjeeling tea received protected geographical indication status in Europe from 2016. Fresh investment by the European investors suggest that Darjeeling tea could look for a brighter future despite high cost structure, low yield and competition from cheaper variety teas, especially from Nepal, industry observers say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
10-11-2020||Business||Benchmark indices hit record highs as Biden wins||Benchmark indices hit record highs on Monday as Joe Biden’s win in the US Presidential election lifted global shares on hopes of better trade relations with China and another fiscal stimulus package. Domestic stocks may build on their gains when trading resumes on Tuesday on Pfizer’s announcement that its vaccine is 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19. Pfizer’s announcement led to a rally in global stock prices with US markets indicating a strong opening as Dow Jones Futures showed gains of more than 5 per cent even as other indices such as CAC 40 and DAX rose up to 7 per cent. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended up to 2.12 per cent higher. Despite rising coronavirus cases globally and concerns of expensive valuations, domestic shares have been in the positive territory because of better than expected results. Expectations that corporate earnings will improve further in the next quarter and another stimulus from the central government could be in the works helped sentiments too. Poll boost Equities got a further leg up after Joe Biden won the US Presidential elections and a divided house in the US led to a feeling that there will not be any adverse corporate tax changes in the new regime. Biden is likely to tone down the trade war rhetoric with China and focus on combating Covid-19 in the US, which should be positive for equities. Inflows from foreign portfolio investors have also been robust with data showing they have invested close to Rs 11,500 crore into equities in November. Provisional data from the NSE showed that they made net investments worth Rs 4,548 crore on Monday. Rising for the sixth straight session, the BSE Sensex on Monday rose 704.37 points, or 1.68 per cent, to close at its lifetime peak of 42597.43 after it touched a record high of 42645.33 during intra-day trade. The previous closing record for the Sensex was 41952.63, hit on January 14, 2020. The broader NSE Nifty broke records when it settled 197.50 points, or 1.61 per cent, higher to finish at its all-time high of 12461.05. The index also hit a historic intra-day high of 12474.05 during the day. Rupee slips The rupee gave up intra-day gains to settle 7 paise lower at 74.15 against the dollar on Monday, tracking weaker Asian peers against the greenback. Higher crude oil prices also put pressure on it. At the interbank foreign exchange, the rupee opened higher at 73.95 a dollar and gained strength to touch a high of 73.83 during the day. It, however, finally settled at 74.15, 7 paise lower than its previous close. Crude jumps Oil prices jumped as investors greeted the vaccine news, shrugging off worries about lacklustre demand. Brent prices added 8 per cent to $42.6. Oil prices were also supported by a weakening dollar and Biden’s victory, which boosted the demand for riskier assets and removed the election uncertainty from the market. Saudi Arabia on Monday hinted at a possible price hike. Saudi Arabia’s energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said the oil output cuts could be adjusted as it has been in the past if there is consensus among members of the informal producers’ group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
