11-11-2020||Business||Nabard to finance micro finance institutions||Nabard is planning to finance micro finance institutions (MFIs) to cater to the capital requirement of the last mile lenders. The development finance institute earlier had a Rs 200-crore fund called Microfinance Development and Equity fund with which it has funded several large microfinance institutions and also small finance banks. But the contribution was more in the nature of grant which Nabard, unlike equity investors, never encashed. Nabard is now considering if the institution can re-enter the equity funding space keeping in mind the capital requirement of MFIs emerging from the pandemic and the growth prospects of the sector. With several NBFC MFIs graduating to SFBs, there is also room for new players to emerge with capital requirement needs. “There is informal discussion with people within the organisation whether Nabard can re-enter this segment. In the earlier instance, Nabard had given money, but never encashed it. At the same time, competing institutions made tons of money by converting grants into equity,” Nabard chairman G.R. Chintala said at a seminar organised by MFI industry body Sa-Dhan. “This time when we enter we will put money as equity and also provide continuous oversight so that these institutions can grow and pay dividends, not just to the investors alone but to the society at large,” he added. MFIs had collectively raised fresh equity to the tune of Rs 1690 crore in 2019-20 increasing the equity base to Rs 4489 crore for the year against Rs 3050 crore in 2018-19. According to the Bharat Microfinance Report 2020 released by Sa-Dhan, top 10 NBFC MFIs cumulatively raised 91 per cent of the fresh equity during the year. Nabard chairman also called for more vigilance among the MFI industry stakeholders including self-regulatory organisations for the industry in light of the recently unearthed fraud involving an Odisha based microlender. Rating agency Brickwork Ratings downgraded the NCDs and bank loan facilities of Sambandh Finserve Private Limited in October after internal frauds were unearthed at the end of September 2020. “MFIs should refrain from doing such kind of ghost financing and build books and get money out of the banking system. SROs have a bigger role to play. In case there is a suspect, it should be immediately flagged off to all the lenders because ultimately the lenders have to take a hit,” Chintala said. He added that there should be a mechanism for the lenders to track how the MFIs are managing risk at their end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||PUBG plans to return post Krafton and Microsoft Azure distribution deal||The popular gaming app PUBG plans to return to the country two months after it was banned over security concerns following a product distribution deal between parent firm Krafton and cloud computing major Microsoft Azure, reports said. The South Korean gaming firm has engaged with global cloud service providers in recent weeks to store user data in servers within the country. The gaming giant has informed high-profile streamers that it expects to resume services in the country before the year ends,   news site TechCrunch said in a report.
Officials said they have not received any fresh communication for the revocation of the ban following the firm’s plan to store data within the country. Some reports had stated that apart from data security issues, the Indian IT ministry had got complaints from many quarters on the violent nature of the game and that does not change with altering the distribution right to another. The Ministry of Electronics and IT said it received reports and complaints from several sources that indicated the Android and iOS apps are “‘stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India”. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security, and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the ministry had said.
The deal  will also  include PUBG on PC and consoles, in addition to PUBG Mobile, being hosted on Microsoft Azure’s cloud platform. “With privacy and data security being a top priority for Krafton, the company will be working with Microsoft to ensure personal data protection through Azure... The collaboration will ensure that privacy rights are respected and relevant software will be in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations,” Krafton said in an official statement. PUBG Corporation is a part of Krafton. To allay the concerns over data security, Krafton said it will collaborate with Microsoft to introduce a verification process  to ensure that the personal data of players is in-line with the appropriate requirements in countries where Krafton and its subsidiaries operate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||GAIL’s Q2 consolidated net profit drops 8.5 per cent||GAIL’s second-quarter consolidated net profit dropped 8.5 per cent to Rs 1,068.16 crore, or Rs 2.47 per share, after losses on gas marketing offset gains made in the gas transportation business. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,167.58 crore, or Rs 2.59 a share, in the year-ago period, GAIL said in a filing to the bourses. Manoj Jain, chairman & managing director of GAIL, said the company’s plants and pipelines have achieved a pre- Covid level of performance. He added that though the Capex during the first quarter was affected by the lockdown, GAIL has moved swiftly to make up for the lost time and is trying to accelerate the progress in its ongoing projects. Turnover slipped 23.7 per cent to Rs 14,104.80 crore largely because of the lower gas prices during the quarter. Hindalco net drops Hindalco Industries on Tuesday reported a 60.2 per cent fall in consolidated profit after tax at Rs 387 crore for the September quarter but said it is expecting a strong third and fourth quarter as demand has returned in domestic as well as export markets. The company’s PAT declined because of a one-time impact of Rs 1,398 crore on account of the divestiture of the Lewisport unit of Aleris in the US, said Hindalco Industries managing director Satish Pai. The company had posted a PAT of Rs 974 crore a year ago. Kesoram back in black Kesoram Industries, the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla group, returned to profit on the consolidated level after five quarters, buoyed by a strong realisation from the cement business. It made a Rs 6.25 crore profit in the July-September quarter, swinging from a loss of Rs 49.73 crore recorded in the same period last year. Total income, however, dipped marginally to Rs 669.18 crore from Rs 679.5 crore in second quarter of last fiscal. P. Radhakrishnan, CEO of the company, said Kesoram has executed a binding term sheet with an investor who would infuse liquidity by way of debt. “We are hoping to conclude the arrangement by December 31,” he said. Godfrey Phillips Cigarette maker Godfrey Phillips India on Tuesday reported a 9.23 per cent fall in consolidated net profit at Rs 103.06 crore for September quarter of 2020. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 113.54 crore a year ago. Total revenue from operations rose 9.50 per cent to Rs 822.21 crore during the quarter against Rs 750.81 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. Exide profit up 3.8% Exide Industries on Tuesday posted a consolidated net profit after tax of Rs 256.62 crore for the September quarter of 2020. Net profit was up 3.81 per cent compared with Rs 247.18 crore a year ago.
The bottomline was aided by a better performance of the life insurance business where the segment profit was Rs 24.75 crore compared with Rs 5.06 crore a year ago. Consolidated total income was Rs 4032.27 crore compared with Rs 3785.32 crore a year ago. G. Chatterjee, MD and CEO of Exide, said there was an improvement in demand for replacement sales of automotive and UPS batteries. Bata net Footwear major Bata India has posted a standalone net loss of Rs 44.39 crore for September quarter of 2020 against a profit of Rs 71.37 crore. The company on Tuesday said since the opening up of the economy in June, it has taken measures on customer safety, product availability and channel expansion which has resulted in an increase in footfalls in retail outlets along with demand coming from e-commerce platforms. “As we inch back to normalcy, we are mindful that this is going to be a slow and steady recovery,” said CEO Sandeep Kataria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor declares lockout at Bidadi manufacturing facility||Toyota Kirloskar Motor on Tuesday said it has declared a lockout at its Bidadi manufacturing facility in Karnataka following workers’ union members resorting to a sit in strike at the factory premises to protest the suspension of a worker. The company’s Bidadi facility has two production plants with a total installed capacity of 3.10 lakh units per annum.  “Due to the current volatile atmosphere and to protect the safety of employees, the company is forced to declare a lockout until further notice,” TKM said. M&M profit drops Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) has reported an 88 per cent drop in its profit after tax (PAT) to Rs 162 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, mainly on account of an impairment provision of Rs 1,149.46 crore for certain long-term investments. The auto major along with one unit, Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Ltd (MVML), had reported a PAT of Rs 1,355 crore during the July-September period of the previous fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||Indiarath announces launch of first batch of nine start-ups||Indiarath, India’s largest borderless incubator programme, on Tuesday announced the launch of its first batch of nine start-ups. Around 700 start-ups across India had applied for the programme with a majority of applications coming from tier 2 cities and beyond. The selected startups will be guided by giants such as Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Facebook, Silicon Valley Bank, Blume Ventures, Cisco, Paytm, OYO and Morgan Stanely. The 24-week long incubator programme has personalised sessions and coaching to help startups navigate any business challenge across verticals. The programme is focused on three broad categories that include upskilling entrepreneurs to handle real challenges through fundamentals, business remodeling, product designing and branding strategy, provided by some of the best experts from the industry in the form of masterclasses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||Govt may extend free foodgrain scheme and cash transfer plan for women||The government is mulling over plans to extend the free foodgrain scheme and cash transfer plan to the bank accounts of women in view of the spike in the number of coronavirus cases in the country. “The next round of stimulus would be a mix of measures to push demand and social safety measures. Continuation of the free food grain scheme till March is one amongst them being considered,” senior finance ministry officials said. Expectations are that the stimulus measures could be announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman before Diwali. With assembly polls in Bihar and by-elections across 11 states completed, the government now has the freedom to announce the measures without violating the model code of conduct. The Centre announced  free foodgrain scheme Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in March initially for three months till June and later for another five months till November. Besides, 200 million women with Jan Dhan Yojana accounts will get an ex gratia payment of Rs 500 each for the next few months. The poor and vulnerable are likely to remain the focus of the government with international agencies such as  the World Bank warning the coronavirus pandemic is pushing millions of Indians into poverty  and eroding the hard-fought gains made in the past two decades. Deficit worry The distribution of free foodgrain under the plan during April-November is projected to cost a whopping Rs 1.5 lakh crore to the government. Given the financial constraints, the government is weighing its options to extend the plan till March, the officials said. The Centre’s fiscal deficit in the first half of 2020-21 has already accounted for 115 per cent of the budget estimate for the entire year. According to Controller General of Accounts data, the fiscal deficit at the end of September was Rs 9.14 lakh crore up 40.3 per cent year-on year. Economists have estimated the Centre’s fiscal deficit to exceed 7 per cent  of GDP in 2020-21. The budget had pegged fiscal deficit at Rs 7.96 lakh crore or 3.5 per cent of GDP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||TCS to acquire Deutsche Bank AG’s technology service business||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is acquiring Deutsche Bank AG’s technology service business in a move that will strengthen its position in the German market. Financial details of the transaction were, however, not disclosed. The country’s largest IT service firm announced that it will acquire 100 per cent of the shares of Postbank Systems AG (PBS) from Deutsche Bank AG. PBS is the full-range captive IT service provider that provides project management, application management and infrastructure support services to Postbank and other subsidiaries of Deutsche Bank. A statement from TCS said that PBS and its around 1,500 employees will become part of the company, thus deepening the relationship between the two organisations. It added that the acquisition will further add to its scale in Germany and strengthen the growth outlook. The transaction is subject to both parties finalising further agreements, which they intend to do by the end-2020. The transaction is also subject to customary regulatory and governmental approvals. Shares of the IT services giant on Tuesday ended nearly 3 per cent, or Rs 75.95, lower at Rs 2649.95 on the BSE. “We are pleased to deepen our long-standing partnership with Deutsche Bank, continue to help accelerate their digital transformation, and to acquire market specific capabilities in the banking domain,”  N.G. Subramaniam, chief operating officer and executive director, TCS, said while commenting on the transaction. Present in Germany since 1991, TCS currently partners over 100 leading German corporations in their growth and transformation journeys, including 17 of the DAX30. TCS had failed to meet estimates when it posted a net profit of Rs 7,475 crore during the second quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
11-11-2020||Business||Delhi HC seeks Amazon’s response on a plea by Future Retail Ltd||The Delhi high court on Tuesday  sought Amazon’s response on a plea by Future Retail Ltd (FRL) that alleged the US retail giant was interfering in its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail on the basis of an interim order by a Singapore arbitrator. Justice Mukta Gupta issued summons to Amazon, Future Coupons Ltd and Reliance Retail Ltd  on the Future Retail suit and asked them to file their written statements within 30 days. The court also said that the issue of maintainability of the suit, raised by Amazon, would be kept open. This came after the court heard arguments on behalf of Future Retail, Future Coupons, Reliance as well as Amazon. Last Saturday, Future Retail announced it had approached the Delhi high court seeking relief against an arbitration order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) with regard to the Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance. The Future Group company had maintained the Singapore arbitrator had passed the interim order against the company on an agreement in which it was not a party. Last month, the arbitrator barred Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issue any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for Future Retail on Tuesday told the court his client was not challenging the award by the arbitrator as the order was not recognised under Indian laws. Besides, there was no concept of an emergency arbitrator under Indian arbitration rules. Future Retail, Salve said, had no arbitration agreement with Amazon which can only seek any relief from Future Coupons. Salve argued Amazon had tried to perpetuate the falsehood that they didn’t know about the deal between Future Retail and Reliance till as late as September. He claimed the Biyanis were negotiating with Reliance as early as June and that Amazon knew about this. Salve maintained the letters sent by Amazon to the regulatory bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Board of India,  the Competition Commission of India as well as the stock exchanges telling them the Singapore award was binding, would hamper the deal with Reliance and would “sound the death knell” for Future Retail. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium who appeared for Amazon opposed FRL’s plea saying all the arguments raised here by it were made before the Singapore arbitrator  which considered and rejected them. He argued that Future Retail, being a company of the Future group, would be governed by the arbitration agreement between Future Coupon and Amazon and that Future Coupon has a 9.82 per cent stake in Future Retail. He further pointed out that since Amazon holds 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons, it would only have half of the 9.82 per cent stake in its favour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
11-11-2020||Business||Benchmark indices break records with Pfizer vaccine news||Benchmark indices continued to break records as positive results from Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine trials and trends from the assembly elections in Bihar saw the Sensex closing for the first time above the 43000 mark. The 30-share index gained for the seventh consecutive session and vaulted 680.22 points or 1.60 per cent to a record close of 43277.65. During intra-day trades, it touched a lifetime peak of 43316.44. The broader NSE Nifty also closed at its all-time high of 12631.10, rising 170.05 points or 1.36 per cent. It hit an intra-day record of 12643.90. The rupee depreciated 3 paise to close at 74.18 against the dollar on Tuesday as higher crude oil prices and a stronger greenback overseas weighed on sentiment. The rise in crude oil prices had a negative impact on the domestic unit, but robust domestic equities supported the rupee and restricted the fall, analysts  said. However, their performance did not come as a surprise. Markets worldwide had surged on optimism of a global economic recovery after Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE said on Monday that their vaccine candidate was found to be more than 90 per cent effective in preventing the coronavirus. Investor sentiments were also boosted by trends from the Bihar elections which showed the NDA inching towards victory, generating expectations of more reforms by the Centre. In Asia, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai settled lower. Stock exchanges in Europe were mostly trading on a positive note. Provisional data from the NSE showed foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) bought stock worth Rs 5,600 crore on Tuesday. “The global financial markets experienced a wave of euphoria over the potential breakthrough in the coronavirus vaccine development. An uptick in beaten down stocks and sectors were visible today viewing hopes of recovery in business,”  Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said. He said momentum can be sustained by further progress in vaccine development, a domestic stimulus package, consistent FII inflows and a bounce in sentiment following Joe Biden’s win in the US elections.
“However, temporary correction due to profit booking cannot be ruled out because the market is highly optimistic that the vaccine development will rapidly improve the ground reality,” Nair  said. Tuesday’s rally was led by banking and finance stocks while IT and pharmaceutical counters witnessed profit booking. Banking shares have seen buying after better than expected results from SBI and HDFC and positive commentary from their managements on the road ahead. Pfizer cuts gain Shares of Pfizer Limited on Tuesday trimmed most of its early gains to close nearly 3 per cent higher. In early trade, it had zoomed nearly 20 per cent on positive developments over its vaccine candidate.
The stock settled at Rs 5,048.45, a rise of 2.66 per cent on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
