12-11-2020||Business||Sensex drops 236 points to finish at 43,357||Snapping its eight-session winning run, equity benchmark Sensex ended 236 points lower on Thursday, tracking losses in financial counters as profit-booking emerged amid lacklustre global cues. The new set of stimulus measures announced by the government also failed to enthuse investors, traders said. After dropping 466.12 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 236.48 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 43,357.19. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 58.35 points or 0.46 per cent to 12,690.80. SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, HUL, ITC, L&T, Bajaj Finserv and Tech Mahindra ended with gains. "Having witnessed continued rebound for last eight trading days, domestic equities finally took a pause today and profit booking was visible in financials stocks," said Arjun Yash Mahajan, Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. Announcement of fiscal stimulus under Aatmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 by the finance minister mainly focused on job creation and pick up in infrastructure developments in the country, he stated. He added that a large number of mid-cap and small-cap stocks witnessed rebound with emerging clarity over corporate earnings in the backdrop of favourable management commentary and the government's serious efforts to spur investment activities in the country. Announcing a slew of measures to boost the economy, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman earlier in the day said the Indian economy is witnessing a strong recovery after a long and strict lockdown. She unveiled a new job creation scheme by giving subsidy to those establishments that make new hires. The subsidy would be to cover for retirement fund contributions by employees as well as employers for two years. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended in the red, while Tokyo settled on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in early deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.07 per cent lower at USD 43.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Sitharaman announces new employment generation scheme||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a new job creation scheme by giving subsidy to those establishments that make new hires. The subsidy would be to cover for retirement fund contributions by employees as well as employers for two years, she said. Employees contribution (12 per cent of wages) and employer's contribution (12 per cent of wages) totalling 24 per cent of wages would be given to establishments for two years, she said. Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana, every Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) registered establishment taking new employees would get this subsidy. The scheme will cover any new employee joining employment in EPFO-registered establishment on monthly wages less than Rs 15,000 crore. It would also cover EPF members drawing monthly wages of less than Rs 15,000, who made an exit from employment during COVID-19 pandemic from March 1, 2020 and is employed on or after October 1, 2020. The scheme would cover establishments registered with EPFO if they add new employees compared to the reference base of employees as in September 2020. The condition would be adding a minimum of two new employees for establishments with up to 50 employees. Those establishments with more than 50 employees, would have to give a minimum of five new jobs. The scheme would be operational till June 30, 2021. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharman on Thursday announced a Rs 900 crore grant to the Department of Biotechnology for COVID-19 vaccine research. She said the grant does not cover the actual cost of vaccine and distribution expenses, which will be made separately as and when the vaccine is available. She also said that Rs 10,200 crore additional budget outlay will be provided towards capital and industrial expenditure for domestic defence equipment, industrial incentives and infrastructure and green energy. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a Rs 65,000-crore fertilizer subsidy for farmers as part of her stimulus package to boost the economy.  She said Rs 65,000 crore is being provided to ensure adequate availability of fertilisers to farmers and to enable timely accessibility of fertilisers in the upcoming crop season.  She said an additional outlay of Rs 10,000 crore will be provided for PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana in the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Sensex declines by over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in financial stocks ahead of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's press conference. The 30-share BSE index was trading 226.79 points or 0.52 per cent lower at 43,366.88. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 60 points or 0.47 per cent to 12,689.15. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by HDFC twins, Kotak Bank, SBI, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, M&M, Sun Pharma, Infosys, HUL and Nestle India were trading with gains. In the previous session, Sensex settled 316.02 points or 0.73 per cent higher at 43,593.67, while Nifty vaulted 118.05 points or 0.93 per cent to close at a record 12,749.15. The government on Wednesday approved a Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for ten key sectors, including telecom, automobiles and pharmaceuticals, taking the total outlay for such incentives to nearly Rs 2 lakh crore over a five-year period. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 6,207.19 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic trade set up does not look inspiring as of now as the market is expected to take a pause here, said Arjun Yash Mahajan Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. "However, the possibility of announcement of additional fiscal stimulus by the government shortly may keep sentiment alive," he added. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to address the media later in the day. On the global front, US equities ended mostly higher mainly supported by technology stocks as continued surge in new coronavirus cases and resultant restrictions in select cities in the US made investors flock to stocks which emerged as winners during lockdown, Mahajan said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading higher in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.18 per cent higher at USD 43.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Mittal loses pipeline case in Essar resolution process||A bankruptcy court based in Ahmedabad has asked ArcelorMittal to pay Rs 1,308.87 crore to Odisha Slurry Pipeline Infrastructure Ltd (OSPIL) in a case linked to the Essar Steel insolvency process. The National Company Law Tribunal passed an order on Tuesday directing ArcelorMittal (AM), the successful resolution applicant of Essar Steel, to pay the sum by December 15, failing which the company may potentially face liquidation. The court order comes nearly a year after AM, along with Japan’s Nippon Steel (NS), acquired Essar for Rs 42,000 crore through a bankruptcy resolution process. Subsequently, AM acquired OSPIL through a separate insolvency process for Rs 2,350 crore in March this year. However, Srei Infrastructure Finance, which is a creditor to OSPIL and also indirect majority equity shareholder, had challenged the resolution process of the pipeline company at the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. The matter is pending there. The latest twist to the Essar resolution process, which ran for more than two years and went up to the Supreme Court twice, comes at the instance of Srei again, which moved NCLT Ahmedabad seeking clearance of unpaid dues to OSPIL. OSPIL owns a 253-kilometre long pipeline connecting an iron ore beneficiation plant at Debuna to a pellet plant at Paradip in Odisha. It is a critical infrastructure to source raw material for Essar Steel, now AM/NS India. NCLT held that this amount is payable to OSPIL as right to use charges for the period Essar was under resolution. “The resolution applicant has contravened the provisions of such approved resolution plan by not making such IRP cost,” the NCLT bench said in the order. A successful resolution applicant is liable to pay insolvency resolution process (IRP) cost — which often includes the expense of running a plant pending resolution, such as user charges of a pipeline as in this case — apart from creditors. AM/NS India did not comment on the development but it is understood that the company will approach the higher court. A spokesperson for Srei said: “Srei has always maintained that Essar should have paid the outstanding RTU charges to OSPIL. If the payments were made, OSPIL would have serviced its debts due to its lenders and there would have been no occasion for it to be taken for insolvency as the lenders of OSPIL would not have suffered any losses. Hence, our stance has been vindicated by NCLT Ahmedabad.” Advocate Rishav Banerjee, who appeared on behalf of Srei, said the order widens the scope of IBC. “Any stakeholder who is affected by non-implementation of a resolution plan can approach the adjudicating authority for necessary directions and such stakeholder doesn’t necessarily have to be a direct stakeholder of the corporate debtor,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Amazon defence in Future Retail's arbitration case||Amazon on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that the emergency arbitration award against Future Retail Ltd (FRL) by a Singapore arbitrator was a valid order and that the retailing giant had the right to inform the statutory bodies about it. The submission was made by Amazon before Justice Mukta Gupta during the hearing of FRL’s plea alleging that the e-commerce major was interfering in its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail on the basis of an interim order by Singapore arbitrator, SIAC. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, appearing for Amazon, said the suit filed by FRL was “doubtful’’ and not maintainable. Continuing his arguments from where he had left on Tuesday, Subramanium said FRL participated in the proceedings before the emergency arbitrator (EA) and also urged it not to pass an interim order till an arbitrator is appointed on behalf of the entire Future Group. According to a PTI report, Subramanium said that FRL cannot now say that the arbitrator’s interim decision was invalid and not binding on it. The senior lawyer added that FRL ought to have approached the courts here when the notice about the emergency arbitration was received by it in early October this year, but it chose to wait till now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Coal India profit down 16% for September quarter||Coal India on Wednesday reported a 16.3 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 2,948.12 crore for the September quarter on the back of higher expenses. The net profit was Rs 3,522.70 crore in the July-September period a year ago. Income during the quarter marginally increased to Rs 22,237.82 crore from Rs 22,012.94 crore in the year-ago period. Expenses rose to Rs 18,177.82 crore from Rs 17,734.44 crore a year ago. Dividend for Centre The Centre will receive an amount of Rs 3,056 crore as dividend from Coal India Ltd as the miner has announced an interim dividend at a rate of Rs 7.50 per share for the 2020-21 financial year, an official said. The total interim dividend outgo for Coal India will be Rs 4,622 crore. Bank wage pact Over 8.5 lakh employees, mostly from public sector banks, will get a 15 per cent hike in pay, with the conclusion of the 11th Bipartite Wage Negotiations on Wednesday. The hike in wages would be for a period of five years starting November 1, 2017. After three years of intense negotiations, bank employees’ unions and the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) have entered into a memorandum of understanding for the wage hike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Sensex hits a new high on positive global and domestic cues||There was no stopping the bull run on the bourses on Wednesday as benchmark indices closed at new highs on positive global and domestic cues and robust portfolio inflows. Besides expectations of a strong turnaround in corporate earnings, the chatter on the Street is that the current rally marks the start of another multi-year bull run in a visible throwback to the peaks that stocks saw between 2003 and 2008. The Nifty had jumped 5.5-6 times between April 2003 and January 2008. After touching its all-time peak of 43708.47, the Sensex ended with gains of 316.02 points, or 0.73 per cent, higher at 43593.67 on Wednesday. The NSE Nifty vaulted 118.05 points to close at 12749.15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||RBI sees third quarter revival for Indian economy||The Reserve Bank of India believes that the Indian economy will bounce back in the third quarter (October-December) and show positive growth if the upturn in economic activity in October is sustained over the next two months. The latest forecast suggests that the central bank has started to cautiously signal that the Indian economy is preparing to heave itself out of the gloom and doom scenario painted by a variety of economists and global institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank which have almost universally projected an almost 10 per cent contraction this fiscal. In its baseline forecast made at its monetary policy meeting on October 9, the RBI had said real GDP would contract 9.5 per cent in 2020-21 “with risks tilted to the downside”. In its semi-annual monetary policy report, the central bank had forecast a 5.6 per cent contraction in Q3 and a 0.5 per cent growth in Q4. Now, the RBI believes that the turnaround may happen sooner — in the third quarter rather than the fourth. “With the momentum of September having been sustained, there is optimism that the revival of economic activity is stronger than the mere satiation of pent-up demand released by unlocks and the rebuilding of inventories.” “If this upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the Indian economy will break out of the contraction of the past six months gone by and return to positive growth in the third quarter of 2020-21,” it added It, however, flagged the unrelenting pressure of inflation as a downside risk. Another risk comes from the global economy which could feel the adverse impact of a second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
12-11-2020||Business||E-invoice rule in GST tightened||The government has tightened the GST compliance norm by making e-invoicing mandatory for any firm whose turnover exceeds Rs 100 crore from January 1, 2021. The earlier limit was Rs 500 crore. The move comes at a time the Centre and the states are facing a decline in tax receipts. The authorities had enforced e-invoicing of business-to-business transactions for companies with Rs 500 crore sales from October 1. “With only about 50 days left for the rule to come into effect, mid-size companies would need to ramp up processes and IT systems to enable compliance with the new regulation,” Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY, said. The changes will bring a large number of medium enterprises under the ambit of e-invoicing. It is expected that it will be made available to all taxpayers for B2B transactions from April 1, 2021. Prakash Kumar, senior adviser of Deloitte India, said: “This will help to curb tax evasion and increase tax collections. It would be interesting to see the preparedness of such class of taxpayers, who were actually informed about this date many months ago itself. However, going by the resounding success of the October 1 roll-out for the larger companies, MSME’s too should be able to comply with the new requirement.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
12-11-2020||Business||Godrej group forays into financial services||The Godrej group has forayed into financial services by launching its housing finance arm. Godrej Housing Finance (GHF) will start by extending loans at 6.69 per cent interest, which is the lowest in the industry at present. This venture comes at a time both banks and housing finance companies are witnessing good interest as individuals take advantage of the low interest rates, attractive property prices coupled with discounts offered by developers to purchase new homes. The Godrej group said it will infuse up to Rs 1,500 crore as capital in the mortgage finance firm which will initially target customers buying apartments from the group’s realty arm Godrej Properties. “We believe we have gained good understanding about the real estate business and its connection with finance and are entering the new business after a carefully thought strategy,’’ chairman Pirojsha Godrej said. Managing director and chief executive Manish Shah, who joins the group from Bank of Baroda’s non-bank lending arm, said GHF will try to make lending affordable, flexible, and fair to customers. Shah added it is targeting a portfolio of Rs 1,000 crore by March 2021, and will touch Rs 10,000 crore in assets under management within three years of the launch with 40,000 loan accounts. Godrej said the group is committed to investing Rs 1,000-1,500 crore, which the business will need in the first three years. It may look to get  an external investor on board after three years and an initial public offering in 6-7 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
12-11-2020||Business||Haze over newly-approved production sop||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a production-linked incentive scheme (PLI) worth Rs 1.45 lakh crore that will be parcelled among 10 sectors over a five-year period. The scheme will encourage domestic manufacturing, reduce imports and generate employment, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after the cabinet meeting. But the details are not forthcoming yet and if the scheme follows the previous PLI scheme for electronics, it is likely to leave many players in the lurch while benefiting only the bigger ones. The 10 sectors to get the incentives are: advance chemistry cell (ACC) battery (Rs 18,100 crore); electronics and technology products (Rs 5,000 crore); automobiles and auto components (Rs 57,042 crore); pharmaceuticals and drugs (Rs 15,000 crore); telecom and networking products (Rs 12,195 crore); textile products (Rs 10,683 crore); food products (Rs 10,900 crore); high efficiency solar PV modules (Rs 4,500 crore); white goods (Rs 6,238 crore) and speciality steel (Rs 6,322 crore). “The PLI scheme, since it is based on incremental output, is more effective from the government’s standpoint than some of the other grant based schemes such as mega food parks, which are more input oriented. The PLI scheme is also targeted towards the larger anchor investors who are capable of mobilising the initial investment for brownfield or greenfield projects by themselves,” said Arindam  Guha of Deloitte India. The government had approved another PLI scheme of Rs 51,311 crore effective April 1, 2020 for mobile manufacturing and specified electronic components among others. Analysts had pointed to several grey areas of the scheme. First, the incentives were in the range of 4 per cent to 6 per cent of incremental sales, meaning greater the production the higher the incentive. But higher production rests on higher demand — a company cornering a greater  share of the market will get more of the incentives muscling out the others as each sector will get the support only up to a limit. The scheme had thus attracted big players such as Foxconn, Wistron and Pegatron — all contract manufacturers for Apple — and Rising Star, which makes Samsung phones. The PLI scheme for mobile phones also has stiff annual incremental production targets — Rs 25,000 crore over the base level by the fifth year — which will work to the advantage of the bigger players. “The industry was eagerly awaiting this scheme to increase its competitiveness and take the growth of the sector to the next level. We look forward to the details of the scheme,” Kenichi Ayukawa, president of SIAM and managing director & CEO Maruti Suzuki India, said. S.P. Kochhar, director-general of COAI, said the telecom companies were yet to receive details of the scheme from the telecom department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
