13-11-2020||Business||Sensex falls over 250 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 250 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid weak cues from global markets. The market is taking a pause at these levels with higher possibility of profit-booking, experts said. The 30-share BSE index was trading 251.44 points or 0.58 per cent lower at 43,105.75. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 68.95 points or 0.54 per cent to 12,621.85. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by SBI, L&T, Axis Bank, HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Reliance Industries, Titan, Bajaj Finance and Sun Pharma were trading with gains. In the previous session, Sensex ended 236.48 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 43,357.19, while Nifty slipped 58.35 points or 0.46 per cent to 12,690.80. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,514.12 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Trade set up in India does not look to be inspiring as global markets are trading lower now taking cues from US equities, said Arjun Yash Mahajan Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. Amid profit-booking, the market did not react much yesterday after the announcement of fiscal stimulus under Aatmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 by the Finance Ministry, he said. Meanwhile, industrial production entered positive territory after a gap of six months, mainly due to higher output in mining and power sectors, official data showed on Thursday. The industrial output grew by 0.2 per cent in September, according to the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) data. On the global front, US equities ended lower as investors turned cautious due to continued rise in COVID-19 cases and possibilities of further restriction on businesses in a large way. Additionally, dimming prospects of early fiscal stimulus due to Donald Trump's hard stance on US election result outcome may not result in smooth transition for the new government, also weighed on investors' sentiments, Mahajan added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul was positive. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.59 per cent lower at USD 42.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||CSE to not distribute laddus after Muhurat trading on Diwali||Calcutta Stock Exchange is going to break away from the decade old tradition of distributing laddu after Muhurat trading on the evening of Deepawali. An exchange official says the decision was taken in view of the pandemic and the court orders to maintain social distancing during festivities. The ghee-soaked laddu is usually a big draw at Lyon’s Range where people associated with the stock markets queue up in the evening to get hold of a box which contains the sweets. The popularity of the item can be gauged from the fact that the exchange, which has had no trading on its platform officially since 2013, had ordered 414 kg of the laddu from Bhikharam Chandmal last year, costing the exchange around Rs 1,78,000. The sweet comes in a box and contains four laddus, made of moong dal and desi ghee, each weighing about 150 grams. The exchange officials also send the sweet as a gift box to people associated with it. The distribution by the exchange goes on for at least three to four days. “Brokers, clients and those who work in their offices come to the bourse with their families for puja and Muhurat trading. We know many people will be disappointed with the decision but we cannot take risk when Covid-19 is raging,” Sankar Lal Singh, administrative officer of CSE, said. “We will conclude the rituals in a low key manner. Only whole fruits will be offered to the idols of Laxmi-Ganesh and the participation of people in anjali/aarti will be allowed with strict compliance of the order of the high court,” Ajit Day, past president of the exchange, said it was a right decision. “I am going to hold a puja at the office in a low key manner. Unlike past years, we are not inviting clients and associates,” Day said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||Grasim Industries announces sale of fertilisers business to Indorama Corporation||AV Birla group firm Grasim Industries on Thursday announced the sale of its fertilisers business to Indorama Corporation for Rs 2,649 crore. In fertilisers, Grasim is one of the largest urea producer in India with a capacity of 3,340 tonnes per day. It operates across seven states in northern and eastern India, comprising a network of  1,635 distributors and around 34,700 retailers, besides having access to close to one million farmers. Grasim said the sale will enable it to focus on its core business. It added that the fertiliser sector is tightly regulated and has a low return on capital employed (ROCE) because of high working capital and a long cycle of receivables even as it also has to deal with high maintenance cost. Marketed under the brand “Shaktiman”, the cement business posted revenues of Rs 2,678 crore in the previous fiscal and Rs 606 crore in the first quarter of this financial year. The company added that all assets, liabilities, litigations, brands and employees pertaining to Indo Gulf Fertilisers (IGF) will be transferred on a slump sale basis through a scheme of arrangement, subject to terms and conditions agreed between the parties. It is being done for a lump sum cash consideration of Rs 2,649 crore with certain closing adjustments. The transaction is expected to be completed in nine months. The business is being sold to Indorama India Pvt Ltd, a step-down subsidiary of Indorama Corp which is the largest producer of urea and phosphate fertilisers in sub-Saharan Africa and the largest producer of polyolefins in west Africa. “The divestment of the fertiliser business by Grasim is a strategic portfolio choice and unlocks value for the shareholders,” said Grasim Industries managing director Dilip Gaur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||Retail inflation hits nearly six-and-a-half year high of 7.61 per cent||Costlier vegetables and eggs pushed up retail inflation to a nearly six-and-a-half year high of 7.61 per cent in October, keeping it significantly above the comfort zone of the Reserve Bank. Retail inflation stood at 7.27 per cent in September 2020, according to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) data released by the government on Thursday. The Consumer Food Price Index rose to 11.07 per cent in October from 10.68 per cent in the previous month of September. It was 4.62 per cent in  October 2019. The RBI, which mainly factors in retail inflation while arriving at key policy rates, has been mandated by the government to keep inflation at 4 per cent (+, - 2 per cent). Aditi Nayar, economist at Icra, said, “While a base effect and some softening in vegetable prices may pull down inflation in the ongoing month, it is expected to recede below 6 per cent only in December.” IIP turns positive Industrial production entered the positive territory after a gap of six months, mainly because of higher output in the mining and power sectors, official data showed on Thursday. The industrial output grew 0.2 per cent in September, according to the index of industrial production (IIP) data. The IIP had contracted 4.6 per cent in September 2019.  Manufacturing recorded a marginal contraction of 0.6 per cent in September. The output of the mining and power segments grew 1.4 per cent and 4.9 per cent, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||Govt extends emergency credit line guarantee scheme||The government has extended the Rs 3-lakh-crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) till March 31, 2021 and has also widended the scope of the scheme to include mid-sized companies in the 26 stressed sectors identified by the RBI-constituted K.V. Kamath committee. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said ECLGS 1.0 has covered Rs 2-lakh-crore loans sanctioned so far by the banks. There is still a headroom of Rs 1 lakh under the first scheme. The government said that it would assess the situation and decide on the additional guarantee cover for the 26 stressed sectors later. Through this scheme, firms having outstanding credit of Rs 50 crore to Rs 500 crore can get access to guaranteed collateral-free credit. The loans will have a one-year moratorium on principal repayment and another year for repayment. Most of these units with loan outstanding between Rs 50 crore and Rs 500 crore are promoter driven with not much assets to offer as collateral. Under ECLGS 2.0 , the mid-sized companies in 26 sectors with loan outstanding of Rs 50-500 crore will get 100 per cent collateral free additional loan up to 20 per cent of the loan outstanding as on February 29, 2020. There is no upper limit on the annual turnover of these companies. This translates into funds of Rs 10-100 crore to such units. The tenure of the additional credit under ECLGS 2.0 will be five years, including one-year moratorium on principal repayment. The stressed sectors identified by the KV Kamath committee were power, construction, iron and steel, roads, real estate, trading, textiles, chemicals and consumer durables. “We believe potentially around 40,000 entities can benefit from the scheme.  However, if the overall amount stays at Rs 3 lakh crore, the overall corpus of ECLGS 2.0 could be a constraining factor,” Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India, said in a research report. “Enhancement of the outstanding credit criteria to Rs 500 crore and no upper ceiling on the eligible company’s annual turnover will help a wider set of business enterprises, including MSMEs,” said Siddhartha Sanyal, chief economist and head of research, Bandhan Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||Moody’s revises GDP forecast to an 8.9 per cent contraction||Moody’s Investor Service (Moody’s) has revised upwards its GDP forecast for India to an 8.9 per cent contraction in 2020 from a 9.6 per cent contraction forecast earlier as the economy inches back to growth with several restrictions being lifted after a strict nationwide lockdown. In its Global Macro Outlook 2021-22, Moody’s also revised upwards India’s GDP forecast for 2021 to 8.6 per cent growth from an earlier projection of 8.1 per cent expansion. The Indian economy had grown 4.8 per cent in 2019. The global rating agency was, however, quick to add that the recovery is patchy. Its projections come after the economy contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the April-June period of this year. On Wednesday, a monthly bulletin from the RBI said India has entered a technical recession in the first half of 2020-21 for the first time in its history as the July-September period is likely to record the second successive quarter of GDP contraction. It, however, added that if the recovery seen in October continues for the next two months, the Indian economy will come out of the contraction in the third quarter of this fiscal. “We forecast a gradual improvement in economic activity over the coming quarters.. However, slow credit intermediation will hamper the pace of recovery because of an already weakened financial sector,’’ the rating agency said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
13-11-2020||Business||Finance minister relaxes income tax rules||In a move to boost the real estate sector, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday relaxed income tax rules to allow the sale of primary residential units of up to Rs 2 crore value below the circle rate. The relief is being extended under section 43 CA of the Income Tax Act under which a home buyer will not have to pay tax on deemed income if the price of the residential unit is 20 per cent lower than the circle rate. At present, the difference allowed is capped at 10 per cent. “This measure will reduce hardships faced by both home-buyers and developers and help in clearing the unsold inventory,” she said. “The cap of Rs 2 crore means most projects in Metro cities will not be able to take advantage of this. The ideal situation would have been one where this relaxation would be applicable to commercial real estate transactions as well,” Niranjan Hiranandani, president, NAREDCO & Assocham, said. Sushil Mohta, president of Credai (Bengal), said land deals on the outskirts of Calcutta would benefit most from the announcement. “On Diamond Harbour Road, Rajarhat, Howrah or even Sector V in Salt Lake, the circle rates for land are much higher than the market rate. Many deals get stuck because the net realisation goes down for sellers and cost goes up for buyers because of tax incidence,” Mohta said. Jitendra Khaitan of Pioneer Properties said regular properties would benefit most. “There is not much of a gap between the circle rate and market rate for premium projects. But those that do not fall in the category also get assessed at a higher circle rate because of location,” Khaitain said. “The relief up to 20 per cent to buyers under Section 56(2)(x) of the IT Act for the said period will definitely boost demand, especially in the affordable and mid segments. For developers, this move will help clear unsold stock,” said Anuj Puri, chairman – Anarock Property Consultants. “The relief is given if the flat is purchased from promoters or builders. The circle rate adopted for stamp duty valuation is much higher than the actual market price of flats. Now if there is difference of up to 20 per cent in price mentioned in sale deed and circle rate, the promoter and purchaser of flat will not be burdened with tax on amount of difference,” said Narayan Jain, tax advocate. With inputs from Calcutta bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
13-11-2020||Business||Centre announces Rs 1.19 lakh crore stimulus package||The Narendra Modi-government on Thursday announced a Rs 1.19 lakh stimulus package, which coupled with Wednesday’s Rs 1.45 lakh production-linked incentives takes the Centre’s boosters for Diwali to Rs 2.65 lakh crore in two days. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced tax relief on select home sale deals, enhanced credit guarantee programme for small businesses, provided incentives for new job creation as well as additional fertiliser subsidy. Under the job creation scheme, the government will provide a subsidy to establishments that hire workers or re-employs those they fired during the pandemic. The subsidy is equal to the contribution that an employee and the employer have to make towards the retirement fund, which is 24 per cent of the wages. Sitharaman said the government will provide Rs 65,000 crore of additional subsidy on fertiliser to ensure the crop nutrient is available to farmers during the current season. The finance minister cited data, including increase in tax collections for goods and services, rise in energy consumption and improvement in bank credit, to state that the economy was seeing “strong recovery” taking root. “In the last 10-15 days, there have been quite a few steps and indicators which have shown the recovery is happening, she said. Also, Rs 10,000 crore was provided for rural employment, Rs 3,000 crore to Exim Bank for extending lines of credit, and Rs 10,200 crore additional budget outlay for defence and infrastructure. A Rs 900-crore grant was made to the department of biotechnology for coronavirus vaccine research. The government also more than tripled the allocation for the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. From an initial allocation of Rs 8,000 crore for the scheme, the government has increased the allocation to Rs 26,000 crore this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
