14-11-2020||Business||Indiabulls Real Estate shares gain more than 9 per cent||Shares of Indiabulls Real Estate gained more than 9 per cent on Friday after ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala’s Rare Enterprises acquired its shares through an open market transaction. His purchase saw the counter zooming 15.68 per cent to an intra-day high of Rs 63.80 on the BSE. It finally settled at Rs 60.15, a gain of 9.07 per cent. It rose 9.35 per cent to settle at Rs 60.25 on the NSE. Bulk deals data of the NSE showed on Thursday that Rare Enterprises bought 50 lakh scrips of the company at an average price of Rs 57.73 per share. This took the total deal value to Rs 28.86 crore. His purchase comes at a time observers are optimistic about the real estate sector even as the government has also announced incentives to boost the sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
14-11-2020||Business||Stocks wrap up Samvat 2076 on a positive note||Stocks wrapped up Samvat 2076 on a positive note, with the benchmark Sensex ending 85.81 points, or 0.20 per cent, higher at 43443. The broader NSE Nifty gained 29.15 points, or 0.23 per cent, to close at 12719.95. Both the key indices closed the Hindu calendar year with double-digit gains. While the Sensex rallied 4384.94 points or 11.22 per cent, the Nifty rose 1136.05 points or 9.80 per cent. The stock exchanges will hold a special one hour Muhurat session on Saturday to ring in Samvat 2077. Analysts and brokerages are optimistic about how the next year would pan out for equities. They feel a vaccine, a turnaround in global economic growth and better corporate performance along with reduced trade hostilities between the US and China are some of the key factors which would keep stocks on a firm ground. While some experts feel that the Sensex could test the 47000-mark, Goldman Sachs has placed a target of 14100 for the Nifty by the end of 2021. Investors were confronted by several headwinds during Samvat 2076 — a slowdown in the economy, troubled trade ties between the US and China, lacklustre corporate performance and then the Covid-19 pandemic which resulted in a strict and long lockdown severely affecting economic activity. Investors saw the Sensex hitting multi-year lows of 25639 in March. Since then it has rebounded in a spectacular fashion as lockdown rules were relaxed and there were positive developments about the Covid-19 vaccine, generating hopes of a sharp turnaround in economic growth. During this period, pharmaceuticals, IT, chemicals and telecom were some of the sectors that delivered positive returns while those in the banking and finance sector and consumer discretionary stocks lost value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
14-11-2020||Business||Eveready Industries posts highest ever operating profit in a quarter||Dry cell battery maker Eveready Industries has posted the highest ever operating profit in a quarter, backed by a strong demand for premium batteries, flashlights and benign commodity prices. Profit jumped 216 per cent to Rs 58.02 crore from Rs 18.38 crore a year ago, while the operating EBIDTA margin stood at 20.3 per cent in the reporting quarter, even as operating income inched up 7 per cent to Rs 372.63 crore from Rs 348.28 crore. The company, led by Amritanshu Khaitan, managed to cut expenses on various heads such as employee and distribution cost and promotional spends. “This is the best operational result Eveready has ever delivered in a quarter. I am confident that we can maintain the performance in the second half of the year as well,” Khaitan said. A healthy demand coupled with a sharp reduction in cheap Chinese imports helped the company do well in the core segments of battery and flashlights.  In addition, Eveready increased prices of batteries and flashlights to mitigate the negative impact of the rupee depreciation. Consequently, while batteries sales were higher by 7.4 per cent, turnover grew 14.1 per cent in this segment. Torch and flashlight volumes were flat but turnover went up 8.6 per cent. The lighting segment also returned to profit during the second quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
14-11-2020||Business||ONGC’s net profit falls 55 per cent to Rs 2,878 crore||ONGC’s net profit fell 55 per cent to Rs 2,878 crore in the second quarter of 2020 from Rs 6,336 crore, a company statement said on Friday. Total income fell to Rs 19,152 crore from Rs 27,152 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. OIL discovery Oil India on Friday said it has made a natural gas discovery at a well drilled in Tinsukia, Assam. “The discovery will open up new areas for exploration in Assam and would help in enhancing the gas production,” the company said. Oil India said well Dinjan-1 in Tinsukia petroleum mining lease in the upper Assam basin struck hydrocarbons. The well encountered about 10 metres of hydrocarbon-bearing sands, it said. On testing, it produced gas at the rate of 115,000 standard cubic metres per day. Oil India, whose majority of operations are concentrated in the north-east, did not indicate the reserves the discovery may hold. The country’s oil and natural gas sector is likely to receive fresh investment of over $300 billion by 2030 for developing natural supply and distribution infrastructure to meet rising demand. Gas accounts for a little over 6 per cent energy consumption mix, which is far below the global average and the country has set a target to raise this to 15 per cent by 2030. The demand is expected to be driven by the fertiliser, power, household cooking and steel sectors. Promoting compressed natural gas is aimed at reducing the overwhelming dependence on imported petrol and diesel in the auto sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
14-11-2020||Business||Centre asks public sector units to pay higher dividends on a quarterly basis||The cash-strapped Modi government has sent out an advisory to public sector units asking them to pay higher dividends and on a quarterly basis. The move is seen as an attempt to shore up its finances. The government has told state-owned firms not to go by the rule book and pay only the bare minimum dividend, but to work on increasing payouts. The letter, sent by the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) to the chief executives of all CPSEs, said the move would help the government get predictable and periodic payouts before the budget estimates are firmed up. “The CPSEs, especially companies that pay relatively higher dividends, may consider paying interim dividends every quarter after their quarterly results. Other CPSEs may pay interim dividends on a half-yearly basis,” the advisory said. “Many CPSEs usually only pay a minimum dividend as set in the guidelines. They are advised to pay higher dividends taking into account relevant factors such as profitability, capex requirements with due leveraging, cash or reserves and net worth,” the advisory said. DIPAM secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey told a television channel: “30 per cent should not be treated as a maximum kind of a thing, it is minimum so they should strive to give more dividends. Frequency of the interim dividend could be higher and 90 per cent of the projected dividend should be paid as an interim dividend. This will ensure that the shareholders can keep the money as dividend as they go.” Most PSUs pay interim dividend in February or March. He added “dividend should be taken into consideration all factors including capex requirements, including the requirements of profitability, etc. whatever it is, it should be actually well distributed over the year.” DIPAM advised that only CPSEs without any “possibility” of dividend payout, according to the minimum prescribed norms, can pay interim dividend annually during October or November each year based on projected profit after tax, with the declaration of second quarterly results. “A consistent dividend policy would also help revive investor interest and improve market sentiment for CPSE stocks, as practicability in regular or quarterly dividend payment would attract quality investors to CPSE stocks and retain them in the hope of a future dividend,” the DIPAM’s fresh advisory said. Most state-owned firms pay interim dividend in February or March of a year at present. “Such bunching of interim dividend payouts by CPSEs in February-March may compete with their cash availability for year-end payments to suppliers as well as towards advance tax,” the DIPAM explained the rationale behind the move in the advisory. In the budget 2020, the government had estimated receipts from dividends and profits at Rs 1.55 lakh crore against the revised estimates for the past year of Rs 1.99 lakh crore. Clearly, the centre is stepping on the management to cough up sorely-needed cash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
14-11-2020||Business||Infosys co-founder S.D. Shibulal receives a little over four lakh shares as gift||Infosys co-founder S.D. Shibulal has received a little over four lakh shares of the company as a gift. This will take the total number of shares owned by him to more than 21.6 lakh shares. The country’s second-largest IT services firm informed the stock exchanges that “4,01,000 equity shares (representing 0.01 per cent) of Infosys by way of gift as off market transaction on November 12’’ were given to Shibulal. The value of these shares, according to the closing price of the Infosys scrip on Thursday, stood at Rs 44.82 crore. Though the filing did not mention who gifted these shares, it is understood to be from his wife. This is because a separate regulatory filing stated that his wife Kumari had gifted 4.01 lakh shares on the same day. However, the name of the recipient was not disclosed. As on September 30, 2020, she held 92,97,930 shares of Infosys. Following the transaction, Kumari’s shareholding in the Bangalore-based firm has now come down to 0.21 per cent, while that of Shibulal increased to 0.05 per cent. In terms of absolute number of shares, that held by Kumari Shibulal and Shibulal stood at 88,96,930 and 21,66,768, respectively. Shares of Infosys on Friday closed marginally higher at Rs 1,123.90, a gain of 0.55 per cent, on the BSE. While the reasons behind the gift to Shibulal could not be ascertained, such inter-se transfers are not new in the family. For instance, in 2018, Shibulal and his daughter Shruti Shibulal had gifted shares worth Rs 2,327 crore to family members. These were gifted to son-in-law Gaurav Manchanda, daughter in-law Bhairavi Madhusudan Shibulal and grandson Milan Shibulal Manchanda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
14-11-2020||Business||Bengal govt partially agrees to Centre's latest GST shortfall formula||The Bengal government has partially agreed to the latest formula proposed by the Centre to clear the shortfall in GST compensation to the states. While it has decided to go along with the Modi government’s proposal to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore, which constitutes two thirds of the outstanding dues, and pass it on to the states, it has refused to accept an accompanying proposition that the states must borrow the remaining amount. After three rounds of protracted meetings of the GST Council, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman wrote to the chief ministers of all the states, stating that it accepted the demand raised by various states, including Bengal, to borrow a sum of Rs 1.10 crore and pass it on to the states. She also proposed that the rest — around Rs 72,000 crore constituting about one-third of the total estimated shortfall of GST compensation cess — would have to be borrowed by the states. Accordingly, the Centre relaxed limits by permitting states to borrow an additional 0.5 per cent of state’s gross state domestic product (GSDP). In a letter written to Sitharaman on Friday, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra argued that borrowing by the states would result in higher borrowing costs and a bigger debt servicing burden than if the Centre borrowed the sum on their behalf. While the central formula proposes to apportion the borrowing requirement between the states and the Centre, the burden of meeting the shortfall will fall on the common people. In either case, both the principal and the interest of the loan will be met by extending the period of collecting the compensation cess beyond 2022. The cess is largely imposed on luxury products and demerit goods such as cigarettes. Mitra has called for another meeting of the GST Council to discuss the proposal that the Centre ought to borrow the additional sum of Rs 72,000 crore. “May I also point out that the GoI (Government of India) has been able to borrow the initial compensation funds from the special window of the RBI at a low rate of 5 per cent, approximately, whereas the interest rates paid by the states for competitively borrowing from the RBI auction is as high as 6.8 per cent,” Mitra said in his letter. “In other words, by asking the states to borrow one-third of the potential compensation funds from the competitive auction market of the RBI, a lot more debt servicing burden will be generated for the states, to be paid from the cess collection. This huge differential in interest rates between the GoI’s special window rate and the market borrowing rate of the state, provide a cogent reason for the GoI to borrow the whole amount from the special window,” Mitra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
14-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel in talks with SSAB to sell business in the Netherlands||Tata Steel has opened talks with Swedish steel maker SSAB to sell the business in the Netherlands, making another attempt to trim its loss-making European operations. The Indian steel maker confirmed on Friday that it had started talks with SSAB even as it has begun consultations with the management of Tata Steel Netherlands and its supervisory board. The potential transaction will not include steel-making operations in the UK which the Tatas will continue to own and operate while pinning hopes that the British government will agree to back a financial rescue package. The Ijmuiden operation, which produces about 7 million tonnes of  steel in the Netherlands, is considered to be a more modern and profitable asset than the UK business which centres around Port Talbot in Wales. “Based on the discussions, initiated by SSAB Sweden, regarding a potential acquisition of Tata Steel’s Netherlands business, we will undertake a due process and move to the next stages, including consultation and due diligence,” Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of Tata Steel, said in a statement. Earlier, the company had planned to merge the entire European operation with Thyssenkrupp of Germany. However, the deal could not go through as it was not approved by the European Commission. The steel operations in the Netherlands have historically been profitable but have started to slip lately. The company faced a backlash from the unions over proposed reorganisation plans that provided for job cuts. The European business posted an EBIDTA loss of Rs 462 crore in the second quarter compared with Rs 165 crore in the first quarter. Restructuring in India Tata Steel also unveiled a plan to restructure the Indian business by proposing to merge Tata Metaliks and Indian Steel and Wire Products with Tata Steel Long Products. Tata Metaliks, which produces pig iron and ductile iron pipe at Kharagpur, has its registered office in Bengal. ISWP is an unlisted entity. The reorganisation is part of efforts to create four verticals: mining and utilities, long products, downstream and infrastructure businesses. Tata Metaliks’ shareholders will get 12 shares of Tata Steel Long Products for every 10 shares held. In the past, Tata Steel had proposed to merge Tata Metaliks with Tata Steel India but the plan was aborted. T.V. Narendran, CEO & MD of Tata Steel, said: “We are now embarking on re-organising our Indian subsidiaries into four verticals to drive scale, synergies and simplification which we are confident will create value for our stakeholders.” Results The company reported second-quarter standalone profits after tax of Rs 2,205 crore against a Rs 3,838 crore a year ago. Tata Steel Group recorded a PAT of Rs 1635 crore against 4,043 crore a year ago. The company reduced its net debt by Rs 8,197 crore in the first half.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
