15-11-2020||Business||Mixed bag for car dealers during festive season||Dealers feel car sales have been muted this festive season even as manufacturers claimed there has been a recovery this Diwali and Dhanteras. Some manufacturers, particularly those with diesel portfolio, were stocked out. While the actual festive numbers will emerge only after a week or so, sales were good in some states while they remained muted in others in this pandemic market. Vinkesh Gulati, president of the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association, said: “It’s been a mixed bag, while some states did good, others did not fare well. The bookings are happening but the conversion rates are not good. Customers are either deferring  their decision to buy or can’t make up their mind.” There is an issue with a major supplier, added Gulati, the reason why diesel cars are out of stock. “A major component supplier of BSVI diesel engines is faltering,” he said. Many of the original equipment manufacturers (OEM)s were caught in the middle of the transition from BSIV to BSVI when the lockdown happened. As a result, they had zero inventory both at the plant and at the dealers. Whatever is being produced is getting sold out, said a company source. Toyota Kirloskar Motors reported a 1013 per cent in¬crease in orders this year on Dhanteras over the same peri¬od last year. “Dhanteras in 2020 has been celebrated over two days in various parts of the country and, hence, in terms of retail sales (dealer’s sale to customer) also, we have witnessed a 12 per cent growth compared with Dhanteras in 2019,” said Naveen Soni, senior vicepresident, sales and marketing, TKM. Mercedes MD and CEO Martin Schwenk said: “This year’s festive season has con¬tributed actively to the recov¬ery in sales witnessed since the third quarter.” “We are witnessing a gradual but steady recovery over the last few months and this can be attributed to a few factors, including, pentup demand from the last few months, festive demand that has contributed to overall sales in the month of October and November, consolidation of the market at the lower end due to personal mobility issues and finally, the kind of offers and schemes that OEMs have been offering to customers to push demand,” Soni said. “The first two factors being topical are bound to gradually taper down, beginning next month. We have already witnessed a decrease in demand created due to pent up demand from 36 per cent in the earlier months to around 20 per cent last month. Similarly, festive demand will also last till about the end of this month. Therefore, what is more prone to sustain are factors like consolidation of the market at the lower end due to personal mobility issues and the variety of schemes and offers that OEMs can come up with,” he added. Luxury car maker Mercedes Benz India has had similar levels of Dhanteras sales as last year. Mercedes MD and CEO Martin Schwenk said: “This year’s festive season has contributed actively to the recovery in sales which we have been witnessing since Quarter 3. The Dhanteras demand this year has been at similar levels to last year with over 300 cars delivered. This is a very encouraging development for us as this achievement becomes more pronounced in the backdrop of the pandemic induced market challenges that resulted in sales loss for a quarter and also resulting in the nonavailability of some of our volume drivers.” Tata Motors has witnessed strong growth for their “New Forever” range of products during the festive season. “Our bookings have increased by nearly 95 per cent and retails have increased by nearly 90 per cent compared to FY20 festive season. Our car and UVs have seen equal traction from the market. Harrier retails has seen the highest growth at 141 per cent,” said a company spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
15-11-2020||Business||Move to plug gaps in policies sold digitally||The insurance regulator has brought in checks to curb potential misselling of marketlinked life insurance policies by agents and intermediaries through the digital mode. Earlier in August, IRDAI had allowed the sale of policies by obtaining consent of customers through electronic means. In a circular to all life insurers, the regulator has set limits on the amount the agents can solicit on market linked life insurance policies. “The insurance agents shall not solicit nonsingle premium unitlinked insurance policies for annualised premium exceeding Rs 50,000 or single premium unitlinked insurance policies exceeding Rs 1,00,000,” the regulator said in the circular. Further IRDAI has also put the onus of verification and due diligence on life insurance companies for sale of policies without requiring wet signa¬tures on the proposal form. A customer, if he or she agrees to a product offered by an agent or an intermediary on behalf of a life insurance company, can affix their digital signa¬ture or validate through a one time password. This facility is available on polices sold till March 31, 2021 and the initiative was taken on account of difficulties faced by the industry because of the Covid19 pandemic. “The insurer shall verify at least 3 per cent of sales to make sure they comply with these provisions. The record of verification calls shall be preserved for a period of not less than three years. The insurer shall also maintain verifiable, legally valid evidence of the proposer’s consent in an unalterable and easily retrievable form for a period of six months beyond the term of the policy or until satisfactory settle¬ment of claims, whichever is later,” the regulator said. Life insurers saw a 31.87 per cent growth in first year premium in October, signifying a pickup in business. IRDAI has also come out with an exposure draft seeking industry comments for a standard health insurance policy covering vector borne diseases such as Dengue, Malaria, Filaria, KalaAzar, Chikungunya, Japanese En¬cephalitis and Zika Virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
15-11-2020||Business||Samvat 2077 sizzles as key indices hit fresh highs ||Investors ushered in Samvat 2077 into the record books as key indices hit fresh highs on continued optimism over earnings recovery as the economy slowly emerges out of the morass induced by the Covid19 pandemic. Positive global cues amid news of the coronavirus vaccine also supported investor sentiment in the first session where brokers open their books to mark the beginning of the Hindu new year. The 30 share Sensex opened in the green at 43815.45 and hit a new intraday high of 43830.93 — a rise of 387.93 points. It, however, came off these highs to end 194.98 points higher at 43637.98,  which was a new closing high too. On the NSE, the broader Nifty settled at 12770.60, a rise of 50.65 points. In the Sensex pack, 26 stocks ended in the green and the gainers list was led by Bharti Airtel, whose shares rose 1.17 per cent. It was followed by Tata Steel, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finserv, ITC and Infosys, which rose up to 1.15 per cent. The good start to Samvat 2077 in the special onehour Muhurat trading came after an eventful but volatile year where the markets and global economy were hit by the pandemic. 
However, stocks staged a strong rebound (Sensex gained 11.22 per cent in Samvat 2076) on various factors that included abundant liquidity as central banks continued with their accommodative stance and betterthanexpected corporate perform¬ance in the quarter ended September 30. Hoping for doubledigit gains Experts feel that this year too, the key indices are likely to see double digit gains. However, the focus will be on sectors that could benefit as the economy regains its mojo. Yet, the view is that the recovery will be uneven with some segments witnessing quick turnaround while others languish. Brokerages aver that cyclicals (whose fortunes are linked to the economy), finance & banking stocks apart from auto and ancillaries will flourish. They are, however, divided on the pharmaceuticals and IT sec¬tors that have notched up strong gains over the past few months. Observers feel the factors that could be a drag on stocks are a second Covid19 wave and a stubborn rate of inflation. “We expect the economic recovery to continue from here on led by the services sector. While we see continued momentum in cyclical sectors like auto and cement, we also expect sectors with strong revenue visibility like agrochemicals, IT and pharmaceuticals will continue to do well,’’ Angel Broking said. Passenger vehicles and lowticket consumer durables are like¬ly to rebound even as aviation and retail will be slow to pick up. “We advise investors to use equities as an asset class for long term wealth creation by investing in companies with strong earnings growth and visibility, stable cash flows, return on equity and return on capital employed,’’ analysts at ICICI Direct said. “With news of an effective vaccine against Covid19, we ap¬pear closer to the end of a difficult period for society at large... we can expect earnings growth in the coming couple of years to be robust,’’ said S. Hariharan, headsales trading, Emkay Global Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
15-11-2020||Business||Fuel demand up in October||The country’s fuel demand posted its first year-on-year increase since February as a spurt in diesel demand ahead of the festival season pushed consumption to pre Covid-19 levels. Total demand for petroleum products rose 2.5 per cent in October to reach 17.77 million tonnes compared with 17.34 million tonnes a year back, according to provisional data published by the oil ministry’s Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell. The fuel demand, however, defied the belief of a struggling economy and widespread job losses. Relaxations in the country’s lockdown measures along with the current festival season have helped revive fuel demand. The spurt in demand comes at a time the country is likely to have fallen into an economic recession for the first time in its history after GDP shrank by an estimated 8.6 per cent during July-September, the RBI said. Industry officials said Indian Oil Corp has been operating at 100 per cent capacity since early November as fuel demand has recovered. IOC has been gradually raising crude runs at its plants, which plunged to about 39 per cent at the beginning of April when a nationwide coronavirus lockdown hit fuel demand. Diesel demand soared 7.4 per cent year-on-year to 6.5 million tonnes. Fuel demand had snipped 49 per cent in April after the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
